(B) Inspection of structurally significant internal areas and areas where defects are likely to occur, using radiographic or equivalent inspection methods.
(iii) Three sample castings undergo static tests and are shown to meet the strength and deformation requirements of § 25.305(a) and (b).
(2) A casting factor of 1.25 or greater may be used, provided that each casting receives:
(i) Inspection of 100 percent of its surface, using visual inspection and liquid penetrant or equivalent inspection methods; and
(ii) Inspection of structurally significant internal areas and areas where defects are likely to occur, using radiographic or equivalent inspection methods.
(3) A casting factor of 1.5 or greater may be used, provided that each casting receives inspection of 100 percent of its surface using visual inspection and liquid penetrant or equivalent inspection methods.
(4) A casting factor of 2.0 or greater may be used, provided that each casting receives inspection of 100 percent of its surface using visual inspection methods.
(5) The number of castings per production batch to be inspected by non-visual methods in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section may be reduced when an approved quality control procedure is established.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-139, 79 FR 59429, Oct. 2, 2014]
§ 25.623
Bearing factors.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each part that has clearance (free fit), and that is subject to pounding or vibration, must have a bearing factor large enough to provide for the effects of normal relative motion.
(b) No bearing factor need be used for a part for which any larger special factor is prescribed.
§ 25.625
Fitting factors.
For each fitting (a part or terminal used to join one structural member to another), the following apply:
(a) For each fitting whose strength is not proven by limit and ultimate load tests in which actual stress conditions are simulated in the fitting and surrounding structures, a fitting factor of at least 1.15 must be applied to each part of—
(1) The fitting;
(2) The means of attachment; and
(3) The bearing on the joined members.
(b) No fitting factor need be used—
(1) For joints made under approved practices and based on comprehensive test data (such as continuous joints in metal plating, welded joints, and scarf joints in wood); or
(2) With respect to any bearing surface for which a larger special factor is used.
(c) For each integral fitting, the part must be treated as a fitting up to the point at which the section properties become typical of the member.
(d) For each seat, berth, safety belt, and harness, the fitting factor specified in § 25.785(f)(3) applies.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5674, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29776, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.629
Aeroelastic stability requirements.
(a)
General.
The aeroelastic stability evaluation required under this section includes flutter, divergence, control reversal and any undue loss of stability and control as a result of structural deformation. The aeroelastic evaluation must include whirl modes associated with any propeller or rotating device that contributes significant dynamic forces. Additionally, the evaluation
must include any condition of operation within the maneuvering envelope. Compliance with this section must be shown by analyses, wind tunnel tests, ground vibration tests, flight tests, or other means found necessary by the Administrator.
(b)
Aeroelastic stability envelopes.
The airplane must be designed to be free from aeroelastic instability for all configurations and design conditions within the aeroelastic stability envelopes as follows:
(1) For normal conditions without failures, malfunctions, or adverse conditions, all combinations of altitudes and speeds encompassed by the V
D
/M
D
versus altitude envelope enlarged at all points by an increase of 15 percent in equivalent airspeed at both constant Mach number and constant altitude. In addition, a proper margin of stability must exist at all speeds up to V
D
/M
D
and, there must be no large and rapid reduction in stability as V
D
/M
D
is approached. The enlarged envelope may be limited to Mach 1.0 when M
D
is less than 1.0 at all design altitudes, and
(2) For the conditions described in § 25.629(d) below, for all approved altitudes, any airspeed up to the greater airspeed defined by;
(i) The V
D
/M
D
envelope determined by § 25.335(b); or,
(ii) An altitude-airspeed envelope defined by a 15 percent increase in equivalent airspeed above V
C
at constant altitude, from sea level to the altitude of the intersection of 1.15 V
C
with the extension of the constant cruise Mach number line, M
C
, then a linear variation in equivalent airspeed to M
C
+ .05 at the altitude of the lowest V
C
/M
C
intersection; then, at higher altitudes, up to the maximum flight altitude, the boundary defined by a .05 Mach increase in M
C
at constant altitude.
(c)
Balance weights.
If concentrated balance weights are used, their effectiveness and strength, including supporting structure, must be substantiated.
(d)
Failures, malfunctions, and adverse conditions.
The failures, malfunctions, and adverse conditions that must be considered in showing compliance with this section are:
(1) Any critical fuel loading conditions, not shown to be extremely improbable, which may result from mismanagement of fuel.
(2) Any single failure in any flutter damper system.
(3) For airplanes not approved for operation in icing conditions, the maximum likely ice accumulation expected as a result of an inadvertent encounter.
(4) Failure of any single element of the structure supporting any engine, independently mounted propeller shaft, large auxiliary power unit, or large externally mounted aerodynamic body (such as an external fuel tank).
(5) For airplanes with engines that have propellers or large rotating devices capable of significant dynamic forces, any single failure of the engine structure that would reduce the rigidity of the rotational axis.
(6) The absence of aerodynamic or gyroscopic forces resulting from the most adverse combination of feathered propellers or other rotating devices capable of significant dynamic forces. In addition, the effect of a single feathered propeller or rotating device must be coupled with the failures of paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5) of this section.
(7) Any single propeller or rotating device capable of significant dynamic forces rotating at the highest likely overspeed.
(8) Any damage or failure condition, required or selected for investigation by § 25.571. The single structural failures described in paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5) of this section need not be considered in showing compliance with this section if;
(i) The structural element could not fail due to discrete source damage resulting from the conditions described in § 25.571(e), and
(ii) A damage tolerance investigation in accordance with § 25.571(b) shows that the maximum extent of damage assumed for the purpose of residual strength evaluation does not involve complete failure of the structural element.
(9) The following flight control system failure combinations in which aeroelastic stability relies on flight control system stiffness, damping or both:
(i) Any dual hydraulic system failure.
(ii) Any dual electrical system failure.
(iii) Any single failure in combination with any probable hydraulic or electrical system failure.
(10) Any damage, failure, or malfunction considered under §§ 25.631, 25.671, 25.672, and 25.1309.
(11) Any other combination of failures, malfunctions, or adverse conditions not shown to be extremely improbable.
(e)
Flight flutter testing.
Full scale flight flutter tests at speeds up to V
DF
/M
DF
must be conducted for new type designs and for modifications to a type design unless the modifications have been shown to have an insignificant effect on the aeroelastic stability. These tests must demonstrate that the airplane has a proper margin of damping at all speeds up to V
DF
/M
DF
, and that there is no large and rapid reduction in damping as V
DF
/M
DF
, is approached. If a failure, malfunction, or adverse condition is simulated during flight test in showing compliance with paragraph (d) of this section, the maximum speed investigated need not exceed V
FC
/M
FC
if it is shown, by correlation of the flight test data with other test data or analyses, that the airplane is free from any aeroelastic instability at all speeds within the altitude-airspeed envelope described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
[Doc. No. 26007, 57 FR 28949, June 29, 1992, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1544, 89 FR 68731, Aug. 27, 2024]
§ 25.631
Bird strike damage.
The empennage structure must be designed to assure capability of continued safe flight and landing of the airplane after impact with an 8-pound bird when the velocity of the airplane (relative to the bird along the airplane's flight path) is equal to
V
C
at sea level, selected under § 25.335(a). Compliance with this section by provision of redundant structure and protected location of control system elements or protective devices such as splitter plates or energy absorbing material is acceptable. Where compliance is shown by analysis, tests, or both, use of data on airplanes having similar structural design is acceptable.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5674, Apr. 8, 1970]

# Control Surfaces
§ 25.651
Proof of strength.
(a) Limit load tests of control surfaces are required. These tests must include the horn or fitting to which the control system is attached.
(b) Compliance with the special factors requirements of §§ 25.619 through 25.625 and 25.657 for control surface hinges must be shown by analysis or individual load tests.
§ 25.655
Installation.
(a) Movable tail surfaces must be installed so that there is no interference between any surfaces when one is held in its extreme position and the others are operated through their full angular movement.
(b) If an adjustable stabilizer is used, it must have stops that will limit its range of travel to the maximum for which the airplane is shown to meet the trim requirements of § 25.161.
§ 25.657
Hinges.
(a) For control surface hinges, including ball, roller, and self-lubricated bearing hinges, the approved rating of the bearing may not be exceeded. For nonstandard bearing hinge configurations, the rating must be established on the basis of experience or tests and, in the absence of a rational investigation, a factor of safety of not less than 6.67 must be used with respect to the ultimate bearing strength of the softest material used as a bearing.
(b) Hinges must have enough strength and rigidity for loads parallel to the hinge line.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5674, Apr. 8, 1970]

# Control Systems
§ 25.671
General.
(a) Each flight control system must operate with the ease, smoothness, and positiveness appropriate to its function. The flight control system must continue to operate and respond appropriately to commands, and must not hinder airplane recovery, when the airplane is experiencing any pitch, roll, or yaw rate, or vertical load factor that could occur due to operating or environmental conditions, or when the airplane is in any attitude.
(b) Each element of each flight control system must be designed, or distinctively and permanently marked, to minimize the probability of incorrect assembly that could result in failure or malfunctioning of the system. The applicant may use distinctive and permanent marking only where design means are impractical.
(c) The airplane must be shown by analysis, test, or both, to be capable of continued safe flight and landing after any of the following failures or jams in the flight control system within the normal flight envelope. Probable malfunctions must have only minor effects on control system operation and must be capable of being readily counteracted by the pilot.
(1) Any single failure, excluding failures of the type defined in § 25.671(c)(3);
(2) Any combination of failures not shown to be extremely improbable, excluding failures of the type defined in § 25.671(c)(3); and
(3) Any failure or event that results in a jam of a flight control surface or pilot control that is fixed in position due to a physical interference. The jam must be evaluated as follows:
(i) The jam must be considered at any normally encountered position of the control surface or pilot control.
(ii) The jam must be assumed to occur anywhere within the normal flight envelope and during any flight phase except during the time immediately before touchdown if the risk of a potential jam is minimized to the extent practical.
(iii) In the presence of the jam, any additional failure conditions that could prevent continued safe flight and landing must have a combined probability of 1/1000 or less.
(d) If all engines fail at any point in the flight, the airplane must be controllable, and an approach and flare to a landing and controlled stop, and flare to a ditching, must be possible, without requiring exceptional piloting skill or strength.
(e) The airplane must be designed to indicate to the flightcrew whenever the primary control means is near the limit of control authority.
(f) If the flight control system has multiple modes of operation, appropriate flightcrew alerting must be provided whenever the airplane enters any mode that significantly changes or degrades the normal handling or operational characteristics of the airplane.
[Doc. No. FAA-2022-1544, 89 FR 68734, Aug. 27, 2024]
§ 25.672
Stability augmentation and automatic and power-operated systems.
If the functioning of stability augmentation or other automatic or power-operated systems is necessary to show compliance with the flight characteristics requirements of this part, such systems must comply with § 25.671 and the following:
(a) A warning which is clearly distinguishable to the pilot under expected flight conditions without requiring his attention must be provided for any failure in the stability augmentation system or in any other automatic or power-operated system which could result in an unsafe condition if the pilot were not aware of the failure. Warning systems must not activate the control systems.
(b) The design of the stability augmentation system or of any other automatic or power-operated system must permit initial counteraction of failures of the type specified in § 25.671(c) without requiring exceptional pilot skill or strength, by either the deactivation of the system, or a failed portion thereof, or by overriding the failure by movement of the flight controls in the normal sense.
(c) It must be shown that after any single failure of the stability augmentation system or any other automatic or power-operated system—
(1) The airplane is safely controllable when the failure or malfunction occurs at any speed or altitude within the approved operating limitations that is critical for the type of failure being considered;
(2) The controllability and maneuverability requirements of this part are met within a practical operational flight envelope (for example, speed, altitude, normal acceleration, and airplane configurations) which is described in the Airplane Flight Manual; and
(3) The trim, stability, and stall characteristics are not impaired below a
level needed to permit continued safe flight and landing.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5675 Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.675
Stops.
(a) Each control system must have stops that positively limit the range of motion of each movable aerodynamic surface controlled by the system.
(b) Each stop must be located so that wear, slackness, or take-up adjustments will not adversely affect the control characteristics of the airplane because of a change in the range of surface travel.
(c) Each stop must be able to withstand any loads corresponding to the design conditions for the control system.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 25.677
Trim systems.
(a) Trim controls must be designed to prevent inadvertent or abrupt operation and to operate in the plane, and with the sense of motion, of the airplane.
(b) There must be means adjacent to the trim control to indicate the direction of the control movement relative to the airplane motion. In addition, there must be clearly visible means to indicate the position of the trim device with respect to the range of adjustment. The indicator must be clearly marked with the range within which it has been demonstrated that takeoff is safe for all center of gravity positions approved for takeoff.
(c) Trim control systems must be designed to prevent creeping in flight. Trim tab controls must be irreversible unless the tab is appropriately balanced and shown to be free from flutter.
(d) If an irreversible tab control system is used, the part from the tab to the attachment of the irreversible unit to the airplane structure must consist of a rigid connection.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5675, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004]
§ 25.679
Control system gust locks.
(a) There must be a device to prevent damage to the control surfaces (including tabs), and to the control system, from gusts striking the airplane while it is on the ground or water. If the device, when engaged, prevents normal operation of the control surfaces by the pilot, it must—
(1) Automatically disengage when the pilot operates the primary flight controls in a normal manner; or
(2) Limit the operation of the airplane so that the pilot receives unmistakable warning at the start of takeoff.
(b) The device must have means to preclude the possibility of it becoming inadvertently engaged in flight.
§ 25.681
Limit load static tests.
(a) Compliance with the limit load requirements of this Part must be shown by tests in which—
(1) The direction of the test loads produces the most severe loading in the control system; and
(2) Each fitting, pulley, and bracket used in attaching the system to the main structure is included.
(b) Compliance must be shown (by analyses or individual load tests) with the special factor requirements for control system joints subject to angular motion.
§ 25.683
Operation tests.
(a) It must be shown by operation tests that when portions of the control system subject to pilot effort loads are loaded to 80 percent of the limit load specified for the system and the powered portions of the control system are loaded to the maximum load expected in normal operation, the system is free from—
(1) Jamming;
(2) Excessive friction; and
(3) Excessive deflection.
(b) It must be shown by analysis and, where necessary, by tests, that in the presence of deflections of the airplane structure due to the separate application of pitch, roll, and yaw limit maneuver loads, the control system, when loaded to obtain these limit loads and operated within its operational range of deflections, can be exercised about all control axes and remain free from—
(1) Jamming;
(2) Excessive friction;
(3) Disconnection; and
(4) Any form of permanent damage.
(c) It must be shown that under vibration loads in the normal flight and ground operating conditions, no hazard can result from interference or contact with adjacent elements.
[Amdt. 25-139, 79 FR 59430, Oct. 2, 2014]
§ 25.685
Control system details.
(a) Each detail of each control system must be designed and installed to prevent jamming, chafing, and interference from cargo, passengers, loose objects, or the freezing of moisture.
(b) There must be means in the cockpit to prevent the entry of foreign objects into places where they would jam the system.
(c) There must be means to prevent the slapping of cables or tubes against other parts.
(d) Sections 25.689 and 25.693 apply to cable systems and joints.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 25.689
Cable systems.
(a) Each cable, cable fitting, turnbuckle, splice, and pulley must be approved. In addition—
(1) No cable smaller than
1/8
inch in diameter may be used in the aileron, elevator, or rudder systems; and
(2) Each cable system must be designed so that there will be no hazardous change in cable tension throughout the range of travel under operating conditions and temperature variations.
(b) Each kind and size of pulley must correspond to the cable with which it is used. Pulleys and sprockets must have closely fitted guards to prevent the cables and chains from being displaced or fouled. Each pulley must lie in the plane passing through the cable so that the cable does not rub against the pulley flange.
(c) Fairleads must be installed so that they do not cause a change in cable direction of more than three degrees.
(d) Clevis pins subject to load or motion and retained only by cotter pins may not be used in the control system.
(e) Turnbuckles must be attached to parts having angular motion in a manner that will positively prevent binding throughout the range of travel.
(f) There must be provisions for visual inspection of fairleads, pulleys, terminals, and turnbuckles.
§ 25.693
Joints.
Control system joints (in push-pull systems) that are subject to angular motion, except those in ball and roller bearing systems, must have a special factor of safety of not less than 3.33 with respect to the ultimate bearing strength of the softest material used as a bearing. This factor may be reduced to 2.0 for joints in cable control systems. For ball or roller bearings, the approved ratings may not be exceeded.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29777, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.697
Lift and drag devices, controls.
(a) Each lift device control must be designed so that the pilots can place the device in any takeoff, en route, approach, or landing position established under § 25.101(d). Lift and drag devices must maintain the selected positions, except for movement produced by an automatic positioning or load limiting device, without further attention by the pilots.
(b) Each lift and drag device control must be designed and located to make inadvertent operation improbable. Lift and drag devices intended for ground operation only must have means to prevent the inadvertant operation of their controls in flight if that operation could be hazardous.
(c) The rate of motion of the surfaces in response to the operation of the control and the characteristics of the automatic positioning or load limiting device must give satisfactory flight and performance characteristics under steady or changing conditions of airspeed, engine power, and airplane attitude.
(d) The lift device control must be designed to retract the surfaces from the fully extended position, during steady flight at maximum continuous
engine power at any speed below
V
F
+ 9.0 (knots).
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5675, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50595, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 25.699
Lift and drag device indicator.
(a) There must be means to indicate to the pilots the position of each lift or drag device having a separate control in the cockpit to adjust its position. In addition, an indication of unsymmetrical operation or other malfunction in the lift or drag device systems must be provided when such indication is necessary to enable the pilots to prevent or counteract an unsafe flight or ground condition, considering the effects on flight characteristics and performance.
(b) There must be means to indicate to the pilots the takeoff, en route, approach, and landing lift device positions.
(c) If any extension of the lift and drag devices beyond the landing position is possible, the controls must be clearly marked to identify this range of extension.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5675, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.701
Flap and slat interconnection.
(a) Unless the airplane has safe flight characteristics with the flaps or slats retracted on one side and extended on the other, the motion of flaps or slats on opposite sides of the plane of symmetry must be synchronized by a mechanical interconnection or approved equivalent means.
(b) If a wing flap or slat interconnection or equivalent means is used, it must be designed to account for the applicable unsymmetrical loads, including those resulting from flight with the engines on one side of the plane of symmetry inoperative and the remaining engines at takeoff power.
(c) For airplanes with flaps or slats that are not subjected to slipstream conditions, the structure must be designed for the loads imposed when the wing flaps or slats on one side are carrying the most severe load occurring in the prescribed symmetrical conditions and those on the other side are carrying not more than 80 percent of that load.
(d) The interconnection must be designed for the loads resulting when interconnected flap or slat surfaces on one side of the plane of symmetry are jammed and immovable while the surfaces on the other side are free to move and the full power of the surface actuating system is applied.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29777, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.703
Takeoff warning system.
A takeoff warning system must be installed and must meet the following requirements:
(a) The system must provide to the pilots an aural warning that is automatically activated during the initial portion of the takeoff roll if the airplane is in a configuration, including any of the following, that would not allow a safe takeoff:
(1) The wing flaps or leading edge devices are not within the approved range of takeoff positions.
(2) Wing spoilers (except lateral control spoilers meeting the requirements of § 25.671), speed brakes, or longitudinal trim devices are in a position that would not allow a safe takeoff.
(b) The warning required by paragraph (a) of this section must continue until—
(1) The configuration is changed to allow a safe takeoff;
(2) Action is taken by the pilot to terminate the takeoff roll;
(3) The airplane is rotated for takeoff; or
(4) The warning is manually deactivated by the pilot.
(c) The means used to activate the system must function properly throughout the ranges of takeoff weights, altitudes, and temperatures for which certification is requested.
[Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2323, Jan. 16, 1978]

# Landing Gear
§ 25.721
General.
(a) The landing gear system must be designed so that when it fails due to overloads during takeoff and landing, the failure mode is not likely to cause spillage of enough fuel to constitute a fire hazard. The overloads must be assumed to act in the upward and aft directions in combination with side loads
acting inboard and outboard. In the absence of a more rational analysis, the side loads must be assumed to be up to 20 percent of the vertical load or 20 percent of the drag load, whichever is greater.
(b) The airplane must be designed to avoid any rupture leading to the spillage of enough fuel to constitute a fire hazard as a result of a wheels-up landing on a paved runway, under the following minor crash landing conditions:
(1) Impact at 5 feet-per-second vertical velocity, with the airplane under control, at Maximum Design Landing Weight—
(i) With the landing gear fully retracted; and
(ii) With any one or more landing gear legs not extended.
(2) Sliding on the ground, with—
(i) The landing gear fully retracted and with up to a 20° yaw angle; and
(ii) Any one or more landing gear legs not extended and with 0° yaw angle.
(c) For configurations where the engine nacelle is likely to come into contact with the ground, the engine pylon or engine mounting must be designed so that when it fails due to overloads (assuming the overloads to act predominantly in the upward direction and separately, predominantly in the aft direction), the failure mode is not likely to cause the spillage of enough fuel to constitute a fire hazard.
[Amdt. 25-139, 79 FR 59430, Oct. 2, 2014]
§ 25.723
Shock absorption tests.
(a) The analytical representation of the landing gear dynamic characteristics that is used in determining the landing loads must be validated by energy absorption tests. A range of tests must be conducted to ensure that the analytical representation is valid for the design conditions specified in § 25.473.
(1) The configurations subjected to energy absorption tests at limit design conditions must include at least the design landing weight or the design takeoff weight, whichever produces the greater value of landing impact energy.
(2) The test attitude of the landing gear unit and the application of appropriate drag loads during the test must simulate the airplane landing conditions in a manner consistent with the development of rational or conservative limit loads.
(b) The landing gear may not fail in a test, demonstrating its reserve energy absorption capacity, simulating a descent velocity of 12 f.p.s. at design landing weight, assuming airplane lift not greater than airplane weight acting during the landing impact.
(c) In lieu of the tests prescribed in this section, changes in previously approved design weights and minor changes in design may be substantiated by analyses based on previous tests conducted on the same basic landing gear system that has similar energy absorption characteristics.
[Doc. No. 1999-5835, 66 FR 27394, May 16, 2001]
§§ 25.725-25.727
[Reserved]
§ 25.729
Retracting mechanism.
(a)
General.
For airplanes with retractable landing gear, the following apply:
(1) The landing gear retracting mechanism, wheel well doors, and supporting structure, must be designed for—
(i) The loads occurring in the flight conditions when the gear is in the retracted position,
(ii) The combination of friction loads, inertia loads, brake torque loads, air loads, and gyroscopic loads resulting from the wheels rotating at a peripheral speed equal to 1.23V
SR
(with the wing-flaps in take-off position at design take-off weight), occurring during retraction and extension at any airspeed up to 1.5 V
SR1
(with the wing-flaps in the approach position at design landing weight), and
(iii) Any load factor up to those specified in § 25.345(a) for the wing-flaps extended condition.
(2) Unless there are other means to decelerate the airplane in flight at this speed, the landing gear, the retracting mechanism, and the airplane structure (including wheel well doors) must be designed to withstand the flight loads occurring with the landing gear in the extended position at any speed up to 0.67
V
C
.
(3) Landing gear doors, their operating mechanism, and their supporting structures must be designed for the
yawing maneuvers prescribed for the airplane in addition to the conditions of airspeed and load factor prescribed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(b)
Landing gear lock.
There must be positive means to keep the landing gear extended in flight and on the ground. There must be positive means to keep the landing gear and doors in the correct retracted position in flight, unless it can be shown that lowering of the landing gear or doors, or flight with the landing gear or doors extended, at any speed, is not hazardous.
(c)
Emergency operation.
There must be an emergency means for extending the landing gear in the event of—
(1) Any reasonably probable failure in the normal retraction system; or
(2) The failure of any single source of hydraulic, electric, or equivalent energy supply.
(d)
Operation test.
The proper functioning of the retracting mechanism must be shown by operation tests.
(e)
Position indicator and warning device.
If a retractable landing gear is used, there must be a landing gear position indicator easily visible to the pilot or to the appropriate crew members (as well as necessary devices to actuate the indicator) to indicate without ambiguity that the retractable units and their associated doors are secured in the extended (or retracted) position. The means must be designed as follows:
(1) If switches are used, they must be located and coupled to the landing gear mechanical systems in a manner that prevents an erroneous indication of “down and locked” if the landing gear is not in a fully extended position, or of “up and locked” if the landing gear is not in the fully retracted position. The switches may be located where they are operated by the actual landing gear locking latch or device.
(2) The flightcrew must be given an aural warning that functions continuously, or is periodically repeated, if a landing is attempted when the landing gear is not locked down.
(3) The warning must be given in sufficient time to allow the landing gear to be locked down or a go-around to be made.
(4) There must not be a manual shut-off means readily available to the flightcrew for the warning required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section such that it could be operated instinctively, inadvertently, or by habitual reflexive action.
(5) The system used to generate the aural warning must be designed to minimize false or inappropriate alerts.
(6) Failures of systems used to inhibit the landing gear aural warning, that would prevent the warning system from operating, must be improbable.
(7) A flightcrew alert must be provided whenever the landing gear position is not consistent with the landing gear selector lever position.
(f)
Protection of equipment on landing gear and in wheel wells.
Equipment that is essential to the safe operation of the airplane and that is located on the landing gear and in wheel wells must be protected from the damaging effects of—
(1) A bursting tire;
(2) A loose tire tread, unless it is shown that a loose tire tread cannot cause damage.
(3) Possible wheel brake temperatures.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2323, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29777, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-75, 56 FR 63762, Dec. 5, 1991; Amdt. 25-136, 77 FR 1617, Jan. 11, 2012]
§ 25.731
Wheels.
(a) Each main and nose wheel must be approved.
(b) The maximum static load rating of each wheel may not be less than the corresponding static ground reaction with—
(1) Design maximum weight; and
(2) Critical center of gravity.
(c) The maximum limit load rating of each wheel must equal or exceed the maximum radial limit load determined under the applicable ground load requirements of this part.
(d)
Overpressure burst prevention.
Means must be provided in each wheel to prevent wheel failure and tire burst that may result from excessive pressurization of the wheel and tire assembly.
(e)
Braked wheels.
Each braked wheel must meet the applicable requirements of § 25.735.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29777, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-107, 67 FR 20420, Apr. 24, 2002]
§ 25.733
Tires.
(a) When a landing gear axle is fitted with a single wheel and tire assembly, the wheel must be fitted with a suitable tire of proper fit with a speed rating approved by the Administrator that is not exceeded under critical conditions and with a load rating approved by the Administrator that is not exceeded under—
(1) The loads on the main wheel tire, corresponding to the most critical combination of airplane weight (up to maximum weight) and center of gravity position, and
(2) The loads corresponding to the ground reactions in paragraph (b) of this section, on the nose wheel tire, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.
(b) The applicable ground reactions for nose wheel tires are as follows:
(1) The static ground reaction for the tire corresponding to the most critical combination of airplane weight (up to maximum ramp weight) and center of gravity position with a force of 1.0g acting downward at the center of gravity. This load may not exceed the load rating of the tire.
(2) The ground reaction of the tire corresponding to the most critical combination of airplane weight (up to maximum landing weight) and center of gravity position combined with forces of 1.0g downward and 0.31g forward acting at the center of gravity. The reactions in this case must be distributed to the nose and main wheels by the principles of statics with a drag reaction equal to 0.31 times the vertical load at each wheel with brakes capable of producing this ground reaction. This nose tire load may not exceed 1.5 times the load rating of the tire.
(3) The ground reaction of the tire corresponding to the most critical combination of airplane weight (up to maximum ramp weight) and center of gravity position combined with forces of 1.0g downward and 0.20g forward acting at the center of gravity. The reactions in this case must be distributed to the nose and main wheels by the principles of statics with a drag reaction equal to 0.20 times the vertical load at each wheel with brakes capable of producing this ground reaction. This nose tire load may not exceed 1.5 times the load rating of the tire.
(c) When a landing gear axle is fitted with more than one wheel and tire assembly, such as dual or dual-tandem, each wheel must be fitted with a suitable tire of proper fit with a speed rating approved by the Administrator that is not exceeded under critical conditions, and with a load rating approved by the Administrator that is not exceeded by—
(1) The loads on each main wheel tire, corresponding to the most critical combination of airplane weight (up to maximum weight) and center of gravity position, when multiplied by a factor of 1.07; and
(2) Loads specified in paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section on each nose wheel tire.
(d) Each tire installed on a retractable landing gear system must, at the maximum size of the tire type expected in service, have a clearance to surrounding structure and systems that is adequate to prevent unintended contact between the tire and any part of the structure or systems.
(e) For an airplane with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of more than 75,000 pounds, tires mounted on braked wheels must be inflated with dry nitrogen or other gases shown to be inert so that the gas mixture in the tire does not contain oxygen in excess of 5 percent by volume, unless it can be shown that the tire liner material will not produce a volatile gas when heated or that means are provided to prevent tire temperatures from reaching unsafe levels.
[Amdt. 25-48, 44 FR 68752, Nov. 29, 1979; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29777, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-78, 58 FR 11781, Feb. 26, 1993]
§ 25.735
Brakes and braking systems.
(a)
Approval.
Each assembly consisting of a wheel(s) and brake(s) must be approved.
(b)
Brake system capability.
The brake system, associated systems and components must be designed and constructed so that:
(1) If any electrical, pneumatic, hydraulic, or mechanical connecting or transmitting element fails, or if any single source of hydraulic or other brake operating energy supply is lost, it is possible to bring the airplane to rest with a braked roll stopping distance of not more than two times that obtained in determining the landing distance as prescribed in § 25.125.
(2) Fluid lost from a brake hydraulic system following a failure in, or in the vicinity of, the brakes is insufficient to cause or support a hazardous fire on the ground or in flight.
(c)
Brake controls.
The brake controls must be designed and constructed so that:
(1) Excessive control force is not required for their operation.
(2) If an automatic braking system is installed, means are provided to:
(i) Arm and disarm the system, and
(ii) Allow the pilot(s) to override the system by use of manual braking.
(d)
Parking brake.
The airplane must have a parking brake control that, when selected on, will, without further attention, prevent the airplane from rolling on a dry and level paved runway when the most adverse combination of maximum thrust on one engine and up to maximum ground idle thrust on any, or all, other engine(s) is applied. The control must be suitably located or be adequately protected to prevent inadvertent operation. There must be indication in the cockpit when the parking brake is not fully released.
(e)
Antiskid system.
If an antiskid system is installed:
(1) It must operate satisfactorily over the range of expected runway conditions, without external adjustment.
(2) It must, at all times, have priority over the automatic braking system, if installed.
(f)
Kinetic energy capacity
—(1)
Design landing stop.
The design landing stop is an operational landing stop at maximum landing weight. The design landing stop brake kinetic energy absorption requirement of each wheel, brake, and tire assembly must be determined. It must be substantiated by dynamometer testing that the wheel, brake and tire assembly is capable of absorbing not less than this level of kinetic energy throughout the defined wear range of the brake. The energy absorption rate derived from the airplane manufacturer's braking requirements must be achieved. The mean deceleration must not be less than 10 fps
2
.
(2)
Maximum kinetic energy accelerate-stop.
The maximum kinetic energy accelerate-stop is a rejected takeoff for the most critical combination of airplane takeoff weight and speed. The accelerate-stop brake kinetic energy absorption requirement of each wheel, brake, and tire assembly must be determined. It must be substantiated by dynamometer testing that the wheel, brake, and tire assembly is capable of absorbing not less than this level of kinetic energy throughout the defined wear range of the brake. The energy absorption rate derived from the airplane manufacturer's braking requirements must be achieved. The mean deceleration must not be less than 6 fps
2
.
(3)
Most severe landing stop.
The most severe landing stop is a stop at the most critical combination of airplane landing weight and speed. The most severe landing stop brake kinetic energy absorption requirement of each wheel, brake, and tire assembly must be determined. It must be substantiated by dynamometer testing that, at the declared fully worn limit(s) of the brake heat sink, the wheel, brake and tire assembly is capable of absorbing not less than this level of kinetic energy. The most severe landing stop need not be considered for extremely improbable failure conditions or if the maximum kinetic energy accelerate-stop energy is more severe.
(g)
Brake condition after high kinetic energy dynamometer stop(s).
Following the high kinetic energy stop demonstration(s) required by paragraph (f) of this section, with the parking brake promptly and fully applied for at least 3 minutes, it must be demonstrated that for at least 5 minutes from application of the parking brake, no condition occurs (or has occurred during the stop), including fire associated with the tire or wheel and brake assembly, that could prejudice the safe and complete evacuation of the airplane.
(h)
Stored energy systems.
An indication to the flightcrew of the usable stored energy must be provided if a stored energy system is used to show compliance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The available stored energy must be sufficient for:
(1) At least 6 full applications of the brakes when an antiskid system is not operating; and
(2) Bringing the airplane to a complete stop when an antiskid system is operating, under all runway surface conditions for which the airplane is certificated.
(i)
Brake wear indicators.
Means must be provided for each brake assembly to indicate when the heat sink is worn to the permissible limit. The means must be reliable and readily visible.
(j)
Overtemperature burst prevention.
Means must be provided in each braked wheel to prevent a wheel failure, a tire burst, or both, that may result from elevated brake temperatures. Additionally, all wheels must meet the requirements of § 25.731(d).
(k)
Compatibility.
Compatibility of the wheel and brake assemblies with the airplane and its systems must be substantiated.
[Doc. No. FAA-1999-6063, 67 FR 20420, Apr. 24, 2002, as amended by Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002; 68 FR 1955, Jan. 15, 2003]
§ 25.737
Skis.
Each ski must be approved. The maximum limit load rating of each ski must equal or exceed the maximum limit load determined under the applicable ground load requirements of this part.

# Floats and Hulls
§ 25.751
Main float buoyancy.
Each main float must have—
(a) A buoyancy of 80 percent in excess of that required to support the maximum weight of the seaplane or amphibian in fresh water; and
(b) Not less than five watertight compartments approximately equal in volume.
§ 25.753
Main float design.
Each main float must be approved and must meet the requirements of § 25.521.
§ 25.755
Hulls.
(a) Each hull must have enough watertight compartments so that, with any two adjacent compartments flooded, the buoyancy of the hull and auxiliary floats (and wheel tires, if used) provides a margin of positive stability great enough to minimize the probability of capsizing in rough, fresh water.
(b) Bulkheads with watertight doors may be used for communication between compartments.

# Personnel and Cargo Accommodations
§ 25.771
Pilot compartment.
(a) Each pilot compartment and its equipment must allow the minimum flight crew (established under § 25.1523) to perform their duties without unreasonable concentration or fatigue.
(b) The primary controls listed in § 25.779(a), excluding cables and control rods, must be located with respect to the propellers so that no member of the minimum flight crew (established under § 25.1523), or part of the controls, lies in the region between the plane of rotation of any inboard propeller and the surface generated by a line passing through the center of the propeller hub making an angle of five degrees forward or aft of the plane of rotation of the propeller.
(c) If provision is made for a second pilot, the airplane must be controllable with equal safety from either pilot seat.
(d) The pilot compartment must be constructed so that, when flying in rain or snow, it will not leak in a manner that will distract the crew or harm the structure.
(e) Vibration and noise characteristics of cockpit equipment may not interfere with safe operation of the airplane.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-4, 30 FR 6113, Apr. 30, 1965]
§ 25.772
Pilot compartment doors.
For an airplane that has a lockable door installed between the pilot compartment and the passenger compartment:
(a) For airplanes with a maximum passenger seating configuration of more than 20 seats, the emergency exit configuration must be designed so that neither crewmembers nor passengers require use of the flightdeck door in order to reach the emergency exits provided for them; and
(b) Means must be provided to enable flight crewmembers to directly enter the passenger compartment from the pilot compartment if the cockpit door becomes jammed.
(c) There must be an emergency means to enable a flight attendant to enter the pilot compartment in the event that the flightcrew becomes incapacitated.
[Doc. No. 24344, 55 FR 29777, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-106, 67 FR 2127, Jan. 15, 2002]
§ 25.773
Pilot compartment view.
(a)
Nonprecipitation conditions.
For nonprecipitation conditions, the following apply:
(1) Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive, clear, and undistorted view, to enable them to safely perform any maneuvers within the operating limitations of the airplane, including taxiing takeoff, approach, and landing.
(2) Each pilot compartment must be free of glare and reflection that could interfere with the normal duties of the minimum flight crew (established under § 25.1523). This must be shown in day and night flight tests under nonprecipitation conditions.
(b)
Precipitation conditions.
For precipitation conditions, the following apply:
(1) The airplane must have a means to maintain a clear portion of the windshield, during precipitation conditions, sufficient for both pilots to have a sufficiently extensive view along the flight path in normal flight attitudes of the airplane. This means must be designed to function, without continuous attention on the part of the crew, in—
(i) Heavy rain at speeds up to 1.5 V
SR1
with lift and drag devices retracted; and
(ii) The icing conditions specified in Appendix C of this part and the following icing conditions specified in Appendix O of this part, if certification for flight in icing conditions is sought:
(A) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1), the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely exit following detection.
(B) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely operate in and the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely exit following detection.
(C) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(3) and for airplanes not subject to § 25.1420, all icing conditions.
(2) No single failure of the systems used to provide the view required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section must cause the loss of that view by both pilots in the specified precipitation conditions.
(3) The first pilot must have a window that—
(i) Is openable under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section when the cabin is not pressurized;
(ii) Provides the view specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(iii) Provides sufficient protection from the elements against impairment of the pilot's vision.
(4) The openable window specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section need not be provided if it is shown that an area of the transparent surface will remain clear sufficient for at least one pilot to land the airplane safely in the event of—
(i) Any system failure or combination of failures which is not extremely improbable, in accordance with § 25.1309, under the precipitation conditions specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(ii) An encounter with severe hail, birds, or insects.
(c)
Internal windshield and window fogging.
The airplane must have a means to prevent fogging of the internal portions of the windshield and window panels over an area which would provide the visibility specified in paragraph (a) of this section under all internal and external ambient conditions, including precipitation conditions, in which the airplane is intended to be operated.
(d) Fixed markers or other guides must be installed at each pilot station to enable the pilots to position themselves in their seats for an optimum combination of outside visibility and instrument scan. If lighted markers or guides are used they must comply with the requirements specified in § 25.1381.
(e)
Vision systems with transparent displays.
A vision system with a transparent display surface located in the pilot's outside field of view, such as a head up-display, head mounted display, or other equivalent display, must meet the following requirements in nonprecipitation and precipitation conditions:
(1) While the vision system display is in operation, it must compensate for interference with the pilot's outside field of view such that the combination of what is visible in the display and what remains visible through and around it, enables the pilot to perform the maneuvers and normal duties of paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) The pilot's view of the external scene may not be distorted by the transparent display surface or by the vision system imagery. When the vision system displays imagery or any symbology that is referenced to the imagery and outside scene topography, including attitude symbology, flight path vector, and flight path angle reference cue, that imagery and symbology must be aligned with, and scaled to, the external scene.
(3) The vision system must provide a means to allow the pilot using the display to immediately deactivate and reactivate the vision system imagery, on demand, without removing the pilot's hands from the primary flight controls or thrust controls.
(4) When the vision system is not in operation it may not restrict the pilot from performing the maneuvers specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or the pilot compartment from meeting the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50595, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29778, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44669, Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-136, 77 FR 1618, Jan. 11, 2012; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014; Docket FAA-2013-0485, Amdt. 25-144, 81 FR 90169, Dec. 13, 2016]
§ 25.775
Windshields and windows.
(a) Internal panes must be made of nonsplintering material.
(b) Windshield panes directly in front of the pilots in the normal conduct of their duties, and the supporting structures for these panes, must withstand, without penetration, the impact of a four-pound bird when the velocity of the airplane (relative to the bird along the airplane's flight path) is equal to the value of
V
C,
at sea level, selected under § 25.335(a).
(c) Unless it can be shown by analysis or tests that the probability of occurrence of a critical windshield fragmentation condition is of a low order, the airplane must have a means to minimize the danger to the pilots from flying windshield fragments due to bird impact. This must be shown for each transparent pane in the cockpit that—
(1) Appears in the front view of the airplane;
(2) Is inclined 15 degrees or more to the longitudinal axis of the airplane; and
(3) Has any part of the pane located where its fragmentation will constitute a hazard to the pilots.
(d) The design of windshields and windows in pressurized airplanes must be based on factors peculiar to high altitude operation, including the effects of continuous and cyclic pressurization loadings, the inherent characteristics of the material used, and the effects of temperatures and temperature differentials. The windshield and window panels must be capable of withstanding the maximum cabin pressure differential loads combined with critical aerodynamic pressure and temperature effects after any single failure in the installation or associated systems. It may be assumed that, after a single failure that is obvious to the flight crew (established under § 25.1523), the
cabin pressure differential is reduced from the maximum, in accordance with appropriate operating limitations, to allow continued safe flight of the airplane with a cabin pressure altitude of not more than 15,000 feet.
(e) The windshield panels in front of the pilots must be arranged so that, assuming the loss of vision through any one panel, one or more panels remain available for use by a pilot seated at a pilot station to permit continued safe flight and landing.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 25.777
Cockpit controls.
(a) Each cockpit control must be located to provide convenient operation and to prevent confusion and inadvertent operation.
(b) The direction of movement of cockpit controls must meet the requirements of § 25.779. Wherever practicable, the sense of motion involved in the operation of other controls must correspond to the sense of the effect of the operation upon the airplane or upon the part operated. Controls of a variable nature using a rotary motion must move clockwise from the off position, through an increasing range, to the full on position.
(c) The controls must be located and arranged, with respect to the pilots' seats, so that there is full and unrestricted movement of each control without interference from the cockpit structure or the clothing of the minimum flight crew (established under § 25.1523) when any member of this flight crew, from 5′2″ to 6′3″ in height, is seated with the seat belt and shoulder harness (if provided) fastened.
(d) Identical powerplant controls for each engine must be located to prevent confusion as to the engines they control.
(e) Wing flap controls and other auxiliary lift device controls must be located on top of the pedestal, aft of the throttles, centrally or to the right of the pedestal centerline, and not less than 10 inches aft of the landing gear control.
(f) The landing gear control must be located forward of the throttles and must be operable by each pilot when seated with seat belt and shoulder harness (if provided) fastened.
(g) Control knobs must be shaped in accordance with § 25.781. In addition, the knobs must be of the same color, and this color must contrast with the color of control knobs for other purposes and the surrounding cockpit.
(h) If a flight engineer is required as part of the minimum flight crew (established under § 25.1523), the airplane must have a flight engineer station located and arranged so that the flight crewmembers can perform their functions efficiently and without interfering with each other.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50596, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 25.779
Motion and effect of cockpit controls.
Cockpit controls must be designed so that they operate in accordance with the following movement and actuation:
(a) Aerodynamic controls:
(1)
Primary.
Controls
Motion and effect
Aileron
Right (clockwise) for right wing down.
Elevator
Rearward for nose up.
Rudder
Right pedal forward for nose right.
(2)
Secondary.
Controls
Motion and effect
Flaps (or auxiliary lift devices)
Forward for flaps up; rearward for flaps down.
Trim tabs (or equivalent)
Rotate to produce similar rotation of the airplane about an axis parallel to the axis of the control.
(b) Powerplant and auxiliary controls:
(1)
Powerplant.
Controls
Motion and effect
Power or thrust
Forward to increase forward thrust and rearward to increase rearward thrust.
Propellers
Forward to increase rpm.
Mixture
Forward or upward for rich.
Carburetor air heat
Forward or upward for cold.
Supercharger
Forward or upward for low blower. For turbosuperchargers, forward, upward, or clockwise, to increase pressure.
(2)
Auxiliary.
Controls
Motion and effect
Landing gear
Down to extend.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29778, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.781
Cockpit control knob shape.
Cockpit control knobs must conform to the general shapes (but not necessarily the exact sizes or specific proportions) in the following figure:
EC28SE91.048
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29779, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.783
Fuselage doors.
(a)
General.
This section applies to fuselage doors, which includes all doors, hatches, openable windows, access panels, covers, etc., on the exterior of the fuselage that do not require the use of tools to open or close. This also applies to each door or hatch through a pressure bulkhead, including any bulkhead that is specifically designed to function as a secondary bulkhead under the prescribed failure conditions of part 25. These doors must meet the requirements of this section, taking into account both pressurized and unpressurized flight, and must be designed as follows:
(1) Each door must have means to safeguard against opening in flight as a result of mechanical failure, or failure of any single structural element.
(2) Each door that could be a hazard if it unlatches must be designed so that unlatching during pressurized and unpressurized flight from the fully closed, latched, and locked condition is extremely improbable. This must be shown by safety analysis.
(3) Each element of each door operating system must be designed or, where impracticable, distinctively and permanently marked, to minimize the probability of incorrect assembly and adjustment that could result in a malfunction.
(4) All sources of power that could initiate unlocking or unlatching of any door must be automatically isolated from the latching and locking systems prior to flight and it must not be possible to restore power to the door during flight.
(5) Each removable bolt, screw, nut, pin, or other removable fastener must meet the locking requirements of § 25.607.
(6) Certain doors, as specified by § 25.807(h), must also meet the applicable requirements of §§ 25.809 through 25.812 for emergency exits.
(b)
Opening by persons.
There must be a means to safeguard each door against opening during flight due to inadvertent action by persons. In addition, design precautions must be taken to minimize the possibility for a person to open a door intentionally during flight. If these precautions include the use of auxiliary devices, those devices and their controlling systems must be designed so that—
(1) No single failure will prevent more than one exit from being opened; and
(2) Failures that would prevent opening of the exit after landing are improbable.
(c)
Pressurization prevention means.
There must be a provision to prevent pressurization of the airplane to an unsafe level if any door subject to pressurization is not fully closed, latched, and locked.
(1) The provision must be designed to function after any single failure, or after any combination of failures not shown to be extremely improbable.
(2) Doors that meet the conditions described in paragraph (h) of this section are not required to have a dedicated pressurization prevention means if, from every possible position of the door, it will remain open to the extent that it prevents pressurization or safely close and latch as pressurization takes place. This must also be shown with any single failure and malfunction, except that—
(i) With failures or malfunctions in the latching mechanism, it need not latch after closing; and
(ii) With jamming as a result of mechanical failure or blocking debris, the door need not close and latch if it can be shown that the pressurization loads on the jammed door or mechanism would not result in an unsafe condition.
(d)
Latching and locking.
The latching and locking mechanisms must be designed as follows:
(1) There must be a provision to latch each door.
(2) The latches and their operating mechanism must be designed so that, under all airplane flight and ground loading conditions, with the door latched, there is no force or torque tending to unlatch the latches. In addition, the latching system must include a means to secure the latches in the latched position. This means must be independent of the locking system.
(3) Each door subject to pressurization, and for which the initial opening movement is not inward, must—
(i) Have an individual lock for each latch;
(ii) Have the lock located as close as practicable to the latch; and
(iii) Be designed so that, during pressurized flight, no single failure in the locking system would prevent the locks from restraining the latches necessary to secure the door.
(4) Each door for which the initial opening movement is inward, and unlatching of the door could result in a hazard, must have a locking means to prevent the latches from becoming disengaged. The locking means must ensure sufficient latching to prevent opening of the door even with a single failure of the latching mechanism.
(5) It must not be possible to position the lock in the locked position if the latch and the latching mechanism are not in the latched position.
(6) It must not be possible to unlatch the latches with the locks in the locked position. Locks must be designed to withstand the limit loads resulting from—
(i) The maximum operator effort when the latches are operated manually;
(ii) The powered latch actuators, if installed; and
(iii) The relative motion between the latch and the structural counterpart.
(7) Each door for which unlatching would not result in a hazard is not required to have a locking mechanism meeting the requirements of paragraphs (d)(3) through (d)(6) of this section.
(e)
Warning, caution, and advisory indications.
Doors must be provided with the following indications:
(1) There must be a positive means to indicate at each door operator's station that all required operations to close, latch, and lock the door(s) have been completed.
(2) There must be a positive means clearly visible from each operator station for any door that could be a hazard if unlatched to indicate if the door is not fully closed, latched, and locked.
(3) There must be a visual means on the flight deck to signal the pilots if any door is not fully closed, latched, and locked. The means must be designed such that any failure or combination of failures that would result in an erroneous closed, latched, and locked indication is improbable for—
(i) Each door that is subject to pressurization and for which the initial opening movement is not inward; or
(ii) Each door that could be a hazard if unlatched.
(4) There must be an aural warning to the pilots prior to or during the initial portion of takeoff roll if any door is not fully closed, latched, and locked, and its opening would prevent a safe takeoff and return to landing.
(f)
Visual inspection provision.
Each door for which unlatching of the door could be a hazard must have a provision for direct visual inspection to determine, without ambiguity, if the door is fully closed, latched, and locked. The provision must be permanent and discernible under operational lighting conditions, or by means of a flashlight or equivalent light source.
(g)
Certain maintenance doors, removable emergency exits, and access panels.
Some doors not normally opened except for maintenance purposes or emergency evacuation and some access panels need not comply with certain paragraphs of this section as follows:
(1) Access panels that are not subject to cabin pressurization and would not be a hazard if open during flight need not comply with paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, but must have a means to prevent inadvertent opening during flight.
(2) Inward-opening removable emergency exits that are not normally removed, except for maintenance purposes or emergency evacuation, and flight deck-openable windows need not comply with paragraphs (c) and (f) of this section.
(3) Maintenance doors that meet the conditions of paragraph (h) of this section, and for which a placard is provided limiting use to maintenance access, need not comply with paragraphs (c) and (f) of this section.
(h)
Doors that are not a hazard.
For the purposes of this section, a door is considered not to be a hazard in the unlatched condition during flight, provided it can be shown to meet all of the following conditions:
(1) Doors in pressurized compartments would remain in the fully closed position if not restrained by the latches when subject to a pressure greater than
1/2
psi. Opening by persons,
either inadvertently or intentionally, need not be considered in making this determination.
(2) The door would remain inside the airplane or remain attached to the airplane if it opens either in pressurized or unpressurized portions of the flight. This determination must include the consideration of inadvertent and intentional opening by persons during either pressurized or unpressurized portions of the flight.
(3) The disengagement of the latches during flight would not allow depressurization of the cabin to an unsafe level. This safety assessment must include the physiological effects on the occupants.
(4) The open door during flight would not create aerodynamic interference that could preclude safe flight and landing.
(5) The airplane would meet the structural design requirements with the door open. This assessment must include the aeroelastic stability requirements of § 25.629, as well as the strength requirements of subpart C of this part.
(6) The unlatching or opening of the door must not preclude safe flight and landing as a result of interaction with other systems or structures.
[Doc. No. 2003-14193, 69 FR 24501, May 3, 2004]
§ 25.785
Seats, berths, safety belts, and harnesses.
(a) A seat (or berth for a nonambulant person) must be provided for each occupant who has reached his or her second birthday.
(b) Each seat, berth, safety belt, harness, and adjacent part of the airplane at each station designated as occupiable during takeoff and landing must be designed so that a person making proper use of these facilities will not suffer serious injury in an emergency landing as a result of the inertia forces specified in §§ 25.561 and 25.562.
(c) Each seat or berth must be approved.
(d) Each occupant of a seat that makes more than an 18-degree angle with the vertical plane containing the airplane centerline must be protected from head injury by a safety belt and an energy absorbing rest that will support the arms, shoulders, head, and spine, or by a safety belt and shoulder harness that will prevent the head from contacting any injurious object. Each occupant of any other seat must be protected from head injury by a safety belt and, as appropriate to the type, location, and angle of facing of each seat, by one or more of the following:
(1) A shoulder harness that will prevent the head from contacting any injurious object.
(2) The elimination of any injurious object within striking radius of the head.
(3) An energy absorbing rest that will support the arms, shoulders, head, and spine.
(e) Each berth must be designed so that the forward part has a padded end board, canvas diaphragm, or equivalent means, that can withstand the static load reaction of the occupant when subjected to the forward inertia force specified in § 25.561. Berths must be free from corners and protuberances likely to cause injury to a person occupying the berth during emergency conditions.
(f) Each seat or berth, and its supporting structure, and each safety belt or harness and its anchorage must be designed for an occupant weight of 170 pounds, considering the maximum load factors, inertia forces, and reactions among the occupant, seat, safety belt, and harness for each relevant flight and ground load condition (including the emergency landing conditions prescribed in § 25.561). In addition—
(1) The structural analysis and testing of the seats, berths, and their supporting structures may be determined by assuming that the critical load in the forward, sideward, downward, upward, and rearward directions (as determined from the prescribed flight, ground, and emergency landing conditions) acts separately or using selected combinations of loads if the required strength in each specified direction is substantiated. The forward load factor need not be applied to safety belts for berths.
(2) Each pilot seat must be designed for the reactions resulting from the application of the pilot forces prescribed in § 25.395.
(3) The inertia forces specified in § 25.561 must be multiplied by a factor
of 1.33 (instead of the fitting factor prescribed in § 25.625) in determining the strength of the attachment of each seat to the structure and each belt or harness to the seat or structure.
(g) Each seat at a flight deck station must have a restraint system consisting of a combined safety belt and shoulder harness with a single-point release that permits the flight deck occupant, when seated with the restraint system fastened, to perform all of the occupant's necessary flight deck functions. There must be a means to secure each combined restraint system when not in use to prevent interference with the operation of the airplane and with rapid egress in an emergency.
(h) Each seat located in the passenger compartment and designated for use during takeoff and landing by a flight attendant required by the operating rules of this chapter must be:
(1) Near a required floor level emergency exit, except that another location is acceptable if the emergency egress of passengers would be enhanced with that location. A flight attendant seat must be located adjacent to each Type A or B emergency exit. Other flight attendant seats must be evenly distributed among the required floor- level emergency exits to the extent feasible.
(2) To the extent possible, without compromising proximity to a required floor level emergency exit, located to provide a direct view of the cabin area for which the flight attendant is responsible.
(3) Positioned so that the seat will not interfere with the use of a passageway or exit when the seat is not in use.
(4) Located to minimize the probability that occupants would suffer injury by being struck by items dislodged from service areas, stowage compartments, or service equipment.
(5) Either forward or rearward facing with an energy absorbing rest that is designed to support the arms, shoulders, head, and spine.
(6) Equipped with a restraint system consisting of a combined safety belt and shoulder harness unit with a single point release. There must be means to secure each restraint system when not in use to prevent interference with rapid egress in an emergency.
(i) Each safety belt must be equipped with a metal to metal latching device.
(j) If the seat backs do not provide a firm handhold, there must be a handgrip or rail along each aisle to enable persons to steady themselves while using the aisles in moderately rough air.
(k) Each projecting object that would injure persons seated or moving about the airplane in normal flight must be padded.
(l) Each forward observer's seat required by the operating rules must be shown to be suitable for use in conducting the necessary enroute inspection.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29780, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-88, 61 FR 57956, Nov. 8, 1996]
§ 25.787
Stowage compartments.
(a) Each compartment for the stowage of cargo, baggage, carry-on articles, and equipment (such as life rafts), and any other stowage compartment, must be designed for its placarded maximum weight of contents and for the critical load distribution at the appropriate maximum load factors corresponding to the specified flight and ground load conditions, and to those emergency landing conditions of § 25.561(b)(3) for which the breaking loose of the contents of such compartments in the specified direction could—
(1) Cause direct injury to occupants;
(2) Penetrate fuel tanks or lines or cause fire or explosion hazard by damage to adjacent systems; or
(3) Nullify any of the escape facilities provided for use after an emergency landing.
If the airplane has a passenger-seating configuration, excluding pilot seats, of 10 seats or more, each stowage compartment in the passenger cabin, except for under seat and overhead compartments for passenger convenience, must be completely enclosed.
(b) There must be a means to prevent the contents in the compartments from becoming a hazard by shifting, under the loads specified in paragraph (a) of this section. For stowage compartments in the passenger and crew cabin, if the means used is a latched door, the design must take into consideration
the wear and deterioration expected in service.
(c) If cargo compartment lamps are installed, each lamp must be installed so as to prevent contact between lamp bulb and cargo.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3969, Feb. 24, 1972; Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-51, 45 FR 7755, Feb. 4, 1980; Amdt. 25-139, 79 FR 59430, Oct. 2, 2014]
§ 25.789
Retention of items of mass in passenger and crew compartments and galleys.
(a) Means must be provided to prevent each item of mass (that is part of the airplane type design) in a passenger or crew compartment or galley from becoming a hazard by shifting under the appropriate maximum load factors corresponding to the specified flight and ground load conditions, and to the emergency landing conditions of § 25.561(b).
(b) Each interphone restraint system must be designed so that when subjected to the load factors specified in § 25.561(b)(3), the interphone will remain in its stowed position.
[Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3969, Feb. 24, 1972, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50596, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 25.791
Passenger information signs and placards.
(a) Regarding “No Smoking” signs and placards:
(1) There must be at least one placard, or lighted sign, stating if smoking is prohibited. The placard or lighted sign must be legible to each person seated in the cabin.
(2) Lighted “No Smoking” signs must either be operable by a member of the flightcrew or be illuminated continuously during airplane operations. Illuminated signs must be legible under all probable conditions of cabin illumination to each person seated in the cabin.
(b) Signs that notify when seat belts should be fastened and that are installed to comply with the operating rules of this chapter must be operable by a member of the flightcrew and, when illuminated, must be legible under all probable conditions of cabin illumination to each person seated in the cabin.
(c) A placard must be located on or adjacent to the door of each receptacle used for the disposal of flammable waste materials to indicate that use of the receptacle for disposal of cigarettes, etc., is prohibited.
(d) Lavatories must have “No Smoking” or “No Smoking in Lavatory” placards conspicuously located on or adjacent to each side of the entry door.
(e) Symbols that clearly express the intent of the sign or placard may be used in lieu of letters.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29780, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. No. 25-153, 89 FR 68099, Aug. 23, 2024]
§ 25.793
Floor surfaces.
The floor surface of all areas which are likely to become wet in service must have slip resistant properties.
[Amdt. 25-51, 45 FR 7755, Feb. 4, 1980]
§ 25.795
Security considerations.
(a)
Protection of flightcrew compartment.
If a flightdeck door is required by operating rules:
(1) The bulkhead, door, and any other accessible boundary separating the flightcrew compartment from occupied areas must be designed to resist forcible intrusion by unauthorized persons and be capable of withstanding impacts of 300 joules (221.3 foot pounds).
(2) The bulkhead, door, and any other accessible boundary separating the flightcrew compartment from occupied areas must be designed to resist a constant 250 pound (1,113 Newtons) tensile load on accessible handholds, including the doorknob or handle.
(3) The bulkhead, door, and any other boundary separating the flightcrew compartment from any occupied areas must be designed to resist penetration by small arms fire and fragmentation devices to a level equivalent to level IIIa of the National Institute of Justice (NIJ) Standard 0101.04.
(4) If required by the operating rules of this chapter, an installed physical secondary barrier (IPSB) must be installed to resist intrusion into the flightdeck whenever the flightdeck door is opened. When deployed, the IPSB must:
(i) Resist a 250 pound (1113 Newtons) static load in the direction of the passenger cabin applied at the most critical locations on the IPSB;
(ii) Resist a 600 pound (2669 Newtons) static load in the direction of the flightdeck applied at the most critical locations on the IPSB;
(iii) Delay a person attempting to access the flightdeck by at least the time required for a crewmember to open and reclose the flightdeck door, but no less than 5 seconds;
(iv) Prevent a person from reaching through and touching the flightdeck door;
(v) Allow for necessary crewmember activities; and
(vi) Provide line-of-sight visibility between the flightdeck door and the cabin.
(b) Airplanes with a maximum certificated passenger seating capacity of more than 60 persons or a maximum certificated takeoff gross weight of over 100,000 pounds (45,359 Kilograms) must be designed to limit the effects of an explosive or incendiary device as follows:
(1)
Flightdeck smoke protection.
Means must be provided to limit entry of smoke, fumes, and noxious gases into the flightdeck.
(2)
Passenger cabin smoke protection.
Means must be provided to prevent passenger incapacitation in the cabin resulting from smoke, fumes, and noxious gases as represented by the initial combined volumetric concentrations of 0.59% carbon monoxide and 1.23% carbon dioxide.
(3)
Cargo compartment fire suppression.
An extinguishing agent must be capable of suppressing a fire. All cargo-compartment fire suppression systems must be designed to withstand the following effects, including support structure displacements or adjacent materials displacing against the distribution system:
(i) Impact or damage from a 0.5-inch diameter aluminum sphere traveling at 430 feet per second (131.1 meters per second);
(ii) A 15-pound per square-inch (103.4 kPa) pressure load if the projected surface area of the component is greater than 4 square feet. Any single dimension greater than 4 feet (1.22 meters) may be assumed to be 4 feet (1.22 meters) in length; and
(iii) A 6-inch (0.152 meters) displacement, except where limited by the fuselage contour, from a single point force applied anywhere along the distribution system where relative movement between the system and its attachment can occur.
(iv) Paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply to components that are redundant and separated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section or are installed remotely from the cargo compartment.
(c) An airplane with a maximum certificated passenger seating capacity of more than 60 persons or a maximum certificated takeoff gross weight of over 100,000 pounds (45,359 Kilograms) must comply with the following:
(1)
Least risk bomb location.
An airplane must be designed with a designated location where a bomb or other explosive device could be placed to best protect flight-critical structures and systems from damage in the case of detonation.
(2)
Survivability of systems.
(i) Except where impracticable, redundant airplane systems necessary for continued safe flight and landing must be physically separated, at a minimum, by an amount equal to a sphere of diameter
ER28OC08.003
(where H
0
is defined under § 25.365(e)(2) of this part and D need not exceed 5.05 feet (1.54 meters)). The sphere is applied everywhere within the fuselage—limited by the forward bulkhead and the aft bulkhead of the passenger cabin and cargo compartment beyond which only one-half the sphere is applied.
(ii) Where compliance with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section is impracticable, other design precautions must be taken to maximize the survivability of those systems.
(3)
Interior design to facilitate searches.
Design features must be incorporated that will deter concealment or promote discovery of weapons, explosives, or other objects from a simple inspection in the following areas of the airplane cabin:
(i) Areas above the overhead bins must be designed to prevent objects
from being hidden from view in a simple search from the aisle. Designs that prevent concealment of objects with volumes 20 cubic inches and greater satisfy this requirement.
(ii) Toilets must be designed to prevent the passage of solid objects greater than 2.0 inches in diameter.
(iii) Life preservers or their storage locations must be designed so that tampering is evident.
(d) Each chemical oxygen generator or its installation must be designed to be secure from deliberate manipulation by one of the following:
(1) By providing effective resistance to tampering,
(2) By providing an effective combination of resistance to tampering and active tamper-evident features,
(3) By installation in a location or manner whereby any attempt to access the generator would be immediately obvious, or
(4) By a combination of approaches specified in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section that the Administrator finds provides a secure installation.
(e)
Exceptions.
Airplanes used solely to transport cargo only need to meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3), and (c)(2) of this section.
(f)
Material Incorporated by Reference.
You must use National Institute of Justice (NIJ) Standard 0101.04, Ballistic Resistance of Personal Body Armor, June 2001, Revision A, to establish ballistic resistance as required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(1) The Director of the Federal Register approved the incorporation by reference of this document under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
(2) You may review copies of NIJ Standard 0101.04 at the:
(i) National Institute of Justice (NIJ),
http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij,
telephone (202) 307-2942; or
(ii) National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(3) You may obtain copies of NIJ Standard 0101.04 from the National Criminal Justice Reference Service, P.O. Box 6000, Rockville, MD 20849-6000, telephone (800) 851-3420.
[Amdt. 25-127; 121-341, 73 FR 63879, Oct. 28, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 22819, May 15, 2009; Amdt. 25-138, 79 FR 13519, Mar. 11, 2014; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 25-145, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018; Amdt. 25-150, 88 FR 41308, June 26, 2023]

# Emergency Provisions
§ 25.801
Ditching.
(a) If certification with ditching provisions is requested, the airplane must meet the requirements of this section and §§ 25.807(e), 25.1411, and 25.1415(a).
(b) Each practicable design measure, compatible with the general characteristics of the airplane, must be taken to minimize the probability that in an emergency landing on water, the behavior of the airplane would cause immediate injury to the occupants or would make it impossible for them to escape.
(c) The probable behavior of the airplane in a water landing must be investigated by model tests or by comparison with airplanes of similar configuration for which the ditching characteristics are known. Scoops, flaps, projections, and any other factor likely to affect the hydrodynamic characteristics of the airplane, must be considered.
(d) It must be shown that, under reasonably probable water conditions, the flotation time and trim of the airplane will allow the occupants to leave the airplane and enter the liferafts required by § 25.1415. If compliance with this provision is shown by buoyancy and trim computations, appropriate allowances must be made for probable structural damage and leakage. If the airplane has fuel tanks (with fuel jettisoning provisions) that can reasonably be expected to withstand a ditching without leakage, the jettisonable volume of fuel may be considered as buoyancy volume.
(e) Unless the effects of the collapse of external doors and windows are accounted for in the investigation of the probable behavior of the airplane in a water landing (as prescribed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section), the external doors and windows must be
designed to withstand the probable maximum local pressures.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29781, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.803
Emergency evacuation.
(a) Each crew and passenger area must have emergency means to allow rapid evacuation in crash landings, with the landing gear extended as well as with the landing gear retracted, considering the possibility of the airplane being on fire.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) For airplanes having a seating capacity of more than 44 passengers, it must be shown that the maximum seating capacity, including the number of crewmembers required by the operating rules for which certification is requested, can be evacuated from the airplane to the ground under simulated emergency conditions within 90 seconds. Compliance with this requirement must be shown by actual demonstration using the test criteria outlined in appendix J of this part unless the Administrator finds that a combination of analysis and testing will provide data equivalent to that which would be obtained by actual demonstration.
(d)-(e) [Reserved]
[Doc. No. 24344, 55 FR 29781, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.807
Emergency exits.
(a)
Type.
For the purpose of this part, the types of exits are defined as follows:
(1)
Type I.
This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 24 inches wide by 48 inches high, with corner radii not greater than eight inches.
(2)
Type II.
This type is a rectangular opening of not less than 20 inches wide by 44 inches high, with corner radii not greater than seven inches. Type II exits must be floor-level exits unless located over the wing, in which case they must not have a step-up inside the airplane of more than 10 inches nor a step-down outside the airplane of more than 17 inches.
(3)
Type III.
This type is a rectangular opening of not less than 20 inches wide by 36 inches high with corner radii not greater than seven inches, and with a step-up inside the airplane of not more than 20 inches. If the exit is located over the wing, the step-down outside the airplane may not exceed 27 inches.
(4)
Type IV.
This type is a rectangular opening of not less than 19 inches wide by 26 inches high, with corner radii not greater than 6.3 inches, located over the wing, with a step-up inside the airplane of not more than 29 inches and a step-down outside the airplane of not more than 36 inches.
(5)
Ventral.
This type is an exit from the passenger compartment through the pressure shell and the bottom fuselage skin. The dimensions and physical configuration of this type of exit must allow at least the same rate of egress as a Type I exit with the airplane in the normal ground attitude, with landing gear extended.
(6)
Tailcone.
This type is an aft exit from the passenger compartment through the pressure shell and through an openable cone of the fuselage aft of the pressure shell. The means of opening the tailcone must be simple and obvious and must employ a single operation.
(7)
Type A.
This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 42 inches wide by 72 inches high, with corner radii not greater than seven inches.
(8)
Type B.
This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 32 inches wide by 72 inches high, with corner radii not greater than six inches.
(9)
Type C.
This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 30 inches wide by 48 inches high, with corner radii not greater than 10 inches.
(b)
Step down distance.
Step down distance, as used in this section, means the actual distance between the bottom of the required opening and a usable foot hold, extending out from the fuselage, that is large enough to be effective without searching by sight or feel.
(c)
Over-sized exits.
Openings larger than those specified in this section, whether or not of rectangular shape, may be used if the specified rectangular opening can be inscribed within
the opening and the base of the inscribed rectangular opening meets the specified step-up and step-down heights.
(d)
Asymmetry.
Exits of an exit pair need not be diametrically opposite each other nor of the same size; however, the number of passenger seats permitted under paragraph (g) of this section is based on the smaller of the two exits.
(e)
Uniformity.
Exits must be distributed as uniformly as practical, taking into account passenger seat distribution.
(f)
Location.
(1) Each required passenger emergency exit must be accessible to the passengers and located where it will afford the most effective means of passenger evacuation.
(2) If only one floor-level exit per side is prescribed, and the airplane does not have a tailcone or ventral emergency exit, the floor-level exits must be in the rearward part of the passenger compartment unless another location affords a more effective means of passenger evacuation.
(3) If more than one floor-level exit per side is prescribed, and the airplane does not have a combination cargo and passenger configuration, at least one floor-level exit must be located in each side near each end of the cabin.
(4) For an airplane that is required to have more than one passenger emergency exit for each side of the fuselage, no passenger emergency exit shall be more than 60 feet from any adjacent passenger emergency exit on the same side of the same deck of the fuselage, as measured parallel to the airplane's longitudinal axis between the nearest exit edges.
(g)
Type and number required.
The maximum number of passenger seats permitted depends on the type and number of exits installed in each side of the fuselage. Except as further restricted in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(9) of this section, the maximum number of passenger seats permitted for each exit of a specific type installed in each side of the fuselage is as follows:
Type A
110
Type B
75
Type C
55
Type I
45
Type II
40
Type III
35
Type IV
9
(1) For a passenger seating configuration of 1 to 9 seats, there must be at least one Type IV or larger overwing exit in each side of the fuselage or, if overwing exits are not provided, at least one exit in each side that meets the minimum dimensions of a Type III exit.
(2) For a passenger seating configuration of more than 9 seats, each exit must be a Type III or larger exit.
(3) For a passenger seating configuration of 10 to 19 seats, there must be at least one Type III or larger exit in each side of the fuselage.
(4) For a passenger seating configuration of 20 to 40 seats, there must be at least two exits, one of which must be a Type II or larger exit, in each side of the fuselage.
(5) For a passenger seating configuration of 41 to 110 seats, there must be at least two exits, one of which must be a Type I or larger exit, in each side of the fuselage.
(6) For a passenger seating configuration of more than 110 seats, the emergency exits in each side of the fuselage must include at least two Type I or larger exits.
(7) The combined maximum number of passenger seats permitted for all Type III exits is 70, and the combined maximum number of passenger seats permitted for two Type III exits in each side of the fuselage that are separated by fewer than three passenger seat rows is 65.
(8) If a Type A, Type B, or Type C exit is installed, there must be at least two Type C or larger exits in each side of the fuselage.
(9) If a passenger ventral or tailcone exit is installed and that exit provides at least the same rate of egress as a Type III exit with the airplane in the most adverse exit opening condition that would result from the collapse of one or more legs of the landing gear, an increase in the passenger seating configuration is permitted as follows:
(i) For a ventral exit, 12 additional passenger seats.
(ii) For a tailcone exit incorporating a floor level opening of not less than 20 inches wide by 60 inches high, with corner radii not greater than seven inches,
in the pressure shell and incorporating an approved assist means in accordance with § 25.810(a), 25 additional passenger seats.
(iii) For a tailcone exit incorporating an opening in the pressure shell which is at least equivalent to a Type III emergency exit with respect to dimensions, step-up and step-down distance, and with the top of the opening not less than 56 inches from the passenger compartment floor, 15 additional passenger seats.
(h)
Other exits.
The following exits also must meet the applicable emergency exit requirements of §§ 25.809 through 25.812, and must be readily accessible:
(1) Each emergency exit in the passenger compartment in excess of the minimum number of required emergency exits.
(2) Any other floor-level door or exit that is accessible from the passenger compartment and is as large or larger than a Type II exit, but less than 46 inches wide.
(3) Any other ventral or tail cone passenger exit.
(i)
Ditching emergency exits for passengers.
Whether or not ditching certification is requested, ditching emergency exits must be provided in accordance with the following requirements, unless the emergency exits required by paragraph (g) of this section already meet them:
(1) For airplanes that have a passenger seating configuration of nine or fewer seats, excluding pilot seats, one exit above the waterline in each side of the airplane, meeting at least the dimensions of a Type IV exit.
(2) For airplanes that have a passenger seating configuration of 10 of more seats, excluding pilot seats, one exit above the waterline in a side of the airplane, meeting at least the dimensions of a Type III exit for each unit (or part of a unit) of 35 passenger seats, but no less than two such exits in the passenger cabin, with one on each side of the airplane. The passenger seat/ exit ratio may be increased through the use of larger exits, or other means, provided it is shown that the evacuation capability during ditching has been improved accordingly.
(3) If it is impractical to locate side exits above the waterline, the side exits must be replaced by an equal number of readily accessible overhead hatches of not less than the dimensions of a Type III exit, except that for airplanes with a passenger configuration of 35 or fewer seats, excluding pilot seats, the two required Type III side exits need be replaced by only one overhead hatch.
(j)
Flightcrew emergency exits.
For airplanes in which the proximity of passenger emergency exits to the flightcrew area does not offer a convenient and readily accessible means of evacuation of the flightcrew, and for all airplanes having a passenger seating capacity greater than 20, flightcrew exits shall be located in the flightcrew area. Such exits shall be of sufficient size and so located as to permit rapid evacuation by the crew. One exit shall be provided on each side of the airplane; or, alternatively, a top hatch shall be provided. Each exit must encompass an unobstructed rectangular opening of at least 19 by 20 inches unless satisfactory exit utility can be demonstrated by a typical crewmember.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29781, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-88, 61 FR 57956, Nov. 8, 1996; 62 FR 1817, Jan. 13, 1997; Amdt. 25-94, 63 FR 8848, Feb. 23, 1998; 63 FR 12862, Mar. 16, 1998; Amdt. 25-114, 69 FR 24502, May 3, 2004]
§ 25.809
Emergency exit arrangement.
(a) Each emergency exit, including each flightcrew emergency exit, must be a moveable door or hatch in the external walls of the fuselage, allowing an unobstructed opening to the outside. In addition, each emergency exit must have means to permit viewing of the conditions outside the exit when the exit is closed. The viewing means may be on or adjacent to the exit provided no obstructions exist between the exit and the viewing means. Means must also be provided to permit viewing of the likely areas of evacuee ground contact. The likely areas of evacuee ground contact must be viewable during all lighting conditions with the landing gear extended as well as in all conditions of landing gear collapse.
(b) Each emergency exit must be openable from the inside and the outside except that sliding window emergency exits in the flight crew area need not be openable from the outside if other approved exits are convenient and readily accessible to the flight crew area. Each emergency exit must be capable of being opened, when there is no fuselage deformation—
(1) With the airplane in the normal ground attitude and in each of the attitudes corresponding to collapse of one or more legs of the landing gear; and
(2) Within 10 seconds measured from the time when the opening means is actuated to the time when the exit is fully opened.
(3) Even though persons may be crowded against the door on the inside of the airplane.
(c) The means of opening emergency exits must be simple and obvious; may not require exceptional effort; and must be arranged and marked so that it can be readily located and operated, even in darkness. Internal exit-opening means involving sequence operations (such as operation of two handles or latches, or the release of safety catches) may be used for flightcrew emergency exits if it can be reasonably established that these means are simple and obvious to crewmembers trained in their use.
(d) If a single power-boost or single power-operated system is the primary system for operating more than one exit in an emergency, each exit must be capable of meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section in the event of failure of the primary system. Manual operation of the exit (after failure of the primary system) is acceptable.
(e) Each emergency exit must be shown by tests, or by a combination of analysis and tests, to meet the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(f) Each door must be located where persons using them will not be endangered by the propellers when appropriate operating procedures are used.
(g) There must be provisions to minimize the probability of jamming of the emergency exits resulting from fuselage deformation in a minor crash landing.
(h) When required by the operating rules for any large passenger-carrying turbojet-powered airplane, each ventral exit and tailcone exit must be—
(1) Designed and constructed so that it cannot be opened during flight; and
(2) Marked with a placard readable from a distance of 30 inches and installed at a conspicuous location near the means of opening the exit, stating that the exit has been designed and constructed so that it cannot be opened during flight.
(i) Each emergency exit must have a means to retain the exit in the open position, once the exit is opened in an emergency. The means must not require separate action to engage when the exit is opened, and must require positive action to disengage.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-15, 32 FR 13264, Sept. 20, 1967; Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3970, Feb. 24, 1972; Amdt. 25-34, 37 FR 25355, Nov. 30, 1972; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50597, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-47, 44 FR 61325, Oct. 25, 1979; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29782, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-114, 69 FR 24502, May 3, 2004; Amdt. 25-116, 69 FR 62788, Oct. 27, 2004]
§ 25.810
Emergency egress assist means and escape routes.
(a) Each non over-wing Type A, Type B or Type C exit, and any other non over-wing landplane emergency exit more than 6 feet from the ground with the airplane on the ground and the landing gear extended, must have an approved means to assist the occupants in descending to the ground.
(1) The assisting means for each passenger emergency exit must be a self-supporting slide or equivalent; and, in the case of Type A or Type B exits, it must be capable of carrying simultaneously two parallel lines of evacuees. In addition, the assisting means must be designed to meet the following requirements—
(i) It must be automatically deployed and deployment must begin during the interval between the time the exit opening means is actuated from inside the airplane and the time the exit is fully opened. However, each passenger emergency exit which is also a passenger entrance door or a service door must be provided with means to prevent deployment of the assisting means
when it is opened from either the inside or the outside under nonemergency conditions for normal use.
(ii) Except for assisting means installed at Type C exits, it must be automatically erected within 6 seconds after deployment is begun. Assisting means installed at Type C exits must be automatically erected within 10 seconds from the time the opening means of the exit is actuated.
(iii) It must be of such length after full deployment that the lower end is self-supporting on the ground and provides safe evacuation of occupants to the ground after collapse of one or more legs of the landing gear.
(iv) It must have the capability, in 25-knot winds directed from the most critical angle, to deploy and, with the assistance of only one person, to remain usable after full deployment to evacuate occupants safely to the ground.
(v) For each system installation (mockup or airplane installed), five consecutive deployment and inflation tests must be conducted (per exit) without failure, and at least three tests of each such five-test series must be conducted using a single representative sample of the device. The sample devices must be deployed and inflated by the system's primary means after being subjected to the inertia forces specified in § 25.561(b). If any part of the system fails or does not function properly during the required tests, the cause of the failure or malfunction must be corrected by positive means and after that, the full series of five consecutive deployment and inflation tests must be conducted without failure.
(2) The assisting means for flightcrew emergency exits may be a rope or any other means demonstrated to be suitable for the purpose. If the assisting means is a rope, or an approved device equivalent to a rope, it must be—
(i) Attached to the fuselage structure at or above the top of the emergency exit opening, or, for a device at a pilot's emergency exit window, at another approved location if the stowed device, or its attachment, would reduce the pilot's view in flight;
(ii) Able (with its attachment) to withstand a 400-pound static load.
(b) Assist means from the cabin to the wing are required for each type A or Type B exit located above the wing and having a stepdown unless the exit without an assist-means can be shown to have a rate of passenger egress at least equal to that of the same type of non over-wing exit. If an assist means is required, it must be automatically deployed and automatically erected concurrent with the opening of the exit. In the case of assist means installed at Type C exits, it must be self-supporting within 10 seconds from the time the opening means of the exits is actuated. For all other exit types, it must be self-supporting 6 seconds after deployment is begun.
(c) An escape route must be established from each overwing emergency exit, and (except for flap surfaces suitable as slides) covered with a slip resistant surface. Except where a means for channeling the flow of evacuees is provided—
(1) The escape route from each Type A or Type B passenger emergency exit, or any common escape route from two Type III passenger emergency exits, must be at least 42 inches wide; that from any other passenger emergency exit must be at least 24 inches wide; and
(2) The escape route surface must have a reflectance of at least 80 percent, and must be defined by markings with a surface-to-marking contrast ratio of at least 5:1.
(d) Means must be provided to assist evacuees to reach the ground for all Type C exits located over the wing and, if the place on the airplane structure at which the escape route required in paragraph (c) of this section terminates is more than 6 feet from the ground with the airplane on the ground and the landing gear extended, for all other exit types.
(1) If the escape route is over the flap, the height of the terminal edge must be measured with the flap in the takeoff or landing position, whichever is higher from the ground.
(2) The assisting means must be usable and self-supporting with one or more landing gear legs collapsed and under a 25-knot wind directed from the most critical angle.
(3) The assisting means provided for each escape route leading from a Type A or B emergency exit must be capable of carrying simultaneously two parallel lines of evacuees; and, the assisting means leading from any other exit type must be capable of carrying as many parallel lines of evacuees as there are required escape routes.
(4) The assisting means provided for each escape route leading from a Type C exit must be automatically erected within 10 seconds from the time the opening means of the exit is actuated, and that provided for the escape route leading from any other exit type must be automatically erected within 10 seconds after actuation of the erection system.
(e) If an integral stair is installed in a passenger entry door that is qualified as a passenger emergency exit, the stair must be designed so that, under the following conditions, the effectiveness of passenger emergency egress will not be impaired:
(1) The door, integral stair, and operating mechanism have been subjected to the inertia forces specified in § 25.561(b)(3), acting separately relative to the surrounding structure.
(2) The airplane is in the normal ground attitude and in each of the attitudes corresponding to collapse of one or more legs of the landing gear.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29782, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-88, 61 FR 57958, Nov. 8, 1996; 62 FR 1817, Jan. 13, 1997; Amdt. 25-114, 69 FR 24502, May 3, 2004]
§ 25.811
Emergency exit marking.
(a) Each passenger emergency exit, its means of access, and its means of opening must be conspicuously marked.
(b) The identity and location of each passenger emergency exit must be recognizable from a distance equal to the width of the cabin.
(c) Means must be provided to assist the occupants in locating the exits in conditions of dense smoke.
(d) The location of each passenger emergency exit must be indicated by a sign visible to occupants approaching along the main passenger aisle (or aisles). There must be—
(1) A passenger emergency exit locator sign above the aisle (or aisles) near each passenger emergency exit, or at another overhead location if it is more practical because of low headroom, except that one sign may serve more than one exit if each exit can be seen readily from the sign;
(2) A passenger emergency exit marking sign next to each passenger emergency exit, except that one sign may serve two such exits if they both can be seen readily from the sign; and
(3) A sign on each bulkhead or divider that prevents fore and aft vision along the passenger cabin to indicate emergency exits beyond and obscured by the bulkhead or divider, except that if this is not possible the sign may be placed at another appropriate location.
(e) The location of the operating handle and instructions for opening exits from the inside of the airplane must be shown in the following manner:
(1) Each passenger emergency exit must have, on or near the exit, a marking that is readable from a distance of 30 inches.
(2) Each Type A, Type B, Type C or Type I passenger emergency exit operating handle must—
(i) Be self-illuminated with an initial brightness of at least 160 microlamberts; or
(ii) Be conspicuously located and well illuminated by the emergency lighting even in conditions of occupant crowding at the exit.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) Each Type A, Type B, Type C, Type I, or Type II passenger emergency exit with a locking mechanism released by rotary motion of the handle must be marked—
(i) With a red arrow, with a shaft at least three-fourths of an inch wide and a head twice the width of the shaft, extending along at least 70 degrees of arc at a radius approximately equal to three-fourths of the handle length.
(ii) So that the centerline of the exit handle is within ±1 inch of the projected point of the arrow when the handle has reached full travel and has released the locking mechanism, and
(iii) With the word “open” in red letters 1 inch high, placed horizontally near the head of the arrow.
(f) Each emergency exit that is required to be openable from the outside, and its means of opening, must be
marked on the outside of the airplane. In addition, the following apply:
(1) The outside marking for each passenger emergency exit in the side of the fuselage must include a 2-inch colored band outlining the exit.
(2) Each outside marking including the band, must have color contrast to be readily distinguishable from the surrounding fuselage surface. The contrast must be such that if the reflectance of the darker color is 15 percent or less, the reflectance of the lighter color must be at least 45 percent. “Reflectance” is the ratio of the luminous flux reflected by a body to the luminous flux it receives. When the reflectance of the darker color is greater than 15 percent, at least a 30-percent difference between its reflectance and the reflectance of the lighter color must be provided.
(3) In the case of exists other than those in the side of the fuselage, such as ventral or tailcone exists, the external means of opening, including instructions if applicable, must be conspicuously marked in red, or bright chrome yellow if the background color is such that red is inconspicuous. When the opening means is located on only one side of the fuselage, a conspicuous marking to that effect must be provided on the other side.
(g) Each sign required by paragraph (d) of this section may use the word “exit” in its legend in place of the term “emergency exit”.
[Amdt. 25-15, 32 FR 13264, Sept. 20, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3970, Feb. 24, 1972; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50597, Oct. 30, 1978; 43 FR 52495, Nov. 13, 1978; Amdt. 25-79, 58 FR 45229, Aug. 26, 1993; Amdt. 25-88, 61 FR 57958, Nov. 8, 1996]
§ 25.812
Emergency lighting.
(a) An emergency lighting system, independent of the main lighting system, must be installed. However, the sources of general cabin illumination may be common to both the emergency and the main lighting systems if the power supply to the emergency lighting system is independent of the power supply to the main lighting system. The emergency lighting system must include:
(1) Illuminated emergency exit marking and locating signs, sources of general cabin illumination, interior lighting in emergency exit areas, and floor proximity escape path marking.
(2) Exterior emergency lighting.
(b) Emergency exit signs—
(1) For airplanes that have a passenger seating configuration, excluding pilot seats, of 10 seats or more must meet the following requirements:
(i) Each passenger emergency exit locator sign required by § 25.811(d)(1) and each passenger emergency exit marking sign required by § 25.811(d)(2) must have red letters at least 1
1/2
inches high on an illuminated white background, and must have an area of at least 21 square inches excluding the letters. The lighted background-to-letter contrast must be at least 10:1. The letter height to stroke-width ratio may not be more than 7:1 nor less than 6:1. These signs must be internally electrically illuminated with a background brightness of at least 25 foot-lamberts and a high-to-low background contrast no greater than 3:1.
(ii) Each passenger emergency exit sign required by § 25.811(d)(3) must have red letters at least 1
1/2
inches high on a white background having an area of at least 21 square inches excluding the letters. These signs must be internally electrically illuminated or self-illuminated by other than electrical means and must have an initial brightness of at least 400 microlamberts. The colors may be reversed in the case of a sign that is self-illuminated by other than electrical means.
(2) For airplanes that have a passenger seating configuration, excluding pilot seats, of nine seats or less, that are required by § 25.811(d)(1), (2), and (3) must have red letters at least 1 inch high on a white background at least 2 inches high. These signs may be internally electrically illuminated, or self-illuminated by other than electrical means, with an initial brightness of at least 160 microlamberts. The colors may be reversed in the case of a sign that is self-illuminated by other than electrical means.
(c) General illumination in the passenger cabin must be provided so that when measured along the centerline of main passenger aisle(s), and cross aisle(s) between main aisles, at seat
arm-rest height and at 40-inch intervals, the average illumination is not less than 0.05 foot-candle and the illumination at each 40-inch interval is not less than 0.01 foot-candle. A main passenger aisle(s) is considered to extend along the fuselage from the most forward passenger emergency exit or cabin occupant seat, whichever is farther forward, to the most rearward passenger emergency exit or cabin occupant seat, whichever is farther aft.
(d) The floor of the passageway leading to each floor-level passenger emergency exit, between the main aisles and the exit openings, must be provided with illumination that is not less than 0.02 foot-candle measured along a line that is within 6 inches of and parallel to the floor and is centered on the passenger evacuation path.
(e) Floor proximity emergency escape path marking must provide emergency evacuation guidance for passengers when all sources of illumination more than 4 feet above the cabin aisle floor are totally obscured. In the dark of the night, the floor proximity emergency escape path marking must enable each passenger to—
(1) After leaving the passenger seat, visually identify the emergency escape path along the cabin aisle floor to the first exits or pair of exits forward and aft of the seat; and
(2) Readily identify each exit from the emergency escape path by reference only to markings and visual features not more than 4 feet above the cabin floor.
(f) Except for subsystems provided in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section that serve no more than one assist means, are independent of the airplane's main emergency lighting system, and are automatically activated when the assist means is erected, the emergency lighting system must be designed as follows.
(1) The lights must be operable manually from the flight crew station and from a point in the passenger compartment that is readily accessible to a normal flight attendant seat.
(2) There must be a flight crew warning light which illuminates when power is on in the airplane and the emergency lighting control device is not armed.
(3) The cockpit control device must have an “on,” “off,” and “armed” position so that when armed in the cockpit or turned on at either the cockpit or flight attendant station the lights will either light or remain lighted upon interruption (except an interruption caused by a transverse vertical separation of the fuselage during crash landing) of the airplane's normal electric power. There must be a means to safeguard against inadvertent operation of the control device from the “armed” or “on” positions.
(g) Exterior emergency lighting must be provided as follows:
(1) At each overwing emergency exit the illumination must be—
(i) Not less than 0.03 foot-candle (measured normal to the direction of the incident light) on a 2-square-foot area where an evacuee is likely to make his first step outside the cabin;
(ii) Not less than 0.05 foot-candle (measured normal to the direction of the incident light) for a minimum width of 42 inches for a Type A overwing emergency exit and two feet for all other overwing emergency exits along the 30 percent of the slip-resistant portion of the escape route required in § 25.810(c) that is farthest from the exit; and
(iii) Not less than 0.03 foot-candle on the ground surface with the landing gear extended (measured normal to the direction of the incident light) where an evacuee using the established escape route would normally make first contact with the ground.
(2) At each non-overwing emergency exit not required by § 25.810(a) to have descent assist means the illumination must be not less than 0.03 foot-candle (measured normal to the direction of the incident light) on the ground surface with the landing gear extended where an evacuee is likely to make first contact with the ground outside the cabin.
(h) The means required in §§ 25.810(a)(1) and (d) to assist the occupants in descending to the ground must be illuminated so that the erected assist means is visible from the airplane.
(1) If the assist means is illuminated by exterior emergency lighting, it must provide illumination of not less than 0.03 foot-candle (measured normal
to the direction of the incident light) at the ground end of the erected assist means where an evacuee using the established escape route would normally make first contact with the ground, with the airplane in each of the attitudes corresponding to the collapse of one or more legs of the landing gear.
(2) If the emergency lighting subsystem illuminating the assist means serves no other assist means, is independent of the airplane's main emergency lighting system, and is automatically activated when the assist means is erected, the lighting provisions—
(i) May not be adversely affected by stowage; and
(ii) Must provide illumination of not less than 0.03 foot-candle (measured normal to the direction of incident light) at the ground and of the erected assist means where an evacuee would normally make first contact with the ground, with the airplane in each of the attitudes corresponding to the collapse of one or more legs of the landing gear.
(i) The energy supply to each emergency lighting unit must provide the required level of illumination for at least 10 minutes at the critical ambient conditions after emergency landing.
(j) If storage batteries are used as the energy supply for the emergency lighting system, they may be recharged from the airplane's main electric power system:
Provided,
That, the charging circuit is designed to preclude inadvertent battery discharge into charging circuit faults.
(k) Components of the emergency lighting system, including batteries, wiring relays, lamps, and switches must be capable of normal operation after having been subjected to the inertia forces listed in § 25.561(b).
(l) The emergency lighting system must be designed so that after any single transverse vertical separation of the fuselage during crash landing—
(1) Not more than 25 percent of all electrically illuminated emergency lights required by this section are rendered inoperative, in addition to the lights that are directly damaged by the separation;
(2) Each electrically illuminated exit sign required under § 25.811(d)(2) remains operative exclusive of those that are directly damaged by the separation; and
(3) At least one required exterior emergency light for each side of the airplane remains operative exclusive of those that are directly damaged by the separation.
[Amdt. 25-15, 32 FR 13265, Sept. 20, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 25-28, 36 FR 16899, Aug. 26, 1971; Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3971, Feb. 24, 1972; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50597, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-58, 49 FR 43186, Oct. 26, 1984; Amdt. 25-88, 61 FR 57958, Nov. 8, 1996; Amdt. 25-116, 69 FR 62788, Oct. 27, 2004; Amdt. 25-128, 74 FR 25645, May 29, 2009]
§ 25.813
Emergency exit access.
Each required emergency exit must be accessible to the passengers and located where it will afford an effective means of evacuation. Emergency exit distribution must be as uniform as practical, taking passenger distribution into account; however, the size and location of exits on both sides of the cabin need not be symmetrical. If only one floor level exit per side is prescribed, and the airplane does not have a tailcone or ventral emergency exit, the floor level exit must be in the rearward part of the passenger compartment, unless another location affords a more effective means of passenger evacuation. Where more than one floor level exit per side is prescribed, at least one floor level exit per side must be located near each end of the cabin, except that this provision does not apply to combination cargo/passenger configurations. In addition—
(a) There must be a passageway leading from the nearest main aisle to each Type A, Type B, Type C, Type I, or Type II emergency exit and between individual passenger areas. Each passageway leading to a Type A or Type B exit must be unobstructed and at least 36 inches wide. Passageways between individual passenger areas and those leading to Type I, Type II, or Type C emergency exits must be unobstructed and at least 20 inches wide. Unless there are two or more main aisles, each Type A or B exit must be located so that there is passenger flow along the main aisle to that exit from both the forward and aft directions. If two or more main
aisles are provided, there must be unobstructed cross-aisles at least 20 inches wide between main aisles. There must be—
(1) A cross-aisle which leads directly to each passageway between the nearest main aisle and a Type A or B exit; and
(2) A cross-aisle which leads to the immediate vicinity of each passageway between the nearest main aisle and a Type 1, Type II, or Type III exit; except that when two Type III exits are located within three passenger rows of each other, a single cross-aisle may be used if it leads to the vicinity between the passageways from the nearest main aisle to each exit.
(b) Adequate space to allow crewmember(s) to assist in the evacuation of passengers must be provided as follows:
(1) Each assist space must be a rectangle on the floor, of sufficient size to enable a crewmember, standing erect, to effectively assist evacuees. The assist space must not reduce the unobstructed width of the passageway below that required for the exit.
(2) For each Type A or B exit, assist space must be provided at each side of the exit regardless of whether an assist means is required by § 25.810(a).
(3) For each Type C, I or II exit installed in an airplane with seating for more than 80 passengers, an assist space must be provided at one side of the passageway regardless of whether an assist means is required by § 25.810(a).
(4) For each Type C, I or II exit, an assist space must be provided at one side of the passageway if an assist means is required by § 25.810(a).
(5) For any tailcone exit that qualifies for 25 additional passenger seats under the provisions of § 25.807(g)(9)(ii), an assist space must be provided, if an assist means is required by § 25.810(a).
(6) There must be a handle, or handles, at each assist space, located to enable the crewmember to steady himself or herself:
(i) While manually activating the assist means (where applicable) and,
(ii) While assisting passengers during an evacuation.
(c) The following must be provided for each Type III or Type IV exit—(1) There must be access from the nearest aisle to each exit. In addition, for each Type III exit in an airplane that has a passenger seating configuration of 60 or more—
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii), the access must be provided by an unobstructed passageway that is at least 10 inches in width for interior arrangements in which the adjacent seat rows on the exit side of the aisle contain no more than two seats, or 20 inches in width for interior arrangements in which those rows contain three seats. The width of the passageway must be measured with adjacent seats adjusted to their most adverse position. The centerline of the required passageway width must not be displaced more than 5 inches horizontally from that of the exit.
(ii) In lieu of one 10- or 20-inch passageway, there may be two passageways, between seat rows only, that must be at least 6 inches in width and lead to an unobstructed space adjacent to each exit. (Adjacent exits must not share a common passageway.) The width of the passageways must be measured with adjacent seats adjusted to their most adverse position. The unobstructed space adjacent to the exit must extend vertically from the floor to the ceiling (or bottom of sidewall stowage bins), inboard from the exit for a distance not less than the width of the narrowest passenger seat installed on the airplane, and from the forward edge of the forward passageway to the aft edge of the aft passageway. The exit opening must be totally within the fore and aft bounds of the unobstructed space.
(2) In addition to the access—
(i) For airplanes that have a passenger seating configuration of 20 or more, the projected opening of the exit provided must not be obstructed and there must be no interference in opening the exit by seats, berths, or other protrusions (including any seatback in the most adverse position) for a distance from that exit not less than the width of the narrowest passenger seat installed on the airplane.
(ii) For airplanes that have a passenger seating configuration of 19 or fewer, there may be minor obstructions
in this region, if there are compensating factors to maintain the effectiveness of the exit.
(3) For each Type III exit, regardless of the passenger capacity of the airplane in which it is installed, there must be placards that—
(i) Are readable by all persons seated adjacent to and facing a passageway to the exit;
(ii) Accurately state or illustrate the proper method of opening the exit, including the use of handholds; and
(iii) If the exit is a removable hatch, state the weight of the hatch and indicate an appropriate location to place the hatch after removal.
(d) If it is necessary to pass through a passageway between passenger compartments to reach any required emergency exit from any seat in the passenger cabin, the passageway must be unobstructed. However, curtains may be used if they allow free entry through the passageway.
(e) No door may be installed between any passenger seat that is occupiable for takeoff and landing and any passenger emergency exit, such that the door crosses any egress path (including aisles, crossaisles and passageways).
(f) If it is necessary to pass through a doorway separating any crewmember seat (except those seats on the flightdeck), occupiable for takeoff and landing, from any emergency exit, the door must have a means to latch it in the open position. The latching means must be able to withstand the loads imposed upon it when the door is subjected to the ultimate inertia forces, relative to the surrounding structure, listed in § 25.561(b).
[Amdt. 25-1, 30 FR 3204, Mar. 9, 1965, as amended by Amdt. 25-15, 32 FR 13265, Sept. 20, 1967; Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3971, Feb. 24, 1972; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50597, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29783, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-76, 57 FR 19244, May 4, 1992; Amdt. 25-76, 57 FR 29120, June 30, 1992; Amdt. 25-88, 61 FR 57958, Nov. 8, 1996; Amdt. 25-116, 69 FR 62788, Oct. 27, 2004; Amdt. 25-128, 74 FR 25645, May 29, 2009]
§ 25.815
Width of aisle.
The passenger aisle width at any point between seats must equal or exceed the values in the following table:
Passenger seating capacity
Minimum passenger aisle width (inches)
Less than 25 in. from floor
25 in. and more from floor
10 or less
1
12
15
11 through 19
12
20
20 or more
15
20
1
A narrower width not less than 9 inches may be approved when substantiated by tests found necessary by the Administrator.
[Amdt. 25-15, 32 FR 13265, Sept. 20, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 25.817
Maximum number of seats abreast.
On airplanes having only one passenger aisle, no more than three seats abreast may be placed on each side of the aisle in any one row.
[Amdt. 25-15, 32 FR 13265, Sept. 20, 1967]
§ 25.819
Lower deck service compartments (including galleys).
For airplanes with a service compartment located below the main deck, which may be occupied during taxi or flight but not during takeoff or landing, the following apply:
(a) There must be at least two emergency evacuation routes, one at each end of each lower deck service compartment or two having sufficient separation within each compartment, which could be used by each occupant of the lower deck service compartment to rapidly evacuate to the main deck under normal and emergency lighting conditions. The routes must provide for the evacuation of incapacitated persons, with assistance. The use of the evacuation routes may not be dependent on any powered device. The routes must be designed to minimize the possibility of blockage which might result from fire, mechanical or structural failure, or persons standing on top of or against the escape routes. In the event the airplane's main power system or compartment main lighting system should fail, emergency illumination for each lower deck service compartment must be automatically provided.
(b) There must be a means for two-way voice communication between the flight deck and each lower deck service compartment, which remains available
following loss of normal electrical power generating system.
(c) There must be an aural emergency alarm system, audible during normal and emergency conditions, to enable crewmembers on the flight deck and at each required floor level emergency exit to alert occupants of each lower deck service compartment of an emergency situation.
(d) There must be a means, readily detectable by occupants of each lower deck service compartment, that indicates when seat belts should be fastened.
(e) If a public address system is installed in the airplane, speakers must be provided in each lower deck service compartment.
(f) For each occupant permitted in a lower deck service compartment, there must be a forward or aft facing seat which meets the requirements of § 25.785(d), and must be able to withstand maximum flight loads when occupied.
(g) For each powered lift system installed between a lower deck service compartment and the main deck for the carriage of persons or equipment, or both, the system must meet the following requirements:
(1) Each lift control switch outside the lift, except emergency stop buttons, must be designed to prevent the activation of the life if the lift door, or the hatch required by paragraph (g)(3) of this section, or both are open.
(2) An emergency stop button, that when activated will immediately stop the lift, must be installed within the lift and at each entrance to the lift.
(3) There must be a hatch capable of being used for evacuating persons from the lift that is openable from inside and outside the lift without tools, with the lift in any position.
[Amdt. 25-53, 45 FR 41593, June 19, 1980; 45 FR 43154, June 26, 1980; Amdt. 25-110; 68 FR 36883, June 19, 2003]
§ 25.820
Lavatory doors.
All lavatory doors must be designed to preclude anyone from becoming trapped inside the lavatory. If a locking mechanism is installed, it must be capable of being unlocked from the outside without the aid of special tools.
[Doc. No. 2003-14193, 69 FR 24502, May 3, 2004]

# Ventilation and Heating
§ 25.831
Ventilation.
(a) Under normal operating conditions and in the event of any probable failure conditions of any system which would adversely affect the ventilating air, the ventilation system must be designed to provide a sufficient amount of uncontaminated air to enable the crewmembers to perform their duties without undue discomfort or fatigue and to provide reasonable passenger comfort. For normal operating conditions, the ventilation system must be designed to provide each occupant with an airflow containing at least 0.55 pounds of fresh air per minute.
(b) Crew and passenger compartment air must be free from harmful or hazardous concentrations of gases or vapors. In meeting this requirement, the following apply:
(1) Carbon monoxide concentrations in excess of 1 part in 20,000 parts of air are considered hazardous. For test purposes, any acceptable carbon monoxide detection method may be used.
(2) Carbon dioxide concentration during flight must be shown not to exceed 0.5 percent by volume (sea level equivalent) in compartments normally occupied by passengers or crewmembers.
(c) There must be provisions made to ensure that the conditions prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section are met after reasonably probable failures or malfunctioning of the ventilating, heating, pressurization, or other systems and equipment.
(d) If accumulation of hazardous quantities of smoke in the cockpit area is reasonably probable, smoke evacuation must be readily accomplished, starting with full pressurization and without depressurizing beyond safe limits.
(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, means must be provided to enable the occupants of the following compartments and areas to control the temperature and quantity of ventilating air supplied to their compartment or area independently of the temperature and quantity of air
supplied to other compartments and areas:
(1) The flight crew compartment.
(2) Crewmember compartments and areas other than the flight crew compartment unless the crewmember compartment or area is ventilated by air interchange with other compartments or areas under all operating conditions.
(f) Means to enable the flight crew to control the temperature and quantity of ventilating air supplied to the flight crew compartment independently of the temperature and quantity of ventilating air supplied to other compartments are not required if all of the following conditions are met:
(1) The total volume of the flight crew and passenger compartments is 800 cubic feet or less.
(2) The air inlets and passages for air to flow between flight crew and passenger compartments are arranged to provide compartment temperatures within 5 degrees F. of each other and adequate ventilation to occupants in both compartments.
(3) The temperature and ventilation controls are accessible to the flight crew.
(g) The exposure time at any given temperature must not exceed the values shown in the following graph after any improbable failure condition.
ER05JN96.007
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36970, July 18, 1977; Amdt. 25-87, 61 FR 28695, June 5, 1996; Amdt. 25-89, 61 FR 63956, Dec. 2, 1996]
§ 25.832
Cabin ozone concentration.
(a) The airplane cabin ozone concentration during flight must be shown not to exceed—
(1) 0.25 parts per million by volume, sea level equivalent, at any time above flight level 320; and
(2) 0.1 parts per million by volume, sea level equivalent, time-weighted average during any 3-hour interval above flight level 270.
(b) For the purpose of this section, “sea level equivalent” refers to conditions of 25 °C and 760 millimeters of mercury pressure.
(c) Compliance with this section must be shown by analysis or tests based on airplane operational procedures and performance limitations, that demonstrate that either—
(1) The airplane cannot be operated at an altitude which would result in cabin ozone concentrations exceeding the limits prescribed by paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) The airplane ventilation system, including any ozone control equipment,
will maintain cabin ozone concentrations at or below the limits prescribed by paragraph (a) of this section.
[Amdt. 25-50, 45 FR 3883, Jan. 1, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 25-56, 47 FR 58489, Dec. 30, 1982; Amdt. 25-94, 63 FR 8848, Feb. 23, 1998]
§ 25.833
Combustion heating systems.
Combustion heaters must be approved.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29783, July 20, 1990]

# Pressurization
§ 25.841
Pressurized cabins.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, pressurized cabins and compartments to be occupied must be equipped to provide a cabin pressure altitude of not more than 8,000 feet under normal operating conditions.
(1) If certification for operation above 25,000 feet is requested, the airplane must be designed so that occupants will not be exposed to cabin pressure altitudes in excess of 15,000 feet after any probable failure condition in the pressurization system except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The airplane must be designed so that occupants will not be exposed to a cabin pressure altitude that exceeds the following after decompression from any failure condition not shown to be extremely improbable:
(i) Twenty-five thousand (25,000) feet for more than 2 minutes; or
(ii) Forty thousand (40,000) feet for any duration.
(3) Fuselage structure, engine and system failures are to be considered in evaluating the cabin decompression.
(b) Pressurized cabins must have at least the following valves, controls, and indicators for controlling cabin pressure:
(1) Two pressure relief valves to automatically limit the positive pressure differential to a predetermined value at the maximum rate of flow delivered by the pressure source. The combined capacity of the relief valves must be large enough so that the failure of any one valve would not cause an appreciable rise in the pressure differential. The pressure differential is positive when the internal pressure is greater than the external.
(2) Two reverse pressure differential relief valves (or their equivalents) to automatically prevent a negative pressure differential that would damage the structure. One valve is enough, however, if it is of a design that reasonably precludes its malfunctioning.
(3) A means by which the pressure differential can be rapidly equalized.
(4) An automatic or manual regulator for controlling the intake or exhaust airflow, or both, for maintaining the required internal pressures and airflow rates.
(5) Instruments at the pilot or flight engineer station to show the pressure differential, the cabin pressure altitude, and the rate of change of the cabin pressure altitude.
(6) Warning indication to the flightcrew when the safe or preset pressure differential or cabin pressure altitude limit is exceeded. Appropriate warning markings on the cabin pressure differential indicator meet the warning requirement for pressure differential limits. An alert meets the warning requirement for cabin pressure altitude limits if it warns the flightcrew when the cabin pressure altitude exceeds 10,000 feet, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
(7) A warning placard at the pilot or flight engineer station if the structure is not designed for pressure differentials up to the maximum relief valve setting in combination with landing loads.
(8) The pressure sensors necessary to meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(5) and (b)(6) of this section and § 25.1447(c), must be located and the sensing system designed so that, in the event of loss of cabin pressure in any passenger or crew compartment (including upper and lower lobe galleys), the warning and automatic presentation devices, required by those provisions, will be actuated without any delay that would significantly increase the hazards resulting from decompression.
(c) When operating into or out of airports with elevations at or above 8,000 feet, the cabin pressure altitude in pressurized cabins and occupied compartments may be up to, or greater
than, the airport elevation by 2,000 feet, provided—
(1) In the event of probable failure conditions of the cabin pressurization system, the cabin pressure altitude must not exceed 15,000 feet, or 2,000 feet above the airport elevation, whichever is higher; and
(2) The cabin pressurization system is designed to minimize the time in flight that occupants may be exposed to cabin pressure altitudes exceeding 8,000 feet.
(d) When operating into or out of airports with elevations at or above 8,000 feet, the cabin pressure high altitude warning alert may be provided at up to 15,000 feet, or 2,000 feet above the airplane's maximum takeoff and landing altitude, whichever is greater, provided:
(1) During landing, the change in cabin pressure high altitude warning alert may not occur before the start of descent into the high elevation airport and, following takeoff, the cabin pressure high altitude warning alert must be reset to 10,000 feet before beginning cruise operation;
(2) Indication is provided to the flightcrew that the cabin pressure high altitude warning alert has shifted above 10,000 feet cabin pressure altitude; and
(3) Either an alerting system is installed that notifies the flightcrew members on flight deck duty when to don oxygen in accordance with the applicable operating regulations, or a limitation is provided in the airplane flight manual that requires the pilot flying the airplane to don oxygen when the cabin pressure altitude warning has shifted above 10,000 feet, and requires other flightcrew members on flight deck duty to monitor the cabin pressure and utilize oxygen in accordance with the applicable operating regulations.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-87, 61 FR 28696, June 5, 1996; Amdt. No. 25-151, 88 FR 39160, June 15, 2023; 88 FR 44032, July 11, 2023]
§ 25.843
Tests for pressurized cabins.
(a)
Strength test.
The complete pressurized cabin, including doors, windows, and valves, must be tested as a pressure vessel for the pressure differential specified in § 25.365(d).
(b)
Functional tests.
The following functional tests must be performed:
(1) Tests of the functioning and capacity of the positive and negative pressure differential valves, and of the emergency release valve, to stimulate the effects of closed regulator valves.
(2) Tests of the pressurization system to show proper functioning under each possible condition of pressure, temperature, and moisture, up to the maximum altitude for which certification is requested.
(3) Flight tests, to show the performance of the pressure supply, pressure and flow regulators, indicators, and warning signals, in steady and stepped climbs and descents at rates corresponding to the maximum attainable within the operating limitations of the airplane, up to the maximum altitude for which certification is requested.
(4) Tests of each door and emergency exit, to show that they operate properly after being subjected to the flight tests prescribed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

# Fire Protection
§ 25.851
Fire extinguishers.
(a)
Hand fire extinguishers.
(1) The following minimum number of hand fire extinguishers must be conveniently located and evenly distributed in passenger compartments:
Passenger capacity
No. of extinguishers
7 through 30
1
31 through 60
2
61 through 200
3
201 through 300
4
301 through 400
5
401 through 500
6
501 through 600
7
601 through 700
8
(2) At least one hand fire extinguisher must be conveniently located in the pilot compartment.
(3) At least one readily accessible hand fire extinguisher must be available for use in each Class A or Class B cargo or baggage compartment and in each Class E or Class F cargo or baggage compartment that is accessible to crewmembers in flight.
(4) At least one hand fire extinguisher must be located in, or readily
accessible for use in, each galley located above or below the passenger compartment.
(5) Each hand fire extinguisher must be approved.
(6) At least one of the required fire extinguishers located in the passenger compartment of an airplane with a passenger capacity of at least 31 and not more than 60, and at least two of the fire extinguishers located in the passenger compartment of an airplane with a passenger capacity of 61 or more must contain Halon 1211 (bromochlorodifluoromethane CBrC
1
F
2
), or equivalent, as the extinguishing agent. The type of extinguishing agent used in any other extinguisher required by this section must be appropriate for the kinds of fires likely to occur where used.
(7) The quantity of extinguishing agent used in each extinguisher required by this section must be appropriate for the kinds of fires likely to occur where used.
(8) Each extinguisher intended for use in a personnel compartment must be designed to minimize the hazard of toxic gas concentration.
(b) Built-in fire extinguishers. If a built-in fire extinguisher is provided—
(1) Each built-in fire extinguishing system must be installed so that—
(i) No extinguishing agent likely to enter personnel compartments will be hazardous to the occupants; and
(ii) No discharge of the extinguisher can cause structural damage.
(2) The capacity of each required built-in fire extinguishing system must be adequate for any fire likely to occur in the compartment where used, considering the volume of the compartment and the ventilation rate. The capacity of each system is adequate if there is sufficient quantity of agent to extinguish the fire or suppress the fire anywhere baggage or cargo is placed within the cargo compartment for the duration required to land and evacuate the airplane.
[Amdt. 25-74, 56 FR 15456, Apr. 16, 1991, as amended by Doc. No. Docket FAA-2014-0001, Amdt. 25-142, 81 FR 7703, Feb. 16, 2016]
§ 25.853
Compartment interiors.
For each compartment occupied by the crew or passengers, the following apply:
(a) Materials (including finishes or decorative surfaces applied to the materials) must meet the applicable test criteria prescribed in part I of appendix F of this part, or other approved equivalent methods, regardless of the passenger capacity of the airplane.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, seat cushions, except those on flight crewmember seats, must meet the test requirements of part II of appendix F of this part, or other equivalent methods, regardless of the passenger capacity of the airplane.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the following interior components of airplanes with passenger capacities of 20 or more must also meet the test requirements of parts IV and V of appendix F of this part, or other approved equivalent method, in addition to the flammability requirements prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Interior ceiling and wall panels, other than lighting lenses and windows;
(2) Partitions, other than transparent panels needed to enhance cabin safety;
(3) Galley structure, including exposed surfaces of stowed carts and standard containers and the cavity walls that are exposed when a full complement of such carts or containers is not carried; and
(4) Large cabinets and cabin stowage compartments, other than underseat stowage compartments for stowing small items such as magazines and maps.
(e) The interiors of compartments, such as pilot compartments, galleys, lavatories, crew rest quarters, cabinets and stowage compartments, need not meet the standards of paragraph (d) of this section, provided the interiors of such compartments are isolated from the main passenger cabin by doors or equivalent means that would normally be closed during an emergency landing condition.
(f) Smoking is not allowed in lavatories. If smoking is allowed in any
area occupied by the crew or passengers, an adequate number of self-contained, removable ashtrays must be provided in designated smoking sections for all seated occupants.
(g) Regardless of whether smoking is allowed in any other part of the airplane, lavatories must have self-contained, removable ashtrays located conspicuously on or near the entry side of each lavatory door, except that one ashtray may serve more than one lavatory door if the ashtray can be seen readily from the cabin side of each lavatory served.
(h) Each receptacle used for the disposal of flammable waste material must be fully enclosed, constructed of at least fire resistant materials, and must contain fires likely to occur in it under normal use. The capability of the receptacle to contain those fires under all probable conditions of wear, misalignment, and ventilation expected in service must be demonstrated by test.
[Amdt. 25-83, 60 FR 6623, Feb. 2, 1995, as amended by Amdt. 25-116, 69 FR 62788, Oct. 27, 2004]
§ 25.854
Lavatory fire protection.
For airplanes with a passenger capacity of 20 or more:
(a) Each lavatory must be equipped with a smoke detector system or equivalent that provides a warning light in the cockpit, or provides a warning light or audible warning in the passenger cabin that would be readily detected by a flight attendant; and
(b) Each lavatory must be equipped with a built-in fire extinguisher for each disposal receptacle for towels, paper, or waste, located within the lavatory. The extinguisher must be designed to discharge automatically into each disposal receptacle upon occurrence of a fire in that receptacle.
[Amdt. 25-74, 56 FR 15456, Apr. 16, 1991]
§ 25.855
Cargo or baggage compartments.
For each cargo or baggage compartment, the following apply:
(a) The compartment must meet one of the class requirements of § 25.857.
(b) Each of the following cargo or baggage compartments, as defined in § 25.857, must have a liner that is separate from, but may be attached to, the airplane structure:
(1) Any Class B through Class E cargo or baggage compartment, and
(2) Any Class F cargo or baggage compartment, unless other means of containing a fire and protecting critical systems and structure are provided.
(c) Ceiling and sidewall liner panels of Class C cargo or baggage compartments, and ceiling and sidewall liner panels in Class F cargo or baggage compartments, if installed to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, must meet the test requirements of part III of appendix F of this part or other approved equivalent methods.
(d) All other materials used in the construction of the cargo or baggage compartment must meet the applicable test criteria prescribed in part I of appendix F of this part or other approved equivalent methods.
(e) No compartment may contain any controls, lines, equipment, or accessories whose damage or failure would affect safe operation, unless those items are protected so that—
(1) They cannot be damaged by the movement of cargo in the compartment, and
(2) Their breakage or failure will not create a fire hazard.
(f) There must be means to prevent cargo or baggage from interfering with the functioning of the fire protective features of the compartment.
(g) Sources of heat within the compartment must be shielded and insulated to prevent igniting the cargo or baggage.
(h) Flight tests must be conducted to show compliance with the provisions of § 25.857 concerning—
(1) Compartment accessibility,
(2) The entries of hazardous quantities of smoke or extinguishing agent into compartments occupied by the crew or passengers, and
(3) The dissipation of the extinguishing agent in all Class C compartments and, if applicable, in any Class F compartments.
(i) During the above tests, it must be shown that no inadvertent operation of smoke or fire detectors in any compartment would occur as a result of
fire contained in any other compartment, either during or after extinguishment, unless the extinguishing system floods each such compartment simultaneously.
(j) Cargo or baggage compartment electrical wiring interconnection system components must meet the requirements of § 25.1721.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29784, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-93, 63 FR 8048, Feb. 17, 1998; Amdt. 25-116, 69 FR 62788, Oct. 27, 2004; Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63405, Nov. 8, 2007; Doc. No. Docket FAA-2014-0001, Amdt. 25-142, 81 FR 7704, Feb. 16, 2016]
§ 25.856
Thermal/Acoustic insulation materials.
(a) Thermal/acoustic insulation material installed in the fuselage must meet the flame propagation test requirements of part VI of Appendix F to this part, or other approved equivalent test requirements. This requirement does not apply to “small parts,” as defined in part I of Appendix F of this part.
(b) For airplanes with a passenger capacity of 20 or greater, thermal/acoustic insulation materials (including the means of fastening the materials to the fuselage) installed in the lower half of the airplane fuselage must meet the flame penetration resistance test requirements of part VII of Appendix F to this part, or other approved equivalent test requirements. This requirement does not apply to thermal/acoustic insulation installations that the FAA finds would not contribute to fire penetration resistance.
[Amdt. 25-111, 68 FR 45059, July 31, 2003]
§ 25.857
Cargo compartment classification.
(a)
Class A;
A Class A cargo or baggage compartment is one in which—
(1) The presence of a fire would be easily discovered by a crewmember while at his station; and
(2) Each part of the compartment is easily accessible in flight.
(b)
Class B.
A Class B cargo or baggage compartment is one in which—
(1) There is sufficient access in flight to enable a crewmember, standing at any one access point and without stepping into the compartment, to extinguish a fire occurring in any part of the compartment using a hand fire extinguisher;
(2) When the access provisions are being used, no hazardous quantity of smoke, flames, or extinguishing agent, will enter any compartment occupied by the crew or passengers;
(3) There is a separate approved smoke detector or fire detector system to give warning at the pilot or flight engineer station.
(c)
Class C.
A Class C cargo or baggage compartment is one not meeting the requirements for either a Class A or B compartment but in which—
(1) There is a separate approved smoke detector or fire detector system to give warning at the pilot or flight engineer station;
(2) There is an approved built-in fire extinguishing or suppression system controllable from the cockpit.
(3) There are means to exclude hazardous quantities of smoke, flames, or extinguishing agent, from any compartment occupied by the crew or passengers;
(4) There are means to control ventilation and drafts within the compartment so that the extinguishing agent used can control any fire that may start within the compartment.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Class E.
A Class E cargo compartment is one on airplanes used only for the carriage of cargo and in which—
(1) [Reserved]
(2) There is a separate approved smoke or fire detector system to give warning at the pilot or flight engineer station;
(3) There are means to shut off the ventilating airflow to, or within, the compartment, and the controls for these means are accessible to the flight crew in the crew compartment;
(4) There are means to exclude hazardous quantities of smoke, flames, or noxious gases, from the flight crew compartment; and
(5) The required crew emergency exits are accessible under any cargo loading condition.
(f) Class F. A Class F cargo or baggage compartment must be located on the main deck and is one in which—
(1) There is a separate approved smoke detector or fire detector system
to give warning at the pilot or flight engineer station;
(2) There are means to extinguish or control a fire without requiring a crewmember to enter the compartment; and
(3) There are means to exclude hazardous quantities of smoke, flames, or extinguishing agent from any compartment occupied by the crew or passengers.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3972, Feb. 24, 1972; Amdt. 25-60, 51 FR 18243, May 16, 1986; Amdt. 25-93, 63 FR 8048, Feb. 17, 1998; Doc. No. Docket FAA-2014-0001, Amdt. 25-142, 81 FR 7704, Feb. 16, 2016]
§ 25.858
Cargo or baggage compartment smoke or fire detection systems.
If certification with cargo or baggage compartment smoke or fire detection provisions is requested, the following must be met for each cargo or baggage compartment with those provisions:
(a) The detection system must provide a visual indication to the flight crew within one minute after the start of a fire.
(b) The system must be capable of detecting a fire at a temperature significantly below that at which the structural integrity of the airplane is substantially decreased.
(c) There must be means to allow the crew to check in flight, the functioning of each fire detector circuit.
(d) The effectiveness of the detection system must be shown for all approved operating configurations and conditions.
[Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60173, Sept. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 25-93, 63 FR 8048, Feb. 17, 1998]
§ 25.859
Combustion heater fire protection.
(a)
Combustion heater fire zones.
The following combustion heater fire zones must be protected from fire in accordance with the applicable provisions of §§ 25.1181 through 25.1191 and §§ 25.1195 through 25.1203;
(1) The region surrounding the heater, if this region contains any flammable fluid system components (excluding the heater fuel system), that could—
(i) Be damaged by heater malfunctioning; or
(ii) Allow flammable fluids or vapors to reach the heater in case of leakage.
(2) The region surrounding the heater, if the heater fuel system has fittings that, if they leaked, would allow fuel or vapors to enter this region.
(3) The part of the ventilating air passage that surrounds the combustion chamber. However, no fire extinguishment is required in cabin ventilating air passages.
(b)
Ventilating air ducts.
Each ventilating air duct passing through any fire zone must be fireproof. In addition—
(1) Unless isolation is provided by fireproof valves or by equally effective means, the ventilating air duct downstream of each heater must be fireproof for a distance great enough to ensure that any fire originating in the heater can be contained in the duct; and
(2) Each part of any ventilating duct passing through any region having a flammable fluid system must be constructed or isolated from that system so that the malfunctioning of any component of that system cannot introduce flammable fluids or vapors into the ventilating airstream.
(c)
Combustion air ducts.
Each combustion air duct must be fireproof for a distance great enough to prevent damage from backfiring or reverse flame propagation. In addition—
(1) No combustion air duct may have a common opening with the ventilating airstream unless flames from backfires or reverse burning cannot enter the ventilating airstream under any operating condition, including reverse flow or malfunctioning of the heater or its associated components; and
(2) No combustion air duct may restrict the prompt relief of any backfire that, if so restricted, could cause heater failure.
(d)
Heater controls; general.
Provision must be made to prevent the hazardous accumulation of water or ice on or in any heater control component, control system tubing, or safety control.
(e)
Heater safety controls.
For each combustion heater there must be the following safety control means:
(1) Means independent of the components provided for the normal continuous control of air temperature, airflow, and fuel flow must be provided, for each heater, to automatically shut off the ignition and fuel supply to that heater at a point remote from that heater when any of the following occurs:
(i) The heat exchanger temperature exceeds safe limits.
(ii) The ventilating air temperature exceeds safe limits.
(iii) The combustion airflow becomes inadequate for safe operation.
(iv) The ventilating airflow becomes inadequate for safe operation.
(2) The means of complying with paragraph (e)(1) of this section for any individual heater must—
(i) Be independent of components serving any other heater whose heat output is essential for safe operation; and
(ii) Keep the heater off until restarted by the crew.
(3) There must be means to warn the crew when any heater whose heat output is essential for safe operation has been shut off by the automatic means prescribed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f)
Air intakes.
Each combustion and ventilating air intake must be located so that no flammable fluids or vapors can enter the heater system under any operating condition—
(1) During normal operation; or
(2) As a result of the malfunctioning of any other component.
(g)
Heater exhaust.
Heater exhaust systems must meet the provisions of §§ 25.1121 and 25.1123. In addition, there must be provisions in the design of the heater exhaust system to safely expel the products of combustion to prevent the occurrence of—
(1) Fuel leakage from the exhaust to surrounding compartments;
(2) Exhaust gas impingement on surrounding equipment or structure;
(3) Ignition of flammable fluids by the exhaust, if the exhaust is in a compartment containing flammable fluid lines; and
(4) Restriction by the exhaust of the prompt relief of backfires that, if so restricted, could cause heater failure.
(h)
Heater fuel systems.
Each heater fuel system must meet each powerplant fuel system requirement affecting safe heater operation. Each heater fuel system component within the ventilating airstream must be protected by shrouds so that no leakage from those components can enter the ventilating airstream.
(i)
Drains.
There must be means to safely drain fuel that might accumulate within the combustion chamber or the heat exchanger. In addition—
(1) Each part of any drain that operates at high temperatures must be protected in the same manner as heater exhausts; and
(2) Each drain must be protected from hazardous ice accumulation under any operating condition.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6912, May 5, 1967; Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.863
Flammable fluid fire protection.
(a) In each area where flammable fluids or vapors might escape by leakage of a fluid system, there must be means to minimize the probability of ignition of the fluids and vapors, and the resultant hazards if ignition does occur.
(b) Compliance with paragraph (a) of this section must be shown by analysis or tests, and the following factors must be considered:
(1) Possible sources and paths of fluid leakage, and means of detecting leakage.
(2) Flammability characteristics of fluids, including effects of any combustible or absorbing materials.
(3) Possible ignition sources, including electrical faults, overheating of equipment, and malfunctioning of protective devices.
(4) Means available for controlling or extinguishing a fire, such as stopping flow of fluids, shutting down equipment, fireproof containment, or use of extinguishing agents.
(5) Ability of airplane components that are critical to safety of flight to withstand fire and heat.
(c) If action by the flight crew is required to prevent or counteract a fluid
fire (e.g., equipment shutdown or actuation of a fire extinguisher) quick acting means must be provided to alert the crew.
(d) Each area where flammable fluids or vapors might escape by leakage of a fluid system must be identified and defined.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50597, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 25.865
Fire protection of flight controls, engine mounts, and other flight structure.
Essential flight controls, engine mounts, and other flight structures located in designated fire zones or in adjacent areas which would be subjected to the effects of fire in the fire zone must be constructed of fireproof material or shielded so that they are capable of withstanding the effects of fire.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.867
Fire protection: other components.
(a) Surfaces to the rear of the nacelles, within one nacelle diameter of the nacelle centerline, must be at least fire-resistant.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to tail surfaces to the rear of the nacelles that could not be readily affected by heat, flames, or sparks coming from a designated fire zone or engine compartment of any nacelle.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.869
Fire protection: systems.
(a) Electrical system components:
(1) Components of the electrical system must meet the applicable fire and smoke protection requirements of §§ 25.831(c) and 25.863.
(2) Equipment that is located in designated fire zones and is used during emergency procedures must be at least fire resistant.
(3) EWIS components must meet the requirements of § 25.1713.
(b) Each vacuum air system line and fitting on the discharge side of the pump that might contain flammable vapors or fluids must meet the requirements of § 25.1183 if the line or fitting is in a designated fire zone. Other vacuum air systems components in designated fire zones must be at least fire resistant.
(c) Oxygen equipment and lines must—
(1) Not be located in any designated fire zone,
(2) Be protected from heat that may be generated in, or escape from, any designated fire zone, and
(3) Be installed so that escaping oxygen cannot cause ignition of grease, fluid, or vapor accumulations that are present in normal operation or as a result of failure or malfunction of any system.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29784, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-113, 69 FR 12530, Mar. 16, 2004; Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63405, Nov. 8, 2007]

# Miscellaneous
§ 25.871
Leveling means.
There must be means for determining when the airplane is in a level position on the ground.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.875
Reinforcement near propellers.
(a) Each part of the airplane near the propeller tips must be strong and stiff enough to withstand the effects of the induced vibration and of ice thrown from the propeller.
(b) No window may be near the propeller tips unless it can withstand the most severe ice impact likely to occur.
§ 25.899
Electrical bonding and protection against static electricity.
(a) Electrical bonding and protection against static electricity must be designed to minimize accumulation of electrostatic charge that would cause—
(1) Human injury from electrical shock,
(2) Ignition of flammable vapors, or
(3) Interference with installed electrical/electronic equipment.
(b) Compliance with paragraph (a) of this section may be shown by—
(1) Bonding the components properly to the airframe; or
(2) Incorporating other acceptable means to dissipate the static charge so
as not to endanger the airplane, personnel, or operation of the installed electrical/electronic systems.
[Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63405, Nov. 8, 2007]

# Subpart E—Powerplant

# General
§ 25.901
Installation.
(a) For the purpose of this part, the airplane powerplant installation includes each component that—
(1) Is necessary for propulsion;
(2) Affects the control of the major propulsive units; or
(3) Affects the safety of the major propulsive units between normal inspections or overhauls.
(b) For each powerplant—
(1) The installation must comply with—
(i) The installation instructions provided under §§ 33.5 and 35.3 of this chapter; and
(ii) The applicable provisions of this subpart;
(2) The components of the installation must be constructed, arranged, and installed so as to ensure their continued safe operation between normal inspections or overhauls;
(3) The installation must be accessible for necessary inspections and maintenance; and
(4) The major components of the installation must be electrically bonded to the other parts of the airplane.
(c) For each powerplant and auxiliary power unit installation, the applicant must comply with the requirements of § 25.1309, except that the effects of the following failures need not comply with § 25.1309(b)—
(1) Engine case burn-through or rupture,
(2) Uncontained engine rotor failure, and
(3) Propeller debris release.
(d) Each auxiliary power unit installation must meet the applicable provisions of this subpart.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15042, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50597, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-126, 73 FR 63345, Oct. 24, 2008; Doc. No. FAA-2022-1544, 89 FR 68734, Aug. 27, 2024]
§ 25.903
Engines.
(a)
Engine type certificate.
(1) Each engine must have a type certificate and must meet the applicable requirements of part 34 of this chapter.
(2) Each turbine engine must comply with one of the following:
(i) Sections 33.76, 33.77 and 33.78 of this chapter in effect on December 13, 2000, or as subsequently amended; or
(ii) Sections 33.77 and 33.78 of this chapter in effect on April 30, 1998, or as subsequently amended before December 13, 2000; or
(iii) Comply with § 33.77 of this chapter in effect on October 31, 1974, or as subsequently amended prior to April 30, 1998, unless that engine's foreign object ingestion service history has resulted in an unsafe condition; or
(iv) Be shown to have a foreign object ingestion service history in similar installation locations which has not resulted in any unsafe condition.

# Note:
§ 33.77 of this chapter in effect on October 31, 1974, was published in 14 CFR parts 1 to 59, Revised as of January 1, 1975. See 39 FR 35467, October 1, 1974.
(3) Each turbine engine must comply with one of the following paragraphs:
(i) Section 33.68 of this chapter in effect on January 5, 2015, or as subsequently amended; or
(ii) Section 33.68 of this chapter in effect on March 26, 1984, or as subsequently amended before January 5, 2015, unless that engine's ice accumulation service history has resulted in an unsafe condition; or
(iii) Section 33.68 of this chapter in effect on October 31, 1974, or as subsequently amended prior to February 23, 1984, unless that engine's ice accumulation service history has resulted in an unsafe condition; or
(iv) Be shown to have an ice accumulation service history in similar installation locations which has not resulted in any unsafe conditions.
(b)
Engine isolation.
The powerplants must be arranged and isolated from each other to allow operation, in at least one configuration, so that the failure or malfunction of any engine, or of any system that can affect the engine, will not—
(1) Prevent the continued safe operation of the remaining engines; or
(2) Require immediate action by any crewmember for continued safe operation.
(c)
Control of engine rotation.
There must be means for stopping the rotation of any engine individually in flight, except that, for turbine engine installations, the means for stopping the rotation of any engine need be provided only where continued rotation could jeopardize the safety of the airplane. Each component of the stopping system on the engine side of the firewall that might be exposed to fire must be at least fire-resistant. If hydraulic propeller feathering systems are used for this purpose, the feathering lines must be at least fire resistant under the operating conditions that may be expected to exist during feathering.
(d)
Turbine engine installations.
For turbine engine installations—
(1) Design precautions must be taken to minimize the hazards to the airplane in the event of an engine rotor failure or of a fire originating within the engine which burns through the engine case.
(2) The powerplant systems associated with engine control devices, systems, and instrumentation, must be designed to give reasonable assurance that those engine operating limitations that adversely affect turbine rotor structural integrity will not be exceeded in service.
(e)
Restart capability.
(1) Means to restart any engine in flight must be provided.
(2) An altitude and airspeed envelope must be established for in-flight engine restarting, and each engine must have a restart capability within that envelope.
(3) For turbine engine powered airplanes, if the minimum windmilling speed of the engines, following the inflight shutdown of all engines, is insufficient to provide the necessary electrical power for engine ignition, a power source independent of the engine-driven electrical power generating system must be provided to permit in-flight engine ignition for restarting.
(f)
Auxiliary Power Unit.
Each auxiliary power unit must be approved or meet the requirements of the category for its intended use.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15042, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29784, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-73, 55 FR 32861, Aug. 10, 1990; Amdt. 25-94, 63 FR 8848, Feb. 23, 1998; Amdt. 25-95, 63 FR 14798, Mar. 26, 1998; Amdt. 25-100, 65 FR 55854, Sept. 14, 2000; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014; Amdt. No. 25-148, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2813, Jan. 18, 2023]
§ 25.904
Automatic takeoff thrust control system (ATTCS).
Each applicant seeking approval for installation of an engine power control system that automatically resets the power or thrust on the operating engine(s) when any engine fails during the takeoff must comply with the requirements of appendix I of this part.
[Amdt. 25-62, 52 FR 43156, Nov. 9, 1987]
§ 25.905
Propellers.
(a) Each propeller must have a type certificate.
(b) Engine power and propeller shaft rotational speed may not exceed the limits for which the propeller is certificated.
(c) The propeller blade pitch control system must meet the requirements of §§ 35.21, 35.23, 35.42 and 35.43 of this chapter.
(d) Design precautions must be taken to minimize the hazards to the airplane in the event a propeller blade fails or is released by a hub failure. The hazards which must be considered include damage to structure and vital systems due to impact of a failed or released blade and the unbalance created by such failure or release.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60173, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29784, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-126, 73 FR 63345, Oct. 24, 2008]
§ 25.907
Propeller vibration and fatigue.
This section does not apply to fixed-pitch wood propellers of conventional design.
(a) The applicant must determine the magnitude of the propeller vibration stresses or loads, including any stress
peaks and resonant conditions, throughout the operational envelope of the airplane by either:
(1) Measurement of stresses or loads through direct testing or analysis based on direct testing of the propeller on the airplane and engine installation for which approval is sought; or
(2) Comparison of the propeller to similar propellers installed on similar airplane installations for which these measurements have been made.
(b) The applicant must demonstrate by tests, analysis based on tests, or previous experience on similar designs that the propeller does not experience harmful effects of flutter throughout the operational envelope of the airplane.
(c) The applicant must perform an evaluation of the propeller to show that failure due to fatigue will be avoided throughout the operational life of the propeller using the fatigue and structural data obtained in accordance with part 35 of this chapter and the vibration data obtained from compliance with paragraph (a) of this section. For the purpose of this paragraph, the propeller includes the hub, blades, blade retention component and any other propeller component whose failure due to fatigue could be catastrophic to the airplane. This evaluation must include:
(1) The intended loading spectra including all reasonably foreseeable propeller vibration and cyclic load patterns, identified emergency conditions, allowable overspeeds and overtorques, and the effects of temperatures and humidity expected in service.
(2) The effects of airplane and propeller operating and airworthiness limitations.
[Amdt. 25-126, 73 FR 63345, Oct. 24, 2008]
§ 25.925
Propeller clearance.
Unless smaller clearances are substantiated, propeller clearances with the airplane at maximum weight, with the most adverse center of gravity, and with the propeller in the most adverse pitch position, may not be less than the following:
(a)
Ground clearance.
There must be a clearance of at least seven inches (for each airplane with nose wheel landing gear) or nine inches (for each airplane with tail wheel landing gear) between each propeller and the ground with the landing gear statically deflected and in the level takeoff, or taxiing attitude, whichever is most critical. In addition, there must be positive clearance between the propeller and the ground when in the level takeoff attitude with the critical tire(s) completely deflated and the corresponding landing gear strut bottomed.
(b)
Water clearance.
There must be a clearance of at least 18 inches between each propeller and the water, unless compliance with § 25.239(a) can be shown with a lesser clearance.
(c)
Structural clearance.
There must be—
(1) At least one inch radial clearance between the blade tips and the airplane structure, plus any additional radial clearance necessary to prevent harmful vibration;
(2) At least one-half inch longitudinal clearance between the propeller blades or cuffs and stationary parts of the airplane; and
(3) Positive clearance between other rotating parts of the propeller or spinner and stationary parts of the airplane.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29784, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.929
Propeller deicing.
(a) If certification for flight in icing is sought there must be a means to prevent or remove hazardous ice accumulations that could form in the icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part and in the portions of Appendix O of this part for which the airplane is approved for flight on propellers or on accessories where ice accumulation would jeopardize engine performance.
(b) If combustible fluid is used for propeller deicing, §§ 25.1181 through 25.1185 and 25.1189 apply.
[ Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.933
Reversing systems.
(a) For turbojet reversing systems—
(1) For each system intended for ground operation only, the applicant must show—
(i) The airplane is capable of continued safe flight and landing during and after any thrust reversal in flight; or
(ii) The system complies with § 25.1309(b) using the assumption the airplane would not be capable of continued safe flight and landing during and after an in-flight thrust reversal.
(2) Each system intended for inflight use must be designed so that no unsafe condition will result during normal operation of the system, or from any failure (or reasonably likely combination of failures) of the reversing system, under any anticipated condition of operation of the airplane including ground operation. Failure of structural elements need not be considered if the probability of this kind of failure is extremely remote.
(3) Each system must have means to prevent the engine from producing more than idle thrust when the reversing system malfunctions, except that it may produce any greater forward thrust that is shown to allow directional control to be maintained, with aerodynamic means alone, under the most critical reversing condition expected in operation.
(b) For propeller reversing systems—
(1) Each system intended for ground operation only must be designed so that no single failure (or reasonably likely combination of failures) or malfunction of the system will result in unwanted reverse thrust under any expected operating condition. Failure of structural elements need not be considered if this kind of failure is extremely remote.
(2) Compliance with this section may be shown by failure analysis or testing, or both, for propeller systems that allow propeller blades to move from the flight low-pitch position to a position that is substantially less than that at the normal flight low-pitch position. The analysis may include or be supported by the analysis made to show compliance with the requirements of § 35.21 of this chapter for the propeller and associated installation components.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29784, July 20, 1990, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1544, 89 FR 68734, Aug. 27, 2024]
§ 25.934
Turbojet engine thrust reverser system tests.
Thrust reversers installed on turbojet engines must meet the requirements of § 33.97 of this chapter.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5677, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.937
Turbopropeller-drag limiting systems.
Turbopropeller power airplane propeller-drag limiting systems must be designed so that no single failure or malfunction of any of the systems during normal or emergency operation results in propeller drag in excess of that for which the airplane was designed under § 25.367. Failure of structural elements of the drag limiting systems need not be considered if the probability of this kind of failure is extremely remote.
§ 25.939
Turbine engine operating characteristics.
(a) Turbine engine operating characteristics must be investigated in flight to determine that no adverse characteristics (such as stall, surge, or flameout) are present, to a hazardous degree, during normal and emergency operation within the range of operating limitations of the airplane and of the engine.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The turbine engine air inlet system may not, as a result of air flow distortion during normal operation, cause vibration harmful to the engine.
[Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6912, May 5, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.941
Inlet, engine, and exhaust compatibility.
For airplanes using variable inlet or exhaust system geometry, or both—
(a) The system comprised of the inlet, engine (including thrust augmentation systems, if incorporated), and exhaust must be shown to function properly under all operating conditions for which approval is sought, including all engine rotating speeds and power settings, and engine inlet and exhaust configurations;
(b) The dynamic effects of the operation of these (including consideration
of probable malfunctions) upon the aerodynamic control of the airplane may not result in any condition that would require exceptional skill, alertness, or strength on the part of the pilot to avoid exceeding an operational or structural limitation of the airplane; and
(c) In showing compliance with paragraph (b) of this section, the pilot strength required may not exceed the limits set forth in § 25.143(d), subject to the conditions set forth in paragraphs (e) and (f) of § 25.143.
[Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44669, Aug. 8, 2007]
§ 25.943
Negative acceleration.
No hazardous malfunction of an engine, an auxiliary power unit approved for use in flight, or any component or system associated with the powerplant or auxiliary power unit may occur when the airplane is operated at the negative accelerations within the flight envelopes prescribed in § 25.333. This must be shown for the greatest duration expected for the acceleration.
[Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.945
Thrust or power augmentation system.
(a)
General.
Each fluid injection system must provide a flow of fluid at the rate and pressure established for proper engine functioning under each intended operating condition. If the fluid can freeze, fluid freezing may not damage the airplane or adversely affect airplane performance.
(b)
Fluid tanks.
Each augmentation system fluid tank must meet the following requirements:
(1) Each tank must be able to withstand without failure the vibration, inertia, fluid, and structural loads that it may be subject to in operation.
(2) The tanks as mounted in the airplane must be able to withstand without failure or leakage an internal pressure 1.5 times the maximum operating pressure.
(3) If a vent is provided, the venting must be effective under all normal flight conditions.
(4) [Reserved]
(5) Each tank must have an expansion space of not less than 2 percent of the tank capacity. It must be impossible to fill the expansion space inadvertently with the airplane in the normal ground attitude.
(c) Augmentation system drains must be designed and located in accordance with § 25.1455 if—
(1) The augmentation system fluid is subject to freezing; and
(2) The fluid may be drained in flight or during ground operation.
(d) The augmentation liquid tank capacity available for the use of each engine must be large enough to allow operation of the airplane under the approved procedures for the use of liquid-augmented power. The computation of liquid consumption must be based on the maximum approved rate appropriate for the desired engine output and must include the effect of temperature on engine performance as well as any other factors that might vary the amount of liquid required.
(e) This section does not apply to fuel injection systems.
[Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004]

# Fuel System
§ 25.951
General.
(a) Each fuel system must be constructed and arranged to ensure a flow of fuel at a rate and pressure established for proper engine and auxiliary power unit functioning under each likely operating condition, including any maneuver for which certification is requested and during which the engine or auxiliary power unit is permitted to be in operation.
(b) Each fuel system must be arranged so that any air which is introduced into the system will not result in—
(1) Power interruption for more than 20 seconds for reciprocating engines; or
(2) Flameout for turbine engines.
(c) Each fuel system for a turbine engine must be capable of sustained operation throughout its flow and pressure range with fuel initially saturated with water at 80 °F and having 0.75cc of free water per gallon added and cooled to
the most critical condition for icing likely to be encountered in operation.
(d) Each fuel system for a turbine engine powered airplane must meet the applicable fuel venting requirements of part 34 of this chapter.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5677, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-36, 39 FR 35460, Oct. 1, 1974; Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-73, 55 FR 32861, Aug. 10, 1990]
§ 25.952
Fuel system analysis and test.
(a) Proper fuel system functioning under all probable operating conditions must be shown by analysis and those tests found necessary by the Administrator. Tests, if required, must be made using the airplane fuel system or a test article that reproduces the operating characteristics of the portion of the fuel system to be tested.
(b) The likely failure of any heat exchanger using fuel as one of its fluids may not result in a hazardous condition.
[Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.953
Fuel system independence.
Each fuel system must meet the requirements of § 25.903(b) by—
(a) Allowing the supply of fuel to each engine through a system independent of each part of the system supplying fuel to any other engine; or
(b) Any other acceptable method.
§ 25.954
Fuel system lightning protection.
(a) For purposes of this section—
(1) A critical lightning strike is a lightning strike that attaches to the airplane in a location that, when combined with the failure of any design feature or structure, could create an ignition source.
(2) A fuel system includes any component within either the fuel tank structure or the fuel tank systems, and any airplane structure or system components that penetrate, connect to, or are located within a fuel tank.
(b) The design and installation of a fuel system must prevent catastrophic fuel vapor ignition due to lightning and its effects, including:
(1) Direct lightning strikes to areas having a high probability of stroke attachment;
(2) Swept lightning strokes to areas where swept strokes are highly probable; and
(3) Lightning-induced or conducted electrical transients.
(c) To comply with paragraph (b) of this section, catastrophic fuel vapor ignition must be extremely improbable, taking into account flammability, critical lightning strikes, and failures within the fuel system.
(d) To protect design features that prevent catastrophic fuel vapor ignition caused by lightning, the type design must include critical design configuration control limitations (CDCCLs) identifying those features and providing information to protect them. To ensure the continued effectiveness of those design features, the type design must also include inspection and test procedures, intervals between repetitive inspections and tests, and mandatory replacement times for those design features used in demonstrating compliance to paragraph (b) of this section. The applicant must include the information required by this paragraph in the Airworthiness Limitations section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 25.1529.
[Doc. No. FAA-2014-1027, Amdt. 25-146, 83 FR 47556, Sept. 20, 2018]
§ 25.955
Fuel flow.
(a) Each fuel system must provide at least 100 percent of the fuel flow required under each intended operating condition and maneuver. Compliance must be shown as follows:
(1) Fuel must be delivered to each engine at a pressure within the limits specified in the engine type certificate.
(2) The quantity of fuel in the tank may not exceed the amount established as the unusable fuel supply for that tank under the requirements of § 25.959 plus that necessary to show compliance with this section.
(3) Each main pump must be used that is necessary for each operating condition and attitude for which compliance with this section is shown, and the appropriate emergency pump must be substituted for each main pump so used.
(4) If there is a fuel flowmeter, it must be blocked and the fuel must flow through the meter or its bypass.
(b) If an engine can be supplied with fuel from more than one tank, the fuel system must—
(1) For each reciprocating engine, supply the full fuel pressure to that engine in not more than 20 seconds after switching to any other fuel tank containing usable fuel when engine malfunctioning becomes apparent due to the depletion of the fuel supply in any tank from which the engine can be fed; and
(2) For each turbine engine, in addition to having appropriate manual switching capability, be designed to prevent interruption of fuel flow to that engine, without attention by the flight crew, when any tank supplying fuel to that engine is depleted of usable fuel during normal operation, and any other tank, that normally supplies fuel to that engine alone, contains usable fuel.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6912, May 5, 1967]
§ 25.957
Flow between interconnected tanks.
If fuel can be pumped from one tank to another in flight, the fuel tank vents and the fuel transfer system must be designed so that no structural damage to the tanks can occur because of overfilling.
§ 25.959
Unusable fuel supply.
The unusable fuel quantity for each fuel tank and its fuel system components must be established at not less than the quantity at which the first evidence of engine malfunction occurs under the most adverse fuel feed condition for all intended operations and flight maneuvers involving fuel feeding from that tank. Fuel system component failures need not be considered.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5677, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.961
Fuel system hot weather operation.
(a) The fuel system must perform satisfactorily in hot weather operation. This must be shown by showing that the fuel system from the tank outlets to each engine is pressurized, under all intended operations, so as to prevent vapor formation, or must be shown by climbing from the altitude of the airport elected by the applicant to the maximum altitude established as an operating limitation under § 25.1527. If a climb test is elected, there may be no evidence of vapor lock or other malfunctioning during the climb test conducted under the following conditions:
(1) For reciprocating engine powered airplanes, the engines must operate at maximum continuous power, except that takeoff power must be used for the altitudes from 1,000 feet below the critical altitude through the critical altitude. The time interval during which takeoff power is used may not be less than the takeoff time limitation.
(2) For turbine engine powered airplanes, the engines must operate at takeoff power for the time interval selected for showing the takeoff flight path, and at maximum continuous power for the rest of the climb.
(3) The weight of the airplane must be the weight with full fuel tanks, minimum crew, and the ballast necessary to maintain the center of gravity within allowable limits.
(4) The climb airspeed may not exceed—
(i) For reciprocating engine powered airplanes, the maximum airspeed established for climbing from takeoff to the maximum operating altitude with the airplane in the following configuration:
(A) Landing gear retracted.
(B) Wing flaps in the most favorable position.
(C) Cowl flaps (or other means of controlling the engine cooling supply) in the position that provides adequate cooling in the hot-day condition.
(D) Engine operating within the maximum continuous power limitations.
(E) Maximum takeoff weight; and
(ii) For turbine engine powered airplanes, the maximum airspeed established for climbing from takeoff to the maximum operating altitude.
(5) The fuel temperature must be at least 110 °F.
(b) The test prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section may be performed in flight or on the ground under closely
simulated flight conditions. If a flight test is performed in weather cold enough to interfere with the proper conduct of the test, the fuel tank surfaces, fuel lines, and other fuel system parts subject to cold air must be insulated to simulate, insofar as practicable, flight in hot weather.
[Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6912, May 5, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 25.963
Fuel tanks: general.
(a) Each fuel tank must be able to withstand, without failure, the vibration, inertia, fluid, and structural loads that it may be subjected to in operation.
(b) Flexible fuel tank liners must be approved or must be shown to be suitable for the particular application.
(c) Integral fuel tanks must have facilities for interior inspection and repair.
(d) Fuel tanks must, so far as it is practicable, be designed, located, and installed so that no fuel is released in or near the fuselage, or near the engines, in quantities that would constitute a fire hazard in otherwise survivable emergency landing conditions, and—
(1) Fuel tanks must be able to resist rupture and retain fuel under ultimate hydrostatic design conditions in which the pressure P within the tank varies in accordance with the formula:
P = KρgL
Where—
P = fuel pressure at each point within the tank
ρ = typical fuel density
g = acceleration due to gravity
L = a reference distance between the point of pressure and the tank farthest boundary in the direction of loading
K = 4.5 for the forward loading condition for those parts of fuel tanks outside the fuselage pressure boundary
K = 9 for the forward loading condition for those parts of fuel tanks within the fuselage pressure boundary, or that form part of the fuselage pressure boundary
K = 1.5 for the aft loading condition
K = 3.0 for the inboard and outboard loading conditions for those parts of fuel tanks within the fuselage pressure boundary, or that form part of the fuselage pressure boundary
K = 1.5 for the inboard and outboard loading conditions for those parts of fuel tanks outside the fuselage pressure boundary
K = 6 for the downward loading condition
K = 3 for the upward loading condition
(2) For those parts of wing fuel tanks near the fuselage or near the engines, the greater of the fuel pressures resulting from paragraphs (d)(2)(i) or (d)(2)(ii) of this section must be used:
(i) The fuel pressures resulting from paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and
(ii) The lesser of the two following conditions:
(A) Fuel pressures resulting from the accelerations specified in § 25.561(b)(3) considering the fuel tank full of fuel at maximum fuel density. Fuel pressures based on the 9.0g forward acceleration may be calculated using the fuel static head equal to the streamwise local chord of the tank. For inboard and outboard conditions, an acceleration of 1.5g may be used in lieu of 3.0g as specified in § 25.561(b)(3).
(B) Fuel pressures resulting from the accelerations as specified in § 25.561(b)(3) considering a fuel volume beyond 85 percent of the maximum permissible volume in each tank using the static head associated with the 85 percent fuel level. A typical density of the appropriate fuel may be used. For inboard and outboard conditions, an acceleration of 1.5g may be used in lieu of 3.0g as specified in § 25.561(b)(3).
(3) Fuel tank internal barriers and baffles may be considered as solid boundaries if shown to be effective in limiting fuel flow.
(4) For each fuel tank and surrounding airframe structure, the effects of crushing and scraping actions with the ground must not cause the spillage of enough fuel, or generate temperatures that would constitute a fire hazard under the conditions specified in § 25.721(b).
(5) Fuel tank installations must be such that the tanks will not rupture as a result of the landing gear or an engine pylon or engine mount tearing away as specified in § 25.721(a) and (c).
(e) Fuel tank access covers must comply with the following criteria in order to avoid loss of hazardous quantities of fuel:
(1) All covers located in an area where experience or analysis indicates
a strike is likely must be shown by analysis or tests to minimize penetration and deformation by tire fragments, low energy engine debris, or other likely debris.
(2) All covers must be fire resistant as defined in part 1 of this chapter.
(f) For pressurized fuel tanks, a means with fail-safe features must be provided to prevent the buildup of an excessive pressure difference between the inside and the outside of the tank.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 25-69, 54 FR 40354, Sept. 29, 1989; Amdt. 25-139, 79 FR 59430, Oct. 2, 2014]
§ 25.965
Fuel tank tests.
(a) It must be shown by tests that the fuel tanks, as mounted in the airplane, can withstand, without failure or leakage, the more critical of the pressures resulting from the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. In addition, it must be shown by either analysis or tests, that tank surfaces subjected to more critical pressures resulting from the condition of paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section, are able to withstand the following pressures:
(1) An internal pressure of 3.5 psi.
(2) 125 percent of the maximum air pressure developed in the tank from ram effect.
(3) Fluid pressures developed during maximum limit accelerations, and deflections, of the airplane with a full tank.
(4) Fluid pressures developed during the most adverse combination of airplane roll and fuel load.
(b) Each metallic tank with large unsupported or unstiffened flat surfaces, whose failure or deformation could cause fuel leakage, must be able to withstand the following test, or its equivalent, without leakage or excessive deformation of the tank walls:
(1) Each complete tank assembly and its supports must be vibration tested while mounted to simulate the actual installation.
(2) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the tank assembly must be vibrated for 25 hours at an amplitude of not less than
1/32
of an inch (unless another amplitude is substantiated) while
2/3
filled with water or other suitable test fluid.
(3) The test frequency of vibration must be as follows:
(i) If no frequency of vibration resulting from any r.p.m. within the normal operating range of engine speeds is critical, the test frequency of vibration must be 2,000 cycles per minute.
(ii) If only one frequency of vibration resulting from any r.p.m. within the normal operating range of engine speeds is critical, that frequency of vibration must be the test frequency.
(iii) If more than one frequency of vibration resulting from any r.p.m. within the normal operating range of engine speeds is critical, the most critical of these frequencies must be the test frequency.
(4) Under paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the time of test must be adjusted to accomplish the same number of vibration cycles that would be accomplished in 25 hours at the frequency specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(5) During the test, the tank assembly must be rocked at the rate of 16 to 20 complete cycles per minute, through an angle of 15° on both sides of the horizontal (30° total), about the most critical axis, for 25 hours. If motion about more than one axis is likely to be critical, the tank must be rocked about each critical axis for 12
1/2
hours.
(c) Except where satisfactory operating experience with a similar tank in a similar installation is shown, nonmetallic tanks must withstand the test specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, with fuel at a temperature of 110 °F. During this test, a representative specimen of the tank must be installed in a supporting structure simulating the installation in the airplane.
(d) For pressurized fuel tanks, it must be shown by analysis or tests that the fuel tanks can withstand the maximum pressure likely to occur on the ground or in flight.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6913, May 5, 1967; Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.967
Fuel tank installations.
(a) Each fuel tank must be supported so that tank loads (resulting from the weight of the fuel in the tanks) are not
concentrated on unsupported tank surfaces. In addition—
(1) There must be pads, if necessary, to prevent chafing between the tank and its supports;
(2) Padding must be nonabsorbent or treated to prevent the absorption of fluids;
(3) If a flexible tank liner is used, it must be supported so that it is not required to withstand fluid loads; and
(4) Each interior surface of the tank compartment must be smooth and free of projections that could cause wear of the liner unless—
(i) Provisions are made for protection of the liner at these points; or
(ii) The construction of the liner itself provides that protection.
(b) Spaces adjacent to tank surfaces must be ventilated to avoid fume accumulation due to minor leakage. If the tank is in a sealed compartment, ventilation may be limited to drain holes large enough to prevent excessive pressure resulting from altitude changes.
(c) The location of each tank must meet the requirements of § 25.1185(a).
(d) No engine nacelle skin immediately behind a major air outlet from the engine compartment may act as the wall of an integral tank.
(e) Each fuel tank must be isolated from personnel compartments by a fumeproof and fuelproof enclosure.
§ 25.969
Fuel tank expansion space.
Each fuel tank must have an expansion space of not less than 2 percent of the tank capacity. It must be impossible to fill the expansion space inadvertently with the airplane in the normal ground attitude. For pressure fueling systems, compliance with this section may be shown with the means provided to comply with § 25.979(b).
[Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6913, May 5, 1967]
§ 25.971
Fuel tank sump.
(a) Each fuel tank must have a sump with an effective capacity, in the normal ground attitude, of not less than the greater of 0.10 percent of the tank capacity or one-sixteenth of a gallon unless operating limitations are established to ensure that the accumulation of water in service will not exceed the sump capacity.
(b) Each fuel tank must allow drainage of any hazardous quantity of water from any part of the tank to its sump with the airplane in the ground attitude.
(c) Each fuel tank sump must have an accessible drain that—
(1) Allows complete drainage of the sump on the ground;
(2) Discharges clear of each part of the airplane; and
(3) Has manual or automatic means for positive locking in the closed position.
§ 25.973
Fuel tank filler connection.
Each fuel tank filler connection must prevent the entrance of fuel into any part of the airplane other than the tank itself. In addition—
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Each recessed filler connection that can retain any appreciable quantity of fuel must have a drain that discharges clear of each part of the airplane;
(c) Each filler cap must provide a fuel-tight seal; and
(d) Each fuel filling point must have a provision for electrically bonding the airplane to ground fueling equipment.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004]
§ 25.975
Fuel tank vents and carburetor vapor vents.
(a)
Fuel tank vents.
Each fuel tank must be vented from the top part of the expansion space so that venting is effective under any normal flight condition. In addition—
(1) Each vent must be arranged to avoid stoppage by dirt or ice formation;
(2) The vent arrangement must prevent siphoning of fuel during normal operation;
(3) The venting capacity and vent pressure levels must maintain acceptable differences of pressure between the interior and exterior of the tank, during—
(i) Normal flight operation;
(ii) Maximum rate of ascent and descent; and
(iii) Refueling and defueling (where applicable);
(4) Airspaces of tanks with interconnected outlets must be interconnected;
(5) There may be no point in any vent line where moisture can accumulate with the airplane in the ground attitude or the level flight attitude, unless drainage is provided;
(6) No vent or drainage provision may end at any point—
(i) Where the discharge of fuel from the vent outlet would constitute a fire hazard; or
(ii) From which fumes could enter personnel compartments; and
(7) Each fuel tank vent system must prevent explosions, for a minimum of 2 minutes and 30 seconds, caused by propagation of flames from outside the tank through the fuel tank vents into fuel tank vapor spaces when any fuel tank vent is continuously exposed to flame.
(b)
Carburetor vapor vents.
Each carburetor with vapor elimination connections must have a vent line to lead vapors back to one of the fuel tanks. In addition—
(1) Each vent system must have means to avoid stoppage by ice; and
(2) If there is more than one fuel tank, and it is necessary to use the tanks in a definite sequence, each vapor vent return line must lead back to the fuel tank used for takeoff and landing.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Docket No. FAA-2014-0500, Amdt. No. 25-143, 81 FR 41207, June 24, 2016]
§ 25.977
Fuel tank outlet.
(a) There must be a fuel strainer for the fuel tank outlet or for the booster pump. This strainer must—
(1) For reciprocating engine powered airplanes, have 8 to 16 meshes per inch; and
(2) For turbine engine powered airplanes, prevent the passage of any object that could restrict fuel flow or damage any fuel system component.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The clear area of each fuel tank outlet strainer must be at least five times the area of the outlet line.
(d) The diameter of each strainer must be at least that of the fuel tank outlet.
(e) Each finger strainer must be accessible for inspection and cleaning.
[Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6913, May 5, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 25-36, 39 FR 35460, Oct. 1, 1974]
§ 25.979
Pressure fueling system.
For pressure fueling systems, the following apply:
(a) Each pressure fueling system fuel manifold connection must have means to prevent the escape of hazardous quantities of fuel from the system if the fuel entry valve fails.
(b) An automatic shutoff means must be provided to prevent the quantity of fuel in each tank from exceeding the maximum quantity approved for that tank. This means must—
(1) Allow checking for proper shutoff operation before each fueling of the tank; and
(2) Provide indication at each fueling station of failure of the shutoff means to stop the fuel flow at the maximum quantity approved for that tank.
(c) A means must be provided to prevent damage to the fuel system in the event of failure of the automatic shutoff means prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The airplane pressure fueling system (not including fuel tanks and fuel tank vents) must withstand an ultimate load that is 2.0 times the load arising from the maximum pressures, including surge, that is likely to occur during fueling. The maximum surge pressure must be established with any combination of tank valves being either intentionally or inadvertently closed.
(e) The airplane defueling system (not including fuel tanks and fuel tank vents) must withstand an ultimate load that is 2.0 times the load arising from the maximum permissible defueling pressure (positive or negative) at the airplane fueling connection.
[Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6913, May 5, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.981
Fuel tank explosion prevention.
(a) No ignition source may be present at each point in the fuel tank or fuel tank system where catastrophic failure
could occur due to ignition of fuel or vapors. This must be shown by:
(1) Determining the highest temperature allowing a safe margin below the lowest expected autoignition temperature of the fuel in the fuel tanks.
(2) Demonstrating that no temperature at each place inside each fuel tank where fuel ignition is possible will exceed the temperature determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. This must be verified under all probable operating, failure, and malfunction conditions of each component whose operation, failure, or malfunction could increase the temperature inside the tank.
(3) Except for ignition sources due to lightning addressed by § 25.954, demonstrating that an ignition source could not result from each single failure, from each single failure in combination with each latent failure condition not shown to be extremely remote, and from all combinations of failures not shown to be extremely improbable, taking into account the effects of manufacturing variability, aging, wear, corrosion, and likely damage.
(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (c) of this section, no fuel tank Fleet Average Flammability Exposure on an airplane may exceed three percent of the Flammability Exposure Evaluation Time (FEET) as defined in Appendix N of this part, or that of a fuel tank within the wing of the airplane model being evaluated, whichever is greater. If the wing is not a conventional unheated aluminum wing, the analysis must be based on an assumed Equivalent Conventional Unheated Aluminum Wing Tank.
(1) Fleet Average Flammability Exposure is determined in accordance with Appendix N of this part. The assessment must be done in accordance with the methods and procedures set forth in the Fuel Tank Flammability Assessment Method User's Manual, dated May 2008, document number DOT/FAA/AR-05/8 (incorporated by reference, see § 25.5).
(2) Any fuel tank other than a main fuel tank on an airplane must meet the flammability exposure criteria of Appendix M to this part if any portion of the tank is located within the fuselage contour.
(3) As used in this paragraph,
(i)
Equivalent Conventional Unheated Aluminum Wing Tank
is an integral tank in an unheated semi-monocoque aluminum wing of a subsonic airplane that is equivalent in aerodynamic performance, structural capability, fuel tank capacity and tank configuration to the designed wing.
(ii)
Fleet Average Flammability Exposure
is defined in Appendix N to this part and means the percentage of time each fuel tank ullage is flammable for a fleet of an airplane type operating over the range of flight lengths.
(iii)
Main Fuel Tank
means a fuel tank that feeds fuel directly into one or more engines and holds required fuel reserves continually throughout each flight.
(c) Paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to a fuel tank if means are provided to mitigate the effects of an ignition of fuel vapors within that fuel tank such that no damage caused by an ignition will prevent continued safe flight and landing.
(d) To protect design features that prevent catastrophic ignition sources within the fuel tank or fuel tank system according to paragraph (a) of this section, and to prevent increasing the flammability exposure of the tanks above that permitted in paragraph (b) of this section, the type design must include critical design configuration control limitations (CDCCLs) identifying those features and providing instructions on how to protect them. To ensure the continued effectiveness of those features, and prevent degradation of the performance and reliability of any means provided according to paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the type design must also include necessary inspection and test procedures, intervals between repetitive inspections and tests, and mandatory replacement times for those features. The applicant must include information required by this paragraph in the Airworthiness Limitations section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 25.1529. The type design must also include visible means of identifying critical features of the design in areas of the airplane
where foreseeable maintenance actions, repairs, or alterations may compromise the CDCCLs.
[Doc. No. 1999-6411, 66 FR 23129, May 7, 2001, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2005-22997, 73 FR 42494, July 21, 2008; Doc. No. FAA- 2014-1027, Amdt. No. 25-146, 83 FR 47556, Sept. 20, 2018]

# Fuel System Components
§ 25.991
Fuel pumps.
(a)
Main pumps.
Each fuel pump required for proper engine operation, or required to meet the fuel system requirements of this subpart (other than those in paragraph (b) of this section, is a main pump. For each main pump, provision must be made to allow the bypass of each positive displacement fuel pump other than a fuel injection pump (a pump that supplies the proper flow and pressure for fuel injection when the injection is not accomplished in a carburetor) approved as part of the engine.
(b)
Emergency pumps.
There must be emergency pumps or another main pump to feed each engine immediately after failure of any main pump (other than a fuel injection pump approved as part of the engine).
§ 25.993
Fuel system lines and fittings.
(a) Each fuel line must be installed and supported to prevent excessive vibration and to withstand loads due to fuel pressure and accelerated flight conditions.
(b) Each fuel line connected to components of the airplane between which relative motion could exist must have provisions for flexibility.
(c) Each flexible connection in fuel lines that may be under pressure and subjected to axial loading must use flexible hose assemblies.
(d) Flexible hose must be approved or must be shown to be suitable for the particular application.
(e) No flexible hose that might be adversely affected by exposure to high temperatures may be used where excessive temperatures will exist during operation or after engine shut-down.
(f) Each fuel line within the fuselage must be designed and installed to allow a reasonable degree of deformation and stretching without leakage.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-15, 32 FR 13266, Sept. 20, 1967]
§ 25.994
Fuel system components.
Fuel system components in an engine nacelle or in the fuselage must be protected from damage that could result in spillage of enough fuel to constitute a fire hazard as a result of a wheels-up landing on a paved runway under each of the conditions prescribed in § 25.721(b).
[Amdt. 25-139, 79 FR 59430, Oct. 2, 2014]
§ 25.995
Fuel valves.
In addition to the requirements of § 25.1189 for shutoff means, each fuel valve must—
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Be supported so that no loads resulting from their operation or from accelerated flight conditions are transmitted to the lines attached to the valve.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.997
Fuel strainer or filter.
There must be a fuel strainer or filter between the fuel tank outlet and the inlet of either the fuel metering device or an engine driven positive displacement pump, whichever is nearer the fuel tank outlet. This fuel strainer or filter must—
(a) Be accessible for draining and cleaning and must incorporate a screen or element which is easily removable;
(b) Have a sediment trap and drain except that it need not have a drain if the strainer or filter is easily removable for drain purposes;
(c) Be mounted so that its weight is not supported by the connecting lines or by the inlet or outlet connections of the strainer or filter itself, unless adequate strength margins under all loading conditions are provided in the lines and connections; and
(d) Have the capacity (with respect to operating limitations established for the engine) to ensure that engine fuel system functioning is not impaired, with the fuel contaminated to a degree
(with respect to particle size and density) that is greater than that established for the engine in Part 33 of this chapter.
[Amdt. 25-36, 39 FR 35460, Oct. 1, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 25.999
Fuel system drains.
(a) Drainage of the fuel system must be accomplished by the use of fuel strainer and fuel tank sump drains.
(b) Each drain required by paragraph (a) of this section must—
(1) Discharge clear of all parts of the airplane;
(2) Have manual or automatic means for positive locking in the closed position; and
(3) Have a drain valve—
(i) That is readily accessible and which can be easily opened and closed; and
(ii) That is either located or protected to prevent fuel spillage in the event of a landing with landing gear retracted.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 25.1001
Fuel jettisoning system.
(a) A fuel jettisoning system must be installed on each airplane unless it is shown that the airplane meets the climb requirements of §§ 25.119 and 25.121(d) at maximum takeoff weight, less the actual or computed weight of fuel necessary for a 15-minute flight comprised of a takeoff, go-around, and landing at the airport of departure with the airplane configuration, speed, power, and thrust the same as that used in meeting the applicable takeoff, approach, and landing climb performance requirements of this part.
(b) If a fuel jettisoning system is required it must be capable of jettisoning enough fuel within 15 minutes, starting with the weight given in paragraph (a) of this section, to enable the airplane to meet the climb requirements of §§ 25.119 and 25.121(d), assuming that the fuel is jettisoned under the conditions, except weight, found least favorable during the flight tests prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Fuel jettisoning must be demonstrated beginning at maximum takeoff weight with flaps and landing gear up and in—
(1) A power-off glide at 1.3 V
SR1
;
(2) A climb at the one-engine inoperative best rate-of-climb speed, with the critical engine inoperative and the remaining engines at maximum continuous power; and
(3) Level flight at 1.3 V
SR1
; if the results of the tests in the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section show that this condition could be critical.
(d) During the flight tests prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section, it must be shown that—
(1) The fuel jettisoning system and its operation are free from fire hazard;
(2) The fuel discharges clear of any part of the airplane;
(3) Fuel or fumes do not enter any parts of the airplane; and
(4) The jettisoning operation does not adversely affect the controllability of the airplane.
(e) For reciprocating engine powered airplanes, means must be provided to prevent jettisoning the fuel in the tanks used for takeoff and landing below the level allowing 45 minutes flight at 75 percent maximum continuous power. However, if there is an auxiliary control independent of the main jettisoning control, the system may be designed to jettison the remaining fuel by means of the auxiliary jettisoning control.
(f) For turbine engine powered airplanes, means must be provided to prevent jettisoning the fuel in the tanks used for takeoff and landing below the level allowing climb from sea level to 10,000 feet and thereafter allowing 45 minutes cruise at a speed for maximum range. However, if there is an auxiliary control independent of the main jettisoning control, the system may be designed to jettison the remaining fuel by means of the auxiliary jettisoning control.
(g) The fuel jettisoning valve must be designed to allow flight personnel to close the valve during any part of the jettisoning operation.
(h) Unless it is shown that using any means (including flaps, slots, and slats) for changing the airflow across or around the wings does not adversely affect fuel jettisoning, there must be a
placard, adjacent to the jettisoning control, to warn flight crewmembers against jettisoning fuel while the means that change the airflow are being used.
(i) The fuel jettisoning system must be designed so that any reasonably probable single malfunction in the system will not result in a hazardous condition due to unsymmetrical jettisoning of, or inability to jettison, fuel.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-18, 33 FR 12226, Aug. 30, 1968; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002]

# Oil System
§ 25.1011
General.
(a) Each engine must have an independent oil system that can supply it with an appropriate quantity of oil at a temperature not above that safe for continuous operation.
(b) The usable oil capacity may not be less than the product of the endurance of the airplane under critical operating conditions and the approved maximum allowable oil consumption of the engine under the same conditions, plus a suitable margin to ensure system circulation. Instead of a rational analysis of airplane range for the purpose of computing oil requirements for reciprocating engine powered airplanes, the following fuel/oil ratios may be used:
(1) For airplanes without a reserve oil or oil transfer system, a fuel/oil ratio of 30:1 by volume.
(2) For airplanes with either a reserve oil or oil transfer system, a fuel/oil ratio of 40:1 by volume.
(c) Fuel/oil ratios higher than those prescribed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section may be used if substantiated by data on actual engine oil consumption.
§ 25.1013
Oil tanks.
(a)
Installation.
Each oil tank installation must meet the requirements of § 25.967.
(b)
Expansion space.
Oil tank expansion space must be provided as follows:
(1) Each oil tank used with a reciprocating engine must have an expansion space of not less than the greater of 10 percent of the tank capacity or 0.5 gallon, and each oil tank used with a turbine engine must have an expansion space of not less than 10 percent of the tank capacity.
(2) Each reserve oil tank not directly connected to any engine may have an expansion space of not less than two percent of the tank capacity.
(3) It must be impossible to fill the expansion space inadvertently with the airplane in the normal ground attitude.
(c)
Filler connection.
Each recessed oil tank filler connection that can retain any appreciable quantity of oil must have a drain that discharges clear of each part of the airplane. In addition, each oil tank filler cap must provide an oil-tight seal.
(d)
Vent.
Oil tanks must be vented as follows:
(1) Each oil tank must be vented from the top part of the expansion space so that venting is effective under any normal flight condition.
(2) Oil tank vents must be arranged so that condensed water vapor that might freeze and obstruct the line cannot accumulate at any point.
(e)
Outlet.
There must be means to prevent entrance into the tank itself, or into the tank outlet, of any object that might obstruct the flow of oil through the system. No oil tank outlet may be enclosed by any screen or guard that would reduce the flow of oil below a safe value at any operating temperature. There must be a shutoff valve at the outlet of each oil tank used with a turbine engine, unless the external portion of the oil system (including the oil tank supports) is fireproof.
(f)
Flexible oil tank liners.
Each flexible oil tank liner must be approved or must be shown to be suitable for the particular application.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-19, 33 FR 15410, Oct. 17, 1968; Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5677, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-36, 39 FR 35460, Oct. 1, 1974; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1015
Oil tank tests.
Each oil tank must be designed and installed so that—
(a) It can withstand, without failure, each vibration, inertia, and fluid load that it may be subjected to in operation; and
(b) It meets the provisions of § 25.965, except—
(1) The test pressure—
(i) For pressurized tanks used with a turbine engine, may not be less than 5 p.s.i. plus the maximum operating pressure of the tank instead of the pressure specified in § 25.965(a); and
(ii) For all other tanks may not be less than 5 p.s.i. instead of the pressure specified in § 25.965(a); and
(2) The test fluid must be oil at 250 °F. instead of the fluid specified in § 25.965(c).
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-36, 39 FR 35461, Oct. 1, 1974]
§ 25.1017
Oil lines and fittings.
(a) Each oil line must meet the requirements of § 25.993 and each oil line and fitting in any designated fire zone must meet the requirements of § 25.1183.
(b) Breather lines must be arranged so that—
(1) Condensed water vapor that might freeze and obstruct the line cannot accumulate at any point;
(2) The breather discharge does not constitute a fire hazard if foaming occurs or causes emitted oil to strike the pilot's windshield; and
(3) The breather does not discharge into the engine air induction system.
§ 25.1019
Oil strainer or filter.
(a) Each turbine engine installation must incorporate an oil strainer or filter through which all of the engine oil flows and which meets the following requirements:
(1) Each oil strainer or filter that has a bypass must be constructed and installed so that oil will flow at the normal rate through the rest of the system with the strainer or filter completely blocked.
(2) The oil strainer or filter must have the capacity (with respect to operating limitations established for the engine) to ensure that engine oil system functioning is not impaired when the oil is contaminated to a degree (with respect to particle size and density) that is greater than that established for the engine under Part 33 of this chapter.
(3) The oil strainer or filter, unless it is installed at an oil tank outlet, must incorporate an indicator that will indicate contamination before it reaches the capacity established in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(4) The bypass of a strainer or filter must be constructed and installed so that the release of collected contaminants is minimized by appropriate location of the bypass to ensure that collected contaminants are not in the bypass flow path.
(5) An oil strainer or filter that has no bypass, except one that is installed at an oil tank outlet, must have a means to connect it to the warning system required in § 25.1305(c)(7).
(b) Each oil strainer or filter in a powerplant installation using reciprocating engines must be constructed and installed so that oil will flow at the normal rate through the rest of the system with the strainer or filter element completely blocked.
[Amdt. 25-36, 39 FR 35461, Oct. 1, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 25.1021
Oil system drains.
A drain (or drains) must be provided to allow safe drainage of the oil system. Each drain must—
(a) Be accessible; and
(b) Have manual or automatic means for positive locking in the closed position.
[Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 25.1023
Oil radiators.
(a) Each oil radiator must be able to withstand, without failure, any vibration, inertia, and oil pressure load to which it would be subjected in operation.
(b) Each oil radiator air duct must be located so that, in case of fire, flames coming from normal openings of the engine nacelle cannot impinge directly upon the radiator.
§ 25.1025
Oil valves.
(a) Each oil shutoff must meet the requirements of § 25.1189.
(b) The closing of oil shutoff means may not prevent propeller feathering.
(c) Each oil valve must have positive stops or suitable index provisions in
the “on” and “off” positions and must be supported so that no loads resulting from its operation or from accelerated flight conditions are transmitted to the lines attached to the valve.
§ 25.1027
Propeller feathering system.
(a) If the propeller feathering system depends on engine oil, there must be means to trap an amount of oil in the tank if the supply becomes depleted due to failure of any part of the lubricating system other than the tank itself.
(b) The amount of trapped oil must be enough to accomplish the feathering operation and must be available only to the feathering pump.
(c) The ability of the system to accomplish feathering with the trapped oil must be shown. This may be done on the ground using an auxiliary source of oil for lubricating the engine during operation.
(d) Provision must be made to prevent sludge or other foreign matter from affecting the safe operation of the propeller feathering system.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976]

# Cooling
§ 25.1041
General.
The powerplant and auxiliary power unit cooling provisions must be able to maintain the temperatures of powerplant components, engine fluids, and auxiliary power unit components and fluids within the temperature limits established for these components and fluids, under ground, water, and flight operating conditions, and after normal engine or auxiliary power unit shutdown, or both.
[Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 25.1043
Cooling tests.
(a)
General.
Compliance with § 25.1041 must be shown by tests, under critical ground, water, and flight operating conditions. For these tests, the following apply:
(1) If the tests are conducted under conditions deviating from the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature, the recorded powerplant temperatures must be corrected under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(2) No corrected temperatures determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may exceed established limits.
(3) For reciprocating engines, the fuel used during the cooling tests must be the minimum grade approved for the engines, and the mixture settings must be those normally used in the flight stages for which the cooling tests are conducted. The test procedures must be as prescribed in § 25.1045.
(b)
Maximum ambient atmospheric temperature.
A maximum ambient atmospheric temperature corresponding to sea level conditions of at least 100 degrees F must be established. The assumed temperature lapse rate is 3.6 degrees F per thousand feet of altitude above sea level until a temperature of −69.7 degrees F is reached, above which altitude the temperature is considered constant at −69.7 degrees F. However, for winterization installations, the applicant may select a maximum ambient atmospheric temperature corresponding to sea level conditions of less than 100 degrees F.
(c)
Correction factor (except cylinder barrels).
Unless a more rational correction applies, temperatures of engine fluids and powerplant components (except cylinder barrels) for which temperature limits are established, must be corrected by adding to them the difference between the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature and the temperature of the ambient air at the time of the first occurrence of the maximum component or fluid temperature recorded during the cooling test.
(d)
Correction factor for cylinder barrel temperatures.
Unless a more rational correction applies, cylinder barrel temperatures must be corrected by adding to them 0.7 times the difference between the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature and the temperature of the ambient air at the time of the first occurrence of the maximum cylinder barrel temperature recorded during the cooling test.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2323, Jan. 16, 1978]
§ 25.1045
Cooling test procedures.
(a) Compliance with § 25.1041 must be shown for the takeoff, climb, en route, and landing stages of flight that correspond to the applicable performance requirements. The cooling tests must be conducted with the airplane in the configuration, and operating under the conditions, that are critical relative to cooling during each stage of flight. For the cooling tests, a temperature is “stabilized” when its rate of change is less than two degrees F. per minute.
(b) Temperatures must be stabilized under the conditions from which entry is made into each stage of flight being investigated, unless the entry condition normally is not one during which component and the engine fluid temperatures would stabilize (in which case, operation through the full entry condition must be conducted before entry into the stage of flight being investigated in order to allow temperatures to reach their natural levels at the time of entry). The takeoff cooling test must be preceded by a period during which the powerplant component and engine fluid temperatures are stabilized with the engines at ground idle.
(c) Cooling tests for each stage of flight must be continued until—
(1) The component and engine fluid temperatures stabilize;
(2) The stage of flight is completed; or
(3) An operating limitation is reached.
(d) For reciprocating engine powered airplanes, it may be assumed, for cooling test purposes, that the takeoff stage of flight is complete when the airplane reaches an altitude of 1,500 feet above the takeoff surface or reaches a point in the takeoff where the transition from the takeoff to the en route configuration is completed and a speed is reached at which compliance with § 25.121(c) is shown, whichever point is at a higher altitude. The airplane must be in the following configuration:
(1) Landing gear retracted.
(2) Wing flaps in the most favorable position.
(3) Cowl flaps (or other means of controlling the engine cooling supply) in the position that provides adequate cooling in the hot-day condition.
(4) Critical engine inoperative and its propeller stopped.
(5) Remaining engines at the maximum continuous power available for the altitude.
(e) For hull seaplanes and amphibians, cooling must be shown during taxiing downwind for 10 minutes, at five knots above step speed.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984]

# Induction System
§ 25.1091
Air induction.
(a) The air induction system for each engine and auxiliary power unit must supply—
(1) The air required by that engine and auxiliary power unit under each operating condition for which certification is requested; and
(2) The air for proper fuel metering and mixture distribution with the induction system valves in any position.
(b) Each reciprocating engine must have an alternate air source that prevents the entry of rain, ice, or any other foreign matter.
(c) Air intakes may not open within the cowling, unless—
(1) That part of the cowling is isolated from the engine accessory section by means of a fireproof diaphragm; or
(2) For reciprocating engines, there are means to prevent the emergence of backfire flames.
(d) For turbine engine powered airplanes and airplanes incorporating auxiliary power units—
(1) There must be means to prevent hazardous quantities of fuel leakage or overflow from drains, vents, or other components of flammable fluid systems from entering the engine or auxiliary power unit intake system; and
(2) The airplane must be designed to prevent water or slush on the runway, taxiway, or other airport operating surfaces from being directed into the engine or auxiliary power unit air inlet ducts in hazardous quantities, and the air inlet ducts must be located or protected so as to minimize the ingestion of foreign matter during takeoff, landing, and taxiing.
(e) If the engine induction system contains parts or components that
could be damaged by foreign objects entering the air inlet, it must be shown by tests or, if appropriate, by analysis that the induction system design can withstand the foreign object ingestion test conditions of §§ 33.76, 33.77 and 33.78(a)(1) of this chapter without failure of parts or components that could create a hazard.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 25-100, 65 FR 55854, Sept. 14, 2000]
§ 25.1093
Induction system icing protection.
(a)
Reciprocating engines.
Each reciprocating engine air induction system must have means to prevent and eliminate icing. Unless this is done by other means, it must be shown that, in air free of visible moisture at a temperature of 30 F., each airplane with altitude engines using—
(1) Conventional venturi carburetors have a preheater that can provide a heat rise of 120 F. with the engine at 60 percent of maximum continuous power; or
(2) Carburetors tending to reduce the probability of ice formation has a preheater that can provide a heat rise of 100 °F. with the engine at 60 percent of maximum continuous power.
(b)
Turbine engines.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, each engine, with all icing protection systems operating, must:
(1) Operate throughout its flight power range, including the minimum descent idling speeds, in the icing conditions defined in Appendices C and O of this part, and Appendix D of part 33 of this chapter, and in falling and blowing snow within the limitations established for the airplane for such operation, without the accumulation of ice on the engine, inlet system components, or airframe components that would do any of the following:
(i) Adversely affect installed engine operation or cause a sustained loss of power or thrust; or an unacceptable increase in gas path operating temperature; or an airframe/engine incompatibility; or
(ii) Result in unacceptable temporary power loss or engine damage; or
(iii) Cause a stall, surge, or flameout or loss of engine controllability (for example, rollback).
(2) Operate at ground idle speed for a minimum of 30 minutes on the ground in the following icing conditions shown in Table 1 of this section, unless replaced by similar test conditions that are more critical. These conditions must be demonstrated with the available air bleed for icing protection at its critical condition, without adverse effect, followed by an acceleration to takeoff power or thrust in accordance with the procedures defined in the airplane flight manual. During the idle operation, the engine may be run up periodically to a moderate power or thrust setting in a manner acceptable to the Administrator. Analysis may be used to show ambient temperatures below the tested temperature are less critical. The applicant must document the engine run-up procedure (including the maximum time interval between run-ups from idle, run-up power setting, and duration at power), the associated minimum ambient temperature, and the maximum time interval. These conditions must be used in the analysis that establishes the airplane operating limitations in accordance with § 25.1521.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the icing conditions defined in appendix O of this part, including the conditions specified in Condition 3 of Table 1 of this section, are not applicable to airplanes with a maximum takeoff weight equal to or greater than 60,000 pounds.
Table 1—Icing Conditions for Ground Tests
Condition
Total air temperature
Water concentration (minimum)
Mean effective particle diameter
Demonstration
1. Rime ice condition
0 to 15 °F (18 to −9 °C)
Liquid—0.3 g/m
3
15-25 microns
By test, analysis or combination of the two.
2. Glaze ice condition
20 to 30 °F (−7 to −1 °C)
Liquid—0.3 g/m
3
15-25 microns
By test, analysis or combination of the two.
3. Large drop condition
15 to 30 °F (−9 to −1 °C)
Liquid—0.3 g/m
3
100 microns (minimum)
By test, analysis or combination of the two.
(c)
Supercharged reciprocating engines.
For each engine having a supercharger to pressurize the air before it enters the carburetor, the heat rise in the air caused by that supercharging at any altitude may be utilized in determining compliance with paragraph (a) of this section if the heat rise utilized is that which will be available, automatically, for the applicable altitude and operating condition because of supercharging.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65526, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.1101
Carburetor air preheater design.
Each carburetor air preheater must be designed and constructed to—
(a) Ensure ventilation of the preheater when the engine is operated in cold air;
(b) Allow inspection of the exhaust manifold parts that it surrounds; and
(c) Allow inspection of critical parts of the preheater itself.
§ 25.1103
Induction system ducts and air duct systems.
(a) Each induction system duct upstream of the first stage of the engine supercharger and of the auxiliary power unit compressor must have a drain to prevent the hazardous accumulation of fuel and moisture in the ground attitude. No drain may discharge where it might cause a fire hazard.
(b) Each induction system duct must be—
(1) Strong enough to prevent induction system failures resulting from normal backfire conditions; and
(2) Fire-resistant if it is in any fire zone for which a fire-extinguishing system is required, except that ducts for auxiliary power units must be fireproof within the auxiliary power unit fire zone.
(c) Each duct connected to components between which relative motion could exist must have means for flexibility.
(d) For turbine engine and auxiliary power unit bleed air duct systems, no hazard may result if a duct failure occurs at any point between the air duct source and the airplane unit served by the air.
(e) Each auxiliary power unit induction system duct must be fireproof for a sufficient distance upstream of the auxiliary power unit compartment to prevent hot gas reverse flow from burning through auxiliary power unit ducts and entering any other compartment or area of the airplane in which a hazard would be created resulting from the entry of hot gases. The materials used to form the remainder of the induction system duct and plenum chamber of the auxiliary power unit must be capable of resisting the maximum heat conditions likely to occur.
(f) Each auxiliary power unit induction system duct must be constructed of materials that will not absorb or trap hazardous quantities of flammable fluids that could be ignited in the event of a surge or reverse flow condition.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50597, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 25.1105
Induction system screens.
If induction system screens are used—
(a) Each screen must be upstream of the carburetor;
(b) No screen may be in any part of the induction system that is the only passage through which air can reach the engine, unless it can be deiced by heated air;
(c) No screen may be deiced by alcohol alone; and
(d) It must be impossible for fuel to strike any screen.
§ 25.1107
Inter-coolers and after-coolers.
Each inter-cooler and after-cooler must be able to withstand any vibration, inertia, and air pressure load to which it would be subjected in operation.

# Exhaust System
§ 25.1121
General.
For powerplant and auxiliary power unit installations the following apply:
(a) Each exhaust system must ensure safe disposal of exhaust gases without fire hazard or carbon monoxide contamination in any personnel compartment. For test purposes, any acceptable carbon monoxide detection method may be used to show the absence of carbon monoxide.
(b) Each exhaust system part with a surface hot enough to ignite flammable fluids or vapors must be located or shielded so that leakage from any system carrying flammable fluids or vapors will not result in a fire caused by impingement of the fluids or vapors on any part of the exhaust system including shields for the exhaust system.
(c) Each component that hot exhaust gases could strike, or that could be subjected to high temperatures from exhaust system parts, must be fireproof. All exhaust system components must be separated by fireproof shields from adjacent parts of the airplane that are outside the engine and auxiliary power unit compartments.
(d) No exhaust gases may discharge so as to cause a fire hazard with respect to any flammable fluid vent or drain.
(e) No exhaust gases may discharge where they will cause a glare seriously affecting pilot vision at night.
(f) Each exhaust system component must be ventilated to prevent points of excessively high temperature.
(g) Each exhaust shroud must be ventilated or insulated to avoid, during normal operation, a temperature high enough to ignite any flammable fluids or vapors external to the shroud.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15043, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.1123
Exhaust piping.
For powerplant and auxiliary power unit installations, the following apply:
(a) Exhaust piping must be heat and corrosion resistant, and must have provisions to prevent failure due to expansion by operating temperatures.
(b) Piping must be supported to withstand any vibration and inertia loads to which it would be subjected in operation; and
(c) Piping connected to components between which relative motion could exist must have means for flexibility.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15044, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.1125
Exhaust heat exchangers.
For reciprocating engine powered airplanes, the following apply:
(a) Each exhaust heat exchanger must be constructed and installed to withstand each vibration, inertia, and other load to which it would be subjected in operation. In addition—
(1) Each exchanger must be suitable for continued operation at high temperatures and resistant to corrosion from exhaust gases;
(2) There must be means for the inspection of the critical parts of each exchanger;
(3) Each exchanger must have cooling provisions wherever it is subject to contact with exhaust gases; and
(4) No exhaust heat exchanger or muff may have any stagnant areas or liquid traps that would increase the probability of ignition of flammable fluids or vapors that might be present in case of the failure or malfunction of components carrying flammable fluids.
(b) If an exhaust heat exchanger is used for heating ventilating air—
(1) There must be a secondary heat exchanger between the primary exhaust gas heat exchanger and the ventilating air system; or
(2) Other means must be used to preclude the harmful contamination of the ventilating air.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 25.1127
Exhaust driven turbo-superchargers.
(a) Each exhaust driven turbo-supercharger must be approved or shown to be suitable for the particular application. It must be installed and supported to ensure safe operation between normal inspections and overhauls. In addition, there must be provisions for expansion and flexibility between exhaust conduits and the turbine.
(b) There must be provisions for lubricating the turbine and for cooling turbine parts where temperatures are critical.
(c) If the normal turbo-supercharger control system malfunctions, the turbine speed may not exceed its maximum allowable value. Except for the waste gate operating components, the components provided for meeting this requirement must be independent of the normal turbo-supercharger controls.

# Powerplant Controls and Accessories
§ 25.1141
Powerplant controls: general.
Each powerplant control must be located, arranged, and designed under §§ 25.777 through 25.781 and marked under § 25.1555. In addition, it must meet the following requirements:
(a) Each control must be located so that it cannot be inadvertently operated by persons entering, leaving, or moving normally in, the cockpit.
(b) Each flexible control must be approved or must be shown to be suitable for the particular application.
(c) Each control must have sufficient strength and rigidity to withstand operating loads without failure and without excessive deflection.
(d) Each control must be able to maintain any set position without constant attention by flight crewmembers and without creep due to control loads or vibration.
(e) The portion of each powerplant control located in a designated fire zone that is required to be operated in the event of fire must be at least fire resistant.
(f) For powerplant valve controls located in the flight deck there must be a means:
(1) For the flightcrew to select each intended position or function of the valve; and
(2) To indicate to the flightcrew:
(i) The selected position or function of the valve; and
(ii) When the valve has not responded as intended to the selected position or function.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15044, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004]
§ 25.1142
Auxiliary power unit controls.
Means must be provided on the flight deck for starting, stopping, and emergency shutdown of each installed auxiliary power unit.
[Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50598, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 25.1143
Engine controls.
(a) There must be a separate power or thrust control for each engine.
(b) Power and thrust controls must be arranged to allow—
(1) Separate control of each engine; and
(2) Simultaneous control of all engines.
(c) Each power and thrust control must provide a positive and immediately responsive means of controlling its engine.
(d) For each fluid injection (other than fuel) system and its controls not provided and approved as part of the engine, the applicant must show that the flow of the injection fluid is adequately controlled.
(e) If a power or thrust control incorporates a fuel shutoff feature, the control must have a means to prevent the inadvertent movement of the control into the shutoff position. The means must—
(1) Have a positive lock or stop at the idle position; and
(2) Require a separate and distinct operation to place the control in the shutoff position.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5677, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 25.1145
Ignition switches.
(a) Ignition switches must control each engine ignition circuit on each engine.
(b) There must be means to quickly shut off all ignition by the grouping of switches or by a master ignition control.
(c) Each group of ignition switches, except ignition switches for turbine engines for which continuous ignition is not required, and each master ignition control must have a means to prevent its inadvertent operation.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15044 Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.1147
Mixture controls.
(a) If there are mixture controls, each engine must have a separate control. The controls must be grouped and arranged to allow—
(1) Separate control of each engine; and
(2) Simultaneous control of all engines.
(b) Each intermediate position of the mixture controls that corresponds to a normal operating setting must be identifiable by feel and sight.
(c) The mixture controls must be accessible to both pilots. However, if there is a separate flight engineer station with a control panel, the controls need be accessible only to the flight engineer.
§ 25.1149
Propeller speed and pitch controls.
(a) There must be a separate propeller speed and pitch control for each propeller.
(b) The controls must be grouped and arranged to allow—
(1) Separate control of each propeller; and
(2) Simultaneous control of all propellers.
(c) The controls must allow synchronization of all propellers.
(d) The propeller speed and pitch controls must be to the right of, and at least one inch below, the pilot's throttle controls.
§ 25.1153
Propeller feathering controls.
(a) There must be a separate propeller feathering control for each propeller. The control must have means to prevent its inadvertent operation.
(b) If feathering is accomplished by movement of the propeller pitch or speed control lever, there must be means to prevent the inadvertent movement of this lever to the feathering position during normal operation.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6913, May 5, 1967]
§ 25.1155
Reverse thrust and propeller pitch settings below the flight regime.
Each control for reverse thrust and for propeller pitch settings below the flight regime must have means to prevent its inadvertent operation. The means must have a positive lock or stop at the flight idle position and must require a separate and distinct operation by the crew to displace the control from the flight regime (forward thrust regime for turbojet powered airplanes).
[Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6913, May 5, 1967]
§ 25.1157
Carburetor air temperature controls.
There must be a separate carburetor air temperature control for each engine.
§ 25.1159
Supercharger controls.
Each supercharger control must be accessible to the pilots or, if there is a separate flight engineer station with a control panel, to the flight engineer.
§ 25.1161
Fuel jettisoning system controls.
Each fuel jettisoning system control must have guards to prevent inadvertent operation. No control may be near any fire extinguisher control or other control used to combat fire.
§ 25.1163
Powerplant accessories.
(a) Each engine mounted accessory must—
(1) Be approved for mounting on the engine involved;
(2) Use the provisions on the engine for mounting; and
(3) Be sealed to prevent contamination of the engine oil system and the accessory system.
(b) Electrical equipment subject to arcing or sparking must be installed to minimize the probability of contact with any flammable fluids or vapors that might be present in a free state.
(c) If continued rotation of an engine-driven cabin supercharger or of any remote accessory driven by the engine is hazardous if malfunctioning occurs, there must be means to prevent rotation without interfering with the continued operation of the engine.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 25.1165
Engine ignition systems.
(a) Each battery ignition system must be supplemented by a generator that is automatically available as an alternate source of electrical energy to allow continued engine operation if any battery becomes depleted.
(b) The capacity of batteries and generators must be large enough to meet the simultaneous demands of the engine ignition system and the greatest demands of any electrical system components that draw electrical energy from the same source.
(c) The design of the engine ignition system must account for—
(1) The condition of an inoperative generator;
(2) The condition of a completely depleted battery with the generator running at its normal operating speed; and
(3) The condition of a completely depleted battery with the generator operating at idling speed, if there is only one battery.
(d) Magneto ground wiring (for separate ignition circuits) that lies on the engine side of the fire wall, must be installed, located, or protected, to minimize the probability of simultaneous failure of two or more wires as a result of mechanical damage, electrical faults, or other cause.
(e) No ground wire for any engine may be routed through a fire zone of another engine unless each part of that wire within that zone is fireproof.
(f) Each ignition system must be independent of any electrical circuit, not used for assisting, controlling, or analyzing the operation of that system.
(g) There must be means to warn appropriate flight crewmembers if the malfunctioning of any part of the electrical system is causing the continuous discharge of any battery necessary for engine ignition.
(h) Each engine ignition system of a turbine powered airplane must be considered an essential electrical load.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5677, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1167
Accessory gearboxes.
For airplanes equipped with an accessory gearbox that is not certificated as part of an engine—
(a) The engine with gearbox and connecting transmissions and shafts attached must be subjected to the tests specified in § 33.49 or § 33.87 of this chapter, as applicable;
(b) The accessory gearbox must meet the requirements of §§ 33.25 and 33.53 or 33.91 of this chapter, as applicable; and
(c) Possible misalignments and torsional loadings of the gearbox, transmission, and shaft system, expected to result under normal operating conditions must be evaluated.
[Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976]

# Powerplant Fire Protection
§ 25.1181
Designated fire zones; regions included.
(a) Designated fire zones are—
(1) The engine power section;
(2) The engine accessory section;
(3) Except for reciprocating engines, any complete powerplant compartment in which no isolation is provided between the engine power section and the engine accessory section;
(4) Any auxiliary power unit compartment;
(5) Any fuel-burning heater and other combustion equipment installation described in § 25.859;
(6) The compressor and accessory sections of turbine engines; and
(7) Combustor, turbine, and tailpipe sections of turbine engine installations that contain lines or components carrying flammable fluids or gases.
(b) Each designated fire zone must meet the requirements of §§ 25.863, 25.865, 25.867, 25.869, and 25.1185 through 25.1203.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6913, May 5, 1967; Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5677, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004]
§ 25.1182
Nacelle areas behind firewalls, and engine pod attaching structures containing flammable fluid lines.
(a) Each nacelle area immediately behind the firewall, and each portion of any engine pod attaching structure containing flammable fluid lines, must meet each requirement of §§ 25.1103(b), 25.1165 (d) and (e), 25.1183, 25.1185(c), 25.1187, 25.1189, and 25.1195 through 25.1203, including those concerning designated fire zones. However, engine pod attaching structures need not contain fire detection or extinguishing means.
(b) For each area covered by paragraph (a) of this section that contains a retractable landing gear, compliance with that paragraph need only be shown with the landing gear retracted.
[Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6913, May 5, 1967]
§ 25.1183
Flammable fluid-carrying components.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each line, fitting, and other component carrying flammable fluid in any area subject to engine fire conditions, and each component which conveys or contains flammable fluid in a designated fire zone must be fire resistant, except that flammable fluid tanks and supports in a designated fire zone must be fireproof or be enclosed by a fireproof shield unless damage by fire to any non-fireproof part will not cause leakage or spillage of flammable fluid. Components must be shielded or located to safeguard against the ignition of leaking flammable fluid. An integral oil sump of less than 25-quart capacity on a reciprocating engine need not be fireproof nor be enclosed by a fireproof shield.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to—
(1) Lines, fittings, and components which are already approved as part of a type certificated engine; and
(2) Vent and drain lines, and their fittings, whose failure will not result in, or add to, a fire hazard.
(c) All components, including ducts, within a designated fire zone must be fireproof if, when exposed to or damaged by fire, they could—
(1) Result in fire spreading to other regions of the airplane; or
(2) Cause unintentional operation of, or inability to operate, essential services or equipment.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-11, 32 FR 6913, May 5, 1967; Amdt. 25-36, 39 FR 35461, Oct. 1, 1974; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 25-101, 65 FR 79710, Dec. 19, 2000]
§ 25.1185
Flammable fluids.
(a) Except for the integral oil sumps specified in § 25.1183(a), no tank or reservoir that is a part of a system containing flammable fluids or gases may be in a designated fire zone unless the fluid contained, the design of the system, the materials used in the tank, the shut-off means, and all connections, lines, and control provide a degree of safety equal to that which would exist if the tank or reservoir were outside such a zone.
(b) There must be at least one-half inch of clear airspace between each tank or reservoir and each firewall or shroud isolating a designated fire zone.
(c) Absorbent materials close to flammable fluid system components that might leak must be covered or treated to prevent the absorption of hazardous quantities of fluids.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-19, 33 FR 15410, Oct. 17, 1968; Amdt. 25-94, 63 FR 8848, Feb. 23, 1998]
§ 25.1187
Drainage and ventilation of fire zones.
(a) There must be complete drainage of each part of each designated fire zone to minimize the hazards resulting from failure or malfunctioning of any component containing flammable fluids. The drainage means must be—
(1) Effective under conditions expected to prevail when drainage is needed; and
(2) Arranged so that no discharged fluid will cause an additional fire hazard.
(b) Each designated fire zone must be ventilated to prevent the accumulation of flammable vapors.
(c) No ventilation opening may be where it would allow the entry of flammable fluids, vapors, or flame from other zones.
(d) Each ventilation means must be arranged so that no discharged vapors will cause an additional fire hazard.
(e) Unless the extinguishing agent capacity and rate of discharge are based on maximum air flow through a zone, there must be means to allow the crew to shut off sources of forced ventilation to any fire zone except the engine power section of the nacelle and the combustion heater ventilating air ducts.
§ 25.1189
Shutoff means.
(a) Each engine installation and each fire zone specified in § 25.1181(a)(4) and (5) must have a means to shut off or otherwise prevent hazardous quantities of fuel, oil, deicer, and other flammable fluids, from flowing into, within, or through any designated fire zone, except that shutoff means are not required for—
(1) Lines, fittings, and components forming an integral part of an engine; and
(2) Oil systems for turbine engine installations in which all components of the system in a designated fire zone, including oil tanks, are fireproof or located in areas not subject to engine fire conditions.
(b) The closing of any fuel shutoff valve for any engine may not make fuel unavailable to the remaining engines.
(c) Operation of any shutoff may not interfere with the later emergency operation of other equipment, such as the means for feathering the propeller.
(d) Each flammable fluid shutoff means and control must be fireproof or must be located and protected so that any fire in a fire zone will not affect its operation.
(e) No hazardous quantity of flammable fluid may drain into any designated fire zone after shutoff.
(f) There must be means to guard against inadvertent operation of the shutoff means and to make it possible for the crew to reopen the shutoff means in flight after it has been closed.
(g) Each tank-to-engine shutoff valve must be located so that the operation of the valve will not be affected by powerplant or engine mount structural failure.
(h) Each shutoff valve must have a means to relieve excessive pressure accumulation unless a means for pressure relief is otherwise provided in the system.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5677, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 25.1191
Firewalls.
(a) Each engine, auxiliary power unit, fuel-burning heater, other combustion equipment intended for operation in flight, and the combustion, turbine, and tailpipe sections of turbine engines, must be isolated from the rest of the airplane by firewalls, shrouds, or equivalent means.
(b) Each firewall and shroud must be—
(1) Fireproof;
(2) Constructed so that no hazardous quantity of air, fluid, or flame can pass from the compartment to other parts of the airplane;
(3) Constructed so that each opening is sealed with close fitting fireproof grommets, bushings, or firewall fittings; and
(4) Protected against corrosion.
§ 25.1192
Engine accessory section diaphragm.
For reciprocating engines, the engine power section and all portions of the exhaust system must be isolated from the engine accessory compartment by a diaphragm that complies with the firewall requirements of § 25.1191.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5678, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.1193
Cowling and nacelle skin.
(a) Each cowling must be constructed and supported so that it can resist any
vibration, inertia, and air load to which it may be subjected in operation.
(b) Cowling must meet the drainage and ventilation requirements of § 25.1187.
(c) On airplanes with a diaphragm isolating the engine power section from the engine accessory section, each part of the accessory section cowling subject to flame in case of fire in the engine power section of the powerplant must—
(1) Be fireproof; and
(2) Meet the requirements of § 25.1191.
(d) Each part of the cowling subject to high temperatures due to its nearness to exhaust system parts or exhaust gas impingement must be fireproof.
(e) Each airplane must—
(1) Be designed and constructed so that no fire originating in any fire zone can enter, either through openings or by burning through external skin, any other zone or region where it would create additional hazards;
(2) Meet paragraph (e)(1) of this section with the landing gear retracted (if applicable); and
(3) Have fireproof skin in areas subject to flame if a fire starts in the engine power or accessory sections.
§ 25.1195
Fire extinguishing systems.
(a) Except for combustor, turbine, and tail pipe sections of turbine engine installations that contain lines or components carrying flammable fluids or gases for which it is shown that a fire originating in these sections can be controlled, there must be a fire extinguisher system serving each designated fire zone.
(b) The fire extinguishing system, the quantity of the extinguishing agent, the rate of discharge, and the discharge distribution must be adequate to extinguish fires. It must be shown by either actual or simulated flights tests that under critical airflow conditions in flight the discharge of the extinguishing agent in each designated fire zone specified in paragraph (a) of this section will provide an agent concentration capable of extinguishing fires in that zone and of minimizing the probability of reignition. An individual “one-shot” system may be used for auxiliary power units, fuel burning heaters, and other combustion equipment. For each other designated fire zone, two discharges must be provided each of which produces adequate agent concentration.
(c) The fire extinguishing system for a nacelle must be able to simultaneously protect each zone of the nacelle for which protection is provided.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50598, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 25.1197
Fire extinguishing agents.
(a) Fire extinguishing agents must—
(1) Be capable of extinguishing flames emanating from any burning of fluids or other combustible materials in the area protected by the fire extinguishing system; and
(2) Have thermal stability over the temperature range likely to be experienced in the compartment in which they are stored.
(b) If any toxic extinguishing agent is used, provisions must be made to prevent harmful concentrations of fluid or fluid vapors (from leakage during normal operation of the airplane or as a result of discharging the fire extinguisher on the ground or in flight) from entering any personnel compartment, even though a defect may exist in the extinguishing system. This must be shown by test except for built-in carbon dioxide fuselage compartment fire extinguishing systems for which—
(1) Five pounds or less of carbon dioxide will be discharged, under established fire control procedures, into any fuselage compartment; or
(2) There is protective breathing equipment for each flight crewmember on flight deck duty.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15044, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.1199
Extinguishing agent containers.
(a) Each extinguishing agent container must have a pressure relief to prevent bursting of the container by excessive internal pressures.
(b) The discharge end of each discharge line from a pressure relief connection must be located so that discharge of the fire extinguishing agent would not damage the airplane. The
line must also be located or protected to prevent clogging caused by ice or other foreign matter.
(c) There must be a means for each fire extinguishing agent container to indicate that the container has discharged or that the charging pressure is below the established minimum necessary for proper functioning.
(d) The temperature of each container must be maintained, under intended operating conditions, to prevent the pressure in the container from—
(1) Falling below that necessary to provide an adequate rate of discharge; or
(2) Rising high enough to cause premature discharge.
(e) If a pyrotechnic capsule is used to discharge the extinguishing agent, each container must be installed so that temperature conditions will not cause hazardous deterioration of the pyrotechnic capsule.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5678, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15044, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.1201
Fire extinguishing system materials.
(a) No material in any fire extinguishing system may react chemically with any extinguishing agent so as to create a hazard.
(b) Each system component in an engine compartment must be fireproof.
§ 25.1203
Fire detector system.
(a) There must be approved, quick acting fire or overheat detectors in each designated fire zone, and in the combustion, turbine, and tailpipe sections of turbine engine installations, in numbers and locations ensuring prompt detection of fire in those zones.
(b) Each fire detector system must be constructed and installed so that—
(1) It will withstand the vibration, inertia, and other loads to which it may be subjected in operation;
(2) There is a means to warn the crew in the event that the sensor or associated wiring within a designated fire zone is severed at one point, unless the system continues to function as a satisfactory detection system after the severing; and
(3) There is a means to warn the crew in the event of a short circuit in the sensor or associated wiring within a designated fire zone, unless the system continues to function as a satisfactory detection system after the short circuit.
(c) No fire or overheat detector may be affected by any oil, water, other fluids or fumes that might be present.
(d) There must be means to allow the crew to check, in flight, the functioning of each fire or overheat detector electric circuit.
(e) Components of each fire or overheat detector system in a fire zone must be fire-resistant.
(f) No fire or overheat detector system component for any fire zone may pass through another fire zone, unless—
(1) It is protected against the possibility of false warnings resulting from fires in zones through which it passes; or
(2) Each zone involved is simultaneously protected by the same detector and extinguishing system.
(g) Each fire detector system must be constructed so that when it is in the configuration for installation it will not exceed the alarm activation time approved for the detectors using the response time criteria specified in the appropriate Technical Standard Order for the detector.
(h) EWIS for each fire or overheat detector system in a fire zone must meet the requirements of § 25.1731.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5678, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-26, 36 FR 5493, Mar. 24, 1971; Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63405, Nov. 8, 2007]
§ 25.1207
Compliance.
Unless otherwise specified, compliance with the requirements of §§ 25.1181 through 25.1203 must be shown by a full scale fire test or by one or more of the following methods:
(a) Tests of similar powerplant configurations;
(b) Tests of components;
(c) Service experience of aircraft with similar powerplant configurations;
(d) Analysis.
[Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50598, Oct. 30, 1978]

# Subpart F—Equipment

# General
§ 25.1301
Function and installation.
Each item of installed equipment must—
(a) Be of a kind and design appropriate to its intended function;
(b) Be labeled as to its identification, function, or operating limitations, or any applicable combination of these factors; and
(c) Be installed according to limitations specified for that equipment.
[Doc. No. FAA-2022-1544, 89 FR 68735, Aug. 27, 2024]
§ 25.1302
Installed systems and equipment for use by the flightcrew.
This section applies to installed systems and equipment intended for flightcrew members' use in operating the airplane from their normally seated positions on the flight deck. The applicant must show that these systems and installed equipment, individually and in combination with other such systems and equipment, are designed so that qualified flightcrew members trained in their use can safely perform all of the tasks associated with the systems' and equipment's intended functions. Such installed equipment and systems must meet the following requirements:
(a) Flight deck controls must be installed to allow accomplishment of all the tasks required to safely perform the equipment's intended function, and information must be provided to the flightcrew that is necessary to accomplish the defined tasks.
(b) Flight deck controls and information intended for the flightcrew's use must:
(1) Be provided in a clear and unambiguous manner at a resolution and precision appropriate to the task;
(2) Be accessible and usable by the flightcrew in a manner consistent with the urgency, frequency, and duration of their tasks; and
(3) Enable flightcrew awareness, if awareness is required for safe operation, of the effects on the airplane or systems resulting from flightcrew actions.
(c) Operationally-relevant behavior of the installed equipment must be:
(1) Predictable and unambiguous; and
(2) Designed to enable the flightcrew to intervene in a manner appropriate to the task.
(d) To the extent practicable, installed equipment must incorporate means to enable the flightcrew to manage errors resulting from the kinds of flightcrew interactions with the equipment that can be reasonably expected in service. This paragraph does not apply to any of the following:
(1) Skill-related errors associated with manual control of the airplane;
(2) Errors that result from decisions, actions, or omissions committed with malicious intent;
(3) Errors arising from a crewmember's reckless decisions, actions, or omissions reflecting a substantial disregard for safety; and
(4) Errors resulting from acts or threats of violence, including actions taken under duress.
[Doc. No. FAA-2010-1175, 78 FR 25846, May 3, 2013]
§ 25.1303
Flight and navigation instruments.
(a) The following flight and navigation instruments must be installed so that the instrument is visible from each pilot station:
(1) A free air temperature indicator or an air-temperature indicator which provides indications that are convertible to free-air temperature.
(2) A clock displaying hours, minutes, and seconds with a sweep-second pointer or digital presentation.
(3) A direction indicator (nonstabilized magnetic compass).
(b) The following flight and navigation instruments must be installed at each pilot station:
(1) An airspeed indicator. If airspeed limitations vary with altitude, the indicator must have a maximum allowable airspeed indicator showing the variation of V
MO
with altitude.
(2) An altimeter (sensitive).
(3) A rate-of-climb indicator (vertical speed).
(4) A gyroscopic rate-of-turn indicator combined with an integral slip-
skid indicator (turn-and-bank indicator) except that only a slip-skid indicator is required on large airplanes with a third attitude instrument system useable through flight attitudes of 360° of pitch and roll and installed in accordance with § 121.305(k) of this title.
(5) A bank and pitch indicator (gyroscopically stabilized).
(6) A direction indicator (gyroscopically stabilized, magnetic or nonmagnetic).
(c) The following flight and navigation instruments are required as prescribed in this paragraph:
(1) A speed warning device is required for turbine engine powered airplanes and for airplanes with V
MO
/M
MO
greater than 0.8 V
DF
/M
DF
or 0.8 V
D
/M
D
. The speed warning device must give effective aural warning (differing distinctively from aural warnings used for other purposes) to the pilots, whenever the speed exceeds V
MO
plus 6 knots or M
MO
+ 0.01. The upper limit of the production tolerance for the warning device may not exceed the prescribed warning speed.
(2) A machmeter is required at each pilot station for airplanes with compressibility limitations not otherwise indicated to the pilot by the airspeed indicating system required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5678, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-24, 35 FR 7108, May 6, 1970; Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-90, 62 FR 13253, Mar. 19, 1997]
§ 25.1305
Powerplant instruments.
The following are required powerplant instruments:
(a)
For all airplanes.
(1) A fuel pressure warning means for each engine, or a master warning means for all engines with provision for isolating the individual warning means from the master warning means.
(2) A fuel quantity indicator for each fuel tank.
(3) An oil quantity indicator for each oil tank.
(4) An oil pressure indicator for each independent pressure oil system of each engine.
(5) An oil pressure warning means for each engine, or a master warning means for all engines with provision for isolating the individual warning means from the master warning means.
(6) An oil temperature indicator for each engine.
(7) Fire-warning devices that provide visual and audible warning.
(8) An augmentation liquid quantity indicator (appropriate for the manner in which the liquid is to be used in operation) for each tank.
(b)
For reciprocating engine-powered airplanes.
In addition to the powerplant instruments required by paragraph (a) of this section, the following powerplant instruments are required:
(1) A carburetor air temperature indicator for each engine.
(2) A cylinder head temperature indicator for each air-cooled engine.
(3) A manifold pressure indicator for each engine.
(4) A fuel pressure indicator (to indicate the pressure at which the fuel is supplied) for each engine.
(5) A fuel flowmeter, or fuel mixture indicator, for each engine without an automatic altitude mixture control.
(6) A tachometer for each engine.
(7) A device that indicates, to the flight crew (during flight), any change in the power output, for each engine with—
(i) An automatic propeller feathering system, whose operation is initiated by a power output measuring system; or
(ii) A total engine piston displacement of 2,000 cubic inches or more.
(8) A means to indicate to the pilot when the propeller is in reverse pitch, for each reversing propeller.
(c)
For turbine engine-powered airplanes.
In addition to the powerplant instruments required by paragraph (a) of this section, the following powerplant instruments are required:
(1) A gas temperature indicator for each engine.
(2) A fuel flowmeter indicator for each engine.
(3) A tachometer (to indicate the speed of the rotors with established limiting speeds) for each engine.
(4) A means to indicate, to the flight crew, the operation of each engine starter that can be operated continuously but that is neither designed for continuous operation nor designed to prevent hazard if it failed.
(5) An indicator to indicate the functioning of the powerplant ice protection system for each engine.
(6) An indicator for the fuel strainer or filter required by § 25.997 to indicate the occurrence of contamination of the strainer or filter before it reaches the capacity established in accordance with § 25.997(d).
(7) A warning means for the oil strainer or filter required by § 25.1019, if it has no bypass, to warn the pilot of the occurrence of contamination of the strainer or filter screen before it reaches the capacity established in accordance with § 25.1019(a)(2).
(8) An indicator to indicate the proper functioning of any heater used to prevent ice clogging of fuel system components.
(d)
For turbojet engine powered airplanes.
In addition to the powerplant instruments required by paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, the following powerplant instruments are required:
(1) An indicator to indicate thrust, or a parameter that is directly related to thrust, to the pilot. The indication must be based on the direct measurement of thrust or of parameters that are directly related to thrust. The indicator must indicate a change in thrust resulting from any engine malfunction, damage, or deterioration.
(2) A position indicating means to indicate to the flightcrew when the thrust reversing device—
(i) Is not in the selected position, and
(ii) Is in the reverse thrust position, for each engine using a thrust reversing device.
(3) An indicator to indicate rotor system unbalance.
(e)
For turbopropeller-powered airplanes.
In addition to the powerplant instruments required by paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, the following powerplant instruments are required:
(1) A torque indicator for each engine.
(2) Position indicating means to indicate to the flight crew when the propeller blade angle is below the flight low pitch position, for each propeller.
(f) For airplanes equipped with fluid systems (other than fuel) for thrust or power augmentation, an approved means must be provided to indicate the proper functioning of that system to the flight crew.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5678, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-35, 39 FR 1831, Jan. 15, 1974; Amdt. 25-36, 39 FR 35461, Oct. 1, 1974; Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60173, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004]
§ 25.1307
Miscellaneous equipment.
The following is required miscellaneous equipment:
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Two or more independent sources of electrical energy.
(c) Electrical protective devices, as prescribed in this part.
(d) Two systems for two-way radio communications, with controls for each accessible from each pilot station, designed and installed so that failure of one system will not preclude operation of the other system. The use of a common antenna system is acceptable if adequate reliability is shown.
(e) Two systems for radio navigation, with controls for each accessible from each pilot station, designed and installed so that failure of one system will not preclude operation of the other system. The use of a common antenna system is acceptable if adequate reliability is shown.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5678, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50598, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60173, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1309
Equipment, systems, and installations.
The requirements of this section, except as identified below, apply to any equipment or system as installed on the airplane. Although this section does not apply to the performance and flight characteristic requirements of subpart B of this part, or to the structural requirements of subparts C and D of this part, it does apply to any system on which compliance with any of those requirements is dependent. Section 25.1309(b) does not apply to the flight control jam conditions addressed by § 25.671(c)(3); single failures in the brake system addressed by § 25.735(b)(1); the failure conditions addressed by §§ 25.810(a)(1)(v) and 25.812; uncontained
engine rotor failure, engine case rupture, or engine case burn-through failures addressed by §§ 25.903(d)(1) and 25.1193 and part 33 of this chapter; and propeller debris release failures addressed by § 25.905(d) and part 35 of this chapter.
(a) The airplane's equipment and systems must be designed and installed so that:
(1) The equipment and systems required for type certification or by operating rules, or whose improper functioning would reduce safety, perform as intended under the airplane operating and environmental conditions; and
(2) Other equipment and systems, functioning normally or abnormally, do not adversely affect the safety of the airplane or its occupants or the proper functioning of the equipment and systems addressed by paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) The airplane systems and associated components, evaluated separately and in relation to other systems, must be designed and installed so that they meet all of the following requirements:
(1) Each catastrophic failure condition—
(i) Must be extremely improbable; and
(ii) Must not result from a single failure.
(2) Each hazardous failure condition must be extremely remote.
(3) Each major failure condition must be remote.
(4) Each significant latent failure must be eliminated as far as practical, or, if not practical to eliminate, the latency of the significant latent failure must be minimized. However, the requirements of the previous sentence do not apply if the associated system meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, assuming the significant latent failure has occurred.
(5) For each catastrophic failure condition that results from two failures, either of which could be latent for more than one flight, the applicant must show that—
(i) It is impractical to provide additional fault tolerance; and
(ii) Given the occurrence of any single latent failure, the residual average probability of the catastrophic failure condition due to all subsequent active failures is remote; and
(iii) The sum of the probabilities of the latent failures that are combined with each active failure does not exceed 1/1000.
(c) The airplane and systems must provide information concerning unsafe system operating conditions to the flightcrew to enable them to take appropriate corrective action in a timely manner. Systems and controls, including information, indications, and annunciations, must be designed to minimize flightcrew errors that could create additional hazards.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) The applicant must establish certification maintenance requirements as necessary to prevent the development of the failure conditions described in paragraph (b) of this section. These requirements must be included in the Airworthiness Limitations section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 25.1529.
[Doc. No. FAA-2022-1544, 89 FR 68735, Aug. 27, 2024]
§ 25.1310
Power source capacity and distribution.
(a) Each installation whose functioning is required for type certification or under operating rules and that requires a power supply is an “essential load” on the power supply. The power sources and the system must be able to supply the following power loads in probable operating combinations and for probable durations:
(1) Loads connected to the system with the system functioning normally.
(2) Essential loads, after failure of any one prime mover, power converter, or energy storage device.
(3) Essential loads after failure of—
(i) Any one engine on two-engine airplanes; and
(ii) Any two engines on airplanes with three or more engines.
(4) Essential loads for which an alternate source of power is required, after any failure or malfunction in any one power supply system, distribution system, or other utilization system.
(b) In determining compliance with paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, the power loads may be assumed to be reduced under a monitoring procedure
consistent with safety in the kinds of operation authorized. Loads not required in controlled flight need not be considered for the two-engine-inoperative condition on airplanes with three or more engines.
[Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63405, Nov. 8, 2007]
§ 25.1316
Electrical and electronic system lightning protection.
(a) Each electrical and electronic system that performs a function, for which failure would prevent the continued safe flight and landing of the airplane, must be designed and installed so that—
(1) The function is not adversely affected during and after the time the airplane is exposed to lightning; and
(2) The system automatically recovers normal operation of that function in a timely manner after the airplane is exposed to lightning.
(b) Each electrical and electronic system that performs a function, for which failure would reduce the capability of the airplane or the ability of the flightcrew to respond to an adverse operating condition, must be designed and installed so that the function recovers normal operation in a timely manner after the airplane is exposed to lightning.
[Doc. No. FAA-2010-0224, Amdt. 25-134, 76 FR 33135, June 8, 2011]
§ 25.1317
High-intensity Radiated Fields (HIRF) Protection.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each electrical and electronic system that performs a function whose failure would prevent the continued safe flight and landing of the airplane must be designed and installed so that—
(1) The function is not adversely affected during and after the time the airplane is exposed to HIRF environment I, as described in appendix L to this part;
(2) The system automatically recovers normal operation of that function, in a timely manner, after the airplane is exposed to HIRF environment I, as described in appendix L to this part, unless the system's recovery conflicts with other operational or functional requirements of the system; and
(3) The system is not adversely affected during and after the time the airplane is exposed to HIRF environment II, as described in appendix L to this part.
(b) Each electrical and electronic system that performs a function whose failure would significantly reduce the capability of the airplane or the ability of the flightcrew to respond to an adverse operating condition must be designed and installed so the system is not adversely affected when the equipment providing these functions is exposed to equipment HIRF test level 1 or 2, as described in appendix L to this part.
(c) Each electrical and electronic system that performs a function whose failure would reduce the capability of the airplane or the ability of the flightcrew to respond to an adverse operating condition must be designed and installed so the system is not adversely affected when the equipment providing the function is exposed to equipment HIRF test level 3, as described in appendix L to this part.
(d) Before December 1, 2012, an electrical or electronic system that performs a function whose failure would prevent the continued safe flight and landing of an airplane may be designed and installed without meeting the provisions of paragraph (a) provided—
(1) The system has previously been shown to comply with special conditions for HIRF, prescribed under § 21.16, issued before December 1, 2007;
(2) The HIRF immunity characteristics of the system have not changed since compliance with the special conditions was demonstrated; and
(3) The data used to demonstrate compliance with the special conditions is provided.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-23657, 72 FR 44025, Aug. 6, 2007]

# Instruments: Installation
§ 25.1321
Arrangement and visibility.
(a) Each flight, navigation, and powerplant instrument for use by any pilot must be plainly visible to him from his station with the minimum practicable deviation from his normal position and line of vision when he is looking forward along the flight path.
(b) The flight instruments required by § 25.1303 must be grouped on the instrument panel and centered as nearly as practicable about the vertical plane of the pilot's forward vision. In addition—
(1) The instrument that most effectively indicates attitude must be on the panel in the top center position;
(2) The instrument that most effectively indicates airspeed must be adjacent to and directly to the left of the instrument in the top center position:
(3) The instrument that most effectively indicates altitude must be adjacent to and directly to the right of the instrument in the top center position; and
(4) The instrument that most effectively indicates direction of flight must be adjacent to and directly below the instrument in the top center position.
(c) Required powerplant instruments must be closely grouped on the instrument panel. In addition—
(1) The location of identical powerplant instruments for the engines must prevent confusion as to which engine each instrument relates; and
(2) Powerplant instruments vital to the safe operation of the airplane must be plainly visible to the appropriate crewmembers.
(d) Instrument panel vibration may not damage or impair the accuracy of any instrument.
(e) If a visual indicator is provided to indicate malfunction of an instrument, it must be effective under all probable cockpit lighting conditions.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5679, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36970, July 18, 1977]
§ 25.1322
Flightcrew alerting.
(a) Flightcrew alerts must:
(1) Provide the flightcrew with the information needed to:
(i) Identify non-normal operation or airplane system conditions, and
(ii) Determine the appropriate actions, if any.
(2) Be readily and easily detectable and intelligible by the flightcrew under all foreseeable operating conditions, including conditions where multiple alerts are provided.
(3) Be removed when the alerting condition no longer exists.
(b) Alerts must conform to the following prioritization hierarchy based on the urgency of flightcrew awareness and response.
(1) Warning: For conditions that require immediate flightcrew awareness and immediate flightcrew response.
(2) Caution: For conditions that require immediate flightcrew awareness and subsequent flightcrew response.
(3) Advisory: For conditions that require flightcrew awareness and may require subsequent flightcrew response.
(c) Warning and caution alerts must:
(1) Be prioritized within each category, when necessary.
(2) Provide timely attention-getting cues through at least two different senses by a combination of aural, visual, or tactile indications.
(3) Permit each occurrence of the attention-getting cues required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section to be acknowledged and suppressed, unless they are required to be continuous.
(d) The alert function must be designed to minimize the effects of false and nuisance alerts. In particular, it must be designed to:
(1) Prevent the presentation of an alert that is inappropriate or unnecessary.
(2) Provide a means to suppress an attention-getting component of an alert caused by a failure of the alerting function that interferes with the flightcrew's ability to safely operate the airplane. This means must not be readily available to the flightcrew so that it could be operated inadvertently or by habitual reflexive action. When an alert is suppressed, there must be a clear and unmistakable annunciation to the flightcrew that the alert has been suppressed.
(e) Visual alert indications must:
(1) Conform to the following color convention:
(i) Red for warning alert indications.
(ii) Amber or yellow for caution alert indications.
(iii) Any color except red or green for advisory alert indications.
(2) Use visual coding techniques, together with other alerting function elements on the flight deck, to distinguish between warning, caution, and
advisory alert indications, if they are presented on monochromatic displays that are not capable of conforming to the color convention in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f) Use of the colors red, amber, and yellow on the flight deck for functions other than flightcrew alerting must be limited and must not adversely affect flightcrew alerting.
[Amdt. 25-131, 75 FR 67209, Nov. 2, 2010]
§ 25.1323
Airspeed indicating system.
For each airspeed indicating system, the following apply:
(a) Each airspeed indicating instrument must be approved and must be calibrated to indicate true airspeed (at sea level with a standard atmosphere) with a minimum practicable instrument calibration error when the corresponding pitot and static pressures are applied.
(b) Each system must be calibrated to determine the system error (that is, the relation between IAS and CAS) in flight and during the accelerated takeoff ground run. The ground run calibration must be determined—
(1) From 0.8 of the minimum value of V
1
to the maximum value of V
2
, considering the approved ranges of altitude and weight; and
(2) With the flaps and power settings corresponding to the values determined in the establishment of the takeoff path under § 25.111 assuming that the critical engine fails at the minimum value of V
1
.
(c) The airspeed error of the installation, excluding the airspeed indicator instrument calibration error, may not exceed three percent or five knots, whichever is greater, throughout the speed range, from—
(1)
V
MO
to 1.23
V
SR
1
, with flaps retracted; and
(2) 1.23
V
SR
0
to
V
FE
with flaps in the landing position.
(d) From 1.23 V
SR
to the speed at which stall warning begins, the IAS must change perceptibly with CAS and in the same sense, and at speeds below stall warning speed the IAS must not change in an incorrect sense.
(e) From V
MO
to V
MO
+
2/3
(V
DF
− V
MO
), the IAS must change perceptibly with CAS and in the same sense, and at higher speeds up to V
DF
the IAS must not change in an incorrect sense.
(f) There must be no indication of airspeed that would cause undue difficulty to the pilot during the takeoff between the initiation of rotation and the achievement of a steady climbing condition.
(g) The effects of airspeed indicating system lag may not introduce significant takeoff indicated airspeed bias, or significant errors in takeoff or accelerate-stop distances.
(h) Each system must be arranged, so far as practicable, to prevent malfunction or serious error due to the entry of moisture, dirt, or other substances.
(i) Each system must have a heated pitot tube or an equivalent means of preventing malfunction in the heavy rain conditions defined in Table 1 of this section; mixed phase and ice crystal conditions as defined in part 33, Appendix D, of this chapter; the icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part; and the following icing conditions specified in Appendix O of this part:
(1) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1), the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely exit following detection.
(2) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely operate in and the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely exit following detection.
(3) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(3) and for airplanes not subject to § 25.1420, all icing conditions.
Table 1—Heavy Rain Conditions for Airspeed Indicating System Tests
Altitude range
(ft)
(m)
Liquid water content
(g/m3)
Horizontal extent
(km)
(nmiles)
Droplet MVD
(µm)
0 to 10 000
0 to 3000
1
100
50
1000
6
5
3
2000
15
1
0.5
2000
(j) Where duplicate airspeed indicators are required, their respective pitot tubes must be far enough apart to avoid damage to both tubes in a collision with a bird.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70828, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-109, 67 FR 76656, Dec. 12, 2002; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65526, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.1324
Angle of attack system.
Each angle of attack system sensor must be heated or have an equivalent means of preventing malfunction in the heavy rain conditions defined in Table 1 of § 25.1323, the mixed phase and ice crystal conditions as defined in part 33, Appendix D, of this chapter, the icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part, and the following icing conditions specified in Appendix O of this part:
(a) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1), the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely exit following detection.
(b) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely operate in and the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely exit following detection.
(c) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(3) and for airplanes not subject to § 25.1420, all icing conditions.
[Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65527, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.1325
Static pressure systems.
(a) Each instrument with static air case connections must be vented to the outside atmosphere through an appropriate piping system.
(b) Each static port must be designed and located so that:
(1) The static pressure system performance is least affected by airflow variation, or by moisture or other foreign matter; and
(2) The correlation between air pressure in the static pressure system and true ambient atmospheric static pressure is not changed when the airplane is exposed to the icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part, and the following icing conditions specified in Appendix O of this part:
(i) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1), the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely exit following detection.
(ii) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely operate in and the icing conditions that the airplane is certified to safely exit following detection.
(iii) For airplanes certificated in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(3) and for airplanes not subject to § 25.1420, all icing conditions.
(c) The design and installation of the static pressure system must be such that—
(1) Positive drainage of moisture is provided; chafing of the tubing and excessive distortion or restriction at bends in the tubing is avoided; and the materials used are durable, suitable for the purpose intended, and protected against corrosion; and
(2) It is airtight except for the port into the atmosphere. A proof test must be conducted to demonstrate the integrity of the static pressure system in the following manner:
(i)
Unpressurized airplanes.
Evacuate the static pressure system to a pressure differential of approximately 1 inch of mercury or to a reading on the altimeter, 1,000 feet above the airplane elevation at the time of the test. Without additional pumping for a period of 1 minute, the loss of indicated altitude must not exceed 100 feet on the altimeter.
(ii)
Pressurized airplanes.
Evacuate the static pressure system until a pressure differential equivalent to the maximum cabin pressure differential for which the airplane is type certificated is achieved. Without additional pumping for a period of 1 minute, the loss of indicated altitude must not exceed 2 percent of the equivalent altitude of the maximum cabin differential pressure or 100 feet, whichever is greater.
(d) Each pressure altimeter must be approved and must be calibrated to indicate pressure altitude in a standard atmosphere, with a minimum practicable calibration error when the corresponding static pressures are applied.
(e) Each system must be designed and installed so that the error in indicated pressure altitude, at sea level, with a
standard atmosphere, excluding instrument calibration error, does not result in an error of more than ±30 feet per 100 knots speed for the appropriate configuration in the speed range between 1.23
V
SR
0
with flaps extended and 1.7
V
SR
1
with flaps retracted. However, the error need not be less than ±30 feet.
(f) If an altimeter system is fitted with a device that provides corrections to the altimeter indication, the device must be designed and installed in such manner that it can be bypassed when it malfunctions, unless an alternate altimeter system is provided. Each correction device must be fitted with a means for indicating the occurrence of reasonably probable malfunctions, including power failure, to the flight crew. The indicating means must be effective for any cockpit lighting condition likely to occur.
(g) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, if the static pressure system incorporates both a primary and an alternate static pressure source, the means for selecting one or the other source must be designed so that—
(1) When either source is selected, the other is blocked off; and
(2) Both sources cannot be blocked off simultaneously.
(h) For unpressurized airplanes, paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not apply if it can be demonstrated that the static pressure system calibration, when either static pressure source is selected, is not changed by the other static pressure source being open or blocked.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-5, 30 FR 8261, June 29, 1965; Amdt. 25-12, 32 FR 7587, May 24, 1967; Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36970, July 18, 1977; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70828, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65527, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.1326
Pitot heat indication systems.
If a flight instrument pitot heating system is installed, an indication system must be provided to indicate to the flight crew when that pitot heating system is not operating. The indication system must comply with the following requirements:
(a) The indication provided must incorporate an amber light that is in clear view of a flight crewmember.
(b) The indication provided must be designed to alert the flight crew if either of the following conditions exist:
(1) The pitot heating system is switched “off”.
(2) The pitot heating system is switched “on” and any pitot tube heating element is inoperative.
[Amdt. 25-43, 43 FR 10339, Mar. 13, 1978]
§ 25.1327
Magnetic direction indicator.
(a) Each magnetic direction indicator must be installed so that its accuracy is not excessively affected by the airplane's vibration or magnetic fields.
(b) The compensated installation may not have a deviation, in level flight, greater than 10 degrees on any heading.
§ 25.1329
Flight guidance system.
(a) Quick disengagement controls for the autopilot and autothrust functions must be provided for each pilot. The autopilot quick disengagement controls must be located on both control wheels (or equivalent). The autothrust quick disengagement controls must be located on the thrust control levers. Quick disengagement controls must be readily accessible to each pilot while operating the control wheel (or equivalent) and thrust control levers.
(b) The effects of a failure of the system to disengage the autopilot or autothrust functions when manually commanded by the pilot must be assessed in accordance with the requirements of § 25.1309.
(c) Engagement or switching of the flight guidance system, a mode, or a sensor may not cause a transient response of the airplane's flight path any greater than a minor transient, as defined in paragraph (n)(1) of this section.
(d) Under normal conditions, the disengagement of any automatic control function of a flight guidance system may not cause a transient response of the airplane's flight path any greater than a minor transient.
(e) Under rare normal and non-normal conditions, disengagement of any automatic control function of a flight guidance system may not result in a transient any greater than a significant transient, as defined in paragraph (n)(2) of this section.
(f) The function and direction of motion of each command reference control, such as heading select or vertical speed, must be plainly indicated on, or adjacent to, each control if necessary to prevent inappropriate use or confusion.
(g) Under any condition of flight appropriate to its use, the flight guidance system may not produce hazardous loads on the airplane, nor create hazardous deviations in the flight path. This applies to both fault-free operation and in the event of a malfunction, and assumes that the pilot begins corrective action within a reasonable period of time.
(h) When the flight guidance system is in use, a means must be provided to avoid excursions beyond an acceptable margin from the speed range of the normal flight envelope. If the airplane experiences an excursion outside this range, a means must be provided to prevent the flight guidance system from providing guidance or control to an unsafe speed.
(i) The flight guidance system functions, controls, indications, and alerts must be designed to minimize flightcrew errors and confusion concerning the behavior and operation of the flight guidance system. Means must be provided to indicate the current mode of operation, including any armed modes, transitions, and reversions. Selector switch position is not an acceptable means of indication. The controls and indications must be grouped and presented in a logical and consistent manner. The indications must be visible to each pilot under all expected lighting conditions.
(j) Following disengagement of the autopilot, a warning (visual and auditory) must be provided to each pilot and be timely and distinct from all other cockpit warnings.
(k) Following disengagement of the autothrust function, a caution must be provided to each pilot.
(l) The autopilot may not create a potential hazard when the flightcrew applies an override force to the flight controls.
(m) During autothrust operation, it must be possible for the flightcrew to move the thrust levers without requiring excessive force. The autothrust may not create a potential hazard when the flightcrew applies an override force to the thrust levers.
(n) For purposes of this section, a transient is a disturbance in the control or flight path of the airplane that is not consistent with response to flightcrew inputs or environmental conditions.
(1) A minor transient would not significantly reduce safety margins and would involve flightcrew actions that are well within their capabilities. A minor transient may involve a slight increase in flightcrew workload or some physical discomfort to passengers or cabin crew.
(2) A significant transient may lead to a significant reduction in safety margins, an increase in flightcrew workload, discomfort to the flightcrew, or physical distress to the passengers or cabin crew, possibly including non-fatal injuries. Significant transients do not require, in order to remain within or recover to the normal flight envelope, any of the following:
(i) Exceptional piloting skill, alertness, or strength.
(ii) Forces applied by the pilot which are greater than those specified in § 25.143(c).
(iii) Accelerations or attitudes in the airplane that might result in further hazard to secured or non-secured occupants.
[Doc. No. FAA-2004-18775, 71 FR 18191, Apr. 11, 2006]
§ 25.1331
Instruments using a power supply.
(a) For each instrument required by § 25.1303(b) that uses a power supply, the following apply:
(1) Each instrument must have a visual means integral with, the instrument, to indicate when power adequate to sustain proper instrument performance is not being supplied. The power must be measured at or near the point where it enters the instruments. For electric instruments, the power is considered to be adequate when the voltage is within approved limits.
(2) Each instrument must, in the event of the failure of one power source, be supplied by another power source. This may be accomplished automatically or by manual means.
(3) If an instrument presenting navigation data receives information from sources external to that instrument and loss of that information would render the presented data unreliable, the instrument must incorporate a visual means to warn the crew, when such loss of information occurs, that the presented data should not be relied upon.
(b) As used in this section, “instrument” includes devices that are physically contained in one unit, and devices that are composed of two or more physically separate units or components connected together (such as a remote indicating gyroscopic direction indicator that includes a magnetic sensing element, a gyroscopic unit, an amplifier and an indicator connected together).
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36970, July 18, 1977]
§ 25.1333
Instrument systems.
For systems that operate the instruments required by § 25.1303(b) which are located at each pilot's station—
(a) Means must be provided to connect the required instruments at the first pilot's station to operating systems which are independent of the operating systems at other flight crew stations, or other equipment;
(b) The equipment, systems, and installations must be designed so that one display of the information essential to the safety of flight which is provided by the instruments, including attitude, direction, airspeed, and altitude will remain available to the pilots, without additional crewmember action, after any single failure or combination of failures that is not shown to be extremely improbable; and
(c) Additional instruments, systems, or equipment may not be connected to the operating systems for the required instruments, unless provisions are made to ensure the continued normal functioning of the required instruments in the event of any malfunction of the additional instruments, systems, or equipment which is not shown to be extremely improbable.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5679, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36970, July 18, 1977]
§ 25.1337
Powerplant instruments.
(a)
Instruments and instrument lines.
(1) Each powerplant and auxiliary power unit instrument line must meet the requirements of §§ 25.993 and 25.1183.
(2) Each line carrying flammable fluids under pressure must—
(i) Have restricting orifices or other safety devices at the source of pressure to prevent the escape of excessive fluid if the line fails; and
(ii) Be installed and located so that the escape of fluids would not create a hazard.
(3) Each powerplant and auxiliary power unit instrument that utilizes flammable fluids must be installed and located so that the escape of fluid would not create a hazard.
(b)
Fuel quantity indicator.
There must be means to indicate to the flight crewmembers, the quantity, in gallons or equivalent units, of usable fuel in each tank during flight. In addition—
(1) Each fuel quantity indicator must be calibrated to read “zero” during level flight when the quantity of fuel remaining in the tank is equal to the unusable fuel supply determined under § 25.959;
(2) Tanks with interconnected outlets and airspaces may be treated as one tank and need not have separate indicators; and
(3) Each exposed sight gauge, used as a fuel quantity indicator, must be protected against damage.
(c)
Fuel flowmeter system.
If a fuel flowmeter system is installed, each metering component must have a means for bypassing the fuel supply if malfunction of that component severely restricts fuel flow.
(d)
Oil quantity indicator.
There must be a stick gauge or equivalent means to indicate the quantity of oil in each tank. If an oil transfer or reserve oil supply system is installed, there must be a means to indicate to the flight crew, in flight, the quantity of oil in each tank.
(e)
Turbopropeller blade position indicator.
Required turbopropeller blade position indicators must begin indicating before the blade moves more than eight degrees below the flight low pitch stop. The source of indication must directly sense the blade position.
(f)
Fuel pressure indicator.
There must be means to measure fuel pressure, in each system supplying reciprocating engines, at a point downstream of any fuel pump except fuel injection pumps. In addition—
(1) If necessary for the maintenance of proper fuel delivery pressure, there must be a connection to transmit the carburetor air intake static pressure to the proper pump relief valve connection; and
(2) If a connection is required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the gauge balance lines must be independently connected to the carburetor inlet pressure to avoid erroneous readings.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15044, Mar. 17, 1977]

# Electrical Systems and Equipment
§ 25.1351
General.
(a)
Electrical system capacity.
The required generating capacity, and number and kinds of power sources must—
(1) Be determined by an electrical load analysis; and
(2) Meet the requirements of § 25.1309.
(b)
Generating system.
The generating system includes electrical power sources, main power busses, transmission cables, and associated control, regulation, and protective devices. It must be designed so that—
(1) Power sources function properly when independent and when connected in combination;
(2) No failure or malfunction of any power source can create a hazard or impair the ability of remaining sources to supply essential loads;
(3) The system voltage and frequency (as applicable) at the terminals of all essential load equipment can be maintained within the limits for which the equipment is designed, during any probable operating condition; and
(4) System transients due to switching, fault clearing, or other causes do not make essential loads inoperative, and do not cause a smoke or fire hazard.
(5) There are means accessible, in flight, to appropriate crewmembers for the individual and collective disconnection of the electrical power sources from the system.
(6) There are means to indicate to appropriate crewmembers the generating system quantities essential for the safe operation of the system, such as the voltage and current supplied by each generator.
(c)
External power.
If provisions are made for connecting external power to the airplane, and that external power can be electrically connected to equipment other than that used for engine starting, means must be provided to ensure that no external power supply having a reverse polarity, or a reverse phase sequence, can supply power to the airplane's electrical system.
(d)
Operation without normal electrical power.
It must be shown by analysis, tests, or both, that the airplane can be operated safely in VFR conditions, for a period of not less than five minutes, with the normal electrical power (electrical power sources excluding the battery) inoperative, with critical type fuel (from the standpoint of flameout and restart capability), and with the airplane initially at the maximum certificated altitude. Parts of the electrical system may remain on if—
(1) A single malfunction, including a wire bundle or junction box fire, cannot result in loss of both the part turned off and the part turned on; and
(2) The parts turned on are electrically and mechanically isolated from the parts turned off.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36970, July 18, 1977; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1353
Electrical equipment and installations.
(a) Electrical equipment and controls must be installed so that operation of any one unit or system of units will not adversely affect the simultaneous operation of any other electrical unit or system essential to safe operation. Any electrical interference likely to be present in the airplane must not result in hazardous effects on the airplane or its systems.
(b) Storage batteries must be designed and installed as follows:
(1) Safe cell temperatures and pressures must be maintained during any probable charging or discharging condition. No uncontrolled increase in cell
temperature may result when the battery is recharged (after previous complete discharge)—
(i) At maximum regulated voltage or power;
(ii) During a flight of maximum duration; and
(iii) Under the most adverse cooling condition likely to occur in service.
(2) Compliance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be shown by test unless experience with similar batteries and installations has shown that maintaining safe cell temperatures and pressures presents no problem.
(3) No explosive or toxic gases emitted by any battery in normal operation, or as the result of any probable malfunction in the charging system or battery installation, may accumulate in hazardous quantities within the airplane.
(4) No corrosive fluids or gases that may escape from the battery may damage surrounding airplane structures or adjacent essential equipment.
(5) Each nickel cadmium battery installation must have provisions to prevent any hazardous effect on structure or essential systems that may be caused by the maximum amount of heat the battery can generate during a short circuit of the battery or of individual cells.
(6) Nickel cadmium battery installations must have—
(i) A system to control the charging rate of the battery automatically so as to prevent battery overheating;
(ii) A battery temperature sensing and over-temperature warning system with a means for disconnecting the battery from its charging source in the event of an over-temperature condition; or
(iii) A battery failure sensing and warning system with a means for disconnecting the battery from its charging source in the event of battery failure.
(c) Electrical bonding must provide an adequate electrical return path under both normal and fault conditions, on airplanes having grounded electrical systems.
[Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63405, Nov. 8, 2007]
§ 25.1355
Distribution system.
(a) The distribution system includes the distribution busses, their associated feeders, and each control and protective device.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) If two independent sources of electrical power for particular equipment or systems are required by this chapter, in the event of the failure of one power source for such equipment or system, another power source (including its separate feeder) must be automatically provided or be manually selectable to maintain equipment or system operation.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5679, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 25.1357
Circuit protective devices.
(a) Automatic protective devices must be used to minimize distress to the electrical system and hazard to the airplane in the event of wiring faults or serious malfunction of the system or connected equipment.
(b) The protective and control devices in the generating system must be designed to de-energize and disconnect faulty power sources and power transmission equipment from their associated busses with sufficient rapidity to provide protection from hazardous over-voltage and other malfunctioning.
(c) Each resettable circuit protective device must be designed so that, when an overload or circuit fault exists, it will open the circuit irrespective of the position of the operating control.
(d) If the ability to reset a circuit breaker or replace a fuse is essential to safety in flight, that circuit breaker or fuse must be located and identified so that it can be readily reset or replaced in flight. Where fuses are used, there must be spare fuses for use in flight equal to at least 50% of the number of fuses of each rating required for complete circuit protection.
(e) Each circuit for essential loads must have individual circuit protection. However, individual protection for each circuit in an essential load system (such as each position light circuit in a system) is not required.
(f) For airplane systems for which the ability to remove or reset power
during normal operations is necessary, the system must be designed so that circuit breakers are not the primary means to remove or reset system power unless specifically designed for use as a switch.
(g) Automatic reset circuit breakers may be used as integral protectors for electrical equipment (such as thermal cut-outs) if there is circuit protection to protect the cable to the equipment.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63405, Nov. 8, 2007]
§ 25.1360
Precautions against injury.
(a) Shock. The electrical system must be designed to minimize risk of electric shock to crew, passengers, and servicing personnel and to maintenance personnel using normal precautions.
(b) Burns. The temperature of any part that may be handled by a crewmember during normal operations must not cause dangerous inadvertent movement by the crewmember or injury to the crewmember.
[Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63406, Nov. 8, 2007]
§ 25.1362
Electrical supplies for emergency conditions.
A suitable electrical supply must be provided to those services required for emergency procedures after an emergency landing or ditching. The circuits for these services must be designed, protected, and installed so that the risk of the services being rendered ineffective under these emergency conditions is minimized.
[Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63406, Nov. 8, 2007]
§ 25.1363
Electrical system tests.
(a) When laboratory tests of the electrical system are conducted—
(1) The tests must be performed on a mock-up using the same generating equipment used in the airplane;
(2) The equipment must simulate the electrical characteristics of the distribution wiring and connected loads to the extent necessary for valid test results; and
(3) Laboratory generator drives must simulate the actual prime movers on the airplane with respect to their reaction to generator loading, including loading due to faults.
(b) For each flight condition that cannot be simulated adequately in the laboratory or by ground tests on the airplane, flight tests must be made.
§ 25.1365
Electrical appliances, motors, and transformers.
(a) An applicant must show that, in the event of a failure of the electrical supply or control system, the design and installation of domestic appliances meet the requirements of § 25.1309(b) and (c). Domestic appliances are items such as cooktops, ovens, coffee makers, water heaters, refrigerators, and toilet flush systems that are placed on the airplane to provide service amenities to passengers.
(b) Galleys and cooking appliances must be installed in a way that minimizes risk of overheat or fire.
(c) Domestic appliances, particularly those in galley areas, must be installed or protected so as to prevent damage or contamination of other equipment or systems from fluids or vapors which may be present during normal operation or as a result of spillage, if such damage or contamination could create a hazardous condition.
(d) Unless compliance with § 25.1309(b) is provided by the circuit protective device required by § 25.1357(a), electric motors and transformers, including those installed in domestic systems, must have a suitable thermal protection device to prevent overheating under normal operation and failure conditions, if overheating could create a smoke or fire hazard.
[Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63406, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1544, 89 FR 68735, Aug. 27, 2024]

# Lights
§ 25.1381
Instrument lights.
(a) The instrument lights must—
(1) Provide sufficient illumination to make each instrument, switch and other device necessary for safe operation easily readable unless sufficient illumination is available from another source; and
(2) Be installed so that—
(i) Their direct rays are shielded from the pilot's eyes; and
(ii) No objectionable reflections are visible to the pilot.
(b) Unless undimmed instrument lights are satisfactory under each expected flight condition, there must be a means to control the intensity of illumination.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1383
Landing lights.
(a) Each landing light must be approved, and must be installed so that—
(1) No objectionable glare is visible to the pilot;
(2) The pilot is not adversely affected by halation; and
(3) It provides enough light for night landing.
(b) Except when one switch is used for the lights of a multiple light installation at one location, there must be a separate switch for each light.
(c) There must be a means to indicate to the pilots when the landing lights are extended.
§ 25.1385
Position light system installation.
(a)
General.
Each part of each position light system must meet the applicable requirements of this section and each system as a whole must meet the requirements of §§ 25.1387 through 25.1397.
(b)
Forward position lights.
Forward position lights must consist of a red and a green light spaced laterally as far apart as practicable and installed forward on the airplane so that, with the airplane in the normal flying position, the red light is on the left side and the green light is on the right side. Each light must be approved.
(c)
Rear position light.
The rear position light must be a white light mounted as far aft as practicable on the tail or on each wing tip, and must be approved.
(d)
Light covers and color filters.
Each light cover or color filter must be at least flame resistant and may not change color or shape or lose any appreciable light transmission during normal use.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 25.1387
Position light system dihedral angles.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, each forward and rear position light must, as installed, show unbroken light within the dihedral angles described in this section.
(b) Dihedral angle
L
(left) is formed by two intersecting vertical planes, the first parallel to the longitudinal axis of the airplane, and the other at 110 degrees to the left of the first, as viewed when looking forward along the longitudinal axis.
(c) Dihedral angle
R
(right) is formed by two intersecting vertical planes, the first parallel to the longitudinal axis of the airplane, and the other at 110 degrees to the right of the first, as viewed when looking forward along the longitudinal axis.
(d) Dihedral angle
A
(aft) is formed by two intersecting vertical planes making angles of 70 degrees to the right and to the left, respectively, to a vertical plane passing through the longitudinal axis, as viewed when looking aft along the longitudinal axis.
(e) If the rear position light, when mounted as far aft as practicable in accordance with § 25.1385(c), cannot show unbroken light within dihedral angle
A
(as defined in paragraph (d) of this section), a solid angle or angles of obstructed visibility totaling not more than 0.04 steradians is allowable within that dihedral angle, if such solid angle is within a cone whose apex is at the rear position light and whose elements make an angle of 30° with a vertical line passing through the rear position light.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-30, 36 FR 21278, Nov. 5, 1971]
§ 25.1389
Position light distribution and intensities.
(a)
General.
The intensities prescribed in this section must be provided by new equipment with light covers and color filters in place. Intensities must be determined with the light source operating at a steady value equal to the average luminous output of the source at the normal operating voltage of the airplane. The light distribution and intensity of each position light must
meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Forward and rear position lights.
The light distribution and intensities of forward and rear position lights must be expressed in terms of minimum intensities in the horizontal plane, minimum intensities in any vertical plane, and maximum intensities in overlapping beams, within dihedral angles
L, R,
and
A,
and must meet the following requirements:
(1)
Intensities in the horizontal plane.
Each intensity in the horizontal plane (the plane containing the longitudinal axis of the airplane and perpendicular to the plane of symmetry of the airplane) must equal or exceed the values in § 25.1391.
(2)
Intensities in any vertical plane.
Each intensity in any vertical plane (the plane perpendicular to the horizontal plane) must equal or exceed the appropriate value in § 25.1393, where
I
is the minimum intensity prescribed in § 25.1391 for the corresponding angles in the horizontal plane.
(3)
Intensities in overlaps between adjacent signals.
No intensity in any overlap between adjacent signals may exceed the values given in § 25.1395, except that higher intensities in overlaps may be used with main beam intensities substantially greater than the minima specified in §§ 25.1391 and 25.1393 if the overlap intensities in relation to the main beam intensities do not adversely affect signal clarity. When the peak intensity of the forward position lights is more than 100 candles, the maximum overlap intensities between them may exceed the values given in § 25.1395 if the overlap intensity in Area A is not more than 10 percent of peak position light intensity and the overlap intensity in Area B is not greater than 2.5 percent of peak position light intensity.
§ 25.1391
Minimum intensities in the horizontal plane of forward and rear position lights.
Each position light intensity must equal or exceed the applicable values in the following table:
Dihedral angle (light included)
Angle from right or left of longitudinal axis, measured from dead ahead
Intensity (candles)
L
and
R
(forward red and green)
0° to 10°
10° to 20°
20° to 110°
40
30
5
A (rear white)
110° to 180°
20
§ 25.1393
Minimum intensities in any vertical plane of forward and rear position lights.
Each position light intensity must equal or exceed the applicable values in the following table:
Angle above or below the horizontal plane
Intensity,
l
0°
1.00
0° to 5°
0.90
5° to 10°
0.80
10° to 15°
0.70
15° to 20°
0.50
20° to 30°
0.30
30° to 40°
0.10
40° to 90°
0.05
§ 25.1395
Maximum intensities in overlapping beams of forward and rear position lights.
No position light intensity may exceed the applicable values in the following table, except as provided in § 25.1389(b)(3).
Overlaps
Maximum intensity
Area A (candles)
Area B (candles)
Green in dihedral angle
L
10
1
Red in dihedral angle
R
10
1
Green in dihedral angle
A
5
1
Red in dihedral angle
A
5
1
Rear white in dihedral angle
L
5
1
Rear white in dihedral angle
R
5
1
Where—
(a) Area A includes all directions in the adjacent dihedral angle that pass through the light source and intersect the common boundary plane at more than 10 degrees but less than 20 degrees; and
(b) Area B includes all directions in the adjacent dihedral angle that pass through the light source and intersect the common boundary plane at more than 20 degrees.
§ 25.1397
Color specifications.
Each position light color must have the applicable International Commission on Illumination chromaticity coordinates as follows:
(a)
Aviation red
—
y
is not greater than 0.335; and
z
is not greater than 0.002.
(b)
Aviation green
—
x
is not greater than 0.440−0.320
y
;
x
is not greater than
y
−0.170; and
y
is not less than 0.390−0.170
x
.
(c)
Aviation white
—
x
is not less than 0.300 and not greater than 0.540;
y
is not less than
x
−0.040; or
y
0
−0.010, whichever is the smaller; and
y
is not greater than
x
+ 0.020 nor 0.636−0.400
x
;
Where
y
0
is the
y
coordinate of the Planckian radiator for the value of
x
considered.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-27, 36 FR 12972, July 10, 1971]
§ 25.1399
Riding light.
(a) Each riding (anchor) light required for a seaplane or amphibian must be installed so that it can—
(1) Show a white light for at least 2 nautical miles at night under clear atmospheric conditions; and
(2) Show the maximum unbroken light practicable when the airplane is moored or drifting on the water.
(b) Externally hung lights may be used.
§ 25.1401
Anticollision light system.
(a)
General.
The airplane must have an anticollision light system that—
(1) Consists of one or more approved anticollision lights located so that their light will not impair the crew's vision or detract from the conspicuity of the position lights; and
(2) Meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.
(b)
Field of coverage.
The system must consist of enough lights to illuminate the vital areas around the airplane considering the physical configuration and flight characteristics of the airplane. The field of coverage must extend in each direction within at least 75 degrees above and 75 degrees below the horizontal plane of the airplane, except that a solid angle or angles of obstructed visibility totaling not more than 0.03 steradians is allowable within a solid angle equal to 0.15 steradians centered about the longitudinal axis in the rearward direction.
(c)
Flashing characteristics.
The arrangement of the system, that is, the number of light sources, beam width, speed of rotation, and other characteristics, must give an effective flash frequency of not less than 40, nor more than 100 cycles per minute. The effective flash frequency is the frequency at which the airplane's complete anticollision light system is observed from a distance, and applies to each sector of light including any overlaps that exist when the system consists of more than one light source. In overlaps, flash frequencies may exceed 100, but not 180 cycles per minute.
(d)
Color.
Each anticollision light must be either aviation red or aviation white and must meet the applicable requirements of § 25.1397.
(e)
Light intensity.
The minimum light intensities in all vertical planes, measured with the red filter (if used) and expressed in terms of “effective” intensities, must meet the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. The following relation must be assumed:
EC28SE91.049
where:
I
e = effective intensity (candles).
I(t)
= instantaneous intensity as a function of time.
t
2
—t
1
= flash time interval (seconds).
Normally, the maximum value of effective intensity is obtained when
t
2
and
t
1
are chosen so that the effective intensity is equal to the instantaneous intensity at
t
2
and
t
1
.
(f)
Minimum effective intensities for anticollision lights.
Each anticollision light effective intensity must equal or exceed the applicable values in the following table.
Angle above or below the horizontal plane
Effective intensity (candles)
0° to 5°
400
5° to 10°
240
10° to 20°
80
20° to 30°
40
30° to 75°
20
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-27, 36 FR 12972, July 10, 1971; Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36970, July 18, 1977]
§ 25.1403
Wing icing detection lights.
Unless operations at night in known or forecast icing conditions are prohibited by an operating limitation, a means must be provided for illuminating or otherwise determining the formation of ice on the parts of the wings that are critical from the standpoint of ice accumulation. Any illumination that is used must be of a type that will not cause glare or reflection that would handicap crewmembers in the performance of their duties.
[Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976]

# Safety Equipment
§ 25.1411
General.
(a)
Accessibility.
Required safety equipment to be used by the crew in an emergency must be readily accessible.
(b)
Stowage provisions.
Stowage provisions for required emergency equipment must be furnished and must—
(1) Be arranged so that the equipment is directly accessible and its location is obvious; and
(2) Protect the safety equipment from inadvertent damage.
(c)
Emergency exit descent device.
The stowage provisions for the emergency exit descent devices required by § 25.810(a) must be at each exit for which they are intended.
(d)
Liferafts.
(1) The stowage provisions for the liferafts described in § 25.1415 must accommodate enough rafts for the maximum number of occupants for which certification for ditching is requested.
(2) Liferafts must be stowed near exits through which the rafts can be launched during an unplanned ditching.
(3) Rafts automatically or remotely released outside the airplane must be attached to the airplane by means of the static line prescribed in § 25.1415.
(4) The stowage provisions for each portable liferaft must allow rapid detachment and removal of the raft for use at other than the intended exits.
(e)
Long-range signaling device.
The stowage provisions for the long-range signaling device required by § 25.1415 must be near an exit available during an unplanned ditching.
(f)
Life preserver stowage provisions.
The stowage provisions for life preservers described in § 25.1415 must accommodate one life preserver for each occupant for which certification for ditching is requested. Each life preserver must be within easy reach of each seated occupant.
(g)
Life line stowage provisions.
If certification for ditching under § 25.801 is requested, there must be provisions to store life lines. These provisions must—
(1) Allow one life line to be attached to each side of the fuselage; and
(2) Be arranged to allow the life lines to be used to enable the occupants to stay on the wing after ditching.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3972, Feb. 24, 1972; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50598, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-53, 45 FR 41593, June 19, 1980; Amdt. 25-70, 54 FR 43925, Oct. 27, 1989; Amdt. 25-79, 58 FR 45229, Aug. 26, 1993; Amdt. 25-116, 69 FR 62789, Oct. 27, 2004]
§ 25.1415
Ditching equipment.
(a) Ditching equipment used in airplanes to be certificated for ditching under § 25.801, and required by the operating rules of this chapter, must meet the requirements of this section.
(b) Each liferaft and each life preserver must be approved. In addition—
(1) Unless excess rafts of enough capacity are provided, the buoyancy and seating capacity beyond the rated capacity of the rafts must accommodate all occupants of the airplane in the event of a loss of one raft of the largest rated capacity; and
(2) Each raft must have a trailing line, and must have a static line designed to hold the raft near the airplane but to release it if the airplane becomes totally submerged.
(c) Approved survival equipment must be attached to each liferaft.
(d) There must be an approved survival type emergency locator transmitter for use in one life raft.
(e) For airplanes not certificated for ditching under § 25.801 and not having approved life preservers, there must be an approved flotation means for each occupant. This means must be within easy reach of each seated occupant and must be readily removable from the airplane.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-29, 36 FR 18722, Sept. 21, 1971; Amdt. 25-50, 45 FR 38348, June 9, 1980; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-82, 59 FR 32057, June 21, 1994]
§ 25.1419
Ice protection.
If the applicant seeks certification for flight in icing conditions, the airplane must be able to safely operate in the continuous maximum and intermittent maximum icing conditions of appendix C. To establish this—
(a) An analysis must be performed to establish that the ice protection for the various components of the airplane is adequate, taking into account the various airplane operational configurations; and
(b) To verify the ice protection analysis, to check for icing anomalies, and to demonstrate that the ice protection system and its components are effective, the airplane or its components must be flight tested in the various operational configurations, in measured natural atmospheric icing conditions and, as found necessary, by one or more of the following means:
(1) Laboratory dry air or simulated icing tests, or a combination of both, of the components or models of the components.
(2) Flight dry air tests of the ice protection system as a whole, or of its individual components.
(3) Flight tests of the airplane or its components in measured simulated icing conditions.
(c) Caution information, such as an amber caution light or equivalent, must be provided to alert the flightcrew when the anti-ice or de-ice system is not functioning normally.
(d) For turbine engine powered airplanes, the ice protection provisions of this section are considered to be applicable primarily to the airframe. For the powerplant installation, certain additional provisions of subpart E of this part may be found applicable.
(e) One of the following methods of icing detection and activation of the airframe ice protection system must be provided:
(1) A primary ice detection system that automatically activates or alerts the flightcrew to activate the airframe ice protection system;
(2) A definition of visual cues for recognition of the first sign of ice accretion on a specified surface combined with an advisory ice detection system that alerts the flightcrew to activate the airframe ice protection system; or
(3) Identification of conditions conducive to airframe icing as defined by an appropriate static or total air temperature and visible moisture for use by the flightcrew to activate the airframe ice protection system.
(f) Unless the applicant shows that the airframe ice protection system need not be operated during specific phases of flight, the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section are applicable to all phases of flight.
(g) After the initial activation of the airframe ice protection system—
(1) The ice protection system must be designed to operate continuously;
(2) The airplane must be equipped with a system that automatically cycles the ice protection system; or
(3) An ice detection system must be provided to alert the flightcrew each time the ice protection system must be cycled.
(h) Procedures for operation of the ice protection system, including activation and deactivation, must be established and documented in the Airplane Flight Manual.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44669, Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-129, 74 FR 38339, Aug. 3, 2009]
§ 25.1420
Supercooled large drop icing conditions.
(a) If certification for flight in icing conditions is sought, in addition to the requirements of § 25.1419, an airplane with a maximum takeoff weight less than 60,000 pounds or with reversible flight controls must be capable of operating in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (3), of this section.
(1) Operating safely after encountering the icing conditions defined in Appendix O of this part:
(i) The airplane must have a means to detect that it is operating in Appendix O icing conditions; and
(ii) Following detection of Appendix O icing conditions, the airplane must be capable of operating safely while exiting all icing conditions.
(2) Operating safely in a portion of the icing conditions defined in Appendix O of this part as selected by the applicant:
(i) The airplane must have a means to detect that it is operating in conditions that exceed the selected portion of Appendix O icing conditions; and
(ii) Following detection, the airplane must be capable of operating safely while exiting all icing conditions.
(3) Operating safely in the icing conditions defined in Appendix O of this part.
(b) To establish that the airplane can operate safely as required in paragraph (a) of this section, an applicant must show through analysis that the ice protection for the various components of the airplane is adequate, taking into account the various airplane operational configurations. To verify the analysis, one, or more as found necessary, of the following methods must be used:
(1) Laboratory dry air or simulated icing tests, or a combination of both, of the components or models of the components.
(2) Laboratory dry air or simulated icing tests, or a combination of both, of models of the airplane.
(3) Flight tests of the airplane or its components in simulated icing conditions, measured as necessary to support the analysis.
(4) Flight tests of the airplane with simulated ice shapes.
(5) Flight tests of the airplane in natural icing conditions, measured as necessary to support the analysis.
(c) For an airplane certified in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section, the requirements of § 25.1419(e), (f), (g), and (h) must be met for the icing conditions defined in Appendix O of this part in which the airplane is certified to operate.
(d) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Reversible Flight Controls.
Flight controls in the normal operating configuration that have force or motion originating at the airplane's control surface (for example, through aerodynamic loads, static imbalance, or trim or servo tab inputs) that is transmitted back to flight deck controls. This term refers to flight deck controls connected to the pitch, roll, or yaw control surfaces by direct mechanical linkages, cables, or push-pull rods in such a way that pilot effort produces motion or force about the hinge line.
(2)
Simulated Icing Test.
Testing conducted in simulated icing conditions, such as in an icing tunnel or behind an icing tanker.
(3)
Simulated Ice Shape.
Ice shape fabricated from wood, epoxy, or other materials by any construction technique.
[Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65528, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.1421
Megaphones.
If a megaphone is installed, a restraining means must be provided that is capable of restraining the megaphone when it is subjected to the ultimate inertia forces specified in § 25.561(b)(3).
[Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36970, July 18, 1977]
§ 25.1423
Public address system.
A public address system required by this chapter must—
(a) Be powerable when the aircraft is in flight or stopped on the ground, after the shutdown or failure of all engines and auxiliary power units, or the disconnection or failure of all power sources dependent on their continued operation, for—
(1) A time duration of at least 10 minutes, including an aggregate time duration of at least 5 minutes of announcements made by flight and cabin crewmembers, considering all other loads which may remain powered by the same source when all other power sources are inoperative; and
(2) An additional time duration in its standby state appropriate or required for any other loads that are powered by the same source and that are essential to safety of flight or required during emergency conditions.
(b) Be capable of operation within 3 seconds from the time a microphone is removed from its stowage.
(c) Be intelligible at all passenger seats, lavatories, and flight attendant seats and work stations.
(d) Be designed so that no unused, unstowed microphone will render the system inoperative.
(e) Be capable of functioning independently of any required crewmember interphone system.
(f) Be accessible for immediate use from each of two flight crewmember stations in the pilot compartment.
(g) For each required floor-level passenger emergency exit which has an adjacent flight attendant seat, have a microphone which is readily accessible to the seated flight attendant, except that one microphone may serve more than one exit, provided the proximity of the exits allows unassisted verbal communication between seated flight attendants.
[Doc. No. 26003, 58 FR 45229, Aug. 26, 1993, as amended by Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004]

# Miscellaneous Equipment
§ 25.1431
Electronic equipment.
(a) In showing compliance with § 25.1309 (a) and (b) with respect to radio and electronic equipment and their installations, critical environmental conditions must be considered.
(b) Radio and electronic equipment must be supplied with power under the requirements of § 25.1355(c).
(c) Radio and electronic equipment, controls, and wiring must be installed so that operation of any one unit or system of units will not adversely affect the simultaneous operation of any other radio or electronic unit, or system of units, required by this chapter.
(d) Electronic equipment must be designed and installed such that it does not cause essential loads to become inoperative as a result of electrical power supply transients or transients from other causes.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-113, 69 FR 12530, Mar. 16, 2004]
§ 25.1433
Vacuum systems.
There must be means, in addition to the normal pressure relief, to automatically relieve the pressure in the discharge lines from the vacuum air pump when the delivery temperature of the air becomes unsafe.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29785, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1435
Hydraulic systems.
(a)
Element design.
Each element of the hydraulic system must be designed to:
(1) Withstand the proof pressure without permanent deformation that would prevent it from performing its intended functions, and the ultimate pressure without rupture. The proof and ultimate pressures are defined in terms of the design operating pressure (DOP) as follows:
Element
Proof
(xDOP)
Ultimate
(xDOP)
1. Tubes and fittings.
1.5
3.0
2. Pressure vessels containing gas:
High pressure (e.g., accumulators)
3.0
4.0
Low pressure (e.g., reservoirs)
1.5
3.0
3. Hoses
2.0
4.0
4. All other elements
1.5
2.0
(2) Withstand, without deformation that would prevent it from performing its intended function, the design operating pressure in combination with limit structural loads that may be imposed;
(3) Withstand, without rupture, the design operating pressure multiplied by a factor of 1.5 in combination with ultimate structural load that can reasonably occur simultaneously;
(4) Withstand the fatigue effects of all cyclic pressures, including transients, and associated externally induced loads, taking into account the consequences of element failure; and
(5) Perform as intended under all environmental conditions for which the airplane is certificated.
(b)
System design.
Each hydraulic system must:
(1) Have means located at a flightcrew station to indicate appropriate system parameters, if
(i) It performs a function necessary for continued safe flight and landing; or
(ii) In the event of hydraulic system malfunction, corrective action by the crew to ensure continued safe flight and landing is necessary;
(2) Have means to ensure that system pressures, including transient pressures and pressures from fluid volumetric changes in elements that are likely to remain closed long enough for such changes to occur, are within the design capabilities of each element, such that they meet the requirements defined in § 25.1435(a)(1) through (a)(5);
(3) Have means to minimize the release of harmful or hazardous concentrations of hydraulic fluid or vapors into the crew and passenger compartments during flight;
(4) Meet the applicable requirements of §§ 25.863, 25.1183, 25.1185, and 25.1189 if a flammable hydraulic fluid is used; and
(5) Be designed to use any suitable hydraulic fluid specified by the airplane manufacturer, which must be identified by appropriate markings as required by § 25.1541.
(c)
Tests.
Tests must be conducted on the hydraulic system(s), and/or subsystem(s) and elements, except that analysis may be used in place of or to supplement testing, where the analysis is shown to be reliable and appropriate. All internal and external influences must be taken into account to an extent necessary to evaluate their effects, and to assure reliable system and element functioning and integration. Failure or unacceptable deficiency of an element or system must be corrected and be sufficiently retested, where necessary.
(1) The system(s), subsystem(s), or element(s) must be subjected to performance, fatigue, and endurance tests representative of airplane ground and flight operations.
(2) The complete system must be tested to determine proper functional performance and relation to the other systems, including simulation of relevant failure conditions, and to support or validate element design.
(3) The complete hydraulic system(s) must be functionally tested on the airplane in normal operation over the range of motion of all associated user systems. The test must be conducted at the system relief pressure or 1.25 times the DOP if a system pressure relief device is not part of the system design. Clearances between hydraulic system elements and other systems or structural elements must remain adequate and there must be no detrimental effects.
[Doc. No. 28617, 66 FR 27402, May 16, 2001]
§ 25.1438
Pressurization and pneumatic systems.
(a) Pressurization system elements must be burst pressure tested to 2.0 times, and proof pressure tested to 1.5 times, the maximum normal operating pressure.
(b) Pneumatic system elements must be burst pressure tested to 3.0 times, and proof pressure tested to 1.5 times, the maximum normal operating pressure.
(c) An analysis, or a combination of analysis and test, may be substituted for any test required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section if the Administrator finds it equivalent to the required test.
[Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36971, July 18, 1977]
§ 25.1439
Protective breathing equipment.
(a) Fixed (stationary, or built in) protective breathing equipment must be installed for the use of the flightcrew, and at least one portable protective breathing equipment shall be located at or near the flight deck for use by a flight crewmember. In addition, portable protective breathing equipment must be installed for the use of appropriate crewmembers for fighting fires in compartments accessible in flight other than the flight deck. This includes isolated compartments and upper and lower lobe galleys, in which crewmember occupancy is permitted during flight. Equipment must be installed for the maximum number of crewmembers expected to be in the area during any operation.
(b) For protective breathing equipment required by paragraph (a) of this section or by the applicable Operating Regulations:
(1) The equipment must be designed to protect the appropriate crewmember from smoke, carbon dioxide, and other harmful gases while on flight deck duty or while combating fires.
(2) The equipment must include—
(i) Masks covering the eyes, nose and mouth, or
(ii) Masks covering the nose and mouth, plus accessory equipment to cover the eyes.
(3) Equipment, including portable equipment, must allow communication with other crewmembers while in use. Equipment available at flightcrew assigned duty stations must also enable the flightcrew to use radio equipment.
(4) The part of the equipment protecting the eyes shall not cause any appreciable adverse effect on vision and must allow corrective glasses to be worn.
(5) The equipment must supply protective oxygen of 15 minutes duration per crewmember at a pressure altitude of 8,000 feet with a respiratory minute volume of 30 liters per minute BTPD. The equipment and system must be designed to prevent any inward leakage to the inside of the device and prevent any outward leakage causing significant increase in the oxygen content of the local ambient atmosphere. If a demand oxygen system is used, a supply of 300 liters of free oxygen at 70 °F. and 760 mm. Hg. pressure is considered to be of 15-minute duration at the prescribed altitude and minute volume. If a continuous flow open circuit protective breathing system is used, a flow rate of 60 liters per minute at 8,000 feet (45 liters per minute at sea level) and a supply of 600 liters of free oxygen at 70 °F. and 760 mm. Hg. pressure is considered to be of 15-minute duration at the prescribed altitude and minute volume. Continuous flow systems must not increase the ambient oxygen content of the local atmosphere above that of demand systems. BTPD refers to body temperature conditions (that is, 37 °C., at ambient pressure, dry).
(6) The equipment must meet the requirements of § 25.1441.
[Doc. No. FAA-2002-13859, 69 FR 40528, July 2, 2004]
§ 25.1441
Oxygen equipment and supply.
(a) If certification with supplemental oxygen equipment is requested, the equipment must meet the requirements of this section and §§ 25.1443 through 25.1453.
(b) The oxygen system must be free from hazards in itself, in its method of operation, and in its effect upon other components.
(c) There must be a means to allow the crew to readily determine, during flight, the quantity of oxygen available in each source of supply.
(d) The oxygen flow rate and the oxygen equipment for airplanes for which certification for operation above 40,000 feet is requested must be approved.
§ 25.1443
Minimum mass flow of supplemental oxygen.
(a) If continuous flow equipment is installed for use by flight crewmembers, the minimum mass flow of supplemental oxygen required for each crewmember may not be less than the flow required to maintain, during inspiration, a mean tracheal oxygen partial pressure of 149 mm. Hg. when breathing 15 liters per minute, BTPS, and with a maximum tidal volume of 700 cc. with a constant time interval between respirations.
(b) If demand equipment is installed for use by flight crewmembers, the minimum mass flow of supplemental oxygen required for each crewmember may not be less than the flow required to maintain, during inspiration, a mean tracheal oxygen partial pressure of 122 mm. Hg., up to and including a cabin pressure altitude of 35,000 feet, and 95 percent oxygen between cabin pressure altitudes of 35,000 and 40,000 feet, when breathing 20 liters per minute BTPS. In addition, there must be means to allow the crew to use undiluted oxygen at their discretion.
(c) For passengers and cabin attendants, the minimum mass flow of supplemental oxygen required for each person at various cabin pressure altitudes may not be less than the flow required to maintain, during inspiration and while using the oxygen equipment (including masks) provided, the following mean tracheal oxygen partial pressures:
(1) At cabin pressure altitudes above 10,000 feet up to and including 18,500 feet, a mean tracheal oxygen partial pressure of 100 mm. Hg. when breathing 15 liters per minute, BTPS, and with a tidal volume of 700 cc. with a constant time interval between respirations.
(2) At cabin pressure altitudes above 18,500 feet up to and including 40,000 feet, a mean tracheal oxygen partial pressure of 83.8 mm. Hg. when breathing 30 liters per minute, BTPS, and with a tidal volume of 1,100 cc. with a constant time interval between respirations.
(d) If first-aid oxygen equipment is installed, the minimum mass flow of oxygen to each user may not be less than four liters per minute, STPD. However, there may be a means to decrease this flow to not less than two liters per minute, STPD, at any cabin altitude. The quantity of oxygen required is based upon an average flow rate of three liters per minute per person for whom first-aid oxygen is required.
(e) If portable oxygen equipment is installed for use by crewmembers, the minimum mass flow of supplemental oxygen is the same as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, whichever is applicable.
§ 25.1445
Equipment standards for the oxygen distributing system.
(a) When oxygen is supplied to both crew and passengers, the distribution system must be designed for either—
(1) A source of supply for the flight crew on duty and a separate source for the passengers and other crewmembers; or
(2) A common source of supply with means to separately reserve the minimum supply required by the flight crew on duty.
(b) Portable walk-around oxygen units of the continuous flow, diluter-demand, and straight demand kinds may be used to meet the crew or passenger breathing requirements.
§ 25.1447
Equipment standards for oxygen dispensing units.
If oxygen dispensing units are installed, the following apply:
(a) There must be an individual dispensing unit for each occupant for whom supplemental oxygen is to be supplied. Units must be designed to cover the nose and mouth and must be equipped with a suitable means to retain the unit in position on the face. Flight crew masks for supplemental oxygen must have provisions for the use of communication equipment.
(b) If certification for operation up to and including 25,000 feet is requested, an oxygen supply terminal and unit of oxygen dispensing equipment for the immediate use of oxygen by each crewmember must be within easy reach of that crewmember. For any other occupants, the supply terminals and dispensing equipment must be located to allow the use of oxygen as required by the operating rules in this chapter.
(c) If certification for operation above 25,000 feet is requested, there must be oxygen dispensing equipment meeting the following requirements:
(1) There must be an oxygen dispensing unit connected to oxygen supply terminals immediately available to each occupant wherever seated, and at least two oxygen dispensing units connected to oxygen terminals in each lavatory. The total number of dispensing units and outlets in the cabin must exceed the number of seats by at least 10 percent. The extra units must be as uniformly distributed throughout the cabin as practicable. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, if certification for operation above 30,000 feet is requested, the dispensing units providing the required oxygen flow must be automatically presented to the occupants before the cabin pressure altitude exceeds 15,000 feet. The crewmembers must be provided with a manual means of making the dispensing units immediately available in the event of failure of the automatic system.
(2) Each flight crewmember on flight deck duty must be provided with a quick-donning type oxygen dispensing unit connected to an oxygen supply terminal. This dispensing unit must be immediately available to the flight crewmember when seated at his station, and installed so that it:
(i) Can be placed on the face from its ready position, properly secured,
sealed, and supplying oxygen upon demand, with one hand, within five seconds and without disturbing eyeglasses or causing delay in proceeding with emergency duties; and
(ii) Allows, while in place, the performance of normal communication functions.
(3) The oxygen dispensing equipment for the flight crewmembers must be:
(i) The diluter demand or pressure demand (pressure demand mask with a diluter demand pressure breathing regulator) type, or other approved oxygen equipment shown to provide the same degree of protection, for airplanes to be operated above 25,000 feet.
(ii) The pressure demand (pressure demand mask with a diluter demand pressure breathing regulator) type with mask-mounted regulator, or other approved oxygen equipment shown to provide the same degree of protection, for airplanes operated at altitudes where decompressions that are not extremely improbable may expose the flightcrew to cabin pressure altitudes in excess of 34,000 feet.
(4) Portable oxygen equipment must be immediately available for each cabin attendant. The portable oxygen equipment must have the oxygen dispensing unit connected to the portable oxygen supply.
(5) When operating into or out of airports with elevations above 13,000 feet, the dispensing units providing the required oxygen flow must be automatically presented to the occupants at cabin pressure altitudes no higher than 2,000 feet above the airplane's maximum takeoff and landing altitude.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36971, July 18, 1977; Amdt. 25-87, 61 FR 28696, June 5, 1996; Amdt. 25-116, 69 FR 62789, Oct. 27, 2004; Amdt. No. 25-151, 88 FR 39161, June 15, 2023; 88 FR 44032, July 11, 2023]
§ 25.1449
Means for determining use of oxygen.
There must be a means to allow the crew to determine whether oxygen is being delivered to the dispensing equipment.
§ 25.1450
Chemical oxygen generators.
(a) For the purpose of this section, a chemical oxygen generator is defined as a device which produces oxygen by chemical reaction.
(b) Each chemical oxygen generator must be designed and installed in accordance with the following requirements:
(1) Surface temperature developed by the generator during operation may not create a hazard to the airplane or to its occupants.
(2) Means must be provided to relieve any internal pressure that may be hazardous.
(3) Except as provided in SFAR 109, each chemical oxygen generator installation must meet the requirements of § 25.795(d).
(c) In addition to meeting the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, each portable chemical oxygen generator that is capable of sustained operation by successive replacement of a generator element must be placarded to show—
(1) The rate of oxygen flow, in liters per minute;
(2) The duration of oxygen flow, in minutes, for the replaceable generator element; and
(3) A warning that the replaceable generator element may be hot, unless the element construction is such that the surface temperature cannot exceed 100 degrees F.
[Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36971, July 18, 1977, as amended at 79 FR 13519, Mar. 11, 2014]
§ 25.1453
Protection of oxygen equipment from rupture.
Oxygen pressure tanks, and lines between tanks and the shutoff means, must be—
(a) Protected from unsafe temperatures; and
(b) Located where the probability and hazards of rupture in a crash landing are minimized.
§ 25.1455
Draining of fluids subject to freezing.
If fluids subject to freezing may be drained overboard in flight or during ground operation, the drains must be designed and located to prevent the formation of hazardous quantities of ice on the airplane as a result of the drainage.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5680, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.1457
Cockpit voice recorders.
(a) Each cockpit voice recorder required by the operating rules of this chapter must be approved and must be installed so that it will record the following:
(1) Voice communications transmitted from or received in the airplane by radio.
(2) Voice communications of flight crewmembers on the flight deck.
(3) Voice communications of flight crewmembers on the flight deck, using the airplane's interphone system.
(4) Voice or audio signals identifying navigation or approach aids introduced into a headset or speaker.
(5) Voice communications of flight crewmembers using the passenger loudspeaker system, if there is such a system and if the fourth channel is available in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
(6) If datalink communication equipment is installed, all datalink communications, using an approved data message set. Datalink messages must be recorded as the output signal from the communications unit that translates the signal into usable data.
(b) The recording requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be met by installing a cockpit-mounted area microphone, located in the best position for recording voice communications originating at the first and second pilot stations and voice communications of other crewmembers on the flight deck when directed to those stations. The microphone must be so located and, if necessary, the preamplifiers and filters of the recorder must be so adjusted or supplemented, that the intelligibility of the recorded communications is as high as practicable when recorded under flight cockpit noise conditions and played back. Repeated aural or visual playback of the record may be used in evaluating intelligibility.
(c) Each cockpit voice recorder must be installed so that the part of the communication or audio signals specified in paragraph (a) of this section obtained from each of the following sources is recorded on a separate channel:
(1) For the first channel, from each boom, mask, or hand-held microphone, headset, or speaker used at the first pilot station.
(2) For the second channel from each boom, mask, or hand-held microphone, headset, or speaker used at the second pilot station.
(3) For the third channel—from the cockpit-mounted area microphone.
(4) For the fourth channel, from—
(i) Each boom, mask, or hand-held microphone, headset, or speaker used at the station for the third and fourth crew members; or
(ii) If the stations specified in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section are not required or if the signal at such a station is picked up by another channel, each microphone on the flight deck that is used with the passenger loudspeaker system, if its signals are not picked up by another channel.
(5) As far as is practicable all sounds received by the microphone listed in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), and (4) of this section must be recorded without interruption irrespective of the position of the interphone-transmitter key switch. The design shall ensure that sidetone for the flight crew is produced only when the interphone, public address system, or radio transmitters are in use.
(d) Each cockpit voice recorder must be installed so that—
(1)(i) It receives its electrical power from the bus that provides the maximum reliability for operation of the cockpit voice recorder without jeopardizing service to essential or emergency loads.
(ii) It remains powered for as long as possible without jeopardizing emergency operation of the airplane.
(2) There is an automatic means to simultaneously stop the recorder and prevent each erasure feature from functioning, within 10 minutes after crash impact;
(3) There is an aural or visual means for preflight checking of the recorder for proper operation;
(4) Any single electrical failure external to the recorder does not disable both the cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder;
(5) It has an independent power source—
(i) That provides 10 ±1 minutes of electrical power to operate both the cockpit voice recorder and cockpit-mounted area microphone;
(ii) That is located as close as practicable to the cockpit voice recorder; and
(iii) To which the cockpit voice recorder and cockpit-mounted area microphone are switched automatically in the event that all other power to the cockpit voice recorder is interrupted either by normal shutdown or by any other loss of power to the electrical power bus; and
(6) It is in a separate container from the flight data recorder when both are required. If used to comply with only the cockpit voice recorder requirements, a combination unit may be installed.
(e) The recorder container must be located and mounted to minimize the probability of rupture of the container as a result of crash impact and consequent heat damage to the recorder from fire.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the recorder container must be located as far aft as practicable, but need not be outside of the pressurized compartment, and may not be located where aft-mounted engines may crush the container during impact.
(2) If two separate combination digital flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder units are installed instead of one cockpit voice recorder and one digital flight data recorder, the combination unit that is installed to comply with the cockpit voice recorder requirements may be located near the cockpit.
(f) If the cockpit voice recorder has a bulk erasure device, the installation must be designed to minimize the probability of inadvertent operation and actuation of the device during crash impact.
(g) Each recorder container must—
(1) Be either bright orange or bright yellow;
(2) Have reflective tape affixed to its external surface to facilitate its location under water; and
(3) Have an underwater locating device, when required by the operating rules of this chapter, on or adjacent to the container which is secured in such manner that they are not likely to be separated during crash impact.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-2, 30 FR 3932, Mar. 26, 1965; Amdt. 25-16, 32 FR 13914, Oct. 6, 1967; Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36971, July 18, 1977; Amdt. 25-65, 53 FR 26143, July 11, 1988; Amdt. 25-124, 73 FR 12563, Mar. 7, 2008; 74 FR 32800, July 9, 2009]
§ 25.1459
Flight data recorders.
(a) Each flight recorder required by the operating rules of this chapter must be installed so that—
(1) It is supplied with airspeed, altitude, and directional data obtained from sources that meet the accuracy requirements of §§ 25.1323, 25.1325, and 25.1327, as appropriate;
(2) The vertical acceleration sensor is rigidly attached, and located longitudinally either within the approved center of gravity limits of the airplane, or at a distance forward or aft of these limits that does not exceed 25 percent of the airplane's mean aerodynamic chord;
(3)(i) It receives its electrical power from the bus that provides the maximum reliability for operation of the flight data recorder without jeopardizing service to essential or emergency loads.
(ii) It remains powered for as long as possible without jeopardizing emergency operation of the airplane.
(4) There is an aural or visual means for preflight checking of the recorder for proper recording of data in the storage medium;
(5) Except for recorders powered solely by the engine-driven electrical generator system, there is an automatic means to simultaneously stop a recorder that has a data erasure feature and prevent each erasure feature from functioning, within 10 minutes after crash impact;
(6) There is a means to record data from which the time of each radio transmission either to or from ATC can be determined;
(7) Any single electrical failure external to the recorder does not disable both the cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder; and
(8) It is in a separate container from the cockpit voice recorder when both
are required. If used to comply with only the flight data recorder requirements, a combination unit may be installed. If a combination unit is installed as a cockpit voice recorder to comply with § 25.1457(e)(2), a combination unit must be used to comply with this flight data recorder requirement.
(b) Each nonejectable record container must be located and mounted so as to minimize the probability of container rupture resulting from crash impact and subsequent damage to the record from fire. In meeting this requirement the record container must be located as far aft as practicable, but need not be aft of the pressurized compartment, and may not be where aft-mounted engines may crush the container upon impact.
(c) A correlation must be established between the flight recorder readings of airspeed, altitude, and heading and the corresponding readings (taking into account correction factors) of the first pilot's instruments. The correlation must cover the airspeed range over which the airplane is to be operated, the range of altitude to which the airplane is limited, and 360 degrees of heading. Correlation may be established on the ground as appropriate.
(d) Each recorder container must—
(1) Be either bright orange or bright yellow;
(2) Have reflective tape affixed to its external surface to facilitate its location under water; and
(3) Have an underwater locating device, when required by the operating rules of this chapter, on or adjacent to the container which is secured in such a manner that they are not likely to be separated during crash impact.
(e) Any novel or unique design or operational characteristics of the aircraft shall be evaluated to determine if any dedicated parameters must be recorded on flight recorders in addition to or in place of existing requirements.
[Amdt. 25-8, 31 FR 127, Jan. 6, 1966, as amended by Amdt. 25-25, 35 FR 13192, Aug. 19, 1970; Amdt. 25-37, 40 FR 2577, Jan. 14, 1975; Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36971, July 18, 1977; Amdt. 25-65, 53 FR 26144, July 11, 1988; Amdt. 25-124, 73 FR 12563, Mar. 7, 2008; 74 FR 32800, July 9, 2009]
§ 25.1461
Equipment containing high energy rotors.
(a) Equipment containing high energy rotors must meet paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section.
(b) High energy rotors contained in equipment must be able to withstand damage caused by malfunctions, vibration, abnormal speeds, and abnormal temperatures. In addition—
(1) Auxiliary rotor cases must be able to contain damage caused by the failure of high energy rotor blades; and
(2) Equipment control devices, systems, and instrumentation must reasonably ensure that no operating limitations affecting the integrity of high energy rotors will be exceeded in service.
(c) It must be shown by test that equipment containing high energy rotors can contain any failure of a high energy rotor that occurs at the highest speed obtainable with the normal speed control devices inoperative.
(d) Equipment containing high energy rotors must be located where rotor failure will neither endanger the occupants nor adversely affect continued safe flight.
[Amdt. 25-41, 42 FR 36971, July 18, 1977]

# Subpart G—Operating Limitations and Information
§ 25.1501
General.
(a) Each operating limitation specified in §§ 25.1503 through 25.1533 and other limitations and information necessary for safe operation must be established.
(b) The operating limitations and other information necessary for safe operation must be made available to the crewmembers as prescribed in §§ 25.1541 through 25.1587.
[Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2323, Jan. 16, 1978]

# Operating Limitations
§ 25.1503
Airspeed limitations: general.
When airspeed limitations are a function of weight, weight distribution, altitude, or Mach number, limitations corresponding to each critical combination of these factors must be established.
§ 25.1505
Maximum operating limit speed.
The maximum operating limit speed (
V
MO
/
M
MO
airspeed or Mach Number, whichever is critical at a particular altitude) is a speed that may not be deliberately exceeded in any regime of flight (climb, cruise, or descent), unless a higher speed is authorized for flight test or pilot training operations.
V
MO
/
M
MO
must be established so that it is not greater than the design cruising speed
V
C
and so that it is sufficiently below
V
D
/
M
D
or
V
DF
/
M
DF,
to make it highly improbable that the latter speeds will be inadvertently exceeded in operations. The speed margin between
V
MO
/
M
MO
and
V
D
/
M
D
or
V
DF
M/
DF
may not be less than that determined under § 25.335(b) or found necessary during the flight tests conducted under § 25.253.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5680, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.1507
Maneuvering speed.
The maneuvering speed must be established so that it does not exceed the design maneuvering speed
V
A
determined under § 25.335(c).
§ 25.1511
Flap extended speed.
The established flap extended speed
V
FE
must be established so that it does not exceed the design flap speed
V
F
chosen under §§ 25.335(e) and 25.345, for the corresponding flap positions and engine powers.
§ 25.1513
Minimum control speed.
The minimum control speed
V
MC
determined under § 25.149 must be established as an operating limitation.
§ 25.1515
Landing gear speeds.
(a) The established landing gear operating speed or speeds,
V
LO,
may not exceed the speed at which it is safe both to extend and to retract the landing gear, as determined under § 25.729 or by flight characteristics. If the extension speed is not the same as the retraction speed, the two speeds must be designated as
V
LO(EXT)
and
V
LO(RET),
respectively.
(b) The established landing gear extended speed
V
LE
may not exceed the speed at which it is safe to fly with the landing gear secured in the fully extended position, and that determined under § 25.729.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 25.1516
Other speed limitations.
Any other limitation associated with speed must be established.
[Doc. No. 2000-8511, 66 FR 34024, June 26, 2001]
§ 25.1517
Rough air speed, V
RA.
(a) A rough air speed, V
RA,
for use as the recommended turbulence penetration airspeed, and a rough air Mach number, M
RA
, for use as the recommended turbulence penetration Mach number, must be established. V
RA
/M
RA
must be sufficiently less than V
MO
/M
MO
to ensure that likely speed variation during rough air encounters will not cause the overspeed warning to operate too frequently.
(b) At altitudes where V
MO
is not limited by Mach number, in the absence of a rational investigation substantiating the use of other values, V
RA
must be less than V
MO
minus 35 KTAS.
(c) At altitudes where V
MO
is limited by Mach number, M
RA
may be chosen to provide an optimum margin between low and high speed buffet boundaries.
[Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73469, Dec. 11, 2014, as amended by FAA-2022-1355; Amdt. No. 25-148, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2813, Jan. 18, 2023]
§ 25.1519
Weight, center of gravity, and weight distribution.
The airplane weight, center of gravity, and weight distribution limitations determined under §§ 25.23 through 25.27 must be established as operating limitations.
§ 25.1521
Powerplant limitations.
(a)
General.
The powerplant limitations prescribed in this section must be established so that they do not exceed the corresponding limits for which the engines or propellers are type certificated and do not exceed the values on which compliance with any other requirement of this part is based.
(b)
Reciprocating engine installations.
Operating limitations relating to the following must be established for reciprocating engine installations:
(1) Horsepower or torque, r.p.m., manifold pressure, and time at critical pressure altitude and sea level pressure altitude for—
(i) Maximum continuous power (relating to unsupercharged operation or to operation in each supercharger mode as applicable); and
(ii) Takeoff power (relating to unsupercharged operation or to operation in each supercharger mode as applicable).
(2) Fuel grade or specification.
(3) Cylinder head and oil temperatures.
(4) Any other parameter for which a limitation has been established as part of the engine type certificate except that a limitation need not be established for a parameter that cannot be exceeded during normal operation due to the design of the installation or to another established limitation.
(c)
Turbine engine installations.
Operating limitations relating to the following must be established for turbine engine installations:
(1) Horsepower, torque or thrust, r.p.m., gas temperature, and time for—
(i) Maximum continuous power or thrust (relating to augmented or unaugmented operation as applicable).
(ii) Takeoff power or thrust (relating to augmented or unaugmented operation as applicable).
(2) Fuel designation or specification.
(3) Maximum time interval between engine run-ups from idle, run-up power setting and duration at power for ground operation in icing conditions, as defined in § 25.1093(b)(2).
(4) Any other parameter for which a limitation has been established as part of the engine type certificate except that a limitation need not be established for a parameter that cannot be exceeded during normal operation due to the design of the installation or to another established limitation.
(d)
Ambient temperature.
An ambient temperature limitation (including limitations for winterization installations, if applicable) must be established as the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature established in accordance with § 25.1043(b).
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29786, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65528, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.1522
Auxiliary power unit limitations.
If an auxiliary power unit is installed in the airplane, limitations established for the auxiliary power unit, including categories of operation, must be specified as operating limitations for the airplane.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29786, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1523
Minimum flight crew.
The minimum flight crew must be established so that it is sufficient for safe operation, considering—
(a) The workload on individual crewmembers;
(b) The accessibility and ease of operation of necessary controls by the appropriate crewmember; and
(c) The kind of operation authorized under § 25.1525.
The criteria used in making the determinations required by this section are set forth in appendix D.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-3, 30 FR 6067, Apr. 29, 1965]
§ 25.1525
Kinds of operation.
The kinds of operation to which the airplane is limited are established by the category in which it is eligible for certification and by the installed equipment.
§ 25.1527
Ambient air temperature and operating altitude.
The extremes of the ambient air temperature and operating altitude for which operation is allowed, as limited by flight, structural, powerplant, functional, or equipment characteristics, must be established.
[Doc. No. 2000-8511, 66 FR 34024, June 26, 2001]
§ 25.1529
Instructions for Continued Airworthiness.
The applicant must prepare Instructions for Continued Airworthiness in accordance with appendix H to this part that are acceptable to the Administrator. The instructions may be incomplete at type certification if a program exists to ensure their completion prior to delivery of the first airplane or
issuance of a standard certificate of airworthiness, whichever occurs later.
[Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60173, Sept. 11, 1980]
§ 25.1531
Maneuvering flight load factors.
Load factor limitations, not exceeding the positive limit load factors determined from the maneuvering diagram in § 25.333(b), must be established.
§ 25.1533
Additional operating limitations.
(a) Additional operating limitations must be established as follows:
(1) The maximum takeoff weights must be established as the weights at which compliance is shown with the applicable provisions of this part (including the takeoff climb provisions of § 25.121(a) through (c), for altitudes and ambient temperatures).
(2) The maximum landing weights must be established as the weights at which compliance is shown with the applicable provisions of this part (including the landing and approach climb provisions of §§ 25.119 and 25.121(d) for altitudes and ambient temperatures).
(3) The minimum takeoff distances must be established as the distances at which compliance is shown with the applicable provisions of this part (including the provisions of §§ 25.109 and 25.113, for weights, altitudes, temperatures, wind components, runway surface conditions (dry and wet), and runway gradients) for smooth, hard-surfaced runways. Additionally, at the option of the applicant, wet runway takeoff distances may be established for runway surfaces that have been grooved or treated with a porous friction course, and may be approved for use on runways where such surfaces have been designed constructed, and maintained in a manner acceptable to the Administrator.
(b) The extremes for variable factors (such as altitude, temperature, wind, and runway gradients) are those at which compliance with the applicable provisions of this part is shown.
(c) For airplanes certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1) or (2), an operating limitation must be established to:
(1) Prohibit intentional flight, including takeoff and landing, into icing conditions defined in Appendix O of this part for which the airplane has not been certified to safely operate; and
(2) Require exiting all icing conditions if icing conditions defined in Appendix O of this part are encountered for which the airplane has not been certified to safely operate.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29786, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-92, 63 FR 8321, Feb. 18, 1998; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65528, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.1535
ETOPS approval.
Except as provided in § 25.3, each applicant seeking ETOPS type design approval must comply with the provisions of Appendix K of this part.
[Doc. No. FAA-2002-6717, 72 FR 1873, Jan. 16, 2007]

# Markings and Placards
§ 25.1541
General.
(a) The airplane must contain—
(1) The specified markings and placards; and
(2) Any additional information, instrument markings, and placards required for the safe operation if there are unusual design, operating, or handling characteristics.
(b) Each marking and placard prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section—
(1) Must be displayed in a conspicuous place; and
(2) May not be easily erased, disfigured, or obscured.
§ 25.1543
Instrument markings: general.
For each instrument—
(a) When markings are on the cover glass of the instrument, there must be means to maintain the correct alignment of the glass cover with the face of the dial; and
(b) Each instrument marking must be clearly visible to the appropriate crewmember.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29786, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1545
Airspeed limitation information.
The airspeed limitations required by § 25.1583 (a) must be easily read and understood by the flight crew.
§ 25.1547
Magnetic direction indicator.
(a) A placard meeting the requirements of this section must be installed on, or near, the magnetic direction indicator.
(b) The placard must show the calibration of the instrument in level flight with the engines operating.
(c) The placard must state whether the calibration was made with radio receivers on or off.
(d) Each calibration reading must be in terms of magnetic heading in not more than 45 degree increments.
§ 25.1549
Powerplant and auxiliary power unit instruments.
For each required powerplant and auxiliary power unit instrument, as appropriate to the type of instrument—
(a) Each maximum and, if applicable, minimum safe operating limit must be marked with a red radial or a red line;
(b) Each normal operating range must be marked with a green arc or green line, not extending beyond the maximum and minimum safe limits;
(c) Each takeoff and precautionary range must be marked with a yellow arc or a yellow line; and
(d) Each engine, auxiliary power unit, or propeller speed range that is restricted because of excessive vibration stresses must be marked with red arcs or red lines.
[Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15044, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 25.1551
Oil quantity indication.
Each oil quantity indicating means must be marked to indicate the quantity of oil readily and accurately.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29786, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1553
Fuel quantity indicator.
If the unusable fuel supply for any tank exceeds one gallon, or five percent of the tank capacity, whichever is greater, a red arc must be marked on its indicator extending from the calibrated zero reading to the lowest reading obtainable in level flight.
§ 25.1555
Control markings.
(a) Each cockpit control, other than primary flight controls and controls whose function is obvious, must be plainly marked as to its function and method of operation.
(b) Each aerodynamic control must be marked under the requirements of §§ 25.677 and 25.699.
(c) For powerplant fuel controls—
(1) Each fuel tank selector control must be marked to indicate the position corresponding to each tank and to each existing cross feed position;
(2) If safe operation requires the use of any tanks in a specific sequence, that sequence must be marked on, or adjacent to, the selector for those tanks; and
(3) Each valve control for each engine must be marked to indicate the position corresponding to each engine controlled.
(d) For accessory, auxiliary, and emergency controls—
(1) Each emergency control (including each fuel jettisoning and fluid shutoff must be colored red; and
(2) Each visual indicator required by § 25.729(e) must be marked so that the pilot can determine at any time when the wheels are locked in either extreme position, if retractable landing gear is used.
§ 25.1557
Miscellaneous markings and placards.
(a)
Baggage and cargo compartments and ballast location.
Each baggage and cargo compartment, and each ballast location must have a placard stating any limitations on contents, including weight, that are necessary under the loading requirements. However, underseat compartments designed for the storage of carry-on articles weighing not more than 20 pounds need not have a loading limitation placard.
(b)
Powerplant fluid filler openings.
The following apply:
(1) Fuel filler openings must be marked at or near the filler cover with—
(i) The word “fuel”;
(ii) For reciprocating engine powered airplanes, the minimum fuel grade;
(iii) For turbine engine powered airplanes, the permissible fuel designations; and
(iv) For pressure fueling systems, the maximum permissible fueling supply pressure and the maximum permissible defueling pressure.
(2) Oil filler openings must be marked at or near the filler cover with the word “oil”.
(3) Augmentation fluid filler openings must be marked at or near the filler cover to identify the required fluid.
(c)
Emergency exit placards.
Each emergency exit placard must meet the requirements of § 25.811.
(d)
Doors.
Each door that must be used in order to reach any required emergency exit must have a suitable placard stating that the door is to be latched in the open position during takeoff and landing.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3972, Feb. 24, 1972; Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29786, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1561
Safety equipment.
(a) Each safety equipment control to be operated by the crew in emergency, such as controls for automatic liferaft releases, must be plainly marked as to its method of operation.
(b) Each location, such as a locker or compartment, that carries any fire extinguishing, signaling, or other life saving equipment must be marked accordingly.
(c) Stowage provisions for required emergency equipment must be conspicuously marked to identify the contents and facilitate the easy removal of the equipment.
(d) Each liferaft must have obviously marked operating instructions.
(e) Approved survival equipment must be marked for identification and method of operation.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50598, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 25.1563
Airspeed placard.
A placard showing the maximum airspeeds for flap extension for the takeoff, approach, and landing positions must be installed in clear view of each pilot.

# Airplane Flight Manual
§ 25.1581
General.
(a)
Furnishing information.
An Airplane Flight Manual must be furnished with each airplane, and it must contain the following:
(1) Information required by §§ 25.1583 through 25.1587.
(2) Other information that is necessary for safe operation because of design, operating, or handling characteristics.
(3) Any limitation, procedure, or other information established as a condition of compliance with the applicable noise standards of part 36 of this chapter.
(b)
Approved information.
Each part of the manual listed in §§ 25.1583 through 25.1587, that is appropriate to the airplane, must be furnished, verified, and approved, and must be segregated, identified, and clearly distinguished from each unapproved part of that manual.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Each Airplane Flight Manual must include a table of contents if the complexity of the manual indicates a need for it.
[Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2323, Jan. 16, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29786, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.1583
Operating limitations.
(a)
Airspeed limitations.
The following airspeed limitations and any other airspeed limitations necessary for safe operation must be furnished:
(1) The maximum operating limit speed
V
MO
/
M
MO
and a statement that this speed limit may not be deliberately exceeded in any regime of flight (climb, cruise, or descent) unless a higher speed is authorized for flight test or pilot training.
(2) If an airspeed limitation is based upon compressibility effects, a statement to this effect and information as to any symptoms, the probable behavior of the airplane, and the recommended recovery procedures.
(3) The maneuvering speed established under § 25.1507 and statements, as applicable to the particular design, explaining that:
(i) Full application of pitch, roll, or yaw controls should be confined to
speeds below the maneuvering speed; and
(ii) Rapid and large alternating control inputs, especially in combination with large changes in pitch, roll, or yaw, and full control inputs in more than one axis at the same time, should be avoided as they may result in structural failures at any speed, including below the maneuvering speed.
(4) The flap extended speed
V
FE
and the pertinent flap positions and engine powers.
(5) The landing gear operating speed or speeds, and a statement explaining the speeds as defined in § 25.1515(a).
(6) The landing gear extended speed
V
LE,
if greater than
V
LO,
and a statement that this is the maximum speed at which the airplane can be safely flown with the landing gear extended.
(b)
Powerplant limitations.
The following information must be furnished:
(1) Limitations required by § 25.1521 and § 25.1522.
(2) Explanation of the limitations, when appropriate.
(3) Information necessary for marking the instruments required by §§ 25.1549 through 25.1553.
(c)
Weight and loading distribution.
The weight and center of gravity limitations established under § 25.1519 must be furnished in the Airplane Flight Manual. All of the following information, including the weight distribution limitations established under § 25.1519, must be presented either in the Airplane Flight Manual or in a separate weight and balance control and loading document that is incorporated by reference in the Airplane Flight Manual:
(1) The condition of the airplane and the items included in the empty weight as defined in accordance with § 25.29.
(2) Loading instructions necessary to ensure loading of the airplane within the weight and center of gravity limits, and to maintain the loading within these limits in flight.
(3) If certification for more than one center of gravity range is requested, the appropriate limitations, with regard to weight and loading procedures, for each separate center of gravity range.
(d)
Flight crew.
The number and functions of the minimum flight crew determined under § 25.1523 must be furnished.
(e)
Kinds of operation.
The kinds of operation approved under § 25.1525 must be furnished.
(f)
Ambient air temperatures and operating altitudes.
The extremes of the ambient air temperatures and operating altitudes established under § 25.1527 must be furnished.
(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Additional operating limitations.
The operating limitations established under § 25.1533 must be furnished.
(i)
Maneuvering flight load factors.
The positive maneuvering limit load factors for which the structure is proven, described in terms of accelerations, must be furnished.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 1891, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2323, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50598, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29787, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-105, 66 FR 34024, June 26, 2001; 75 FR 49818, Aug. 16, 2010]
§ 25.1585
Operating procedures.
(a) Operating procedures must be furnished for—
(1) Normal procedures peculiar to the particular type or model encountered in connection with routine operations;
(2) Non-normal procedures for malfunction cases and failure conditions involving the use of special systems or the alternative use of regular systems; and
(3) Emergency procedures for foreseeable but unusual situations in which immediate and precise action by the crew may be expected to substantially reduce the risk of catastrophe.
(b) Information or procedures not directly related to airworthiness or not under the control of the crew, must not be included, nor must any procedure that is accepted as basic airmanship.
(c) Information identifying each operating condition in which the fuel system independence prescribed in § 25.953 is necessary for safety must be furnished, together with instructions for placing the fuel system in a configuration used to show compliance with that section.
(d) The buffet onset envelopes, determined under § 25.251 must be furnished. The buffet onset envelopes presented
may reflect the center of gravity at which the airplane is normally loaded during cruise if corrections for the effect of different center of gravity locations are furnished.
(e) Information must be furnished that indicates that when the fuel quantity indicator reads “zero” in level flight, any fuel remaining in the fuel tank cannot be used safely in flight.
(f) Information on the total quantity of usable fuel for each fuel tank must be furnished.
[Doc. No. 2000-8511, 66 FR 34024, June 26, 2001]
§ 25.1587
Performance information.
(a) Each Airplane Flight Manual must contain information to permit conversion of the indicated temperature to free air temperature if other than a free air temperature indicator is used to comply with the requirements of § 25.1303(a)(1).
(b) Each Airplane Flight Manual must contain the performance information computed under the applicable provisions of this part (including §§ 25.115, 25.123, and 25.125 for the weights, altitudes, temperatures, wind components, and runway gradients, as applicable) within the operational limits of the airplane, and must contain the following:
(1) In each case, the conditions of power, configuration, and speeds, and the procedures for handling the airplane and any system having a significant effect on the performance information.
(2) V
SR
determined in accordance with § 25.103.
(3) The following performance information (determined by extrapolation and computed for the range of weights between the maximum landing weight and the maximum takeoff weight):
(i) Climb in the landing configuration.
(ii) Climb in the approach configuration.
(iii) Landing distance.
(4) Procedures established under § 25.101(f) and (g) that are related to the limitations and information required by § 25.1533 and by this paragraph (b) in the form of guidance material, including any relevant limitations or information.
(5) An explanation of significant or unusual flight or ground handling characteristics of the airplane.
(6) Corrections to indicated values of airspeed, altitude, and outside air temperature.
(7) An explanation of operational landing runway length factors included in the presentation of the landing distance, if appropriate.
[Doc. No. 2000-8511, 66 FR 34024, June 26, 2001, as amended by Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70828, Nov. 26, 2002]

# Subpart H—Electrical Wiring Interconnection Systems (EWIS)

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2004-18379, 72 FR 63406, Nov. 8, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 25.1701
Definition.
(a) As used in this chapter, electrical wiring interconnection system (EWIS) means any wire, wiring device, or combination of these, including termination devices, installed in any area of the airplane for the purpose of transmitting electrical energy, including data and signals, between two or more intended termination points. This includes:
(1) Wires and cables.
(2) Bus bars.
(3) The termination point on electrical devices, including those on relays, interrupters, switches, contactors, terminal blocks and circuit breakers, and other circuit protection devices.
(4) Connectors, including feed-through connectors.
(5) Connector accessories.
(6) Electrical grounding and bonding devices and their associated connections.
(7) Electrical splices.
(8) Materials used to provide additional protection for wires, including wire insulation, wire sleeving, and conduits that have electrical termination for the purpose of bonding.
(9) Shields or braids.
(10) Clamps and other devices used to route and support the wire bundle.
(11) Cable tie devices.
(12) Labels or other means of identification.
(13) Pressure seals.
(14) EWIS components inside shelves, panels, racks, junction boxes, distribution panels, and back-planes of equipment racks, including, but not limited to, circuit board back-planes, wire integration units, and external wiring of equipment.
(b) Except for the equipment indicated in paragraph (a)(14) of this section, EWIS components inside the following equipment, and the external connectors that are part of that equipment, are excluded from the definition in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Electrical equipment or avionics that are qualified to environmental conditions and testing procedures when those conditions and procedures are—
(i) Appropriate for the intended function and operating environment, and
(ii) Acceptable to the FAA.
(2) Portable electrical devices that are not part of the type design of the airplane. This includes personal entertainment devices and laptop computers.
(3) Fiber optics.
§ 25.1703
Function and installation: EWIS.
(a) Each EWIS component installed in any area of the aircraft must:
(1) Be of a kind and design appropriate to its intended function.
(2) Be installed according to limitations specified for the EWIS components.
(3) Perform the function for which it was intended without degrading the airworthiness of the airplane.
(4) Be designed and installed in a way that will minimize mechanical strain.
(b) Selection of wires must take into account known characteristics of the wire in relation to each installation and application to minimize the risk of wire damage, including any arc tracking phenomena.
(c) The design and installation of the main power cables (including generator cables) in the fuselage must allow for a reasonable degree of deformation and stretching without failure.
(d) EWIS components located in areas of known moisture accumulation must be protected to minimize any hazardous effects due to moisture.
§ 25.1705
Systems and functions: EWIS.
(a) EWIS associated with any system required for type certification or by operating rules must be considered an integral part of that system and must be considered in showing compliance with the applicable requirements for that system.
(b) For systems to which the following rules apply, the components of EWIS associated with those systems must be considered an integral part of that system or systems and must be considered in showing compliance with the applicable requirements for that system.
(1) § 25.773(b)(2) Pilot compartment view.
(2) § 25.981 Fuel tank ignition prevention.
(3) § 25.1165 Engine ignition systems.
(4) § 25.1310 Power source capacity and distribution.
(5) § 25.1316 System lightning protection.
(6) § 25.1331(a)(2) Instruments using a power supply.
(7) § 25.1351 General.
(8) § 25.1355 Distribution system.
(9) § 25.1360 Precautions against injury.
(10) § 25.1362 Electrical supplies for emergency conditions.
(11) § 25.1365 Electrical appliances, motors, and transformers.
(12) § 25.1431(c) and (d) Electronic equipment.
§ 25.1707
System separation: EWIS.
(a) Each EWIS must be designed and installed with adequate physical separation from other EWIS and airplane systems so that an EWIS component failure will not create a hazardous condition. Unless otherwise stated, for the purposes of this section, adequate physical separation must be achieved by separation distance or by a barrier that provides protection equivalent to that separation distance.
(b) Each EWIS must be designed and installed so that any electrical interference likely to be present in the airplane will not result in hazardous effects upon the airplane or its systems.
(c) Wires and cables carrying heavy current, and their associated EWIS components, must be designed and installed to ensure adequate physical
separation and electrical isolation so that damage to circuits associated with essential functions will be minimized under fault conditions.
(d) Each EWIS associated with independent airplane power sources or power sources connected in combination must be designed and installed to ensure adequate physical separation and electrical isolation so that a fault in any one airplane power source EWIS will not adversely affect any other independent power sources. In addition:
(1) Airplane independent electrical power sources must not share a common ground terminating location.
(2) Airplane system static grounds must not share a common ground terminating location with any of the airplane's independent electrical power sources.
(e) Except to the extent necessary to provide electrical connection to the fuel systems components, the EWIS must be designed and installed with adequate physical separation from fuel lines and other fuel system components, so that:
(1) An EWIS component failure will not create a hazardous condition.
(2) Any fuel leakage onto EWIS components will not create a hazardous condition.
(f) Except to the extent necessary to provide electrical connection to the hydraulic systems components, EWIS must be designed and installed with adequate physical separation from hydraulic lines and other hydraulic system components, so that:
(1) An EWIS component failure will not create a hazardous condition.
(2) Any hydraulic fluid leakage onto EWIS components will not create a hazardous condition.
(g) Except to the extent necessary to provide electrical connection to the oxygen systems components, EWIS must be designed and installed with adequate physical separation from oxygen lines and other oxygen system components, so that an EWIS component failure will not create a hazardous condition.
(h) Except to the extent necessary to provide electrical connection to the water/waste systems components, EWIS must be designed and installed with adequate physical separation from water/waste lines and other water/waste system components, so that:
(1) An EWIS component failure will not create a hazardous condition.
(2) Any water/waste leakage onto EWIS components will not create a hazardous condition.
(i) EWIS must be designed and installed with adequate physical separation between the EWIS and flight or other mechanical control systems cables and associated system components, so that:
(1) Chafing, jamming, or other interference are prevented.
(2) An EWIS component failure will not create a hazardous condition.
(3) Failure of any flight or other mechanical control systems cables or systems components will not damage the EWIS and create a hazardous condition.
(j) EWIS must be designed and installed with adequate physical separation between the EWIS components and heated equipment, hot air ducts, and lines, so that:
(1) An EWIS component failure will not create a hazardous condition.
(2) Any hot air leakage or heat generated onto EWIS components will not create a hazardous condition.
(k) For systems for which redundancy is required, by certification rules, by operating rules, or as a result of the assessment required by § 25.1709, EWIS components associated with those systems must be designed and installed with adequate physical separation.
(l) Each EWIS must be designed and installed so there is adequate physical separation between it and other aircraft components and aircraft structure, and so that the EWIS is protected from sharp edges and corners, to minimize potential for abrasion/chafing, vibration damage, and other types of mechanical damage.
§ 25.1709
System safety: EWIS.
Each EWIS must be designed and installed so that:
(a) Each catastrophic failure condition—
(1) Is extremely improbable; and
(2) Does not result from a single failure.
(b) Each hazardous failure condition is extremely remote.
§ 25.1711
Component identification: EWIS.
(a) EWIS components must be labeled or otherwise identified using a consistent method that facilitates identification of the EWIS component, its function, and its design limitations, if any.
(b) For systems for which redundancy is required, by certification rules, by operating rules, or as a result of the assessment required by § 25.1709, EWIS components associated with those systems must be specifically identified with component part number, function, and separation requirement for bundles.
(1) The identification must be placed along the wire, cable, or wire bundle at appropriate intervals and in areas of the airplane where it is readily visible to maintenance, repair, or alteration personnel.
(2) If an EWIS component cannot be marked physically, then other means of identification must be provided.
(c) The identifying markings required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must remain legible throughout the expected service life of the EWIS component.
(d) The means used for identifying each EWIS component as required by this section must not have an adverse effect on the performance of that component throughout its expected service life.
(e) Identification for EWIS modifications to the type design must be consistent with the identification scheme of the original type design.
§ 25.1713
Fire protection: EWIS.
(a) All EWIS components must meet the applicable fire and smoke protection requirements of § 25.831(c) of this part.
(b) EWIS components that are located in designated fire zones and are used during emergency procedures must be fire resistant.
(c) Insulation on electrical wire and electrical cable, and materials used to provide additional protection for the wire and cable, installed in any area of the airplane, must be self-extinguishing when tested in accordance with the applicable portions of Appendix F, part I, of 14 CFR part 25.
§ 25.1715
Electrical bonding and protection against static electricity: EWIS.
(a) EWIS components used for electrical bonding and protection against static electricity must meet the requirements of § 25.899.
(b) On airplanes having grounded electrical systems, electrical bonding provided by EWIS components must provide an electrical return path capable of carrying both normal and fault currents without creating a shock hazard or damage to the EWIS components, other airplane system components, or airplane structure.
§ 25.1717
Circuit protective devices: EWIS.
Electrical wires and cables must be designed and installed so they are compatible with the circuit protection devices required by § 25.1357, so that a fire or smoke hazard cannot be created under temporary or continuous fault conditions.
§ 25.1719
Accessibility provisions: EWIS.
Access must be provided to allow inspection and replacement of any EWIS component as necessary for continued airworthiness.
§ 25.1721
Protection of EWIS.
(a) No cargo or baggage compartment may contain any EWIS whose damage or failure may affect safe operation, unless the EWIS is protected so that:
(1) It cannot be damaged by movement of cargo or baggage in the compartment.
(2) Its breakage or failure will not create a fire hazard.
(b) EWIS must be designed and installed to minimize damage and risk of damage to EWIS by movement of people in the airplane during all phases of flight, maintenance, and servicing.
(c) EWIS must be designed and installed to minimize damage and risk of damage to EWIS by items carried onto the aircraft by passengers or cabin crew.
§ 25.1723
Flammable fluid fire protection: EWIS.
EWIS components located in each area where flammable fluid or vapors might escape by leakage of a fluid system must be considered a potential ignition source and must meet the requirements of § 25.863.
§ 25.1725
Powerplants: EWIS.
(a) EWIS associated with any powerplant must be designed and installed so that the failure of an EWIS component will not prevent the continued safe operation of the remaining powerplants or require immediate action by any crewmember for continued safe operation, in accordance with the requirements of § 25.903(b).
(b) Design precautions must be taken to minimize hazards to the airplane due to EWIS damage in the event of a powerplant rotor failure or a fire originating within the powerplant that burns through the powerplant case, in accordance with the requirements of § 25.903(d)(1).
§ 25.1727
Flammable fluid shutoff means: EWIS.
EWIS associated with each flammable fluid shutoff means and control must be fireproof or must be located and protected so that any fire in a fire zone will not affect operation of the flammable fluid shutoff means, in accordance with the requirements of § 25.1189.
§ 25.1729
Instructions for Continued Airworthiness: EWIS.
The applicant must prepare Instructions for Continued Airworthiness applicable to EWIS in accordance with Appendix H sections H25.4 and H25.5 to this part that are approved by the FAA.
§ 25.1731
Powerplant and APU fire detector system: EWIS.
(a) EWIS that are part of each fire or overheat detector system in a fire zone must be fire-resistant.
(b) No EWIS component of any fire or overheat detector system for any fire zone may pass through another fire zone, unless:
(1) It is protected against the possibility of false warnings resulting from fires in zones through which it passes; or
(2) Each zone involved is simultaneously protected by the same detector and extinguishing system.
(c) EWIS that are part of each fire or overheat detector system in a fire zone must meet the requirements of § 25.1203.
§ 25.1733
Fire detector systems, general: EWIS.
EWIS associated with any installed fire protection system, including those required by §§ 25.854 and 25.858, must be considered an integral part of the system in showing compliance with the applicable requirements for that system.

# Subpart I—Special Federal Aviation Regulations

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2011-0186, Amdt. 25-133, 76 FR 12555, Mar. 8, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 25.1801
SFAR No. 111—Lavatory Oxygen Systems.
The requirements of § 121.1500 of this chapter also apply to this part.
Pt. 25, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 25
EC28SE91.050
EC28SE91.051
EC28SE91.052
EC28SE91.053
EC28SE91.054
Pt. 25, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 25
EC28SE91.055
EC28SE91.056
EC28SE91.057
Pt. 25, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 25

# Part I—Atmospheric Icing Conditions
(a)
Continuous maximum icing.
The maximum continuous intensity of atmospheric icing conditions (continuous maximum icing) is defined by the variables of the cloud liquid water content, the mean effective diameter of the cloud droplets, the ambient air temperature, and the interrelationship of these three variables as shown in figure 1 of this appendix. The limiting icing envelope in terms of altitude and temperature is given in figure 2 of this appendix. The inter-relationship of cloud liquid water content with drop diameter and altitude is determined from figures 1 and 2. The cloud liquid water content for continuous maximum icing conditions of a horizontal extent, other than 17.4 nautical miles, is determined by the value of liquid water content of figure 1, multiplied by the appropriate factor from figure 3 of this appendix.
(b)
Intermittent maximum icing.
The intermittent maximum intensity of atmospheric icing conditions (intermittent maximum icing) is defined by the variables of the cloud liquid water content, the mean effective diameter of the cloud droplets, the ambient air temperature, and the interrelationship of these three variables as shown in figure 4 of this appendix. The limiting icing envelope in terms of altitude and temperature is given in figure 5 of this appendix. The inter-relationship of cloud liquid water content with drop diameter and altitude is determined from figures 4 and 5. The cloud liquid water content for intermittent maximum icing conditions of a horizontal extent, other than 2.6 nautical miles, is determined by the value of cloud liquid water content of figure 4 multiplied by the appropriate factor in figure 6 of this appendix.
EC28SE91.058
EC28SE91.059
EC28SE91.060
EC28SE91.061
EC28SE91.062
EC28SE91.063
(c)
Takeoff maximum icing.
The maximum intensity of atmospheric icing conditions for takeoff (takeoff maximum icing) is defined by the cloud liquid water content of 0.35 g/m3, the mean effective diameter of the cloud droplets of 20 microns, and the ambient air temperature at ground level of minus 9 degrees Celsius (−9 °C). The takeoff maximum icing conditions extend from ground level to a height of 1,500 feet above the level of the takeoff surface.

# Part II—Airframe Ice Accretions for Showing Compliance With Subpart B.
(a)
Ice accretions—General.
The most critical ice accretion in terms of airplane performance and handling qualities for each flight phase must be used to show compliance with the applicable airplane performance and handling requirements in icing conditions of subpart B of this part. Applicants must demonstrate that the full range of atmospheric icing conditions specified in part I of this appendix have been considered, including the mean effective drop diameter, liquid water content, and temperature appropriate to the flight conditions (for example, configuration, speed, angle-of-attack, and altitude). The ice accretions for each flight phase are defined as follows:
(1)
Takeoff ice
is the most critical ice accretion on unprotected surfaces and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation, occurring between the end of the takeoff distance and 400 feet above the takeoff surface, assuming accretion starts at the end of the takeoff distance in the takeoff maximum icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix.
(2)
Final takeoff ice
is the most critical ice accretion on unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation, between 400 feet and either 1,500 feet above the takeoff surface, or the height at which the transition from the takeoff to the en route configuration is completed and V
FTO
is reached, whichever is higher. Ice accretion is assumed to start at the end of the takeoff distance in the takeoff maximum icing conditions of part I, paragraph (c) of this Appendix.
(3)
En route ice
is the critical ice accretion on the unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation, during the en route phase.
(4)
Holding ice
is the critical ice accretion on the unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation, during the holding flight phase.
(5)
Approach ice
is the critical ice accretion on the unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation following exit from the holding flight phase and transition to the most critical approach configuration.
(6)
Landing ice
is the critical ice accretion on the unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation following exit from the approach flight phase and transition to the final landing configuration.
(b) In order to reduce the number of ice accretions to be considered when demonstrating compliance with the requirements of § 25.21(g), any of the ice accretions defined in paragraph (a) of this section may be used for any other flight phase if it is shown to be more critical than the specific ice accretion defined for that flight phase. Configuration differences and their effects on ice accretions must be taken into account.
(c) The ice accretion that has the most adverse effect on handling qualities may be used for airplane performance tests provided any difference in performance is conservatively taken into account.
(d) For both unprotected and protected parts, the ice accretion for the takeoff phase may be determined by calculation, assuming the takeoff maximum icing conditions defined in appendix C, and assuming that:
(1) Airfoils, control surfaces and, if applicable, propellers are free from frost, snow, or ice at the start of the takeoff;
(2) The ice accretion starts at the end of the takeoff distance.
(3) The critical ratio of thrust/power-to-weight;
(4) Failure of the critical engine occurs at V
EF
; and
(5) Crew activation of the ice protection system is in accordance with a normal operating procedure provided in the Airplane Flight Manual, except that after beginning the takeoff roll, it must be assumed that the crew takes no action to activate the ice protection system until the airplane is at least 400 feet above the takeoff surface.
(e) The ice accretion before the ice protection system has been activated and is performing its intended function is the critical ice accretion formed on the unprotected and normally protected surfaces before activation and effective operation of the ice protection system in continuous maximum atmospheric icing conditions. This ice accretion only applies in showing compliance to §§ 25.143(j) and 25.207(h), and 25.207(i).
[Doc. No. 4080, 29 FR 17955, Dec. 18, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44669, Aug. 8, 2007; 72 FR 50467, Aug. 31, 2007; Amdt. 25-129, 74 FR 38340, Aug. 3, 2009; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65528, Nov. 4, 2014]
Pt. 25, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 25
Criteria for determining minimum flight crew.
The following are considered by the Agency in determining the minimum flight crew under § 25.1523:
(a)
Basic workload functions.
The following basic workload functions are considered:
(1) Flight path control.
(2) Collision avoidance.
(3) Navigation.
(4) Communications.
(5) Operation and monitoring of aircraft engines and systems.
(6) Command decisions.
(b)
Workload factors.
The following workload factors are considered significant when analyzing and demonstrating workload for minimum flight crew determination:
(1) The accessibility, ease, and simplicity of operation of all necessary flight, power, and equipment controls, including emergency fuel shutoff valves, electrical controls, electronic controls, pressurization system controls, and engine controls.
(2) The accessibility and conspicuity of all necessary instruments and failure warning devices such as fire warning, electrical system malfunction, and other failure or caution indicators. The extent to which such instruments or devices direct the proper corrective action is also considered.
(3) The number, urgency, and complexity of operating procedures with particular consideration given to the specific fuel management schedule imposed by center of gravity, structural or other considerations of an airworthiness nature, and to the ability of each engine to operate at all times from a single tank or source which is automatically replenished if fuel is also stored in other tanks.
(4) The degree and duration of concentrated mental and physical effort involved in normal operation and in diagnosing and coping with malfunctions and emergencies.
(5) The extent of required monitoring of the fuel, hydraulic, pressurization, electrical, electronic, deicing, and other systems while en route.
(6) The actions requiring a crewmember to be unavailable at his assigned duty station, including: observation of systems, emergency operation of any control, and emergencies in any compartment.
(7) The degree of automation provided in the aircraft systems to afford (after failures or malfunctions) automatic crossover or isolation of difficulties to minimize the need for flight crew action to guard against loss of hydraulic or electric power to flight controls or to other essential systems.
(8) The communications and navigation workload.
(9) The possibility of increased workload associated with any emergency that may lead to other emergencies.
(10) Incapacitation of a flight crewmember whenever the applicable operating rule requires a minimum flight crew of at least two pilots.
(c)
Kind of operation authorized.
The determination of the kind of operation authorized requires consideration of the operating rules under which the airplane will be operated. Unless an applicant desires approval for a more limited kind of operation. It is assumed that each airplane certificated under this Part will operate under IFR conditions.
[Amdt. 25-3, 30 FR 6067, Apr. 29, 1965]
Pt. 25, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 25

# I—Limited Weight Credit For Airplanes Equipped With Standby Power
(a) Each applicant for an increase in the maximum certificated takeoff and landing weights of an airplane equipped with a type-certificated standby power rocket engine may obtain an increase as specified in paragraph (b) if—
(1) The installation of the rocket engine has been approved and it has been established by flight test that the rocket engine and its controls can be operated safely and reliably at the increase in maximum weight; and
(2) The Airplane Flight Manual, or the placard, markings or manuals required in place thereof, set forth in addition to any other operating limitations the Administrator may require, the increased weight approved under this regulation and a prohibition against the operation of the airplane at the approved increased weight when—
(i) The installed standby power rocket engines have been stored or installed in excess of the time limit established by the manufacturer of the rocket engine (usually stenciled on the engine casing); or
(ii) The rocket engine fuel has been expended or discharged.
(b) The currently approved maximum takeoff and landing weights at which an airplane is certificated without a standby power rocket engine installation may be increased by an amount that does not exceed any of the following:
(1) An amount equal in pounds to 0.014 IN, where I is the maximum usable impulse in pounds-seconds available from each standby power rocket engine and N is the number of rocket engines installed.
(2) An amount equal to 5 percent of the maximum certificated weight approved in accordance with the applicable airworthiness regulations without standby power rocket engines installed.
(3) An amount equal to the weight of the rocket engine installation.
(4) An amount that, together with the currently approved maximum weight, would equal the maximum structural weight established for the airplane without standby rocket engines installed.

# II—Performance Credit for Transport Category Airplanes Equipped With Standby Power
The Administrator may grant performance credit for the use of standby power on transport category airplanes. However, the performance credit applies only to the maximum certificated takeoff and landing
weights, the takeoff distance, and the takeoff paths, and may not exceed that found by the Administrator to result in an overall level of safety in the takeoff, approach, and landing regimes of flight equivalent to that prescribed in the regulations under which the airplane was originally certificated without standby power. For the purposes of this appendix, “standby power” is power or thrust, or both, obtained from rocket engines for a relatively short period and actuated only in cases of emergency. The following provisions apply:
(1)
Takeoff; general.
The takeoff data prescribed in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this appendix must be determined at all weights and altitudes, and at ambient temperatures if applicable, at which performance credit is to be applied.
(2)
Takeoff path.
(a) The one-engine-inoperative takeoff path with standby power in use must be determined in accordance with the performance requirements of the applicable airworthiness regulations.
(b) The one-engine-inoperative takeoff path (excluding that part where the airplane is on or just above the takeoff surface) determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must lie above the one-engine-inoperative takeoff path without standby power at the maximum takeoff weight at which all of the applicable air-worthiness requirements are met. For the purpose of this comparison, the flight path is considered to extend to at least a height of 400 feet above the takeoff surface.
(c) The takeoff path with all engines operating, but without the use of standby power, must reflect a conservatively greater overall level of performance than the one-engine-inoperative takeoff path established in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The margin must be established by the Administrator to insure safe day-to-day operations, but in no case may it be less than 15 percent. The all-engines-operating takeoff path must be determined by a procedure consistent with that established in complying with paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) For reciprocating-engine-powered airplanes, the takeoff path to be scheduled in the Airplane Flight Manual must represent the one-engine-operative takeoff path determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and modified to reflect the procedure (see paragraph (6)) established by the applicant for flap retraction and attainment of the en route speed. The scheduled takeoff path must have a positive slope at all points of the airborne portion and at no point must it lie above the takeoff path specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(3)
Takeoff distance.
The takeoff distance must be the horizontal distance along the one-engine-inoperative take off path determined in accordance with paragraph (2)(a) from the start of the takeoff to the point where the airplane attains a height of 50 feet above the takeoff surface for reciprocating-engine-powered airplanes and a height of 35 feet above the takeoff surface for turbine-powered airplanes.
(4)
Maximum certificated takeoff weights.
The maximum certificated takeoff weights must be determined at all altitudes, and at ambient temperatures, if applicable, at which performance credit is to be applied and may not exceed the weights established in compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) The conditions of paragraphs (2)(b) through (d) must be met at the maximum certificated takeoff weight.
(b) Without the use of standby power, the airplane must meet all of the en route requirements of the applicable airworthiness regulations under which the airplane was originally certificated. In addition, turbine-powered airplanes without the use of standby power must meet the final takeoff climb requirements prescribed in the applicable airworthiness regulations.
(5)
Maximum certificated landing weights.
(a) The maximum certificated landing weights (one-engine-inoperative approach and all-engine-operating landing climb) must be determined at all altitudes, and at ambient temperatures if applicable, at which performance credit is to be applied and must not exceed that established in compliance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The flight path, with the engines operating at the power or thrust, or both, appropriate to the airplane configuration and with standby power in use, must lie above the flight path without standby power in use at the maximum weight at which all of the applicable airworthiness requirements are met. In addition, the flight paths must comply with subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of this paragraph.
(i) The flight paths must be established without changing the appropriate airplane configuration.
(ii) The flight paths must be carried out for a minimum height of 400 feet above the point where standby power is actuated.
(6)
Airplane configuration, speed, and power and thrust; general.
Any change in the airplane's configuration, speed, and power or thrust, or both, must be made in accordance with the procedures established by the applicant for the operation of the airplane in service and must comply with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. In addition, procedures must be established for the execution of balked landings and missed approaches.
(a) The Administrator must find that the procedure can be consistently executed in service by crews of average skill.
(b) The procedure may not involve methods or the use of devices which have not been proven to be safe and reliable.
(c) Allowances must be made for such time delays in the execution of the procedures as may be reasonably expected to occur during service.
(7)
Installation and operation; standby power.
The standby power unit and its installation must comply with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) The standby power unit and its installation must not adversely affect the safety of the airplane.
(b) The operation of the standby power unit and its control must have proven to be safe and reliable.
[Amdt. 25-6, 30 FR 8468, July 2, 1965]
Pt. 25, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 25

# Part I—Test Criteria and Procedures for Showing Compliance With § 25.853 or § 25.855
(a)
Material test criteria
—(1)
Interior compartments occupied by crew or passengers.
(i) Interior ceiling panels, interior wall panels, partitions, galley structure, large cabinet walls, structural flooring, and materials used in the construction of stowage compartments (other than underseat stowage compartments and compartments for stowing small items such as magazines and maps) must be self-extinguishing when tested vertically in accordance with the applicable portions of part I of this appendix. The average burn length may not exceed 6 inches and the average flame time after removal of the flame source may not exceed 15 seconds. Drippings from the test specimen may not continue to flame for more than an average of 3 seconds after falling.
(ii) Floor covering, textiles (including draperies and upholstery), seat cushions, padding, decorative and non-decorative coated fabrics, leather, trays and galley furnishings, electrical conduit, air ducting, joint and edge covering, liners of Class B and E cargo or baggage compartments, floor panels of Class B, C, E, or F cargo or baggage compartments, cargo covers and transparencies, molded and thermoformed parts, air ducting joints, and trim strips (decorative and chafing), that are constructed of materials not covered in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) below, must be self-extinguishing when tested vertically in accordance with the applicable portions of part I of this appendix or other approved equivalent means. The average burn length may not exceed 8 inches, and the average flame time after removal of the flame source may not exceed 15 seconds. Drippings from the test specimen may not continue to flame for more than an average of 5 seconds after falling.
(iii) Motion picture film must be safety film meeting the Standard Specifications for Safety Photographic Film PHI.25 (available from the American National Standards Institute, 1430 Broadway, New York, NY 10018). If the film travels through ducts, the ducts must meet the requirements of subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph.
(iv) Clear plastic windows and signs, parts constructed in whole or in part of elastomeric materials, edge lighted instrument assemblies consisting of two or more instruments in a common housing, seat belts, shoulder harnesses, and cargo and baggage tiedown equipment, including containers, bins, pallets, etc., used in passenger or crew compartments, may not have an average burn rate greater than 2.5 inches per minute when tested horizontally in accordance with the applicable portions of this appendix.
(v) Except for small parts (such as knobs, handles, rollers, fasteners, clips, grommets, rub strips, pulleys, and small electrical parts) that would not contribute significantly to the propagation of a fire and for electrical wire and cable insulation, materials in items not specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of part I of this appendix may not have a burn rate greater than 4.0 inches per minute when tested horizontally in accordance with the applicable portions of this appendix.
(2)
Cargo and baggage compartments not occupied by crew or passengers.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) A cargo or baggage compartment defined in § 25.857 as Class B or E must have a liner constructed of materials that meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of part I of this appendix and separated from the airplane structure (except for attachments). In addition, such liners must be subjected to the 45 degree angle test. The flame may not penetrate (pass through) the material during application of the flame or subsequent to its removal. The average flame time after removal of the flame source may not exceed 15 seconds, and the average glow time may not exceed 10 seconds.
(iii) A cargo or baggage compartment defined in § 25.857 as Class B, C, E, or F must have floor panels constructed of materials which meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of part I of this appendix and which are separated from the airplane structure (except for attachments). Such panels must be subjected to the 45 degree angle test. The flame may not penetrate (pass through) the material during application of the flame or subsequent to its removal. The average flame time after removal of the flame source may not exceed 15 seconds, and the average glow time may not exceed 10 seconds.
(iv) Insulation blankets and covers used to protect cargo must be constructed of materials that meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of part I of this appendix. Tiedown equipment (including containers, bins, and pallets) used in each cargo and baggage compartment must be constructed of materials that meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(v) of part I of this appendix.
(3)
Electrical system components.
Insulation on electrical wire or cable installed in any area of the fuselage must be self-extinguishing when subjected to the 60 degree test specified in part I of this appendix. The average burn length may not exceed 3 inches, and the average flame time after removal of the flame source may not exceed 30 seconds. Drippings from the test specimen may not continue to flame for more than an average of 3 seconds after falling.
(b)
Test Procedures
—(1)
Conditioning.
Specimens must be conditioned to 70 ±5 F., and at 50 percent ±5 percent relative humidity until moisture equilibrium is reached or for 24 hours. Each specimen must remain in the conditioning environment until it is subjected to the flame.
(2)
Specimen configuration.
Except for small parts and electrical wire and cable insulation, materials must be tested either as section cut from a fabricated part as installed in the airplane or as a specimen simulating a cut section, such as a specimen cut from a flat sheet of the material or a model of the fabricated part. The specimen may be cut from any location in a fabricated part; however, fabricated units, such as sandwich panels, may not be separated for test. Except as noted below, the specimen thickness must be no thicker than the minimum thickness to be qualified for use in the airplane. Test specimens of thick foam parts, such as seat cushions, must be
1/2
-inch in thickness. Test specimens of materials that must meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(v) of part I of this appendix must be no more than
1/8
-inch in thickness. Electrical wire and cable specimens must be the same size as used in the airplane. In the case of fabrics, both the warp and fill direction of the weave must be tested to determine the most critical flammability condition. Specimens must be mounted in a metal frame so that the two long edges and the upper edge are held securely during the vertical test prescribed in subparagraph (4) of this paragraph and the two long edges and the edge away from the flame are held securely during the horizontal test prescribed in subparagraph (5) of this paragraph. The exposed area of the specimen must be at least 2 inches wide and 12 inches long, unless the actual size used in the airplane is smaller. The edge to which the burner flame is applied must not consist of the finished or protected edge of the specimen but must be representative of the actual cross-section of the material or part as installed in the airplane. The specimen must be mounted in a metal frame so that all four edges are held securely and the exposed area of the specimen is at least 8 inches by 8 inches during the 45° test prescribed in subparagraph (6) of this paragraph.
(3)
Apparatus.
Except as provided in subparagraph (7) of this paragraph, tests must be conducted in a draft-free cabinet in accordance with Federal Test Method Standard 191 Model 5903 (revised Method 5902) for the vertical test, or Method 5906 for horizontal test (available from the General Services Administration, Business Service Center, Region 3, Seventh
D Streets SW., Washington, DC 20407). Specimens which are too large for the cabinet must be tested in similar draft-free conditions.
(4)
Vertical test.
A minimum of three specimens must be tested and results averaged. For fabrics, the direction of weave corresponding to the most critical flammability conditions must be parallel to the longest dimension. Each specimen must be supported vertically. The specimen must be exposed to a Bunsen or Tirrill burner with a nominal
3/8
-inch I.D. tube adjusted to give a flame of 1
1/2
inches in height. The minimum flame temperature measured by a calibrated thermocouple pyrometer in the center of the flame must be 1550 °F. The lower edge of the specimen must be
3/4
-inch above the top edge of the burner. The flame must be applied to the center line of the lower edge of the specimen. For materials covered by paragraph (a)(1)(i) of part I of this appendix, the flame must be applied for 60 seconds and then removed. For materials covered by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of part I of this appendix, the flame must be applied for 12 seconds and then removed. Flame time, burn length, and flaming time of drippings, if any, may be recorded. The burn length determined in accordance with subparagraph (7) of this paragraph must be measured to the nearest tenth of an inch.
(5)
Horizontal test.
A minimum of three specimens must be tested and the results averaged. Each specimen must be supported horizontally. The exposed surface, when installed in the aircraft, must be face down for the test. The specimen must be exposed to a Bunsen or Tirrill burner with a nominal
3/8
-inch I.D. tube adjusted to give a flame of 1
1/2
inches in height. The minimum flame temperature measured by a calibrated thermocouple pyrometer in the center of the flame must be 1550 °F. The specimen must be positioned so that the edge being tested is centered
3/4
-inch above the top of the burner. The flame must be applied for 15 seconds and then removed. A minimum of 10 inches of specimen must be used for timing purposes, approximately 1
1/2
inches must burn before the burning front reaches the timing zone, and the average burn rate must be recorded.
(6)
Forty-five degree test.
A minimum of three specimens must be tested and the results averaged. The specimens must be supported at an angle of 45° to a horizontal surface. The exposed surface when installed in the aircraft must be face down for the test. The specimens must be exposed to a Bunsen or Tirrill burner with a nominal
3/8
-inch I.D. tube adjusted to give a flame of 1
1/2
inches in height. The minimum flame temperature
measured by a calibrated thermocouple pyrometer in the center of the flame must be 1550 °F. Suitable precautions must be taken to avoid drafts. The flame must be applied for 30 seconds with one-third contacting the material at the center of the specimen and then removed. Flame time, glow time, and whether the flame penetrates (passes through) the specimen must be recorded.
(7)
Sixty degree test.
A minimum of three specimens of each wire specification (make and size) must be tested. The specimen of wire or cable (including insulation) must be placed at an angle of 60° with the horizontal in the cabinet specified in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph with the cabinet door open during the test, or must be placed within a chamber approximately 2 feet high by 1 foot by 1 foot, open at the top and at one vertical side (front), and which allows sufficient flow of air for complete combustion, but which is free from drafts. The specimen must be parallel to and approximately 6 inches from the front of the chamber. The lower end of the specimen must be held rigidly clamped. The upper end of the specimen must pass over a pulley or rod and must have an appropriate weight attached to it so that the specimen is held tautly throughout the flammability test. The test specimen span between lower clamp and upper pulley or rod must be 24 inches and must be marked 8 inches from the lower end to indicate the central point for flame application. A flame from a Bunsen or Tirrill burner must be applied for 30 seconds at the test mark. The burner must be mounted underneath the test mark on the specimen, perpendicular to the specimen and at an angle of 30° to the vertical plane of the specimen. The burner must have a nominal bore of
3/8
-inch and be adjusted to provide a 3-inch high flame with an inner cone approximately one-third of the flame height. The minimum temperature of the hottest portion of the flame, as measured with a calibrated thermocouple pyrometer, may not be less than 1750 °F. The burner must be positioned so that the hottest portion of the flame is applied to the test mark on the wire. Flame time, burn length, and flaming time of drippings, if any, must be recorded. The burn length determined in accordance with paragraph (8) of this paragraph must be measured to the nearest tenth of an inch. Breaking of the wire specimens is not considered a failure.
(8)
Burn length.
Burn length is the distance from the original edge to the farthest evidence of damage to the test specimen due to flame impingement, including areas of partial or complete consumption, charring, or embrittlement, but not including areas sooted, stained, warped, or discolored, nor areas where material has shrunk or melted away from the heat source.

# Part II—Flammability of Seat Cushions
(a)
Criteria for Acceptance.
Each seat cushion must meet the following criteria:
(1) At least three sets of seat bottom and seat back cushion specimens must be tested.
(2) If the cushion is constructed with a fire blocking material, the fire blocking material must completely enclose the cushion foam core material.
(3) Each specimen tested must be fabricated using the principal components (i.e., foam core, flotation material, fire blocking material, if used, and dress covering) and assembly processes (representative seams and closures) intended for use in the production articles. If a different material combination is used for the back cushion than for the bottom cushion, both material combinations must be tested as complete specimen sets, each set consisting of a back cushion specimen and a bottom cushion specimen. If a cushion, including outer dress covering, is demonstrated to meet the requirements of this appendix using the oil burner test, the dress covering of that cushion may be replaced with a similar dress covering provided the burn length of the replacement covering, as determined by the test specified in § 25.853(c), does not exceed the corresponding burn length of the dress covering used on the cushion subjected to the oil burner test.
(4) For at least two-thirds of the total number of specimen sets tested, the burn length from the burner must not reach the side of the cushion opposite the burner. The burn length must not exceed 17 inches. Burn length is the perpendicular distance from the inside edge of the seat frame closest to the burner to the farthest evidence of damage to the test specimen due to flame impingement, including areas of partial or complete consumption, charring, or embrittlement, but not including areas sooted, stained, warped, or discolored, or areas where material has shrunk or melted away from the heat source.
(5) The average percentage weight loss must not exceed 10 percent. Also, at least two-thirds of the total number of specimen sets tested must not exceed 10 percent weight loss. All droppings falling from the cushions and mounting stand are to be discarded before the after-test weight is determined. The percentage weight loss for a specimen set is the weight of the specimen set before testing less the weight of the specimen set after testing expressed as the percentage of the weight before testing.
(b)
Test Conditions.
Vertical air velocity should average 25 fpm±10 fpm at the top of the back seat cushion. Horizontal air velocity should be below 10 fpm just above the bottom seat cushion. Air velocities should be measured with the ventilation hood operating and the burner motor off.
(c)
Test Specimens.
(1) For each test, one set of cushion specimens representing a seat bottom and seat back cushion must be used.
(2) The seat bottom cushion specimen must be 18 ±
1/8
inches (457 ±3 mm) wide by 20 ±
1/8
inches (508 ±3 mm) deep by 4 ±
1/8
inches (102 ±3 mm) thick, exclusive of fabric closures and seam overlap.
(3) The seat back cushion specimen must be 18 ±
1/8
inches (432 ±3 mm) wide by 25 ±
1/8
inches (635 ±3 mm) high by 2 ±
1/8
inches (51 ±3 mm) thick, exclusive of fabric closures and seam overlap.
(4) The specimens must be conditioned at 70 ±5 °F (21 ±2 °C) 55%±10% relative humidity for at least 24 hours before testing.
(d)
Test Apparatus.
The arrangement of the test apparatus is shown in Figures 1 through 5 and must include the components described in this section. Minor details of the apparatus may vary, depending on the model burner used.
(1)
Specimen Mounting Stand.
The mounting stand for the test specimens consists of steel angles, as shown in Figure 1. The length of the mounting stand legs is 12 ±
1/8
inches (305 ±3 mm). The mounting stand must be used for mounting the test specimen seat bottom and seat back, as shown in Figure 2. The mounting stand should also include a suitable drip pan lined with aluminum foil, dull side up.
(2)
Test Burner.
The burner to be used in testing must—
(i) Be a modified gun type;
(ii) Have an 80-degree spray angle nozzle nominally rated for 2.25 gallons/hour at 100 psi;
(iii) Have a 12-inch (305 mm) burner cone installed at the end of the draft tube, with an opening 6 inches (152 mm) high and 11 inches (280 mm) wide, as shown in Figure 3; and
(iv) Have a burner fuel pressure regulator that is adjusted to deliver a nominal 2.0 gallon/hour of # 2 Grade kerosene or equivalent required for the test.
Burner models which have been used successfully in testing are the Lennox Model OB-32, Carlin Model 200 CRD, and Park Model DPL 3400. FAA published reports pertinent to this type of burner are: (1) Powerplant Enginering Report No. 3A, Standard Fire Test Apparatus and Procedure for Flexible Hose Assemblies, dated March 1978; and (2) Report No. DOT/FAA/RD/76/213, Reevaluation of Burner Characteristics for Fire Resistance Tests, dated January 1977.
(3)
Calorimeter.
(i) The calorimeter to be used in testing must be a (0-15.0 BTU/ft
2
-sec. 0-17.0 W/cm
2
) calorimeter, accurate ±3%, mounted in a 6-inch by 12-inch (152 by 305 mm) by
3/4
-inch (19 mm) thick calcium silicate insulating board which is attached to a steel angle bracket for placement in the test stand during burner calibration, as shown in Figure 4.
(ii) Because crumbling of the insulating board with service can result in misalignment of the calorimeter, the calorimeter must be monitored and the mounting shimmed, as necessary, to ensure that the calorimeter face is flush with the exposed plane of the insulating board in a plane parallel to the exit of the test burner cone.
(4)
Thermocouples.
The seven thermocouples to be used for testing must be
1/16
- to
1/8
-inch metal sheathed, ceramic packed, type K, grounded thermocouples with a nominal 22 to 30 American wire gage (AWG)-size conductor. The seven thermocouples must be attached to a steel angle bracket to form a thermocouple rake for placement in the test stand during burner calibration, as shown in Figure 5.
(5)
Apparatus Arrangement.
The test burner must be mounted on a suitable stand to position the exit of the burner cone a distance of 4 ±
1/8
inches (102 ±3 mm) from one side of the specimen mounting stand. The burner stand should have the capability of allowing the burner to be swung away from the specimen mounting stand during warmup periods.
(6)
Data Recording.
A recording potentiometer or other suitable calibrated instrument with an appropriate range must be used to measure and record the outputs of the calorimeter and the thermocouples.
(7)
Weight Scale.
Weighing Device—A device must be used that with proper procedures may determine the before and after test weights of each set of seat cushion specimens within 0.02 pound (9 grams). A continuous weighing system is preferred.
(8)
Timing Device.
A stopwatch or other device (calibrated to ±1 second) must be used to measure the time of application of the burner flame and self-extinguishing time or test duration.
(e)
Preparation of Apparatus.
Before calibration, all equipment must be turned on and the burner fuel must be adjusted as specified in paragraph (d)(2).
(f)
Calibration.
To ensure the proper thermal output of the burner, the following test must be made:
(1) Place the calorimeter on the test stand as shown in Figure 4 at a distance of 4 ±
1/8
inches (102 ±3 mm) from the exit of the burner cone.
(2) Turn on the burner, allow it to run for 2 minutes for warmup, and adjust the burner air intake damper to produce a reading of 10.5 ±0.5 BTU/ft
2
-sec. (11.9 ±0.6 w/cm
2
) on the calorimeter to ensure steady state conditions have been achieved. Turn off the burner.
(3) Replace the calorimeter with the thermocouple rake (Figure 5).
(4) Turn on the burner and ensure that the thermocouples are reading 1900 ±100 °F (1038 ±38 °C) to ensure steady state conditions have been achieved.
(5) If the calorimeter and thermocouples do not read within range, repeat steps in paragraphs 1 through 4 and adjust the burner air intake damper until the proper readings are obtained. The thermocouple rake and the calorimeter should be used frequently to maintain and record calibrated test parameters. Until the specific apparatus has demonstrated consistency, each test should be calibrated. After consistency has been confirmed, several tests may be conducted with the pre-test calibration before and a calibration check after the series.
(g)
Test Procedure.
The flammability of each set of specimens must be tested as follows:
(1) Record the weight of each set of seat bottom and seat back cushion specimens to be tested to the nearest 0.02 pound (9 grams).
(2) Mount the seat bottom and seat back cushion test specimens on the test stand as shown in Figure 2, securing the seat back cushion specimen to the test stand at the top.
(3) Swing the burner into position and ensure that the distance from the exit of the burner cone to the side of the seat bottom cushion specimen is 4 ±
1/8
inches (102 ±3 mm).
(4) Swing the burner away from the test position. Turn on the burner and allow it to run for 2 minutes to provide adequate warmup of the burner cone and flame stabilization.
(5) To begin the test, swing the burner into the test position and simultaneously start the timing device.
(6) Expose the seat bottom cushion specimen to the burner flame for 2 minutes and then turn off the burner. Immediately swing the burner away from the test position. Terminate test 7 minutes after initiating cushion exposure to the flame by use of a gaseous extinguishing agent (i.e., Halon or CO
2
).
(7) Determine the weight of the remains of the seat cushion specimen set left on the mounting stand to the nearest 0.02 pound (9 grams) excluding all droppings.
(h)
Test Report.
With respect to all specimen sets tested for a particular seat cushion for which testing of compliance is performed, the following information must be recorded:
(1) An identification and description of the specimens being tested.
(2) The number of specimen sets tested.
(3) The initial weight and residual weight of each set, the calculated percentage weight loss of each set, and the calculated average percentage weight loss for the total number of sets tested.
(4) The burn length for each set tested.
EC28SE91.064
EC28SE91.065
EC28SE91.066
EC28SE91.067
EC28SE91.068

# Part III—Test Method To Determine Flame Penetration Resistance of Cargo Compartment Liners.
(a)
Criteria for Acceptance.
(1) At least three specimens of cargo compartment sidewall or ceiling liner panels must be tested.
(2) Each specimen tested must simulate the cargo compartment sidewall or ceiling liner panel, including any design features, such as joints, lamp assemblies, etc., the failure of which would affect the capability of the liner to safely contain a fire.
(3) There must be no flame penetration of any specimen within 5 minutes after application of the flame source, and the peak temperature measured at 4 inches above the upper surface of the horizontal test sample must not exceed 400 °F.
(b)
Summary of Method.
This method provides a laboratory test procedure for measuring the capability of cargo compartment lining materials to resist flame penetration with a 2 gallon per hour (GPH) #2 Grade kerosene or equivalent burner fire source. Ceiling and sidewall liner panels may be tested individually provided a baffle is used to simulate the missing panel. Any specimen that passes the test as a ceiling liner panel may be used as a sidewall liner panel.
(c)
Test Specimens.
(1) The specimen to be tested must measure 16 ±
1/8
inches (406 ±3 mm) by 24 +
1/8
inches (610 ±3 mm).
(2) The specimens must be conditioned at 70 °F.±5 °F. (21 °C. ±2 °C.) and 55%±5% humidity for at least 24 hours before testing.
(d)
Test Apparatus.
The arrangement of the test apparatus, which is shown in Figure 3 of Part II and Figures 1 through 3 of this part of appendix F, must include the components described in this section. Minor details of the apparatus may vary, depending on the model of the burner used.
(1)
Specimen Mounting Stand.
The mounting stand for the test specimens consists of steel angles as shown in Figure 1.
(2)
Test Burner.
The burner to be used in tesing must—
(i) Be a modified gun type.
(ii) Use a suitable nozzle and maintain fuel pressure to yield a 2 GPH fuel flow. For example: an 80 degree nozzle nominally rated at 2.25 GPH and operated at 85 pounds per square inch (PSI) gage to deliver 2.03 GPH.
(iii) Have a 12 inch (305 mm) burner extension installed at the end of the draft tube with an opening 6 inches (152 mm) high and 11 inches (280 mm) wide as shown in Figure 3 of Part II of this appendix.
(iv) Have a burner fuel pressure regulator that is adjusted to deliver a nominal 2.0 GPH of #2 Grade kerosene or equivalent.
Burner models which have been used successfully in testing are the Lenox Model OB-32, Carlin Model 200 CRD and Park Model DPL. The basic burner is described in FAA Powerplant Engineering Report No. 3A, Standard Fire Test Apparatus and Procedure for Flexible Hose Assemblies, dated March 1978; however, the test settings specified in this appendix differ in some instances from those specified in the report.
(3)
Calorimeter.
(i) The calorimeter to be used in testing must be a total heat flux Foil Type Gardon Gage of an appropriate range (approximately 0 to 15.0 British thermal unit (BTU) per ft.
2
sec., 0-17.0 watts/cm
2
). The calorimeter must be mounted in a 6 inch by 12 inch (152 by 305 mm) by
3/4
inch (19 mm) thick insulating block which is attached to a steel angle bracket for placement in the test stand during burner calibration as shown in Figure 2 of this part of this appendix.
(ii) The insulating block must be monitored for deterioration and the mounting shimmed as necessary to ensure that the calorimeter face is parallel to the exit plane of the test burner cone.
(4)
Thermocouples.
The seven thermocouples to be used for testing must be
1/16
inch ceramic sheathed, type K, grounded thermocouples with a nominal 30 American wire gage (AWG) size conductor. The seven thermocouples must be attached to a steel angle bracket to form a thermocouple rake for placement in the test stand during burner calibration as shown in Figure 3 of this part of this appendix.
(5)
Apparatus Arrangement.
The test burner must be mounted on a suitable stand to position the exit of the burner cone a distance of 8 inches from the ceiling liner panel and 2 inches from the sidewall liner panel. The burner stand should have the capability of allowing the burner to be swung away from the test specimen during warm-up periods.
(6)
Instrumentation.
A recording potentiometer or other suitable instrument with an appropriate range must be used to measure and record the outputs of the calorimeter and the thermocouples.
(7)
Timing Device.
A stopwatch or other device must be used to measure the time of flame application and the time of flame penetration, if it occurs.
(e)
Preparation of Apparatus.
Before calibration, all equipment must be turned on and allowed to stabilize, and the burner fuel flow must be adjusted as specified in paragraph (d)(2).
(f)
Calibration.
To ensure the proper thermal output of the burner the following test must be made:
(1) Remove the burner extension from the end of the draft tube. Turn on the blower portion of the burner without turning the fuel or igniters on. Measure the air velocity using a hot wire anemometer in the center of the draft tube across the face of the opening. Adjust the damper such that the air velocity is in the range of 1550 to 1800 ft./min. If tabs are being used at the exit of the draft tube, they must be removed prior to this measurement. Reinstall the draft tube extension cone.
(2) Place the calorimeter on the test stand as shown in Figure 2 at a distance of 8 inches (203 mm) from the exit of the burner cone to simulate the position of the horizontal test specimen.
(3) Turn on the burner, allow it to run for 2 minutes for warm-up, and adjust the damper to produce a calorimeter reading of 8.0 ±0.5 BTU per ft.
2
sec. (9.1 ±0.6 Watts/cm
2
).
(4) Replace the calorimeter with the thermocouple rake (see Figure 3).
(5) Turn on the burner and ensure that each of the seven thermocouples reads 1700 °F. ±100 °F. (927 °C. ±38 °C.) to ensure steady state conditions have been achieved. If the temperature is out of this range, repeat steps 2 through 5 until proper readings are obtained.
(6) Turn off the burner and remove the thermocouple rake.
(7) Repeat (1) to ensure that the burner is in the correct range.
(g)
Test Procedure.
(1) Mount a thermocouple of the same type as that used for calibration at a distance of 4 inches (102 mm) above the horizontal (ceiling) test specimen. The thermocouple should be centered over the burner cone.
(2) Mount the test specimen on the test stand shown in Figure 1 in either the horizontal or vertical position. Mount the insulating material in the other position.
(3) Position the burner so that flames will not impinge on the specimen, turn the burner on, and allow it to run for 2 minutes. Rotate the burner to apply the flame to the specimen and simultaneously start the timing device.
(4) Expose the test specimen to the flame for 5 minutes and then turn off the burner. The test may be terminated earlier if flame penetration is observed.
(5) When testing ceiling liner panels, record the peak temperature measured 4 inches above the sample.
(6) Record the time at which flame penetration occurs if applicable.
(h)
Test Report.
The test report must include the following:
(1) A complete description of the materials tested including type, manufacturer, thickness, and other appropriate data.
(2) Observations of the behavior of the test specimens during flame exposure such as delamination, resin ignition, smoke, ect., including the time of such occurrence.
(3) The time at which flame penetration occurs, if applicable, for each of the three specimens tested.
(4) Panel orientation (ceiling or sidewall).
EC28SE91.069
EC28SE91.070
EC28SE91.071

# Part IV—Test Method To Determine the Heat Release Rate From Cabin Materials Exposed to Radiant Heat.
(a)
Summary of Method.
Three or more specimens representing the completed aircraft component are tested. Each test specimen is injected into an environmental chamber through which a constant flow of air passes. The specimen's exposure is determined by a radiant heat source adjusted to produce, on the specimen, the desired total heat flux of 3.5 W/cm
2
. The specimen is tested with the exposed surface vertical. Combustion is initiated by piloted ignition. The combustion products leaving the chamber are monitored in order to calculate the release rate of heat.
(b)
Apparatus.
The Ohio State University (OSU) rate of heat release apparatus, as described below, is used. This is a modified version of the rate of heat release apparatus standardized by the American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM), ASTM E-906.
(1) This apparatus is shown in Figures 1A and 1B of this part IV. All exterior surfaces of the apparatus, except the holding chamber, must be insulated with 1 inch (25 mm) thick, low density, high temperature, fiberglass board insulation. A gasketed door, through which the sample injection rod slides, must be used to form an airtight closure on the specimen hold chamber.
(2)
Thermopile.
The temperature difference between the air entering the environmental chamber and that leaving must be monitored by a thermopile having five hot, and five cold, 24-guage Chromel-Alumel junctions. The hot junctions must be spaced across the top of the exhaust stack, .38 inches (10 mm) below the top of the chimney. The thermocouples must have a .050 ±.010 inch (1.3 ±.3mm) diameter, ball-type, welded tip. One thermocouple must be located in the geometric center, with the other four located 1.18 inch (30 mm) from the center along the diagonal toward each of the corners (Figure 5 of this part IV). The cold junctions must be located in the pan below the lower air distribution plate (see paragraph (b)(4) of this part IV). Thermopile hot junctions must be cleared of soot deposits as needed to maintain the calibrated sensitivity.
(3)
Radiation Source.
A radiant heat source incorporating four Type LL silicon carbide elements, 20 inches (508 mm) long by .63 inch (16 mm) O.D., must be used, as shown in Figures 2A and 2B of this part IV. The heat source must have a nominal resistance of 1.4 ohms and be capable of generating a flux up to 100 kW/m
2
. The silicone carbide elements must be mounted in the stainless steel panel box by inserting them through .63 inch (16 mm) holes in .03 inch (1 mm) thick ceramic fiber or calcium-silicate millboard. Locations of the holes in the pads and stainless steel cover plates are shown in Figure 2B of this part IV. The truncated diamond-shaped mask of .042 ±.002 inch (1.07 ±.05mm) stainless steel must be added to provide uniform heat flux density over the area occupied by the vertical sample.
(4)
Air Distribution System.
The air entering the environmental chamber must be distributed by a .25 inch (6.3 mm) thick aluminum plate having eight No. 4 drill-holes, located 2 inches (51 mm) from sides on 4 inch (102 mm) centers, mounted at the base of the environmental chamber. A second plate of 18 guage stainless steel having 120, evenly spaced, No. 28 drill holes must be mounted 6 inches (152 mm) above the aluminum plate. A well-regulated air supply is required. The air-supply manifold at the base of the pyramidal section must have 48, evenly spaced, No. 26 drill holes located .38 inch (10 mm) from the inner edge of the manifold, resulting in an airflow split of approximately three to one within the apparatus.
(5)
Exhaust Stack.
An exhaust stack, 5.25 × 2.75 inches (133 × 70 mm) in cross section, and 10 inches (254 mm) long, fabricated from 28 guage stainless steel must be mounted on the outlet of the pyramidal section. A. 1.0 × 3.0 inch (25 × 76 mm) baffle plate of .018 ±.002 inch (.50 ±.05 mm) stainless steel must be centered inside the stack, perpendicular to the air flow, 3 inches (76 mm) above the base of the stack.
(6)
Specimen Holders.
(i) The specimen must be tested in a vertical orientation. The specimen holder (Figure 3 of this part IV) must incorporate a frame that touches the specimen (which is wrapped with aluminum foil as required by paragraph (d)(3) of this Part) along only the .25 inch (6 mm) perimeter. A “V” shaped spring is used to hold the assembly together. A detachable .50 × 50 × 5.91 inch (12 × 12 × 150 mm) drip pan and two .020 inch (.5 mm) stainless steel wires (as shown in Figure 3 of this part IV) must be used for testing materials prone to melting and dripping. The positioning of the spring and frame may be changed to accommodate different specimen thicknesses by inserting the retaining rod in different holes on the specimen holder.
(ii) Since the radiation shield described in ASTM E-906 is not used, a guide pin must be added to the injection mechanism. This fits into a slotted metal plate on the injection mechanism outside of the holding chamber. It can be used to provide accurate positioning of the specimen face after injection. The front surface of the specimen must be 3.9 inches (100 mm) from the closed radiation doors after injection.
(iii) The specimen holder clips onto the mounted bracket (Figure 3 of this part IV). The mounting bracket must be attached to the injection rod by three screws that pass through a wide-area washer welded onto a
1/2
-inch (13 mm) nut. The end of the injection rod must be threaded to screw into the nut,
and a .020 inch (5.1 mm) thick wide area washer must be held between two
1/2
-inch (13 mm) nuts that are adjusted to tightly cover the hole in the radiation doors through which the injection rod or calibration calorimeter pass.
(7)
Calorimeter.
A total-flux type calorimeter must be mounted in the center of a
1/2
-inch Kaowool “M” board inserted in the sample holder to measure the total heat flux. The calorimeter must have a view angle of 180 degrees and be calibrated for incident flux. The calorimeter calibration must be acceptable to the Administrator.
(8)
Pilot-Flame Positions.
Pilot ignition of the specimen must be accomplished by simultaneously exposing the specimen to a lower pilot burner and an upper pilot burner, as described in paragraph (b)(8)(i) and (b)(8)(ii) or (b)(8)(iii) of this part IV, respectively. Since intermittent pilot flame extinguishment for more than 3 seconds would invalidate the test results, a spark ignitor may be installed to ensure that the lower pilot burner remains lighted.
(i)
Lower Pilot Burner.
The pilot-flame tubing must be .25 inch (6.3 mm) O.D., .03 inch (0.8mm) wall, stainless steel tubing. A mixture of 120 cm
3
/min. of methane and 850 cm
3
/min. of air must be fed to the lower pilot flame burner. The normal position of the end of the pilot burner tubing is .40 inch (10 mm) from and perpendicular to the exposed vertical surface of the specimen. The centerline at the outlet of the burner tubing must intersect the vertical centerline of the sample at a point .20 inch (5 mm) above the lower exposed edge of the specimen.
(ii)
Standard Three-Hole Upper Pilot Burner.
The pilot burner must be a straight length of .25 inch (6.3 mm) O.D., .03 inch (0.8 mm) wall, stainless steel tubing that is 14 inches (360 mm) long. One end of the tubing must be closed, and three No. 40 drill holes must be drilled into the tubing, 2.38 inch (60 mm) apart, for gas ports, all radiating in the same direction. The first hole must be .19 inch (5 mm) from the closed end of the tubing. The tube must be positioned .75 inch (19 mm) above and .75 inch (19 mm) behind the exposed upper edge of the specimen. The middle hole must be in the vertical plane perpendicular to the exposed surface of the specimen which passes through its vertical centerline and must be pointed toward the radiation source. The gas supplied to the burner must be methane and must be adjusted to produce flame lengths of 1 inch (25 mm).
(iii)
Optional Fourteen-Hole Upper Pilot Burner.
This burner may be used in lieu of the standard three-hole burner described in paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this part IV. The pilot burner must be a straight length of .25 inch (6.3 mm) O.D., .03 inch (0.8 mm) wall, stainless steel tubing that is 15.75 inches (400 mm) long. One end of the tubing must be closed, and 14 No. 59 drill holes must be drilled into the tubing, .50 inch (13 mm) apart, for gas ports, all radiating in the same direction. The first hole must be .50 inch (13 mm) from the closed end of the tubing. The tube must be positioned above the specimen holder so that the holes are placed above the specimen as shown in Figure 1B of this part IV. The fuel supplied to the burner must be methane mixed with air in a ratio of approximately 50/50 by volume. The total gas flow must be adjusted to produce flame lengths of 1 inch (25 mm). When the gas/air ratio and the flow rate are properly adjusted, approximately .25 inch (6 mm) of the flame length appears yellow in color.
(c)
Calibration of Equipment
—(1)
Heat Release Rate.
A calibration burner, as shown in Figure 4, must be placed over the end of the lower pilot flame tubing using a gas tight connection. The flow of gas to the pilot flame must be at least 99 percent methane and must be accurately metered. Prior to usage, the wet test meter must be properly leveled and filled with distilled water to the tip of the internal pointer while no gas is flowing. Ambient temperature and pressure of the water are based on the internal wet test meter temperature. A baseline flow rate of approximately 1 liter/min. must be set and increased to higher preset flows of 4, 6, 8, 6 and 4 liters/min. Immediately prior to recording methane flow rates, a flow rate of 8 liters/min. must be used for 2 minutes to precondition the chamber. This is not recorded as part of calibration. The rate must be determined by using a stopwatch to time a complete revolution of the wet test meter for both the baseline and higher flow, with the flow returned to baseline before changing to the next higher flow. The thermopile baseline voltage must be measured. The gas flow to the burner must be increased to the higher preset flow and allowed to burn for 2.0 minutes, and the thermopile voltage must be measured. The sequence must be repeated until all five values have been determined. The average of the five values must be used as the calibration factor. The procedure must be repeated if the percent relative standard deviation is greater than 5 percent. Calculations are shown in paragraph (f) of this part IV.
(2)
Flux Uniformity.
Uniformity of flux over the specimen must be checked periodically and after each heating element change to determine if it is within acceptable limits of plus or minus 5 percent.
(3) As noted in paragraph (b)(2) of this part IV, thermopile hot junctions must be cleared of soot deposits as needed to maintain the calibrated sensitivity.
(d)
Preparation of Test Specimens.
(1) The test specimens must be representative of the aircraft component in regard to materials and construction methods. The standard size for the test specimens is 5.91 ±.03 × 5.91 ±.03 inches (149 ±1 × 149 ±1 mm). The thickness of
the specimen must be the same as that of the aircraft component it represents up to a maximum thickness of 1.75 inches (45 mm). Test specimens representing thicker components must be 1.75 inches (45 mm).
(2)
Conditioning.
Specimens must be conditioned as described in Part 1 of this appendix.
(3)
Mounting.
Each test specimen must be wrapped tightly on all sides of the specimen, except for the one surface that is exposed with a single layer of .001 inch (.025 mm) aluminum foil.
(e)
Procedure.
(1) The power supply to the radiant panel must be set to produce a radiant flux of 3.5 ±.05 W/cm
2
, as measured at the point the center of the specimen surface will occupy when positioned for the test. The radiant flux must be measured after the air flow through the equipment is adjusted to the desired rate.
(2) After the pilot flames are lighted, their position must be checked as described in paragraph (b)(8) of this part IV.
(3) Air flow through the apparatus must be controlled by a circular plate orifice located in a 1.5 inch (38.1 mm) I.D. pipe with two pressure measuring points, located 1.5 inches (38 mm) upstream and .75 inches (19 mm) downstream of the orifice plate. The pipe must be connected to a manometer set at a pressure differential of 7.87 inches (200 mm) of Hg. (See Figure 1B of this part IV.) The total air flow to the equipment is approximately .04 m
3
/seconds. The stop on the vertical specimen holder rod must be adjusted so that the exposed surface of the specimen is positioned 3.9 inches (100 mm) from the entrance when injected into the environmental chamber.
(4) The specimen must be placed in the hold chamber with the radiation doors closed. The airtight outer door must be secured, and the recording devices must be started. The specimen must be retained in the hold chamber for 60 seconds, plus or minus 10 seconds, before injection. The thermopile “zero” value must be determined during the last 20 seconds of the hold period. The sample must not be injected before completion of the “zero” value determination.
(5) When the specimen is to be injected, the radiation doors must be opened. After the specimen is injected into the environmental chamber, the radiation doors must be closed behind the specimen.
(6) [Reserved]
(7) Injection of the specimen and closure of the inner door marks time zero. A record of the thermopile output with at least one data point per second must be made during the time the specimen is in the environmental chamber.
(8) The test duration is five minutes. The lower pilot burner and the upper pilot burner must remain lighted for the entire duration of the test, except that there may be intermittent flame extinguishment for periods that do not exceed 3 seconds. Furthermore, if the optional three-hole upper burner is used, at least two flamelets must remain lighted for the entire duration of the test, except that there may be intermittent flame extinguishment of all three flamelets for periods that do not exceed 3 seconds.
(9) A minimum of three specimens must be tested.
(f)
Calculations.
(1) The calibration factor is calculated as follows:
EC28SE91.072
F
0
= flow of methane at baseline (1pm)
F
1
= higher preset flow of methane (1pm)
V
0
= thermopile voltage at baseline (mv)
V
1
= thermopile voltage at higher flow (mv)
T
a
= Ambient temperature (K)
P = Ambient pressure (mm Hg)
P
v
= Water vapor pressure (mm Hg)
(2) Heat release rates may be calculated from the reading of the thermopile output voltage at any instant of time as:
ER02FE95.006
HRR = heat release rate (kw/m
2
)
V
b
= baseline voltage (mv)
V
m
= measured thermopile voltage (mv)
K
h
= calibration factor (kw/mv)
(3) The integral of the heat release rate is the total heat release as a function of time and is calculated by multiplying the rate by the data sampling frequency in minutes and summing the time from zero to two minutes.
(g)
Criteria.
The total positive heat release over the first two minutes of exposure for each of the three or more samples tested must be averaged, and the peak heat release rate for each of the samples must be averaged. The average total heat release must not exceed 65 kilowatt-minutes per square meter, and the average peak heat release rate must not exceed 65 kilowatts per square meter.
(h)
Report.
The test report must include the following for each specimen tested:
(1) Description of the specimen.
(2) Radiant heat flux to the specimen, expressed in W/cm
2
.
(3) Data giving release rates of heat (in kW/m
2
) as a function of time, either graphically or tabulated at intervals no greater than 10 seconds. The calibration factor (k
n
) must be recorded.
(4) If melting, sagging, delaminating, or other behavior that affects the exposed surface area or the mode of burning occurs, these behaviors must be reported, together with the time at which such behaviors were observed.
(5) The peak heat release and the 2-minute integrated heat release rate must be reported.

# Figures to Part IV of Appendix F
ER02FE95.004
ER02FE95.005
EC28SE91.073
EC28SE91.074
EC28SE91.075
EC28SE91.076
EC28SE91.077

# Part V. Test Method To Determine the Smoke Emission Characteristics of Cabin Materials
(a)
Summary of Method.
The specimens must be constructed, conditioned, and tested in the flaming mode in accordance with American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) Standard Test Method ASTM F814-83.
(b)
Acceptance Criteria.
The specific optical smoke density (D
s
), which is obtained by averaging the reading obtained after 4 minutes with each of the three specimens, shall not exceed 200.

# Part VI—Test Method To Determine the Flammability and Flame Propagation Characteristics of Thermal/Acoustic Insulation Materials
Use this test method to evaluate the flammability and flame propagation characteristics of thermal/acoustic insulation when exposed to both a radiant heat source and a flame.
(a)
Definitions.
“Flame propagation” means the furthest distance of the propagation of visible flame towards the far end of the test specimen, measured from the midpoint of the ignition source flame. Measure this distance after initially applying the ignition source and before all flame on the test specimen is extinguished. The measurement is not a determination of burn length made after the test.
“Radiant heat source” means an electric or air propane panel.
“Thermal/acoustic insulation” means a material or system of materials used to provide thermal and/or acoustic protection. Examples include fiberglass or other batting material encapsulated by a film covering and foams.
“Zero point” means the point of application of the pilot burner to the test specimen.
(b)
Test apparatus.
ER31JY03.003
(1)
Radiant panel test chamber.
Conduct tests in a radiant panel test chamber (see figure 1 above). Place the test chamber under an exhaust hood to facilitate clearing the chamber of smoke after each test. The radiant panel test chamber must be an enclosure 55 inches (1397 mm) long by 19.5 (495 mm) deep by 28 (710 mm) to 30 inches (maximum) (762 mm) above the test specimen. Insulate the sides, ends, and top with a fibrous ceramic insulation, such as Kaowool M
TM
board. On the front side, provide a 52 by 12-inch (1321 by 305 mm) draft-free, high-temperature, glass window for viewing the sample during testing. Place a door below the window to provide access to the movable specimen platform holder. The bottom of the test chamber must be a sliding steel platform that has provision for securing the test specimen holder in a fixed and level position. The chamber must have an internal chimney with exterior dimensions of 5.1 inches (129 mm) wide, by 16.2 inches (411 mm) deep by 13 inches (330 mm) high at the opposite end of the chamber from the radiant energy source. The interior dimensions must be 4.5 inches (114 mm) wide by 15.6 inches (395 mm) deep. The chimney must extend to the top of the chamber (see figure 2).
ER31JY03.004
(2)
Radiant heat source.
Mount the radiant heat energy source in a cast iron frame or equivalent. An electric panel must have six, 3-inch wide emitter strips. The emitter strips must be perpendicular to the length of the panel. The panel must have a radiation surface of 12
7/8
by 18
1/2
inches (327 by 470 mm). The panel must be capable of operating at temperatures up to 1300 °F (704 °C). An air propane panel must be made of a porous refractory material and have a radiation surface of 12 by 18 inches (305 by 457 mm). The panel must be capable of operating at temperatures up to 1,500 °F (816 °C).
See
figures 3a and 3b.
ER31JY03.005
ER31JY03.006
(i)
Electric radiant panel.
The radiant panel must be 3-phase and operate at 208 volts. A single-phase, 240 volt panel is also acceptable. Use a solid-state power controller and microprocessor-based controller to set the electric panel operating parameters.
(ii)
Gas radiant panel.
Use propane (liquid petroleum gas—2.1 UN 1075) for the radiant panel fuel. The panel fuel system must consist of a venturi-type aspirator for mixing gas and air at approximately atmospheric pressure. Provide suitable instrumentation for monitoring and controlling the flow of fuel and air to the panel. Include an air flow gauge, an air flow regulator, and a gas pressure gauge.
(iii)
Radiant panel placement.
Mount the panel in the chamber at 30° to the horizontal specimen plane, and 7
1/2
inches above the zero point of the specimen.
(3)
Specimen holding system.
(i) The sliding platform serves as the housing for test specimen placement. Brackets may be attached (via wing nuts) to the top lip of the platform in order to accommodate various thicknesses of test specimens. Place the test specimens on a sheet of Kaowool M
TM
board or 1260 Standard Board (manufactured by Thermal Ceramics and available in Europe), or equivalent, either resting on the bottom lip of the sliding platform or on the base of the brackets. It may be necessary to use multiple sheets of material based on the thickness of the test specimen (to meet the sample height requirement). Typically, these non-combustible sheets of material are available in
1/4
inch (6 mm) thicknesses. See figure 4. A sliding platform that is deeper than the 2-inch (50.8mm) platform shown in figure 4 is also acceptable as long as the sample height requirement is met.
ER31JY03.007
(ii) Attach a
1/2
inch (13 mm) piece of Kaowool M
TM
board or other high temperature material measuring 41
1/2
by 8
1/4
inches (1054 by 210 mm) to the back of the platform. This board serves as a heat retainer and protects the test specimen from excessive preheating. The height of this board must not impede the sliding platform movement (in and out of the test chamber). If the platform has been fabricated such that the back side of the platform is high enough to prevent excess preheating of the specimen when the sliding platform is out, a retainer board is not necessary.
(iii) Place the test specimen horizontally on the non-combustible board(s). Place a steel retaining/securing frame fabricated of mild steel, having a thickness of
1/8
inch (3.2 mm) and overall dimensions of 23 by 13
1/8
inches (584 by 333 mm) with a specimen opening of 19 by 10
3/4
inches (483 by 273 mm) over the test specimen. The front, back, and right portions of the top flange of the frame must rest on the top of the sliding platform, and the bottom flanges must pinch all 4 sides of the test specimen. The right bottom flange must be flush with the sliding platform. See figure 5.
ER31JY03.008
(4)
Pilot Burner.
The pilot burner used to ignite the specimen must be a Bernzomatic
TM
commercial propane venturi torch with an axially symmetric burner tip and a propane supply tube with an orifice diameter of 0.006 inches (0.15 mm). The length of the burner tube must be 2
7/8
inches (71 mm). The propane flow must be adjusted via gas pressure through an in-line regulator to produce a blue inner cone length of
3/4
inch (19 mm). A
3/4
inch (19 mm) guide (such as a thin strip of metal) may be soldered to the top of the burner to aid in setting the flame height. The overall flame length must be approximately 5 inches long (127 mm). Provide a way to move the burner out of the ignition position so that the flame is horizontal and at least 2 inches (50 mm) above the specimen plane. See figure 6.
ER31JY03.009
(5)
Thermocouples.
Install a 24 American Wire Gauge (AWG) Type K (Chromel-Alumel) thermocouple in the test chamber for temperature monitoring. Insert it into the chamber through a small hole drilled through the back of the chamber. Place the thermocouple so that it extends 11 inches (279 mm) out from the back of the chamber wall, 11
1/2
inches (292 mm) from the right side of the chamber wall, and is 2 inches (51 mm) below the radiant panel. The use of other thermocouples is optional.
(6)
Calorimeter.
The calorimeter must be a one-inch cylindrical water-cooled, total heat flux density, foil type Gardon Gage that has a range of 0 to 5 BTU/ft
2
-second (0 to 5.7 Watts/cm
2
).
(7)
Calorimeter calibration specification and procedure.
(i)
Calorimeter specification.
(A) Foil diameter must be 0.25 ±0.005 inches (6.35 ±0.13 mm).
(B) Foil thickness must be 0.0005 ±0.0001 inches (0.013 ±0.0025 mm).
(C) Foil material must be thermocouple grade Constantan.
(D) Temperature measurement must be a Copper Constantan thermocouple.
(E) The copper center wire diameter must be 0.0005 inches (0.013 mm).
(F) The entire face of the calorimeter must be lightly coated with “Black Velvet” paint having an emissivity of 96 or greater.
(ii)
Calorimeter calibration.
(A) The calibration method must be by comparison to a like standardized transducer.
(B) The standardized transducer must meet the specifications given in paragraph VI(b)(6) of this appendix.
(C) Calibrate the standard transducer against a primary standard traceable to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).
(D) The method of transfer must be a heated graphite plate.
(E) The graphite plate must be electrically heated, have a clear surface area on each side of the plate of at least 2 by 2 inches (51 by 51 mm), and be
1/8
inch ±
1/16
inch thick (3.2 ±1.6 mm).
(F) Center the 2 transducers on opposite sides of the plates at equal distances from the plate.
(G) The distance of the calorimeter to the plate must be no less than 0.0625 inches (1.6 mm), nor greater than 0.375 inches (9.5 mm).
(H) The range used in calibration must be at least 0-3.5 BTUs/ft
2
second (0-3.9 Watts/cm
2
) and no greater than 0-5.7 BTUs/ft
2
second (0-6.4 Watts/cm
2
).
(I) The recording device used must record the 2 transducers simultaneously or at least within
1/10
of each other.
(8)
Calorimeter fixture.
With the sliding platform pulled out of the chamber, install the calorimeter holding frame and place a sheet of non-combustible material in the bottom of the sliding platform adjacent to the holding frame. This will prevent heat losses during calibration. The frame must be 13
1/8
inches (333 mm) deep (front to back) by 8 inches (203 mm) wide and must rest on the top of the sliding platform. It must be fabricated of
1/8
inch (3.2 mm) flat stock steel and have an opening that accommodates a
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) thick piece of refractory board, which is level with the top of the sliding platform. The board must have three 1-inch (25.4 mm) diameter holes drilled through the board for calorimeter insertion. The distance to the radiant panel surface from the centerline of the first hole (“zero” position) must be 7
1/2
±
1/8
inches (191 ±3 mm). The distance between the centerline of the first hole to the centerline of the second hole must be 2 inches (51 mm). It must also be the same distance from the centerline of the second hole to the centerline of the third hole.
See
figure 7. A calorimeter holding frame that differs in construction is acceptable as long as the height from the centerline of the
first hole to the radiant panel and the distance between holes is the same as described in this paragraph.
ER31JY03.010
(9)
Instrumentation.
Provide a calibrated recording device with an appropriate range or a computerized data acquisition system to measure and record the outputs of the calorimeter and the thermocouple. The data acquisition system must be capable of recording the calorimeter output every second during calibration.
(10)
Timing device.
Provide a stopwatch or other device, accurate to ±1 second/hour, to measure the time of application of the pilot burner flame.
(c)
Test specimens.
(1)
Specimen preparation.
Prepare and test a minimum of three test specimens. If an oriented film cover material is used, prepare and test both the warp and fill directions.
(2)
Construction.
Test specimens must include all materials used in construction of the insulation (including batting, film, scrim, tape etc.). Cut a piece of core material such as foam or fiberglass, and cut a piece of film cover material (if used) large enough to cover the core material. Heat sealing is the preferred method of preparing fiberglass samples, since they can be made without compressing the fiberglass (“box sample”). Cover materials that are not heat sealable may be stapled, sewn, or taped as long as the cover material is over-cut enough to be drawn down the sides without compressing the core material. The fastening means should be as continuous as possible along the length of the seams. The specimen thickness must be of the same thickness as installed in the airplane.
(3)
Specimen Dimensions.
To facilitate proper placement of specimens in the sliding platform housing, cut non-rigid core materials, such as fiberglass, 12
1/2
inches (318mm) wide by 23 inches (584mm) long. Cut rigid materials, such as foam, 11
1/2
±
1/4
inches (292 mm ±6mm) wide by 23 inches (584mm) long in order to fit properly in the sliding platform housing and provide a flat, exposed surface equal to the opening in the housing.
(d)
Specimen conditioning.
Condition the test specimens at 70 ±5 °F (21 ±2 °C) and 55% ±10% relative humidity, for a minimum of 24 hours prior to testing.
(e)
Apparatus Calibration.
(1) With the sliding platform out of the chamber, install the calorimeter holding frame. Push the platform back into the chamber and insert the calorimeter into the first hole (“zero” position).
See
figure 7. Close the bottom door located below the sliding platform. The distance from the centerline of the calorimeter
to the radiant panel surface at this point must be 7.
1/2
inches ±
1/8
(191 mm ±3). Prior to igniting the radiant panel, ensure that the calorimeter face is clean and that there is water running through the calorimeter.
(2) Ignite the panel. Adjust the fuel/air mixture to achieve 1.5 BTUs/ft
2
-second ±5% (1.7 Watts/cm
2
±5%) at the “zero” position. If using an electric panel, set the power controller to achieve the proper heat flux. Allow the unit to reach steady state (this may take up to 1 hour). The pilot burner must be off and in the down position during this time.
(3) After steady-state conditions have been reached, move the calorimeter 2 inches (51 mm) from the “zero” position (first hole) to position 1 and record the heat flux. Move the calorimeter to position 2 and record the heat flux. Allow enough time at each position for the calorimeter to stabilize. Table 1 depicts typical calibration values at the three positions.
Table 1—Calibration Table
Position
BTU's/ft
2
sec
Watts/cm
2
“Zero” Position
1.5
1.7
Position 1
1.51-1.50-1.49
1.71-1.70-1.69
Position 2
1.43-1.44
1.62-1.63
(4) Open the bottom door, remove the calorimeter and holder fixture. Use caution as the fixture is very hot.
(f)
Test Procedure.
(1) Ignite the pilot burner. Ensure that it is at least 2 inches (51 mm) above the top of the platform. The burner must not contact the specimen until the test begins.
(2) Place the test specimen in the sliding platform holder. Ensure that the test sample surface is level with the top of the platform. At “zero” point, the specimen surface must be 7
1/2
inches ±
1/8
inch (191 mm ±3) below the radiant panel.
(3) Place the retaining/securing frame over the test specimen. It may be necessary (due to compression) to adjust the sample (up or down) in order to maintain the distance from the sample to the radiant panel (7
1/2
inches ±
1/8
inch (191 mm±3) at “zero” position). With film/fiberglass assemblies, it is critical to make a slit in the film cover to purge any air inside. This allows the operator to maintain the proper test specimen position (level with the top of the platform) and to allow ventilation of gases during testing. A longitudinal slit, approximately 2 inches (51mm) in length, must be centered 3 inches ±
1/2
inch (76mm±13mm) from the left flange of the securing frame. A utility knife is acceptable for slitting the film cover.
(4) Immediately push the sliding platform into the chamber and close the bottom door.
(5) Bring the pilot burner flame into contact with the center of the specimen at the “zero” point and simultaneously start the timer. The pilot burner must be at a 27° angle with the sample and be approximately
1/2
inch (12 mm) above the sample.
See
figure 7. A stop, as shown in figure 8, allows the operator to position the burner correctly each time.
ER31JY03.011
(6) Leave the burner in position for 15 seconds and then remove to a position at least 2 inches (51 mm) above the specimen.
(g) Report. (1) Identify and describe the test specimen.
(2) Report any shrinkage or melting of the test specimen.
(3) Report the flame propagation distance. If this distance is less than 2 inches, report this as a pass (no measurement required).
(4) Report the after-flame time.
(h)
Requirements.
(1) There must be no flame propagation beyond 2 inches (51 mm) to the left of the centerline of the pilot flame application.
(2) The flame time after removal of the pilot burner may not exceed 3 seconds on any specimen.

# Part VII—Test Method To Determine the Burnthrough Resistance of Thermal/Acoustic Insulation Materials
Use the following test method to evaluate the burnthrough resistance characteristics of aircraft thermal/acoustic insulation materials when exposed to a high intensity open flame.
(a)
Definitions.
Burnthrough time
means the time, in seconds, for the burner flame to penetrate the test specimen, and/or the time required for the heat flux to reach 2.0 Btu/ft
2
sec (2.27 W/cm
2
) on the inboard side, at a distance of 12 inches (30.5 cm) from the front surface of the insulation blanket test frame, whichever is sooner. The burnthrough time is measured at the inboard side of each of the insulation blanket specimens.
Insulation blanket specimen
means one of two specimens positioned in either side of the test rig, at an angle of 30° with respect to vertical.
Specimen set
means two insulation blanket specimens. Both specimens must represent the same production insulation blanket construction and materials, proportioned to correspond to the specimen size.
(b)
Apparatus.
(1) The arrangement of the test apparatus is shown in figures 1 and 2 and must include the capability of swinging the burner away from the test specimen during warm-up.
ER31JY03.012
(2)
Test burner.
The test burner must be a modified gun-type such as the Park Model DPL 3400. Flame characteristics are highly dependent on actual burner setup. Parameters such as fuel pressure, nozzle depth, stator position, and intake airflow must be properly adjusted to achieve the correct flame output.
ER31JY03.013
(i)
Nozzle.
A nozzle must maintain the fuel pressure to yield a nominal 6.0 gal/hr (0.378 L/min) fuel flow. A Monarch-manufactured 80° PL (hollow cone) nozzle nominally rated at 6.0 gal/hr at 100 lb/in
2
(0.71 MPa) delivers a proper spray pattern.
(ii)
Fuel Rail.
The fuel rail must be adjusted to position the fuel nozzle at a depth of 0.3125 inch (8 mm) from the end plane of the exit stator, which must be mounted in the end of the draft tube.
(iii)
Internal Stator.
The internal stator, located in the middle of the draft tube, must
be positioned at a depth of 3.75 inches (95 mm) from the tip of the fuel nozzle. The stator must also be positioned such that the integral igniters are located at an angle midway between the 10 and 11 o'clock position, when viewed looking into the draft tube. Minor deviations to the igniter angle are acceptable if the temperature and heat flux requirements conform to the requirements of paragraph VII(e) of this appendix.
(iv)
Blower Fan.
The cylindrical blower fan used to pump air through the burner must measure 5.25 inches (133 mm) in diameter by 3.5 inches (89 mm) in width.
(v)
Burner cone.
Install a 12 + 0.125-inch (305 ±3 mm) burner extension cone at the end of the draft tube. The cone must have an opening 6 ±0.125-inch (152 ±3 mm) high and 11 ±0.125-inch (280 ±3 mm) wide (see figure 3).
(vi)
Fuel.
Use JP-8, Jet A, or their international equivalent, at a flow rate of 6.0 ±0.2 gal/hr (0.378 ±0.0126 L/min). If this fuel is unavailable, ASTM K2 fuel (Number 2 grade kerosene) or ASTM D2 fuel (Number 2 grade fuel oil or Number 2 diesel fuel) are acceptable if the nominal fuel flow rate, temperature, and heat flux measurements conform to the requirements of paragraph VII(e) of this appendix.
(vii)
Fuel pressure regulator.
Provide a fuel pressure regulator, adjusted to deliver a nominal 6.0 gal/hr (0.378 L/min) flow rate. An operating fuel pressure of 100 lb/in
2
(0.71 MPa) for a nominally rated 6.0 gal/hr 80° spray angle nozzle (such as a PL type) delivers 6.0 ±0.2 gal/hr (0.378 ±0.0126 L/min).
ER31JY03.014
(3)
Calibration rig and equipment.
(i) Construct individual calibration rigs to incorporate a calorimeter and thermocouple rake for the measurement of heat flux and temperature. Position the calibration rigs to allow movement of the burner from the test rig position to either the heat flux or temperature position with minimal difficulty.
(ii)
Calorimeter.
The calorimeter must be a total heat flux, foil type Gardon Gage of an appropriate range such as 0-20 Btu/ft
2
-sec (0-22.7 W/cm
2
), accurate to ±3% of the indicated reading. The heat flux calibration method must be in accordance with paragraph VI(b)(7) of this appendix.
(iii)
Calorimeter mounting.
Mount the calorimeter in a 6- by 12- ±0.125 inch (152- by 305- ±3 mm) by 0.75 ±0.125 inch (19 mm ±3 mm) thick insulating block which is attached to the heat flux calibration rig during calibration (figure 4). Monitor the insulating block for deterioration and replace it when necessary. Adjust the mounting as necessary to ensure that the calorimeter face is parallel to the exit plane of the test burner cone.
ER31JY03.015
ER31JY03.016
(iv)
Thermocouples.
Provide seven
1/8
-inch (3.2 mm) ceramic packed, metal sheathed, type K (Chromel-alumel), grounded junction thermocouples with a nominal 24 American Wire Gauge (AWG) size conductor for calibration. Attach the thermocouples to a steel angle bracket to form a thermocouple rake
for placement in the calibration rig during burner calibration (figure 5).
(v)
Air velocity meter.
Use a vane-type air velocity meter to calibrate the velocity of air entering the burner. An Omega Engineering Model HH30A is satisfactory. Use a suitable adapter to attach the measuring device to the inlet side of the burner to prevent air from entering the burner other than through the measuring device, which would produce erroneously low readings. Use a flexible duct, measuring 4 inches wide (102 mm) by 20 feet long (6.1 meters), to supply fresh air to the burner intake to prevent damage to the air velocity meter from ingested soot. An optional airbox permanently mounted to the burner intake area can effectively house the air velocity meter and provide a mounting port for the flexible intake duct.
(4)
Test specimen mounting frame.
Make the mounting frame for the test specimens of
1/8
-inch (3.2 mm) thick steel as shown in figure 1, except for the center vertical former, which should be
1/4
-inch (6.4 mm) thick to minimize warpage. The specimen mounting frame stringers (horizontal) should be bolted to the test frame formers (vertical) such that the expansion of the stringers will not cause the entire structure to warp. Use the mounting frame for mounting the two insulation blanket test specimens as shown in figure 2.
(5)
Backface calorimeters.
Mount two total heat flux Gardon type calorimeters behind the insulation test specimens on the back side (cold) area of the test specimen mounting frame as shown in figure 6. Position the calorimeters along the same plane as the burner cone centerline, at a distance of 4 inches (102 mm) from the vertical centerline of the test frame.
ER31JY03.017
(i) The calorimeters must be a total heat flux, foil type Gardon Gage of an appropriate range such as 0-5 Btu/ft
2
-sec (0-5.7 W/cm
2
), accurate to ±3% of the indicated reading. The heat flux calibration method must comply with paragraph VI(b)(7) of this appendix.
(6)
Instrumentation.
Provide a recording potentiometer or other suitable calibrated instrument with an appropriate range to measure and record the outputs of the calorimeter and the thermocouples.
(7)
Timing device.
Provide a stopwatch or other device, accurate to ±1%, to measure the time of application of the burner flame and burnthrough time.
(8)
Test chamber.
Perform tests in a suitable chamber to reduce or eliminate the possibility of test fluctuation due to air movement. The chamber must have a minimum floor area of 10 by 10 feet (305 by 305 cm).
(i)
Ventilation hood.
Provide the test chamber with an exhaust system capable of removing the products of combustion expelled during tests.
(c)
Test Specimens.
(1)
Specimen preparation.
Prepare a minimum of three specimen sets of the same construction and configuration for testing.
(2)
Insulation blanket test specimen.
(i) For batt-type materials such as fiberglass, the constructed, finished blanket specimen assemblies must be 32 inches wide by 36 inches long (81.3 by 91.4 cm), exclusive of heat sealed film edges.
(ii) For rigid and other non-conforming types of insulation materials, the finished test specimens must fit into the test rig in such a manner as to replicate the actual in-service installation.
(3)
Construction.
Make each of the specimens tested using the principal components (
i.e.,
insulation, fire barrier material if used, and moisture barrier film) and assembly processes (representative seams and closures).
(i)
Fire barrier material.
If the insulation blanket is constructed with a fire barrier material, place the fire barrier material in a manner reflective of the installed arrangement For example, if the material will be placed on the outboard side of the insulation material, inside the moisture film, place it the same way in the test specimen.
(ii)
Insulation material.
Blankets that utilize more than one variety of insulation (composition, density, etc.) must have specimen sets constructed that reflect the insulation combination used. If, however, several blanket types use similar insulation combinations, it is not necessary to test each combination if it is possible to bracket the various combinations.
(iii)
Moisture barrier film.
If a production blanket construction utilizes more than one type of moisture barrier film, perform separate tests on each combination. For example, if a polyimide film is used in conjunction with an insulation in order to enhance the burnthrough capabilities, also test the same insulation when used with a polyvinyl fluoride film.
(iv)
Installation on test frame.
Attach the blanket test specimens to the test frame using 12 steel spring type clamps as shown in figure 7. Use the clamps to hold the blankets in place in both of the outer vertical formers, as well as the center vertical former (4 clamps per former). The clamp surfaces should measure 1 inch by 2 inches (25 by 51 mm). Place the top and bottom clamps 6 inches (15.2 cm) from the top and bottom of the test frame, respectively. Place the middle clamps 8 inches (20.3 cm) from the top and bottom clamps.
ER31JY03.018
(Note: For blanket materials that cannot be installed in accordance with figure 7 above, the blankets must be installed in a manner approved by the FAA.)
(v)
Conditioning.
Condition the specimens at 70° ±5 °F (21° ±2 °C) and 55% ±10% relative humidity for a minimum of 24 hours prior to testing.
(d)
Preparation of apparatus.
(1) Level and center the frame assembly to ensure alignment of the calorimeter and/or thermocouple rake with the burner cone.
(2) Turn on the ventilation hood for the test chamber. Do not turn on the burner blower. Measure the airflow of the test chamber using a vane anemometer or equivalent measuring device. The vertical air velocity just behind the top of the upper insulation blanket test specimen must be 100 ±50 ft/min (0.51 ±0.25 m/s). The horizontal air velocity at this point must be less than 50 ft/min (0.25 m/s).
(3) If a calibrated flow meter is not available, measure the fuel flow rate using a graduated cylinder of appropriate size. Turn on the burner motor/fuel pump, after insuring that the igniter system is turned off. Collect the fuel via a plastic or rubber tube into the
graduated cylinder for a 2-minute period. Determine the flow rate in gallons per hour. The fuel flow rate must be 6.0 ±0.2 gallons per hour (0.378 ±0.0126 L/min).
(e)
Calibration.
(1) Position the burner in front of the calorimeter so that it is centered and the vertical plane of the burner cone exit is 4 ±0.125 inches (102 ±3 mm) from the calorimeter face. Ensure that the horizontal centerline of the burner cone is offset 1 inch below the horizontal centerline of the calorimeter (figure 8). Without disturbing the calorimeter position, rotate the burner in front of the thermocouple rake, such that the middle thermocouple (number 4 of 7) is centered on the burner cone.
ER31JY03.019
Ensure that the horizontal centerline of the burner cone is also offset 1 inch below the horizontal centerline of the thermocouple tips. Re-check measurements by rotating the burner to each position to ensure proper alignment between the cone and the calorimeter and thermocouple rake. (Note: The test burner mounting system must incorporate “detents” that ensure proper centering of the burner cone with respect to both the calorimeter and the thermocouple rakes, so that rapid positioning of the burner can be achieved during the calibration procedure.)
(2) Position the air velocity meter in the adapter or airbox, making certain that no gaps exist where air could leak around the air velocity measuring device. Turn on the blower/motor while ensuring that the fuel solenoid and igniters are off. Adjust the air intake velocity to a level of 2150 ft/min, (10.92 m/s) then turn off the blower/motor. (Note: The Omega HH30 air velocity meter measures 2.625 inches in diameter. To calculate the intake airflow, multiply the cross-sectional area (0.03758 ft
2
) by the air velocity (2150 ft/min) to obtain 80.80 ft
3
/min. An air velocity meter other than the HH30 unit can be used, provided the calculated airflow of 80.80 ft
3
/min (2.29 m
3
/min) is equivalent.)
(3) Rotate the burner from the test position to the warm-up position. Prior to lighting the burner, ensure that the calorimeter face is clean of soot deposits, and there is water running through the calorimeter. Examine and clean the burner cone of any evidence of buildup of products of combustion, soot, etc. Soot buildup inside the burner cone may affect the flame characteristics and cause calibration difficulties. Since the burner cone may distort with time, dimensions should be checked periodically.
(4) While the burner is still rotated to the warm-up position, turn on the blower/motor, igniters and fuel flow, and light the burner. Allow it to warm up for a period of 2 minutes. Move the burner into the calibration position and allow 1 minute for calorimeter stabilization, then record the heat flux once every second for a period of 30 seconds. Turn off burner, rotate out of position, and allow to cool. Calculate the average heat flux over this 30-second duration. The average heat flux should be 16.0 ±0.8 Btu/ft
2
sec (18.2 ±0.9 W/cm
2
).
(5) Position the burner in front of the thermocouple rake. After checking for proper alignment, rotate the burner to the warm-up position, turn on the blower/motor, igniters and fuel flow, and light the burner. Allow it to warm up for a period of 2 minutes. Move the burner into the calibration position and allow 1 minute for thermocouple stabilization, then record the temperature of each of the 7 thermocouples once every second for a period of 30 seconds. Turn off burner, rotate out of position, and allow to cool. Calculate the average temperature of each thermocouple over this 30-second period and record. The average temperature of each of the 7 thermocouples should be 1900 °F ±100 °F (1038 ±56 °C).
(6) If either the heat flux or the temperatures are not within the specified range, adjust the burner intake air velocity and repeat the procedures of paragraphs (4) and (5) above to obtain the proper values. Ensure that the inlet air velocity is within the range of 2150 ft/min ±50 ft/min (10.92 ±0.25 m/s).
(7) Calibrate prior to each test until consistency has been demonstrated. After consistency has been confirmed, several tests may be conducted with calibration conducted before and after a series of tests.
(f)
Test procedure.
(1) Secure the two insulation blanket test specimens to the test frame. The insulation blankets should be attached to the test rig center vertical former using four spring clamps positioned as shown in figure 7 (according to the criteria of paragraph paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this part of this appendix).
(2) Ensure that the vertical plane of the burner cone is at a distance of 4 ±0.125 inch (102 ±3 mm) from the outer surface of the horizontal stringers of the test specimen frame, and that the burner and test frame are both situated at a 30° angle with respect to vertical.
(3) When ready to begin the test, direct the burner away from the test position to the warm-up position so that the flame will not impinge on the specimens prematurely. Turn on and light the burner and allow it to stabilize for 2 minutes.
(4) To begin the test, rotate the burner into the test position and simultaneously start the timing device.
(5) Expose the test specimens to the burner flame for 4 minutes and then turn off the burner. Immediately rotate the burner out of the test position.
(6) Determine (where applicable) the burnthrough time, or the point at which the heat flux exceeds 2.0 Btu/ft
2
-sec (2.27 W/cm
2
).
(g)
Report.
(1) Identify and describe the specimen being tested.
(2) Report the number of insulation blanket specimens tested.
(3) Report the burnthrough time (if any), and the maximum heat flux on the back face of the insulation blanket test specimen, and the time at which the maximum occurred.
(h)
Requirements.
(1) Each of the two insulation blanket test specimens must not allow fire or flame penetration in less than 4 minutes.
(2) Each of the two insulation blanket test specimens must not allow more than 2.0 Btu/
ft
2
-sec (2.27 W/cm
2
) on the cold side of the insulation specimens at a point 12 inches (30.5 cm) from the face of the test rig.
[Amdt. 25-32, 37 FR 3972, Feb. 24, 1972]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting appendix F to Part 25, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 25, App. H

# Appendix H to Part 25—Instructions for Continued Airworthiness
H25.1
General.
(a) This appendix specifies requirements for preparation of Instructions for Continued Airworthiness as required by §§ 25.1529, 25.1729, and applicable provisions of parts 21 and 26 of this chapter.
(b) The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness for each airplane must include the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness for each engine and propeller (hereinafter designated “products”), for each appliance required by this chapter, and any required information relating to the interface of those appliances and products with the airplane. If Instructions for Continued Airworthiness are not supplied by the manufacturer of an appliance or product installed in the airplane, the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness for the airplane must include the information essential to the continued airworthiness of the airplane.
(c) The applicant must submit to the FAA a program to show how changes to the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness made by the applicant or by the manufacturers or products and appliances installed in the airplane will be distributed.
H25.2
Format.
(a) The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must be in the form of a manual or manuals as appropriate for the quantity of data to be provided.
(b) The format of the manual or manuals must provide for a practical arrangement.
H25.3
Content.
The contents of the manual or manuals must be prepared in the English language. The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must contain the following manuals or sections, as appropriate, and information:
(a)
Airplane maintenance manual or section.
(1) Introduction information that includes an explanation of the airplane's features and data to the extent necessary for maintenance or preventive maintenance.
(2) A description of the airplane and its systems and installations including its engines, propellers, and appliances.
(3) Basic control and operation information describing how the airplane components and systems are controlled and how they operate, including any special procedures and limitations that apply.
(4) Servicing information that covers details regarding servicing points, capacities of tanks, reservoirs, types of fluids to be used, pressures applicable to the various systems, location of access panels for inspection and servicing, locations of lubrication points, lubricants to be used, equipment required for servicing, tow instructions and limitations, mooring, jacking, and leveling information.
(b)
Maintenance instructions.
(1) Scheduling information for each part of the airplane and its engines, auxiliary power units, propellers, accessories, instruments, and equipment that provides the recommended periods at which they should be cleaned, inspected, adjusted, tested, and lubricated, and the degree of inspection, the applicable wear tolerances, and work recommended at these periods. However, the applicant may refer to an accessory, instrument, or equipment manufacturer as the source of this information if the applicant shows that the item has an exceptionally high degree of complexity requiring specialized maintenance techniques, test equipment, or expertise. The recommended overhaul periods and necessary cross references to the Airworthiness Limitations section of the manual must also be included. In addition, the applicant must include an inspection program that includes the frequency and extent of the inspections necessary to provide for the continued airworthiness of the airplane.
(2) Troubleshooting information describing probable malfunctions, how to recognize those malfunctions, and the remedial action for those malfunctions.
(3) Information describing the order and method of removing and replacing products and parts with any necessary precautions to be taken.
(4) Other general procedural instructions including procedures for system testing during ground running, symmetry checks, weighing and determining the center of gravity, lifting and shoring, and storage limitations.
(c) Diagrams of structural access plates and information needed to gain access for inspections when access plates are not provided.
(d) Details for the application of special inspection techniques including radiographic and ultrasonic testing where such processes are specified.
(e) Information needed to apply protective treatments to the structure after inspection.
(f) All data relative to structural fasteners such as identification, discard recommendations, and torque values.
(g) A list of special tools needed.
H25.4
Airworthiness Limitations section.
(a) The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must contain a section titled Airworthiness Limitations that is segregated and clearly distinguishable from the rest of the document. This section must set forth—
(1) Each mandatory modification time, replacement time, structural inspection interval, and related structural inspection procedure approved under § 25.571.
(2) Each mandatory replacement time, inspection interval, related inspection procedure, and all critical design configuration control limitations approved under § 25.981 for the fuel tank system.
(3) Any mandatory replacement time of EWIS components as defined in section 25.1701.
(4) A limit of validity of the engineering data that supports the structural maintenance program (LOV), stated as a total number of accumulated flight cycles or flight hours or both, approved under § 25.571. Until the full-scale fatigue testing is completed and the FAA has approved the LOV, the number of cycles accumulated by the airplane cannot be greater than
1/2
the number of cycles accumulated on the fatigue test article.
(5) Each mandatory replacement time, inspection interval, and related inspection and test procedure, and each critical design configuration control limitation for each lightning protection feature approved under § 25.954.
(6) Each certification maintenance requirement established to comply with any of the applicable provisions of part 25.
(b) If the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness consist of multiple documents, the section required by this paragraph must be included in the principal manual. This section must contain a legible statement in a prominent location that reads: “The Airworthiness Limitations section is FAA-approved and specifies maintenance required under §§ 43.16 and 91.403 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, unless an alternative program has been FAA approved.”
H25.5
Electrical Wiring Interconnection System (EWIS) Instructions for Continued Airworthiness.
(a) The applicant must prepare Instructions for Continued Airworthiness (ICA) applicable to EWIS as defined by § 25.1701 that are approved by the FAA and include the following:
(1) Maintenance and inspection requirements for the EWIS developed with the use of an enhanced zonal analysis procedure that includes:
(i) Identification of each zone of the airplane.
(ii) Identification of each zone that contains EWIS.
(iii) Identification of each zone containing EWIS that also contains combustible materials.
(iv) Identification of each zone in which EWIS is in close proximity to both primary and back-up hydraulic, mechanical, or electrical flight controls and lines.
(v) Identification of—
(A) Tasks, and the intervals for performing those tasks, that will reduce the likelihood of ignition sources and accumulation of combustible material, and
(B) Procedures, and the intervals for performing those procedures, that will effectively clean the EWIS components of combustible material if there is not an effective task to reduce the likelihood of combustible material accumulation.
(vi) Instructions for protections and caution information that will minimize contamination and accidental damage to EWIS, as applicable, during performance of maintenance, alteration, or repairs.
(2) Acceptable EWIS maintenance practices in a standard format.
(3) Wire separation requirements as determined under § 25.1707.
(4) Information explaining the EWIS identification method and requirements for identifying any changes to EWIS under § 25.1711.
(5) Electrical load data and instructions for updating that data.
(b) The EWIS ICA developed in accordance with the requirements of H25.5(a)(1) must be in the form of a document appropriate for the information to be provided, and they must be easily recognizable as EWIS ICA. This document must either contain the required EWIS ICA or specifically reference other portions of the ICA that contain this information.
[Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60177, Sept. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 25-68, 54 FR 34329, Aug. 18, 1989; Amdt. 25-102, 66 FR 23130, May 7, 2001; Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63408, Nov. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-132, 75 FR 69782, Nov. 15, 2010; Doc. No. FAA-2014-1027, Amdt. No. 25-146, 83 FR 47557, Sept. 20, 2018; Doc. No. FAA-2022-1544, 89 FR 68735, Aug. 27, 2024]
Pt. 25, App. I

# Appendix I to Part 25—Installation of an Automatic Takeoff Thrust Control System (ATTCS)
I25.1
General.
(a) This appendix specifies additional requirements for installation of an engine power control system that automatically resets thrust or power on operating engine(s) in the event of any one engine failure during takeoff.
(b) With the ATTCS and associated systems functioning normally as designed, all applicable requirements of Part 25, except as provided in this appendix, must be met without requiring any action by the crew to increase thrust or power.
I25.2
Definitions.
(a)
Automatic Takeoff Thrust Control System (ATTCS).
An ATTCS is defined as the entire automatic system used on takeoff, including all devices, both mechanical and electrical, that sense engine failure, transmit signals, actuate fuel controls or power levers or increase engine power by other means on operating engines to achieve scheduled thrust or power increases, and furnish cockpit information on system operation.
(b)
Critical Time Interval.
When conducting an ATTCS takeoff, the critical time interval is between V
1
minus 1 second and a point on the minimum performance, all-engine flight path where, assuming a simultaneous occurrence of an engine and ATTCS failure, the resulting minimum flight path thereafter intersects the Part 25 required actual flight path at no less than 400 feet above the takeoff surface. This time interval is shown in the following illustration:
EC28SE91.082
I25.3
Performance and System Reliability Requirements.
The applicant must comply with the performance and ATTCS reliability requirements as follows:
(a) An ATTCS failure or a combination of failures in the ATTCS during the critical time interval:
(1) Shall not prevent the insertion of the
maximum approved takeoff
thrust or power, or must be shown to be an improbable event.
(2) Shall not result in a significant loss or reduction in thrust or power, or must be shown to be an extremely improbable event.
(b) The concurrent existence of an ATTCS failure and an engine failure during the critical time interval must be shown to be extremely improbable.
(c) All applicable performance requirements of Part 25 must be met with an engine failure occurring at the most critical point during takeoff with the ATTCS system functioning.
I25.4
Thrust Setting.
The initial takeoff thrust or power setting on each engine at the beginning of the takeoff roll may not be less than any of the following:
(a) Ninety (90) percent of the thrust or power set by the ATTCS (the maximum takeoff thrust or power approved for the airplane under existing ambient conditions);
(b) That required to permit normal operation of all safety-related systems and equipment dependent upon engine thrust or power lever position; or
(c) That shown to be free of hazardous engine response characteristics when thrust or power is advanced from the initial takeoff thrust or power to the maximum approved takeoff thrust or power.
I25.5
Powerplant Controls.
(a) In addition to the requirements of § 25.1141, no single failure or malfunction, or probable combination thereof, of the ATTCS, including associated systems, may cause the failure of any powerplant function necessary for safety.
(b) The ATTCS must be designed to:
(1) Apply thrust or power on the operating engine(s), following any one engine failure during takeoff, to achieve the maximum approved takeoff thrust or power without exceeding engine operating limits;
(2) Permit manual decrease or increase in thrust or power up to the maximum takeoff thrust or power approved for the airplane under existing conditions through the use of the power lever. For airplanes equipped with limiters that automatically prevent engine operating limits from being exceeded under existing ambient conditions, other means may be used to increase the thrust or power in the event of an ATTCS failure provided the means is located on or forward of the power levers; is easily identified and operated under all operating conditions by a single action of either pilot with the hand that is normally used to actuate the power levers; and meets the requirements of § 25.777 (a), (b), and (c);
(3) Provide a means to verify to the flightcrew before takeoff that the ATTCS is in a condition to operate; and
(4) Provide a means for the flightcrew to deactivate the automatic function. This means must be designed to prevent inadvertent deactivation.
I25.6
Powerplant Instruments.
In addition to the requirements of § 25.1305:
(a) A means must be provided to indicate when the ATTCS is in the armed or ready condition; and
(b) If the inherent flight characteristics of the airplane do not provide adequate warning that an engine has failed, a warning system that is independent of the ATTCS must be provided to give the pilot a clear warning of any engine failure during takeoff.
[Amdt. 25-62, 52 FR 43156, Nov. 9, 1987]
Pt. 25, App. J

# Appendix J to Part 25—Emergency Evacuation
The following test criteria and procedures must be used for showing compliance with § 25.803:
(a) The emergency evacuation must be conducted with exterior ambient light levels of no greater than 0.3 foot-candles prior to the activation of the airplane emergency lighting system. The source(s) of the initial exterior ambient light level may remain active or illuminated during the actual demonstration. There must, however, be no increase in the exterior ambient light level except for that due to activation of the airplane emergency lighting system.
(b) The airplane must be in a normal attitude with landing gear extended.
(c) Unless the airplane is equipped with an off-wing descent means, stands or ramps may be used for descent from the wing to the ground. Safety equipment such as mats or inverted life rafts may be placed on the floor or ground to protect participants. No other equipment that is not part of the emergency evacuation equipment of the airplane may be used to aid the participants in reaching the ground.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this appendix, only the airplane's emergency lighting system may provide illumination.
(e) All emergency equipment required for the planned operation of the airplane must be installed.
(f) Each internal door or curtain must be in the takeoff configuration.
(g) Each crewmember must be seated in the normally assigned seat for takeoff and must remain in the seat until receiving the signal for commencement of the demonstration. Each crewmember must be a person having knowledge of the operation of exits and emergency equipment and, if compliance with § 121.291 is also being demonstrated, each flight attendant must be a member of a regularly scheduled line crew.
(h) A representative passenger load of persons in normal health must be used as follows:
(1) At least 40 percent of the passenger load must be female.
(2) At least 35 percent of the passenger load must be over 50 years of age.
(3) At least 15 percent of the passenger load must be female and over 50 years of age.
(4) Three life-size dolls, not included as part of the total passenger load, must be carried by passengers to simulate live infants 2 years old or younger.
(5) Crewmembers, mechanics, and training personnel, who maintain or operate the airplane in the normal course of their duties, may not be used as passengers.
(i) No passenger may be assigned a specific seat except as the Administrator may require. Except as required by subparagraph (g) of this paragraph, no employee of the applicant may be seated next to an emergency exit.
(j) Seat belts and shoulder harnesses (as required) must be fastened.
(k) Before the start of the demonstration, approximately one-half of the total average amount of carry-on baggage, blankets, pillows, and other similar articles must be distributed at several locations in aisles and emergency exit access ways to create minor obstructions.
(l) No prior indication may be given to any crewmember or passenger of the particular exits to be used in the demonstration.
(m) The applicant may not practice, rehearse, or describe the demonstration for the participants nor may any participant have taken part in this type of demonstration within the preceding 6 months.
(n) Prior to entering the demonstration aircraft, the passengers may also be advised to follow directions of crewmembers but may not be instructed on the procedures to be followed in the demonstration, except with respect to safety procedures in place for the demonstration or which have to do with the demonstration site. Prior to the start of the demonstration, the pre-takeoff passenger briefing required by § 121.571 may be given. Flight attendants may assign demonstration subjects to assist persons from the bottom of a slide, consistent with their approved training program.
(o) The airplane must be configured to prevent disclosure of the active emergency exits to demonstration participants in the airplane until the start of the demonstration.
(p) Exits used in the demonstration must consist of one exit from each exit pair. The demonstration may be conducted with the escape slides, if provided, inflated and the exits open at the beginning of the demonstration. In this case, all exits must be configured such that the active exits are not disclosed to the occupants. If this method is used, the exit preparation time for each exit utilized must be accounted for, and exits that are not to be used in the demonstration must not be indicated before the demonstration has started. The exits to be used must be representative of all of the emergency exits on the airplane and must be designated by the applicant, subject to approval by the Administrator. At least one floor level exit must be used.
(q) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all evacuees must leave the airplane by a means provided as part of the airplane's equipment.
(r) The applicant's approved procedures must be fully utilized, except the flightcrew must take no active role in assisting others inside the cabin during the demonstration.
(s) The evacuation time period is completed when the last occupant has evacuated the airplane and is on the ground. Provided that the acceptance rate of the stand or ramp is no greater than the acceptance rate of the means available on the airplane for descent from the wing during an actual crash situation, evacuees using stands or ramps allowed by paragraph (c) of this appendix are considered to be on the ground when they are on the stand or ramp.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29788, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-79, Aug. 26, 1993; Amdt. 25-117, 69 FR 67499, Nov. 17, 2004]
Pt. 25, App. K

# Appendix K to Part 25—Extended Operations (ETOPS)
This appendix specifies airworthiness requirements for the approval of an airplane-engine combination for extended operations (ETOPS). For two-engine airplanes, the applicant must comply with sections K25.1 and K25.2 of this appendix. For airplanes with more than two engines, the applicant must comply with sections K25.1 and K25.3 of this appendix.
K25.1
Design requirements.
K25.1.1
Part 25 compliance.
The airplane-engine combination must comply with the requirements of part 25 considering the maximum flight time and the longest diversion time for which the applicant seeks approval.
K25.1.2
Human factors.
An applicant must consider crew workload, operational implications, and the crew's and passengers' physiological needs during continued operation with failure effects for the longest diversion time for which it seeks approval.
K25.1.3
Airplane systems.
(a)
Operation in icing conditions.
(1) The airplane must be certificated for operation in icing conditions in accordance with § 25.1419.
(2) The airplane must be able to safely conduct an ETOPS diversion with the most critical ice accretion resulting from:
(i) Icing conditions encountered at an altitude that the airplane would have to fly following an engine failure or cabin decompression.
(ii) A 15-minute hold in the continuous maximum icing conditions specified in Appendix C of this part with a liquid water content factor of 1.0.
(iii) Ice accumulated during approach and landing in the icing conditions specified in Appendix C of this part.
(b)
Electrical power supply.
The airplane must be equipped with at least three independent sources of electrical power.
(c)
Time limited systems.
The applicant must define the system time capability of each ETOPS significant system that is time-limited.
K25.1.4
Propulsion systems.
(a)
Fuel system design.
Fuel necessary to complete an ETOPS flight (including a diversion for the longest time for which the applicant seeks approval) must be available to the operating engines at the pressure and fuel-flow required by § 25.955 under any airplane failure condition not shown to be extremely improbable. Types of failures that must be considered include, but are not limited to: crossfeed valve failures, automatic fuel management system failures, and normal electrical power generation failures.
(1) If the engine has been certified for limited operation with negative engine-fuel-pump-inlet pressures, the following requirements apply:
(i) Airplane demonstration-testing must cover worst case cruise and diversion conditions involving:
(A) Fuel grade and temperature.
(B) Thrust or power variations.
(C) Turbulence and negative G.
(D) Fuel system components degraded within their approved maintenance limits.
(ii) Unusable-fuel quantity in the suction feed configuration must be determined in accordance with § 25.959.
(2) For two-engine airplanes to be certificated for ETOPS beyond 180 minutes, one fuel boost pump in each main tank and at least one crossfeed valve, or other means for transferring fuel, must be powered by an independent electrical power source other than the three power sources required to comply with section K25.1.3(b) of this appendix. This requirement does not apply if the normal fuel boost pressure, crossfeed valve actuation, or fuel transfer capability is not provided by electrical power.
(3) An alert must be displayed to the flightcrew when the quantity of fuel available to the engines falls below the level required to fly to the destination. The alert must be given when there is enough fuel remaining to safely complete a diversion. This alert must account for abnormal fuel management or transfer between tanks, and possible loss of fuel. This paragraph does not apply to airplanes with a required flight engineer.
(b)
APU design.
If an APU is needed to comply with this appendix, the applicant must demonstrate that:
(1) The reliability of the APU is adequate to meet those requirements; and
(2) If it is necessary that the APU be able to start in flight, it is able to start at any altitude up to the maximum operating altitude of the airplane, or 45,000 feet, whichever is lower, and run for the remainder of any flight .
(c)
Engine oil tank design.
The engine oil tank filler cap must comply with § 33.71(c)(4) of this chapter.
K25.1.5
Engine-condition monitoring.
Procedures for engine-condition monitoring must be specified and validated in accordance with Part 33, Appendix A, paragraph A33.3(c) of this chapter.
K25.1.6
Configuration, maintenance, and procedures.
The applicant must list any configuration, operating and maintenance requirements, hardware life limits, MMEL constraints, and ETOPS approval in a CMP document.
K25.1.7
Airplane flight manual.
The airplane flight manual must contain the following information applicable to the ETOPS type design approval:
(a) Special limitations, including any limitation associated with operation of the airplane up to the maximum diversion time being approved.
(b) Required markings or placards.
(c) The airborne equipment required for extended operations and flightcrew operating procedures for this equipment.
(d) The system time capability for the following:
(1) The most limiting fire suppression system for Class C cargo or baggage compartments.
(2) The most limiting ETOPS significant system other than fire suppression systems for Class C cargo or baggage compartments.
(e) This statement: “The type-design reliability and performance of this airplane-engine combination has been evaluated under 14 CFR 25.1535 and found suitable for (identify maximum approved diversion time) extended operations (ETOPS) when the configuration, maintenance, and procedures standard contained in (identify the CMP document) are met. The actual maximum approved diversion time for this airplane may be less based on its most limiting system time capability. This finding does not constitute operational approval to conduct ETOPS.”
K25.2.
Two-engine airplanes.
An applicant for ETOPS type design approval of a two-engine airplane must use one of the methods described in section K25.2.1, K25.2.2, or K25.2.3 of this appendix.
K25.2.1
Service experience method.
An applicant for ETOPS type design approval using the service experience method must comply with sections K25.2.1(a) and K25.2.1(b) of this appendix before conducting the assessments specified in sections K25.2.1(c) and K25.2.1(d) of this appendix, and
the flight test specified in section K25.2.1(e) of this appendix.
(a)
Service experience.
The world fleet for the airplane-engine combination must accumulate a minimum of 250,000 engine-hours. The FAA may reduce this number of hours if the applicant identifies compensating factors that are acceptable to the FAA. The compensating factors may include experience on another airplane, but experience on the candidate airplane must make up a significant portion of the total service experience.
(b)
In-flight shutdown (IFSD) rates.
The demonstrated 12-month rolling average IFSD rate for the world fleet of the airplane-engine combination must be commensurate with the level of ETOPS approval being sought.
(1) For type design approval up to and including 120 minutes: An IFSD rate of 0.05 or less per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours, unless otherwise approved by the FAA. Unless the IFSD rate is 0.02 or less per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours, the applicant must provide a list of corrective actions in the CMP document specified in section K25.1.6 of this appendix, that, when taken, would result in an IFSD rate of 0.02 or less per 1,000 fleet engine-hours.
(2) For type design approval up to and including 180 minutes: An IFSD rate of 0.02 or less per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours, unless otherwise approved by the FAA. If the airplane-engine combination does not meet this rate by compliance with an existing 120-minute CMP document, then new or additional CMP requirements that the applicant has demonstrated would achieve this IFSD rate must be added to the CMP document.
(3) For type design approval beyond 180 minutes: An IFSD rate of 0.01 or less per 1,000 fleet engine-hours unless otherwise approved by the FAA. If the airplane-engine combination does not meet this rate by compliance with an existing 120-minute or 180-minute CMP document, then new or additional CMP requirements that the applicant has demonstrated would achieve this IFSD rate must be added to the CMP document.
(c)
Propulsion system assessment.
(1) The applicant must conduct a propulsion system assessment based on the following data collected from the world-fleet of the airplane-engine combination:
(i) A list of all IFSD's, unplanned ground engine shutdowns, and occurrences (both ground and in-flight) when an engine was not shut down, but engine control or the desired thrust or power level was not achieved, including engine flameouts. Planned IFSD's performed during flight training need not be included. For each item, the applicant must provide—
(A) Each airplane and engine make, model, and serial number;
(B) Engine configuration, and major alteration history;
(C) Engine position;
(D) Circumstances leading up to the engine shutdown or occurrence;
(E) Phase of flight or ground operation;
(F) Weather and other environmental conditions; and
(G) Cause of engine shutdown or occurrence.
(ii) A history of unscheduled engine removal rates since introduction into service (using 6- and 12-month rolling averages), with a summary of the major causes for the removals.
(iii) A list of all propulsion system events (whether or not caused by maintenance or flightcrew error), including dispatch delays, cancellations, aborted takeoffs, turnbacks, diversions, and flights that continue to destination after the event.
(iv) The total number of engine hours and cycles, the number of hours for the engine with the highest number of hours, the number of cycles for the engine with the highest number of cycles, and the distribution of hours and cycles.
(v) The mean time between failures (MTBF) of propulsion system components that affect reliability.
(vi) A history of the IFSD rates since introduction into service using a 12-month rolling average.
(2) The cause or potential cause of each item listed in K25.2.1(c)(1)(i) must have a corrective action or actions that are shown to be effective in preventing future occurrences. Each corrective action must be identified in the CMP document specified in section K25.1.6. A corrective action is not required:
(i) For an item where the manufacturer is unable to determine a cause or potential cause.
(ii) For an event where it is technically unfeasible to develop a corrective action.
(iii) If the world-fleet IFSD rate—
(A) Is at or below 0.02 per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours for approval up to and including 180-minute ETOPS; or
(B) Is at or below 0.01 per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours for approval greater than 180-minute ETOPS.
(d)
Airplane systems assessment.
The applicant must conduct an airplane systems assessment. The applicant must show that the airplane systems comply with § 25.1309(b) using available in-service reliability data for ETOPS significant systems on the candidate airplane-engine combination. Each cause or potential cause of a relevant design, manufacturing, operational, and maintenance problem occurring in service must have a corrective action or actions that are shown
to be effective in preventing future occurrences. Each corrective action must be identified in the CMP document specified in section K25.1.6 of this appendix. A corrective action is not required if the problem would not significantly impact the safety or reliability of the airplane system involved. A relevant problem is a problem with an ETOPS group 1 significant system that has or could result in, an IFSD or diversion. The applicant must include in this assessment relevant problems with similar or identical equipment installed on other types of airplanes to the extent such information is reasonably available.
(e)
Airplane flight test.
The applicant must conduct a flight test to validate the flightcrew's ability to safely conduct an ETOPS diversion with an inoperative engine and worst-case ETOPS Significant System failures and malfunctions that could occur in service. The flight test must validate the airplane's flying qualities and performance with the demonstrated failures and malfunctions.
K25.2.2
Early ETOPS method.
An applicant for ETOPS type design approval using the Early ETOPS method must comply with the following requirements:
(a)
Assessment of relevant experience with airplanes previously certificated under part 25.
The applicant must identify specific corrective actions taken on the candidate airplane to prevent relevant design, manufacturing, operational, and maintenance problems experienced on airplanes previously certificated under part 25 manufactured by the applicant. Specific corrective actions are not required if the nature of a problem is such that the problem would not significantly impact the safety or reliability of the airplane system involved. A relevant problem is a problem with an ETOPS group 1 significant system that has or could result in an IFSD or diversion. The applicant must include in this assessment relevant problems of supplier-provided ETOPS group 1 significant systems and similar or identical equipment used on airplanes built by other manufacturers to the extent such information is reasonably available.
(b)
Propulsion system design.
(1) The engine used in the applicant's airplane design must be approved as eligible for Early ETOPS in accordance with § 33.201 of this chapter.
(2) The applicant must design the propulsion system to preclude failures or malfunctions that could result in an IFSD. The applicant must show compliance with this requirement by analysis, test, in-service experience on other airplanes, or other means acceptable to the FAA. If analysis is used, the applicant must show that the propulsion system design will minimize failures and malfunctions with the objective of achieving the following IFSD rates:
(i) An IFSD rate of 0.02 or less per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours for type design approval up to and including 180 minutes.
(ii) An IFSD rate of 0.01 or less per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours for type design approval beyond 180 minutes.
(c)
Maintenance and operational procedures.
The applicant must validate all maintenance and operational procedures for ETOPS significant systems. The applicant must identify, track, and resolve any problems found during the validation in accordance with the problem tracking and resolution system specified in section K25.2.2(h) of this appendix.
(d)
Propulsion system validation test.
(1) The installed engine configuration for which approval is being sought must comply with § 33.201(c) of this chapter. The test engine must be configured with a complete airplane nacelle package, including engine-mounted equipment, except for any configuration differences necessary to accommodate test stand interfaces with the engine nacelle package. At the conclusion of the test, the propulsion system must be—
(i) Visually inspected according to the applicant's on-wing inspection recommendations and limits; and
(ii) Completely disassembled and the propulsion system hardware inspected to determine whether it meets the service limits specified in the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness submitted in compliance with § 25.1529.
(2) The applicant must identify, track, and resolve each cause or potential cause of IFSD, loss of thrust control, or other power loss encountered during this inspection in accordance with the problem tracking and resolution system specified in section K25.2.2 (h) of this appendix.
(e)
New technology testing.
Technology new to the applicant, including substantially new manufacturing techniques, must be tested to substantiate its suitability for the airplane design.
(f)
APU validation test.
If an APU is needed to comply with this appendix, one APU of the type to be certified with the airplane must be tested for 3,000 equivalent airplane operational cycles. Following completion of the test, the APU must be disassembled and inspected. The applicant must identify, track, and resolve each cause or potential cause of an inability to start or operate the APU in flight as intended in accordance with the problem tracking and resolution system specified in section K25.2.2(h) of this appendix.
(g)
Airplane demonstration.
For each airplane-engine combination to be approved for ETOPS, the applicant must flight test at least one airplane to demonstrate that the airplane, and its components and equipment are capable of functioning properly during ETOPS flights and diversions of the longest
duration for which the applicant seeks approval. This flight testing may be performed in conjunction with, but may not substitute for the flight testing required by § 21.35(b)(2) of this chapter.
(1) The airplane demonstration flight test program must include:
(i) Flights simulating actual ETOPS, including flight at normal cruise altitude, step climbs, and, if applicable, APU operation.
(ii) Maximum duration flights with maximum duration diversions.
(iii) Maximum duration engine-inoperative diversions distributed among the engines installed on the airplanes used for the airplane demonstration flight test program. At least two one-engine-inoperative diversions must be conducted at maximum continuous thrust or power using the same engine.
(iv) Flights under non-normal conditions to demonstrate the flightcrew's ability to safely conduct an ETOPS diversion with worst-case ETOPS significant system failures or malfunctions that could occur in service.
(v) Diversions to airports that represent airports of the types used for ETOPS diversions.
(vi) Repeated exposure to humid and inclement weather on the ground followed by a long-duration flight at normal cruise altitude.
(2) The airplane demonstration flight test program must validate the adequacy of the airplane's flying qualities and performance, and the flightcrew's ability to safely conduct an ETOPS diversion under the conditions specified in section K25.2.2(g)(1) of this appendix.
(3) During the airplane demonstration flight test program, each test airplane must be operated and maintained using the applicant's recommended operating and maintenance procedures.
(4) At the completion of the airplane demonstration flight test program, each ETOPS significant system must undergo an on-wing inspection or test in accordance with the tasks defined in the proposed Instructions for Continued Airworthiness to establish its condition for continued safe operation. Each engine must also undergo a gas path inspection. These inspections must be conducted in a manner to identify abnormal conditions that could result in an IFSD or diversion. The applicant must identify, track and resolve any abnormal conditions in accordance with the problem tracking and resolution system specified in section K25.2.2(h) of this appendix.
(h)
Problem tracking and resolution system.
(1) The applicant must establish and maintain a problem tracking and resolution system. The system must:
(i) Contain a process for prompt reporting to the FAA office responsible for the design approval of each occurrence reportable under § 21.4(a)(6) encountered during the phases of airplane and engine development used to assess Early ETOPS eligibility.
(ii) Contain a process for notifying the FAA office responsible for the design approval of each proposed corrective action that the applicant determines necessary for each problem identified from the occurrences reported under section K25.2.2. (h)(1)(i) of this appendix. The timing of the notification must permit appropriate FAA review before taking the proposed corrective action.
(2) If the applicant is seeking ETOPS type design approval of a change to an airplane-engine combination previously approved for ETOPS, the problem tracking and resolution system need only address those problems specified in the following table, provided the applicant obtains prior authorization from the FAA:
If the change does not require a new airplane type certificiate and . . .
Then the Problem Tracking and Resolution System must address . . .
(i) Requires a new engine type certificate
All problems applicable to the new engine installation, and for the remainder of the airplane, problems in changed systems only.
(ii) Does not require a new engine type certificate
Problems in changed systems only.
(i)
Acceptance criteria.
The type and frequency of failures and malfunctions on ETOPS significant systems that occur during the airplane flight test program and the airplane demonstration flight test program specified in section K25.2.2(g) of this appendix must be consistent with the type and frequency of failures and malfunctions that would be expected to occur on currently certificated airplanes approved for ETOPS.
K25.2.3.
Combined service experience and Early ETOPS method.
An applicant for ETOPS type design approval using the combined service experience and Early ETOPS method must comply with the following requirements.
(a) A service experience requirement of not less than 15,000 engine-hours for the world fleet of the candidate airplane-engine combination.
(b) The Early ETOPS requirements of K25.2.2, except for the airplane demonstration specified in section K25.2.2(g) of this appendix; and
(c) The flight test requirement of section K25.2.1(e) of this appendix.
K25.3.
Airplanes with more than two engines.
An applicant for ETOPS type design approval of an airplane with more than two engines must use one of the methods described in section K25.3.1, K25.3.2, or K25.3.3 of this appendix.
K25.3.1
Service experience method.
An applicant for ETOPS type design approval using the service experience method must comply with section K25.3.1(a) of this appendix before conducting the airplane systems assessment specified in K25.3.1(b), and the flight test specified in section K25.3.1(c) of this appendix.
(a)
Service experience.
The world fleet for the airplane-engine combination must accumulate a minimum of 250,000 engine-hours. The FAA may reduce this number of hours if the applicant identifies compensating factors that are acceptable to the FAA. The compensating factors may include experience on another airplane, but experience on the candidate airplane must make up a significant portion of the total required service experience.
(b)
Airplane systems assessment.
The applicant must conduct an airplane systems assessment. The applicant must show that the airplane systems comply with the § 25.1309(b) using available in-service reliability data for ETOPS significant systems on the candidate airplane-engine combination. Each cause or potential cause of a relevant design, manufacturing, operational or maintenance problem occurring in service must have a corrective action or actions that are shown to be effective in preventing future occurrences. Each corrective action must be identified in the CMP document specified in section K25.1.6 of this appendix. A corrective action is not required if the problem would not significantly impact the safety or reliability of the airplane system involved. A relevant problem is a problem with an ETOPS group 1 significant system that has or could result in an IFSD or diversion. The applicant must include in this assessment relevant problems with similar or identical equipment installed on other types of airplanes to the extent such information is reasonably available.
(c)
Airplane flight test.
The applicant must conduct a flight test to validate the flightcrew's ability to safely conduct an ETOPS diversion with an inoperative engine and worst-case ETOPS significant system failures and malfunctions that could occur in service. The flight test must validate the airplane's flying qualities and performance with the demonstrated failures and malfunctions.
K25.3.2
Early ETOPS method.
An applicant for ETOPS type design approval using the Early ETOPS method must comply with the following requirements:
(a)
Maintenance and operational procedures.
The applicant must validate all maintenance and operational procedures for ETOPS significant systems. The applicant must identify, track and resolve any problems found during the validation in accordance with the problem tracking and resolution system specified in section K25.3.2(e) of this appendix.
(b)
New technology testing.
Technology new to the applicant, including substantially new manufacturing techniques, must be tested to substantiate its suitability for the airplane design.
(c)
APU validation test.
If an APU is needed to comply with this appendix, one APU of the type to be certified with the airplane must be tested for 3,000 equivalent airplane operational cycles. Following completion of the test, the APU must be disassembled and inspected. The applicant must identify, track, and resolve each cause or potential cause of an inability to start or operate the APU in flight as intended in accordance with the problem tracking and resolution system specified in section K25.3.2(e) of this appendix.
(d)
Airplane demonstration.
For each airplane-engine combination to be approved for ETOPS, the applicant must flight test at least one airplane to demonstrate that the airplane, and its components and equipment are capable of functioning properly during ETOPS flights and diversions of the longest duration for which the applicant seeks approval. This flight testing may be performed in conjunction with, but may not substitute for the flight testing required by § 21.35(b)(2).
(1) The airplane demonstration flight test program must include:
(i) Flights simulating actual ETOPS including flight at normal cruise altitude, step climbs, and, if applicable, APU operation.
(ii) Maximum duration flights with maximum duration diversions.
(iii) Maximum duration engine-inoperative diversions distributed among the engines installed on the airplanes used for the airplane demonstration flight test program. At least two one engine-inoperative diversions must be conducted at maximum continuous thrust or power using the same engine.
(iv) Flights under non-normal conditions to validate the flightcrew's ability to safely conduct an ETOPS diversion with worst-case ETOPS significant system failures or malfunctions that could occur in service.
(v) Diversions to airports that represent airports of the types used for ETOPS diversions.
(vi) Repeated exposure to humid and inclement weather on the ground followed by a long duration flight at normal cruise altitude.
(2) The airplane demonstration flight test program must validate the adequacy of the airplane's flying qualities and performance,
and the flightcrew's ability to safely conduct an ETOPS diversion under the conditions specified in section K25.3.2(d)(1) of this appendix.
(3) During the airplane demonstration flight test program, each test airplane must be operated and maintained using the applicant's recommended operating and maintenance procedures.
(4) At the completion of the airplane demonstration, each ETOPS significant system must undergo an on-wing inspection or test in accordance with the tasks defined in the proposed Instructions for Continued Airworthiness to establish its condition for continued safe operation. Each engine must also undergo a gas path inspection. These inspections must be conducted in a manner to identify abnormal conditions that could result in an IFSD or diversion. The applicant must identify, track and resolve any abnormal conditions in accordance with the problem tracking and resolution system specified in section K25.3.2(e) of this appendix.
(e)
Problem tracking and resolution system.
(1) The applicant must establish and maintain a problem tracking and resolution system. The system must:
(i) Contain a process for prompt reporting to the FAA office responsible for the design approval of each occurrence reportable under § 21.4(a)(6) encountered during the phases of airplane and engine development used to assess Early ETOPS eligibility.
(ii) Contain a process for notifying the FAA office responsible for the design approval of each proposed corrective action that the applicant determines necessary for each problem identified from the occurrences reported under section K25.3.2(h)(1)(i) of this appendix. The timing of the notification must permit appropriate FAA review before taking the proposed corrective action.
(2) If the applicant is seeking ETOPS type design approval of a change to an airplane-engine combination previously approved for ETOPS, the problem tracking and resolution system need only address those problems specified in the following table, provided the applicant obtains prior authorization from the FAA:
If the change does not require a new airplane type certificate and . . .
Then the Problem Tracking and Resolution System must address . . .
(i) Requires a new engine type certificate
All problems applicable to the new engine installation, and for the remainder of the airplane, problems in changed systems only.
(ii) Does not require a new engine type certificate
Problems in changed systems only.
(f)
Acceptance criteria.
The type and frequency of failures and malfunctions on ETOPS significant systems that occur during the airplane flight test program and the airplane demonstration flight test program specified in section K25.3.2(d) of this appendix must be consistent with the type and frequency of failures and malfunctions that would be expected to occur on currently certificated airplanes approved for ETOPS.
K25.3.3
Combined service experience and Early ETOPS method.
An applicant for ETOPS type design approval using the Early ETOPS method must comply with the following requirements:
(a) A service experience requirement of less than 15,000 engine-hours for the world fleet of the candidate airplane-engine combination;
(b) The Early ETOPS requirements of section K25.3.2 of this appendix, except for the airplane demonstration specified in section K25.3.2(d) of this appendix; and
(c) The flight test requirement of section K25.3.1(c) of this appendix.
[Doc. No. FAA-2002-6717, 72 FR 1873, Jan. 16, 2007, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 25-145, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
Pt. 25, App. L

# Appendix L to Part 25—HIRF Environments and Equipment HIRF Test Levels
This appendix specifies the HIRF environments and equipment HIRF test levels for electrical and electronic systems under § 25.1317. The field strength values for the HIRF environments and equipment HIRF test levels are expressed in root-mean-square units measured during the peak of the modulation cycle.
(a) HIRF environment I is specified in the following table:
Table I.—HIRF Environment I
Frequency
Field strength
(volts/meter)
Peak
Average
10 kHz-2 MHz
50
50
2 MHz-30 MHz
100
100
30 MHz-100 MHz
50
50
100 MHz-400 MHz
100
100
400 MHz-700 MHz
700
50
700 MHz-1 GHz
700
100
1 GHz-2 GHz
2,000
200
2 GHz-6 GHz
3,000
200
6 GHz-8 GHz
1,000
200
8 GHz-12 GHz
3,000
300
12 GHz-18 GHz
2,000
200
18 GHz-40 GHz
600
200
In this table, the higher field strength applies at the frequency band edges.
(b) HIRF environment II is specified in the following table:
Table II.-HIRF Environment II
Frequency
Field strength
(volts/meter)
Peak
Average
10 kHz-500 kHz
20
20
500 kHz-2 MHz
30
30
2 MHz-30 MHz
100
100
30 MHz-100 MHz
10
10
100 MHz-200 MHz
30
10
200 MHz-400 MHz
10
10
400 MHz-1 GHz
700
40
1 GHz-2 GHz
1,300
160
2 GHz-4 GHz
3,000
120
4 GHz-6 GHz
3,000
160
6 GHz-8 GHz
400
170
8 GHz-12 GHz
1,230
230
12 GHz-18 GHz
730
190
18 GHz-40 GHz
600
150
In this table, the higher field strength applies at the frequency band edges.
(c)
Equipment HIRF Test Level 1.
(1) From 10 kilohertz (kHz) to 400 megahertz (MHz), use conducted susceptibility tests with continuous wave (CW) and 1 kHz square wave modulation with 90 percent depth or greater. The conducted susceptibility current must start at a minimum of 0.6 milliamperes (mA) at 10 kHz, increasing 20 decibels (dB) per frequency decade to a minimum of 30 mA at 500 kHz.
(2) From 500 kHz to 40 MHz, the conducted susceptibility current must be at least 30 mA.
(3) From 40 MHz to 400 MHz, use conducted susceptibility tests, starting at a minimum of 30 mA at 40 MHz, decreasing 20 dB per frequency decade to a minimum of 3 mA at 400 MHz.
(4) From 100 MHz to 400 MHz, use radiated susceptibility tests at a minimum of 20 volts per meter (V/m) peak with CW and 1 kHz square wave modulation with 90 percent depth or greater.
(5) From 400 MHz to 8 gigahertz (GHz), use radiated susceptibility tests at a minimum of 150 V/m peak with pulse modulation of 4 percent duty cycle with a 1 kHz pulse repetition frequency. This signal must be switched on and off at a rate of 1 Hz with a duty cycle of 50 percent.
(d)
Equipment HIRF Test Level 2.
Equipment HIRF test level 2 is HIRF environment II in table II of this appendix reduced by acceptable aircraft transfer function and attenuation curves. Testing must cover the frequency band of 10 kHz to 8 GHz.
(e)
Equipment HIRF Test Level 3.
(1) From 10 kHz to 400 MHz, use conducted susceptibility tests, starting at a minimum of 0.15 mA at 10 kHz, increasing 20 dB per frequency decade to a minimum of 7.5 mA at 500 kHz.
(2) From 500 kHz to 40 MHz, use conducted susceptibility tests at a minimum of 7.5 mA.
(3) From 40 MHz to 400 MHz, use conducted susceptibility tests, starting at a minimum of 7.5 mA at 40 MHz, decreasing 20 dB per frequency decade to a minimum of 0.75 mA at 400 MHz.
(4) From 100 MHz to 8 GHz, use radiated susceptibility tests at a minimum of 5 V/m.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-23657, 72 FR 44026, Aug. 6, 2007]
Pt. 25, App. M

# Appendix M to Part 25—Fuel Tank System Flammability Reduction Means
M25.1
Fuel tank flammability exposure requirements.
(a) The Fleet Average Flammability Exposure of each fuel tank, as determined in accordance with Appendix N of this part, may not exceed 3 percent of the Flammability Exposure Evaluation Time (FEET), as defined in Appendix N of this part. As a portion of this 3 percent, if flammability reduction means (FRM) are used, each of the following time periods may not exceed 1.8 percent of the FEET:
(1) When any FRM is operational but the fuel tank is not inert and the tank is flammable; and
(2) When any FRM is inoperative and the tank is flammable.
(b) The Fleet Average Flammability Exposure, as defined in Appendix N of this part, of each fuel tank may not exceed 3 percent of the portion of the FEET occurring during either ground or takeoff/climb phases of flight during warm days. The analysis must consider the following conditions.
(1) The analysis must use the subset of those flights that begin with a sea level ground ambient temperature of 80 °F (standard day plus 21 °F atmosphere) or above, from the flammability exposure analysis done for overall performance.
(2) For the ground and takeoff/climb phases of flight, the average flammability exposure must be calculated by dividing the time during the specific flight phase the fuel tank is flammable by the total time of the specific flight phase.
(3) Compliance with this paragraph may be shown using only those flights for which the airplane is dispatched with the flammability reduction means operational.
M25.2
Showing compliance.
(a) The applicant must provide data from analysis, ground testing, and flight testing, or any combination of these, that:
(1) Validate the parameters used in the analysis required by paragraph M25.1 of this appendix;
(2) Substantiate that the FRM is effective at limiting flammability exposure in all compartments of each tank for which the FRM is used to show compliance with paragraph M25.1 of this appendix; and
(3) Describe the circumstances under which the FRM would not be operated during each phase of flight.
(b) The applicant must validate that the FRM meets the requirements of paragraph M25.1 of this appendix with any airplane or engine configuration affecting the performance of the FRM for which approval is sought.
M25.3
Reliability indications and maintenance access.
(a) Reliability indications must be provided to identify failures of the FRM that would otherwise be latent and whose identification is necessary to ensure the fuel tank with an FRM meets the fleet average flammability exposure requirements listed in paragraph M25.1 of this appendix, including when the FRM is inoperative.
(b) Sufficient accessibility to FRM reliability indications must be provided for maintenance personnel or the flightcrew.
(c) The access doors and panels to the fuel tanks with FRMs (including any tanks that communicate with a tank via a vent system), and to any other confined spaces or enclosed areas that could contain hazardous atmosphere under normal conditions or failure conditions, must be permanently stenciled, marked, or placarded to warn maintenance personnel of the possible presence of a potentially hazardous atmosphere.
M25.4
Airworthiness limitations and procedures.
(a) If FRM is used to comply with paragraph M25.1 of this appendix, Airworthiness Limitations must be identified for all maintenance or inspection tasks required to identify failures of components within the FRM that are needed to meet paragraph M25.1 of this appendix.
(b) Maintenance procedures must be developed to identify any hazards to be considered during maintenance of the FRM. These procedures must be included in the instructions for continued airworthiness (ICA).
M25.5
Reliability reporting.
The effects of airplane component failures on FRM reliability must be assessed on an on-going basis. The applicant/holder must do the following:
(a) Demonstrate effective means to ensure collection of FRM reliability data. The means must provide data affecting FRM reliability, such as component failures.
(b) Unless alternative reporting procedures are approved by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office, as defined in part 26 of this subchapter, provide a report to the FAA every six months for the first five years after service introduction. After that period, continued reporting every six months may be replaced with other reliability tracking methods found acceptable to the FAA or eliminated if it is established that the reliability of the FRM meets, and will continue to meet, the exposure requirements of paragraph M25.1 of this appendix.
(c) Develop service instructions or revise the applicable airplane manual, according to a schedule approved by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office, as defined in part 26 of this subchapter, to correct any failures of the FRM that occur in service that could increase any fuel tank's Fleet Average Flammability Exposure to more than that required by paragraph M25.1 of this appendix.
[Doc. No. FAA-2005-22997, 73 FR 42494, July 21, 2008, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 25-145, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
Pt. 25, App. N

# Appendix N to Part 25—Fuel Tank Flammability Exposure and Reliability Analysis
N25.1
General.
(a) This appendix specifies the requirements for conducting fuel tank fleet average flammability exposure analyses required to meet § 25.981(b) and Appendix M of this part. For fuel tanks installed in aluminum wings, a qualitative assessment is sufficient if it substantiates that the tank is a conventional unheated wing tank.
(b) This appendix defines parameters affecting fuel tank flammability that must be used in performing the analysis. These include parameters that affect all airplanes within the fleet, such as a statistical distribution of ambient temperature, fuel flash point, flight lengths, and airplane descent rate. Demonstration of compliance also requires application of factors specific to the airplane model being evaluated. Factors that need to be included are maximum range, cruise mach number, typical altitude where the airplane begins initial cruise phase of flight, fuel temperature during both ground and flight times, and the performance of a flammability reduction means (FRM) if installed.
(c) The following definitions, input variables, and data tables must be used in the program to determine fleet average flammability exposure for a specific airplane model.
N25.2
Definitions.
(a)
Bulk Average Fuel Temperature
means the average fuel temperature within the fuel tank or different sections of the tank if the
tank is subdivided by baffles or compartments.
(b)
Flammability Exposure Evaluation Time (FEET).
The time from the start of preparing the airplane for flight, through the flight and landing, until all payload is unloaded, and all passengers and crew have disembarked. In the Monte Carlo program, the flight time is randomly selected from the Flight Length Distribution (Table 2), the pre-flight times are provided as a function of the flight time, and the post-flight time is a constant 30 minutes.
(c)
Flammable.
With respect to a fluid or gas, flammable means susceptible to igniting readily or to exploding (14 CFR Part 1, Definitions). A non-flammable ullage is one where the fuel-air vapor is too lean or too rich to burn or is inert as defined below. For the purposes of this appendix, a fuel tank that is not inert is considered flammable when the bulk average fuel temperature within the tank is within the flammable range for the fuel type being used. For any fuel tank that is subdivided into sections by baffles or compartments, the tank is considered flammable when the bulk average fuel temperature within any section of the tank, that is not inert, is within the flammable range for the fuel type being used.
(d)
Flash Point.
The flash point of a flammable fluid means the lowest temperature at which the application of a flame to a heated sample causes the vapor to ignite momentarily, or “flash.” Table 1 of this appendix provides the flash point for the standard fuel to be used in the analysis.
(e)
Fleet average flammability exposure
is the percentage of the flammability exposure evaluation time (FEET) each fuel tank ullage is flammable for a fleet of an airplane type operating over the range of flight lengths in a world-wide range of environmental conditions and fuel properties as defined in this appendix.
(f)
Gaussian Distribution
is another name for the normal distribution, a symmetrical frequency distribution having a precise mathematical formula relating the mean and standard deviation of the samples. Gaussian distributions yield bell-shaped frequency curves having a preponderance of values around the mean with progressively fewer observations as the curve extends outward.
(g)
Hazardous atmosphere.
An atmosphere that may expose maintenance personnel, passengers or flight crew to the risk of death, incapacitation, impairment of ability to self-rescue (that is, escape unaided from a confined space), injury, or acute illness.
(h)
Inert.
For the purpose of this appendix, the tank is considered inert when the bulk average oxygen concentration within each compartment of the tank is 12 percent or less from sea level up to 10,000 feet altitude, then linearly increasing from 12 percent at 10,000 feet to 14.5 percent at 40,000 feet altitude, and extrapolated linearly above that altitude.
(i)
Inerting.
A process where a noncombustible gas is introduced into the ullage of a fuel tank so that the ullage becomes non-flammable.
(j)
Monte Carlo Analysis.
The analytical method that is specified in this appendix as the compliance means for assessing the fleet average flammability exposure time for a fuel tank.
(k)
Oxygen evolution
occurs when oxygen dissolved in the fuel is released into the ullage as the pressure and temperature in the fuel tank are reduced.
(l)
Standard deviation
is a statistical measure of the dispersion or variation in a distribution, equal to the square root of the arithmetic mean of the squares of the deviations from the arithmetic means.
(m)
Transport Effects.
For purposes of this appendix, transport effects are the change in fuel vapor concentration in a fuel tank caused by low fuel conditions and fuel condensation and vaporization.
(n)
Ullage.
The volume within the fuel tank not occupied by liquid fuel.
N25.3
Fuel tank flammability exposure analysis.
(a) A flammability exposure analysis must be conducted for the fuel tank under evaluation to determine fleet average flammability exposure for the airplane and fuel types under evaluation. For fuel tanks that are subdivided by baffles or compartments, an analysis must be performed either for each section of the tank, or for the section of the tank having the highest flammability exposure. Consideration of transport effects is not allowed in the analysis. The analysis must be done in accordance with the methods and procedures set forth in the Fuel Tank Flammability Assessment Method User's Manual, dated May 2008, document number DOT/FAA/AR-05/8 (incorporated by reference, see § 25.5). The parameters specified in sections N25.3(b) and (c) of this appendix must be used in the fuel tank flammability exposure “Monte Carlo” analysis.
(b) The following parameters are defined in the Monte Carlo analysis and provided in paragraph N25.4 of this appendix:
(1) Cruise Ambient Temperature, as defined in this appendix.
(2) Ground Ambient Temperature, as defined in this appendix.
(3) Fuel Flash Point, as defined in this appendix.
(4) Flight Length Distribution, as defined in Table 2 of this appendix.
(5) Airplane Climb and Descent Profiles, as defined in the Fuel Tank Flammability Assessment Method User's Manual, dated May 2008, document number DOT/FAA/AR-05/8 (incorporated by reference in § 25.5).
(c) Parameters that are specific to the particular airplane model under evaluation that must be provided as inputs to the Monte Carlo analysis are:
(1) Airplane cruise altitude.
(2) Fuel tank quantities. If fuel quantity affects fuel tank flammability, inputs to the Monte Carlo analysis must be provided that represent the actual fuel quantity within the fuel tank or compartment of the fuel tank throughout each of the flights being evaluated. Input values for this data must be obtained from ground and flight test data or the approved FAA fuel management procedures.
(3) Airplane cruise mach number.
(4) Airplane maximum range.
(5) Fuel tank thermal characteristics. If fuel temperature affects fuel tank flammability, inputs to the Monte Carlo analysis must be provided that represent the actual bulk average fuel temperature within the fuel tank at each point in time throughout each of the flights being evaluated. For fuel tanks that are subdivided by baffles or compartments, bulk average fuel temperature inputs must be provided for each section of the tank. Input values for these data must be obtained from ground and flight test data or a thermal model of the tank that has been validated by ground and flight test data.
(6) Maximum airplane operating temperature limit, as defined by any limitations in the airplane flight manual.
(7) Airplane Utilization. The applicant must provide data supporting the number of flights per day and the number of hours per flight for the specific airplane model under evaluation. If there is no existing airplane fleet data to support the airplane being evaluated, the applicant must provide substantiation that the number of flights per day and the number of hours per flight for that airplane model is consistent with the existing fleet data they propose to use.
(d)
Fuel Tank FRM Model.
If FRM is used, an FAA approved Monte Carlo program must be used to show compliance with the flammability requirements of § 25.981 and Appendix M of this part. The program must determine the time periods during each flight phase when the fuel tank or compartment with the FRM would be flammable. The following factors must be considered in establishing these time periods:
(1) Any time periods throughout the flammability exposure evaluation time and under the full range of expected operating conditions, when the FRM is operating properly but fails to maintain a non-flammable fuel tank because of the effects of the fuel tank vent system or other causes,
(2) If dispatch with the system inoperative under the Master Minimum Equipment List (MMEL) is requested, the time period assumed in the reliability analysis (60 flight hours must be used for a 10-day MMEL dispatch limit unless an alternative period has been approved by the Administrator),
(3) Frequency and duration of time periods of FRM inoperability, substantiated by test or analysis acceptable to the FAA, caused by latent or known failures, including airplane system shut-downs and failures that could cause the FRM to shut down or become inoperative.
(4) Effects of failures of the FRM that could increase the flammability exposure of the fuel tank.
(5) If an FRM is used that is affected by oxygen concentrations in the fuel tank, the time periods when oxygen evolution from the fuel results in the fuel tank or compartment exceeding the inert level. The applicant must include any times when oxygen evolution from the fuel in the tank or compartment under evaluation would result in a flammable fuel tank. The oxygen evolution rate that must be used is defined in the Fuel Tank Flammability Assessment Method User's Manual, dated May 2008, document number DOT/FAA/AR-05/8 (incorporated by reference in § 25.5).
(6) If an inerting system FRM is used, the effects of any air that may enter the fuel tank following the last flight of the day due to changes in ambient temperature, as defined in Table 4, during a 12-hour overnight period.
(e) The applicant must submit to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service officefor approval the fuel tank flammability analysis, including the airplane-specific parameters identified under paragraph N25.3(c) of this appendix and any deviations from the parameters identified in paragraph N25.3(b) of this appendix that affect flammability exposure, substantiating data, and any airworthiness limitations and other conditions assumed in the analysis.
N25.4
Variables and data tables.
The following data must be used when conducting a flammability exposure analysis to determine the fleet average flammability exposure. Variables used to calculate fleet flammability exposure must include atmospheric ambient temperatures, flight length, flammability exposure evaluation time, fuel flash point, thermal characteristics of the fuel tank, overnight temperature drop, and oxygen evolution from the fuel into the ullage.
(a) Atmospheric Ambient Temperatures and Fuel Properties.
(1) In order to predict flammability exposure during a given flight, the variation of ground ambient temperatures, cruise ambient temperatures, and a method to compute the transition from ground to cruise and back again must be used. The variation of the ground and cruise ambient temperatures and the flash point of the fuel is defined by a Gaussian curve, given by the 50 percent value and a ±1-standard deviation value.
(2) Ambient Temperature: Under the program, the ground and cruise ambient temperatures are linked by a set of assumptions on the atmosphere. The temperature varies with altitude following the International Standard Atmosphere (ISA) rate of change from the ground ambient temperature until the cruise temperature for the flight is reached. Above this altitude, the ambient temperature is fixed at the cruise ambient temperature. This results in a variation in the upper atmospheric temperature. For cold days, an inversion is applied up to 10,000 feet, and then the ISA rate of change is used.
(3) Fuel properties:
(i) For Jet A fuel, the variation of flash point of the fuel is defined by a Gaussian curve, given by the 50 percent value and a ±1-standard deviation, as shown in Table 1 of this appendix.
(ii) The flammability envelope of the fuel that must be used for the flammability exposure analysis is a function of the flash point of the fuel selected by the Monte Carlo for a given flight. The flammability envelope for the fuel is defined by the upper flammability limit (UFL) and lower flammability limit (LFL) as follows:
(A) LFL at sea level = flash point temperature of the fuel at sea level minus 10 °F. LFL decreases from sea level value with increasing altitude at a rate of 1 °F per 808 feet.
(B) UFL at sea level = flash point temperature of the fuel at sea level plus 63.5 °F. UFL decreases from the sea level value with increasing altitude at a rate of 1 °F per 512 feet.
(4) For each flight analyzed, a separate random number must be generated for each of the three parameters (ground ambient temperature, cruise ambient temperature, and fuel flash point) using the Gaussian distribution defined in Table 1 of this appendix.
Table 1.—Gaussian Distribution for Ground Ambient Temperature, Cruise Ambient Temperature, and Fuel Flash Point
Parameter
Temperature in deg F
Ground ambient temperature
Cruise ambient temperature
Fuel flash point (FP)
Mean Temp
59.95
−70
120
Neg 1 std dev
20.14
8
8
Pos 1 std dev
17.28
8
8
(b) The Flight Length Distribution defined in Table 2 must be used in the Monte Carlo analysis.
Table 2.—Flight Length Distribution
Flight length (NM)
From
To
Airplane maximum range—nautical miles (NM)
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
8000
9000
10000
Distribution of flight lengths (percentage of total)
0
200
11.7
7.5
6.2
5.5
4.7
4.0
3.4
3.0
2.6
2.3
200
400
27.3
19.9
17.0
15.2
13.2
11.4
9.7
8.5
7.5
6.7
400
600
46.3
40.0
35.7
32.6
28.5
24.9
21.2
18.7
16.4
14.8
600
800
10.3
11.6
11.0
10.2
9.1
8.0
6.9
6.1
5.4
4.8
800
1000
4.4
8.5
8.6
8.2
7.4
6.6
5.7
5.0
4.5
4.0
1000
1200
0.0
4.8
5.3
5.3
4.8
4.3
3.8
3.3
3.0
2.7
1200
1400
0.0
3.6
4.4
4.5
4.2
3.8
3.3
3.0
2.7
2.4
1400
1600
0.0
2.2
3.3
3.5
3.3
3.1
2.7
2.4
2.2
2.0
1600
1800
0.0
1.2
2.3
2.6
2.5
2.4
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.6
1800
2000
0.0
0.7
2.2
2.6
2.6
2.5
2.2
2.0
1.8
1.7
2000
2200
0.0
0.0
1.6
2.1
2.2
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.6
1.4
2200
2400
0.0
0.0
1.1
1.6
1.7
1.7
1.6
1.4
1.3
1.2
2400
2600
0.0
0.0
0.7
1.2
1.4
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.1
1.0
2600
2800
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
2800
3000
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
3000
3200
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.7
3200
3400
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.7
1.1
1.2
1.2
1.1
1.1
1.0
3400
3600
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.7
1.3
1.6
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.4
3600
3800
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.9
2.2
2.7
2.8
2.7
2.6
2.5
3800
4000
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.5
2.0
2.6
2.8
2.8
2.7
2.6
4000
4200
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.1
3.0
3.2
3.3
3.2
3.1
4200
4400
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.4
2.2
2.5
2.6
2.6
2.5
4400
4600
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.5
2.4
4600
4800
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
1.5
1.8
2.0
2.0
2.0
4800
5000
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
1.0
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.5
5000
5200
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.8
1.1
1.3
1.3
1.3
5200
5400
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.8
1.2
1.5
1.6
1.6
5400
5600
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.9
1.7
2.1
2.2
2.3
5600
5800
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
1.6
2.2
2.4
2.5
5800
6000
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
1.8
2.4
2.8
2.9
6000
6200
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.7
2.6
3.1
3.3
6200
6400
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.4
2.4
2.9
3.1
6400
6600
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.9
1.8
2.2
2.5
6600
6800
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.5
1.2
1.6
1.9
6800
7000
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.8
1.1
1.3
7000
7200
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.7
0.8
7200
7400
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.3
0.5
0.7
7400
7600
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.5
0.6
7600
7800
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.5
0.7
7800
8000
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.6
0.8
8000
8200
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.8
8200
8400
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.5
1.0
8400
8600
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
1.3
8600
8800
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.4
1.1
8800
9000
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.8
9000
9200
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.5
9200
9400
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
9400
9600
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
9600
9800
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
9800
10000
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
(c) Overnight Temperature Drop. For airplanes on which FRM is installed, the overnight temperature drop for this appendix is defined using:
(1) A temperature at the beginning of the overnight period that equals the landing temperature of the previous flight that is a random value based on a Gaussian distribution; and
(2) An overnight temperature drop that is a random value based on a Gaussian distribution.
(3) For any flight that will end with an overnight ground period (one flight per day out of an average number of flights per day, depending on utilization of the particular airplane model being evaluated), the landing outside air temperature (OAT) is to be chosen as a random value from the following Gaussian curve:
Table 3.—Landing Outside Air Temperature
Parameter
Landing outside air temperature °F
Mean Temperature
58.68
negative 1 std dev
20.55
positive 1 std dev
13.21
(4) The outside ambient air temperature (OAT) overnight temperature drop is to be chosen as a random value from the following Gaussian curve:
Table 4.—Outside Air Temperature (OAT) Drop
Parameter
OAT drop
temperature °F
Mean Temp
12.0
1 std dev
6.0
(d) Number of Simulated Flights Required in Analysis. In order for the Monte Carlo analysis to be valid for showing compliance with the fleet average and warm day flammability exposure requirements, the applicant must run the analysis for a minimum number of flights to ensure that the fleet average and warm day flammability exposure for the fuel tank under evaluation meets the applicable flammability limits defined in Table 5 of this appendix.
Table 5.—Flammability Exposure Limit
Minimum number of flights in Monte Carlo analysis
Maximum
acceptable Monte Carlo average fuel tank flammability
exposure
(percent) to meet 3 percent
requirements
Maximum
acceptable Monte Carlo average fuel tank flammability
exposure
(percent) to meet 7 percent part 26
requirements
10,000
2.91
6.79
100,000
2.98
6.96
1,000,000
3.00
7.00
[Doc. No. FAA-2005-22997, 73 FR 42495, July 21, 2008, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 25-145, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
Pt. 25, App. O

# Appendix O to Part 25—Supercooled Large Drop Icing Conditions
This Appendix consists of two parts. Part I defines this Appendix as a description of supercooled large drop icing conditions in which the drop median volume diameter (MVD) is less than or greater than 40 µm, the maximum mean effective drop diameter (MED) of Appendix C of this part continuous maximum (stratiform clouds) icing conditions. For this Appendix, supercooled large drop icing conditions consist of freezing drizzle and freezing rain occurring in and/or below stratiform clouds. Part II defines ice accretions used to show compliance with the airplane performance and handling qualities requirements of subpart B of this part.

# PART I—METEOROLOGY
In this Appendix icing conditions are defined by the parameters of altitude, vertical and horizontal extent, temperature, liquid water content, and water mass distribution as a function of drop diameter distribution.
(a) Freezing Drizzle (Conditions with spectra maximum drop diameters from 100µm to 500 µm):
(1) Pressure altitude range: 0 to 22,000 feet MSL.
(2) Maximum vertical extent: 12,000 feet.
(3) Horizontal extent: Standard distance of 17.4 nautical miles.
(4) Total liquid water content.

# Note:
Liquid water content (LWC) in grams per cubic meter (g/m
3
) based on horizontal extent standard distance of 17.4 nautical miles.
(5) Drop diameter distribution: Figure 2.
(6) Altitude and temperature envelope: Figure 3.
(b) Freezing Rain (Conditions with spectra maximum drop diameters greater than 500 µm):
(1) Pressure altitude range: 0 to 12,000 ft MSL.
(2) Maximum vertical extent: 7,000 ft.
(3) Horizontal extent: Standard distance of 17.4 nautical miles.
(4) Total liquid water content.
Note:
LWC in grams per cubic meter (g/m
3
) based on horizontal extent standard distance of 17.4 nautical miles.
(5) Drop Diameter Distribution: Figure 5.
(6) Altitude and temperature envelope: Figure 6.
(c) Horizontal extent.
The liquid water content for freezing drizzle and freezing rain conditions for horizontal extents other than the standard 17.4 nautical miles can be determined by the value of the liquid water content determined from Figure 1 or Figure 4, multiplied by the factor provided in Figure 7, which is defined by the following equation:
S = 1.266 − 0.213 log10(H)
Where:
S = Liquid Water Content Scale Factor (dimensionless) and
H = horizontal extent in nautical miles
ER04NO14.001
ER04NO14.002
ER04NO14.003
ER04NO14.004
ER04NO14.005
ER04NO14.006
ER04NO14.007

# PART II—AIRFRAME ICE ACCRETIONS FOR SHOWING COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPART B OF THIS PART
(a)
General.
The most critical ice accretion in terms of airplane performance and handling qualities for each flight phase must be used to show compliance with the applicable airplane performance and handling qualities requirements for icing conditions contained in subpart B of this part. Applicants must demonstrate that the full range of atmospheric icing conditions specified in part I of this Appendix have been considered, including drop diameter distributions, liquid water content, and temperature appropriate to the flight conditions (for example, configuration, speed, angle of attack, and altitude).
(1) For an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1), the ice accretions for each flight phase are defined in part II, paragraph (b) of this Appendix.
(2) For an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), the most critical ice accretion for each flight phase defined in part II, paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Appendix, must be used. For the ice accretions defined in part II, paragraph (c) of this Appendix, only the portion of part I of this Appendix in which the airplane is capable of operating safely must be considered.
(3) For an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(3), the ice accretions for each flight phase are defined in part II, paragraph (c) of this Appendix.
(b) Ice accretions for airplanes certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1) or (2).
(1)
En route ice
is the en route ice as defined by part II, paragraph (c)(3), of this Appendix, for an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), or defined by part II, paragraph (a)(3), of Appendix C of this part, for an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1), plus:
(i) Pre-detection ice as defined by part II, paragraph (b)(5), of this Appendix; and
(ii) The ice accumulated during the transit of one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the most critical of the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix and one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the continuous
maximum icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part.
(2)
Holding ice
is the holding ice defined by part II, paragraph (c)(4), of this Appendix, for an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), or defined by part II, paragraph (a)(4), of Appendix C of this part, for an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1), plus:
(i) Pre-detection ice as defined by part II, paragraph (b)(5), of this Appendix; and
(ii) The ice accumulated during the transit of one cloud with a 17.4 nautical miles horizontal extent in the most critical of the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix and one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the continuous maximum icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part.
(iii) Except the total exposure to holding ice conditions does not need to exceed 45 minutes.
(3)
Approach ice
is the more critical of the holding ice defined by part II, paragraph (b)(2), of this Appendix, or the ice calculated in the applicable paragraphs (b)(3)(i) or (ii) of part II, of this Appendix:
(i) For an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), the ice accumulated during descent from the maximum vertical extent of the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix to 2,000 feet above the landing surface in the cruise configuration, plus transition to the approach configuration, plus:
(A) Pre-detection ice, as defined by part II, paragraph (b)(5), of this Appendix; and
(B) The ice accumulated during the transit at 2,000 feet above the landing surface of one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the most critical of the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix and one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the continuous maximum icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part.
(ii) For an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1), the ice accumulated during descent from the maximum vertical extent of the maximum continuous icing conditions defined in part I of Appendix C to 2,000 feet above the landing surface in the cruise configuration, plus transition to the approach configuration, plus:
(A) Pre-detection ice, as defined by part II, paragraph (b)(5), of this Appendix; and
(B) The ice accumulated during the transit at 2,000 feet above the landing surface of one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the most critical of the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix and one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the continuous maximum icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part.
(4)
Landing ice
is the more critical of the holding ice as defined by part II, paragraph (b)(2), of this Appendix, or the ice calculated in the applicable paragraphs (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of part II of this Appendix:
(i) For an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), the ice accretion defined by part II, paragraph (c)(5)(i), of this Appendix, plus a descent from 2,000 feet above the landing surface to a height of 200 feet above the landing surface with a transition to the landing configuration in the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix, plus:
(A) Pre-detection ice, as defined in part II, paragraph (b)(5), of this Appendix; and
(B) The ice accumulated during an exit maneuver, beginning with the minimum climb gradient required by § 25.119, from a height of 200 feet above the landing surface through one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the most critical of the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix and one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the continuous maximum icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part.
(ii) For an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1), the ice accumulated in the maximum continuous icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part, during a descent from the maximum vertical extent of the icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part, to 2,000 feet above the landing surface in the cruise configuration, plus transition to the approach configuration and flying for 15 minutes at 2,000 feet above the landing surface, plus a descent from 2,000 feet above the landing surface to a height of 200 feet above the landing surface with a transition to the landing configuration, plus:
(A) Pre-detection ice, as described by part II, paragraph (b)(5), of this Appendix; and
(B) The ice accumulated during an exit maneuver, beginning with the minimum climb gradient required by § 25.119, from a height of 200 feet above the landing surface through one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the most critical of the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix and one cloud with a horizontal extent of 17.4 nautical miles in the continuous maximum icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part.
(5)
Pre-detection ice
is the ice accretion before detection of flight conditions in this Appendix that require exiting per § 25.1420(a)(1) and (2). It is the pre-existing ice accretion that may exist from operating in icing conditions in which the airplane is approved to operate prior to encountering the icing conditions requiring an exit, plus the ice accumulated during the time needed to detect the icing conditions, followed by two minutes of further ice accumulation to take into account the time for the flightcrew to take action to exit the icing conditions, including coordination with air traffic control.
(i) For an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(1), the pre-existing ice accretion must be based on the icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part.
(ii) For an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), the pre-existing ice accretion must be based on the more critical of the icing conditions defined in Appendix C of this part, or the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix in which the airplane is capable of safely operating.
(c)
Ice accretions for airplanes certified in accordance with §§ 25.1420(a)(2) or (3).
For an airplane certified in accordance with § 25.1420(a)(2), only the portion of the icing conditions of part I of this Appendix in which the airplane is capable of operating safely must be considered.
(1)
Takeoff ice
is the most critical ice accretion on unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces, occurring between the end of the takeoff distance and 400 feet above the takeoff surface, assuming accretion starts at the end of the takeoff distance in the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix.
(2)
Final takeoff ice
is the most critical ice accretion on unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation, between 400 feet and either 1,500 feet above the takeoff surface, or the height at which the transition from the takeoff to the en route configuration is completed and V
FTO
is reached, whichever is higher. Ice accretion is assumed to start at the end of the takeoff distance in the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix.
(3)
En route ice
is the most critical ice accretion on the unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation, during the en route flight phase in the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix.
(4)
Holding ice
is the most critical ice accretion on the unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation, resulting from 45 minutes of flight within a cloud with a 17.4 nautical miles horizontal extent in the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix, during the holding phase of flight.
(5)
Approach ice
is the ice accretion on the unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation, resulting from the more critical of the:
(i) Ice accumulated in the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix during a descent from the maximum vertical extent of the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix, to 2,000 feet above the landing surface in the cruise configuration, plus transition to the approach configuration and flying for 15 minutes at 2,000 feet above the landing surface; or
(ii) Holding ice as defined by part II, paragraph (c)(4), of this Appendix.
(6)
Landing ice
is the ice accretion on the unprotected surfaces, and any ice accretion on the protected surfaces appropriate to normal ice protection system operation, resulting from the more critical of the:
(i) Ice accretion defined by part II, paragraph (c)(5)(i), of this Appendix, plus ice accumulated in the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix during a descent from 2,000 feet above the landing surface to a height of 200 feet above the landing surface with a transition to the landing configuration, followed by a go-around at the minimum climb gradient required by § 25.119, from a height of 200 feet above the landing surface to 2,000 feet above the landing surface, flying for 15 minutes at 2,000 feet above the landing surface in the approach configuration, and a descent to the landing surface (touchdown) in the landing configuration; or
(ii) Holding ice as defined by part II, paragraph (c)(4), of this Appendix.
(7) For both unprotected and protected parts, the ice accretion for the takeoff phase must be determined for the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix, using the following assumptions:
(i) The airfoils, control surfaces, and, if applicable, propellers are free from frost, snow, or ice at the start of takeoff;
(ii) The ice accretion starts at the end of the takeoff distance;
(iii) The critical ratio of thrust/power-to-weight;
(iv) Failure of the critical engine occurs at V
EF
; and
(v) Crew activation of the ice protection system is in accordance with a normal operating procedure provided in the airplane flight manual, except that after beginning the takeoff roll, it must be assumed that the crew takes no action to activate the ice protection system until the airplane is at least 400 feet above the takeoff surface.
(d) The ice accretion before the ice protection system has been activated and is performing its intended function is the critical ice accretion formed on the unprotected and normally protected surfaces before activation and effective operation of the ice protection system in the icing conditions defined in part I of this Appendix. This ice accretion only applies in showing compliance to §§ 25.143(j) and 25.207(h).
(e) In order to reduce the number of ice accretions to be considered when demonstrating compliance with the requirements of § 25.21(g), any of the ice accretions defined in this Appendix may be used for any other flight phase if it is shown to be at least
as critical as the specific ice accretion defined for that flight phase. Configuration differences and their effects on ice accretions must be taken into account.
(f) The ice accretion that has the most adverse effect on handling qualities may be used for airplane performance tests provided any difference in performance is conservatively taken into account.
[Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65528, Nov. 4, 2014]
Pt. 26

# PART 26—CONTINUED AIRWORTHINESS AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS FOR TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
26.1
Purpose and scope.
26.3
[Reserved]
26.5
Applicability table.

# Subpart B—Enhanced Airworthiness Program for Airplane Systems
26.11
Electrical wiring interconnection systems (EWIS) maintenance program.

# Subpart C—Aging Airplane Safety—Widespread Fatigue Damage
26.21
Limit of validity.
26.23
Extended limit of validity.

# Subpart D—Fuel Tank Flammability
26.31
Definitions.
26.33
Holders of type certificates: Fuel tank flammability.
26.35
Changes to type certificates affecting fuel tank flammability.
26.37
Pending type certification projects: Fuel tank flammability.
26.39
Newly produced airplanes: Fuel tank flammability.

# Subpart E—Aging Airplane Safety—Damage Tolerance Data for Repairs and Alterations
26.41
Definitions.
26.43
Holders of and applicants for type certificates—Repairs.
26.45
Holders of type certificates—Alterations and repairs to alterations.
26.47
Holders of and applicants for a supplemental type certificate—Alterations and repairs to alterations.
26.49
Compliance plan.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40113, 44701, 44702 and 44704.

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2004-18379, 72 FR 63409, Nov. 8, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 26.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part establishes requirements for support of the continued airworthiness of and safety improvements for transport category airplanes. These requirements may include performing assessments, developing design changes, developing revisions to Instructions for Continued Airworthiness (ICA), and making necessary documentation available to affected persons. Requirements of this part that establish standards for design changes and revisions to the ICA are considered airworthiness requirements.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, this part applies to the following persons, as specified in each subpart of this part:
(1) Holders of type certificates and supplemental type certificates.
(2) Applicants for type certificates and supplemental type certificates and changes to those certificates (including service bulletins describing design changes).
(3) Persons seeking design approval for airplane repairs, alterations, or modifications that may affect airworthiness.
(4) Holders of type certificates and their licensees producing new airplanes.
(c) An applicant for approval of a design change is not required to comply with any applicable airworthiness requirement of this part if the applicant elects or is required to comply with a corresponding amendment to part 25 of this chapter that is adopted concurrently or after that airworthiness requirement.
(d) For the purposes of this part, the word “type certificate” does not include supplemental type certificates.
§ 26.3
[Reserved]
§ 26.5
Applicability table.
Table 1 of this section provides an overview of the applicability of this part. It provides guidance in identifying what sections apply to various types of entities. The specific applicability of each subpart and section is specified in the regulatory text.
Table 1—Applicability of Part 26 Rules
Applicable sections
Subpart B EAPAS/FTS
Subpart C widespread fatigue damage
Subpart D fuel tank
flammability
Subpart E damage
tolerance data
Effective date of rule
December 10, 2007
January 14, 2011
December 26, 2008
January 11, 2008
Existing
1
TC Holders
26.11
26.21
26.33
26.43, 26.45, 26.49
Pending
1
TC Applicants
26.11
26.21
26.37
26.43, 26.45
Future
2
TC applicants
N/A
N/A
N/A
26.43
Existing
1
STC Holders
N/A
26.21
26.35
26.47, 26.49
Pending
1
STC/ATC applicants
26.11
26.21
26.35
26.45, 26.47, 26.49
Future
2
STC/ATC applicants
26.11
26.21
26.35
26.45, 26.47, 26.49
Manufacturers
N/A
N/A
26.39
N/A
1
As of the effective date of the identified rule.
2
Application made after the effective date of the identified rule.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-24281, 75 FR 69782, Nov. 15, 2010]

# Subpart B—Enhanced Airworthiness Program for Airplane Systems
§ 26.11
Electrical wiring interconnection systems (EWIS) maintenance program.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, this section applies to transport category, turbine-powered airplanes with a type certificate issued after January 1, 1958, that, as a result of the original certification, or later increase in capacity, have—
(1) A maximum type-certificated passenger capacity of 30 or more or
(2) A maximum payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or more.
(b) Holders of, and applicants for, type certificates, as identified in paragraph (d) of this section must develop Instructions for Continued Airworthiness (ICA) for the representative airplane's EWIS in accordance with part 25, Appendix H paragraphs H25.5(a)(1) and (b) of this subchapter in effect on December 10, 2007 for each affected type design, and submit those ICA for review and approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office. For purposes of this section, the “representative airplane” is the configuration of each model series airplane that incorporates all variations of EWIS used in production on that series airplane, and all TC-holder-designed modifications mandated by airworthiness directive as of the effective date of this rule. Each person specified in paragraph (d) of this section must also review any fuel tank system ICA developed by that person to comply with SFAR 88 to ensure compatibility with the EWIS ICA, including minimizing redundant requirements.
(c) Applicants for amendments to type certificates and supplemental type certificates, as identified in paragraph (d) of this section, must:
(1) Evaluate whether the design change for which approval is sought necessitates a revision to the ICA required by paragraph (b) of this section to comply with the requirements of Appendix H, paragraphs H25.5(a)(1) and (b). If so, the applicant must develop and submit the necessary revisions for review and approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office.
(2) Ensure that any revised EWIS ICA remain compatible with any fuel tank system ICA previously developed to comply with SFAR 88 and any redundant requirements between them are minimized.
(d) The following persons must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable, before the dates specified.
(1) Holders of type certificates (TC): December 10, 2009.
(2) Applicants for TCs, and amendments to TCs (including service bulletins describing design changes), if the date of application was before December 10, 2007 and the certificate was
issued on or after December 10, 2007: December 10, 2009 or the date the certificate is issued, whichever occurs later.
(3) Unless compliance with § 25.1729 of this subchapter is required or elected, applicants for amendments to TCs, if the application was filed on or after December 10, 2007: December 10, 2009, or the date of approval of the certificate, whichever occurs later.
(4) Applicants for supplemental type certificates (STC), including changes to existing STCs, if the date of application was before December 10, 2007 and the certificate was issued on or after December 10, 2007: June 7, 2010, or the date of approval of the certificate, whichever occurs later.
(5) Unless compliance with § 25.1729 of this subchapter is required or elected, applicants for STCs, including changes to existing STCs, if the application was filed on or after December 10, 2007, June 7, 2010, or the date of approval of the certificate, whichever occurs later.
(e) Each person identified in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(4) of this section must submit to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for approval a compliance plan by March 10, 2008. The compliance plan must include the following information:
(1) A proposed project schedule, identifying all major milestones, for meeting the compliance dates specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) A proposed means of compliance with this section, identifying all required submissions, including all compliance items as mandated in part 25, Appendix H paragraphs H25.5(a)(1) and (b) of this subchapter in effect on December 10, 2007, and all data to be developed to substantiate compliance.
(3) A proposal for submitting a draft of all compliance items required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section for review by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office not less than 60 days before the compliance time specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(4) A proposal for how the approved ICA will be made available to affected persons.
(f) Each person specified in paragraph (e) must implement the compliance plan, or later approved revisions, as approved in compliance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) This section does not apply to the following airplane models:
(1) Lockheed L-188
(2) Bombardier CL-44
(3) Mitsubishi YS-11
(4) British Aerospace BAC 1-11
(5) Concorde
(6) deHavilland D.H. 106 Comet 4C
(7) VFW—Vereinigte Flugtechnische Werk VFW-614
(8) Illyushin Aviation IL 96T
(9) Bristol Aircraft Britannia 305
(10) Handley Page Herald Type 300
(11) Avions Marcel Dassault—Breguet Aviation Mercure 100C
(12) Airbus Caravelle
(13) Lockheed L-300
[Amdt. 26-0, 72 FR 63409, Nov. 8, 2007; 72 FR 68618, Dec. 5, 2007, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]

# Subpart C—Aging Airplane Safety—Widespread Fatigue Damage

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2006-24281, 75 FR 69782, Nov. 15, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 26.21
Limit of validity.
(a)
Applicability.
Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, this section applies to transport category, turbine-powered airplanes with a maximum takeoff gross weight greater than 75,000 pounds and a type certificate issued after January 1, 1958, regardless of whether the maximum takeoff gross weight is a result of an original type certificate or a later design change. This section also applies to transport category, turbine-powered airplanes with a type certificate issued after January 1, 1958, if a design change approval for which application is made after January 14, 2011 has the effect of reducing the maximum takeoff gross weight from greater than 75,000 pounds to 75,000 pounds or less.
(b)
Limit of validity.
Each person identified in paragraph (c) of this section must comply with the following requirements:
(1) Establish a limit of validity of the engineering data that supports the
structural maintenance program (hereafter referred to as LOV) that corresponds to the period of time, stated as a number of total accumulated flight cycles or flight hours or both, during which it is demonstrated that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in the airplane. This demonstration must include an evaluation of airplane structural configurations and be supported by test evidence and analysis at a minimum and, if available, service experience, or service experience and teardown inspection results, of high-time airplanes of similar structural design, accounting for differences in operating conditions and procedures. The airplane structural configurations to be evaluated include—
(i) All model variations and derivatives approved under the type certificate; and
(ii) All structural modifications to and replacements for the airplane structural configurations specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, mandated by airworthiness directives as of January 14, 2011.
(2) If the LOV depends on performance of maintenance actions for which service information has not been mandated by airworthiness directive as of January 14, 2011, submit the following to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office:
(i) For those maintenance actions for which service information has been issued as of the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (c) of this section, a list identifying each of those actions.
(ii) For those maintenance actions for which service information has not been issued as of the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (c) of this section, a list identifying each of those actions and a binding schedule for providing in a timely manner the necessary service information for those actions. Once the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office approves this schedule, each person identified in paragraph (c) of this section must comply with that schedule.
(3) Unless previously accomplished, establish an Airworthiness Limitations section (ALS) for each airplane structural configuration evaluated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(4) Incorporate the applicable LOV established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section into the ALS for each airplane structural configuration evaluated under paragraph (b)(1) and submit it to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for approval.
(c)
Persons who must comply and compliance dates.
The following persons must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section by the specified date.
(1) Holders of type certificates (TC) of airplane models identified in Table 1 of this section: No later than the applicable date identified in Table 1 of this section.
(2) Applicants for TCs, if the date of application was before January 14, 2011: No later than the latest of the following dates:
(i) January 14, 2016;
(ii) The date the certificate is issued; or
(iii) The date specified in the plan approved under § 25.571(b) for completion of the full-scale fatigue testing and demonstrating that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in the airplane structure.
(3) Applicants for amendments to TCs, with the exception of amendments to TCs specified in paragraphs (c)(6) or (c)(7) of this section, if the original TC was issued before January 14, 2011: No later than the latest of the following dates:
(i) January 14, 2016;
(ii) The date the amended certificate is issued; or
(iii) The date specified in the plan approved under § 25.571(b) for completion of the full-scale fatigue testing and demonstrating that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in the airplane structure.
(4) Applicants for amendments to TCs, with the exception of amendments to TCs specified in paragraphs (c)(6) or (c)(7) of this section, if the application for the original TC was made before January 14, 2011 but the TC was not issued before January 14, 2011: No later than the latest of the following dates:
(i) January 14, 2016;
(ii) The date the amended certificate is issued; or
(iii) The date specified in the plan approved under § 25.571(b) for completion
of the full-scale fatigue testing and demonstrating that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in the airplane structure.
(5) Holders of either supplemental type certificates (STCs) or amendments to TCs that increase maximum takeoff gross weights from 75,000 pounds or less to greater than 75,000 pounds: No later than July 14, 2012.
(6) Applicants for either STCs or amendments to TCs that increase maximum takeoff gross weights from 75,000 pounds or less to greater than 75,000 pounds: No later than the latest of the following dates:
(i) July 14, 2012;
(ii) The date the certificate is issued; or
(iii) The date specified in the plan approved under § 25.571(b) for completion of the full-scale fatigue testing and demonstrating that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in the airplane structure.
(7) Applicants for either STCs or amendments to TCs that decrease maximum takeoff gross weights from greater than 75,000 pounds to 75,000 pounds or less, if the date of application was after January 14, 2011: No later than the latest of the following dates:
(i) July 14, 2012;
(ii) The date the certificate is issued; or
(iii) The date specified in the plan approved under § 25.571(b) for completion of the full-scale fatigue testing and demonstrating that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in the airplane structure.
(d)
Compliance plan.
Each person identified in paragraph (e) of this section must submit a compliance plan consisting of the following:
(1) A proposed project schedule, identifying all major milestones, for meeting the compliance dates specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) A proposed means of compliance with paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.
(3) A proposal for submitting a draft of all compliance items required by paragraph (b) of this section for review by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office not less than 60 days before the compliance date specified in paragraph (c) of this section, as applicable.
(4) A proposal for how the LOV will be distributed.
(e)
Compliance dates for compliance plans.
The following persons must submit the compliance plan described in paragraph (d) of this section to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office by the specified date.
(1) Holders of type certificates: No later than April 14, 2011.
(2) Applicants for TCs and amendments to TCs, with the exception of amendments to TCs specified in paragraphs (e)(4), (e)(5), or (e)(6) of this section, if the date of application was before January 14, 2011 but the TC or TC amendment was not issued before January 14, 2011: No later than April 14, 2011.
(3) Holders of either supplemental type certificates or amendments to TCs that increase maximum takeoff gross weights from 75,000 pounds or less to greater than 75,000 pounds: No later than April 14, 2011.
(4) Applicants for either STCs or amendments to TCs that increase maximum takeoff gross weights from 75,000 pounds or less to greater than 75,000 pounds, if the date of application was before January 14, 2011: No later than April 14, 2011.
(5) Applicants for either STCs or amendments to TCs that increase maximum takeoff gross weights from 75,000 pounds or less to greater than 75,000 pounds, if the date of application is on or after January 14, 2011: Within 90 days after the date of application.
(6) Applicants for either STCs or amendments to TCs that decrease maximum takeoff gross weights from greater than 75,000 pounds to 75,000 pounds or less, if the date of application is on or after January 14, 2011: Within 90 days after the date of application.
(f)
Compliance plan implementation.
Each affected person must implement the compliance plan as approved in compliance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(g)
Exceptions.
This section does not apply to the following airplane models:
(1) Bombardier BD-700.
(2) Bombardier CL-44.
(3) Gulfstream GV.
(4) Gulfstream GV-SP.
(5) British Aerospace, Aircraft Group, and Societe Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale Concorde Type 1.
(6) British Aerospace (Commercial Aircraft) Ltd., Armstrong Whitworth Argosy A.W. 650 Series 101.
(7) British Aerospace Airbus, Ltd., BAC 1-11.
(8) BAE Systems (Operations) Ltd., BAe 146.
(9) BAE Systems (Operations) Ltd., Avro 146.
(10) Lockheed 300-50A01 (USAF C141A).
(11) Boeing 707.
(12) Boeing 720.
(13) deHavilland D.H. 106 Comet 4C.
(14) Ilyushin Aviation IL-96T.
(15) Bristol Aircraft Britannia 305.
(16) Avions Marcel Dassault-Breguet Aviation Mercure 100C.
(17) Airbus Caravelle.
(18) D
R Nevada, LLC, Convair Model 22.
(19) D
R Nevada, LLC, Convair Model 23M.
Table 1—Compliance Dates for Affected Airplanes
Airplane model
(all existing
1
models)
Compliance date—
(months after January 14, 2011)
Airbus:
A300 Series
18
A310 Series, A300-600 Series
48
A318 Series
48
A319 Series
48
A320 Series
48
A321 Series
48
A330-200, -200 Freighter, -300 Series
48
A340-200, -300, -500, -600 Series
48
A380-800 Series
60
Boeing:
717
48
727 (all series)
18
737 (Classics): 737-100, -200, -200C, -300, -400, -500
18
737 (NG): 737-600, -700, -700C, -800, -900, -900ER
48
747 (Classics): 747-100, -100B, -100B SUD, -200B, -200C, -200F, -300, 747SP, 747SR
18
747-400: 747-400, -400D, -400F
48
757
48
767
48
777-200, -300
48
777-200LR, 777-300ER, 777F
60
Bombardier:
CL-600: 2D15 (Regional Jet Series 705), 2D24 (Regional Jet Series 900)
60
Embraer:
ERJ 170
60
ERJ 190
60
Fokker:
F.28 Mark 0070, Mark 0100
18
Lockheed:
L-1011
18
188
18
382 (all series)
18
McDonnell Douglas:
DC-8, -8F
18
DC-9
18
MD-80 (DC-9-81, -82, -83, -87, MD-88)
18
MD-90
48
DC-10
18
MD-10
48
MD-11, -11F
48
All Other Airplane Models Listed on a Type Certificate as of January 14, 2011
60
1
Type certificated as of January 14, 2011.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-24281, 75 FR 69782, Nov. 15, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 30878, May 24, 2012; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 26.23
Extended limit of validity.
(a)
Applicability.
Any person may apply to extend a limit of validity of the engineering data that supports the
structural maintenance program (hereafter referred to as LOV) approved under § 25.571 of this subchapter, § 26.21, or this section. Extending an LOV is a major design change. The applicant must comply with the relevant provisions of subparts D or E of part 21 of this subchapter and paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Extended limit of validity.
Each person applying for an extended LOV must comply with the following requirements:
(1) Establish an extended LOV that corresponds to the period of time, stated as a number of total accumulated flight cycles or flight hours or both, during which it is demonstrated that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in the airplane. This demonstration must include an evaluation of airplane structural configurations and be supported by test evidence and analysis at a minimum and, if available, service experience, or service experience and teardown inspection results, of high-time airplanes of similar structural design, accounting for differences in operating conditions and procedures. The airplane structural configurations to be evaluated include—
(i) All model variations and derivatives approved under the type certificate for which approval for an extension is sought; and
(ii) All structural modifications to and replacements for the airplane structural configurations specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, mandated by airworthiness directive, up to the date of approval of the extended LOV.
(2) Establish a revision or supplement, as applicable, to the Airworthiness Limitations section (ALS) of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 25.1529 of this subchapter, and submit it to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for approval. The revised ALS or supplement to the ALS must include the applicable extended LOV established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) Develop the maintenance actions determined by the WFD evaluation performed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to be necessary to preclude WFD from occurring before the airplane reaches the proposed extended LOV. These maintenance actions must be documented as airworthiness limitation items in the ALS and submitted to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for approval.
[Docket No. FAA-2006-24281, 75 FR 69782, Nov. 15, 2010, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]

# Subpart D—Fuel Tank Flammability

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2005-22997, 73 FR 42499, July 21, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 26.31
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart—
(a)
Fleet Average Flammability Exposure
has the meaning defined in Appendix N of part 25 of this chapter.
(b)
Normally Emptied
means a fuel tank other than a Main Fuel Tank. Main Fuel Tank is defined in 14 CFR 25.981(b).
§ 26.33
Holders of type certificates: Fuel tank flammability.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to U.S. type certificated transport category, turbine-powered airplanes, other than those designed solely for all-cargo operations, for which the State of Manufacture issued the original certificate of airworthiness or export airworthiness approval on or after January 1, 1992, that, as a result of original type certification or later increase in capacity have:
(1) A maximum type-certificated passenger capacity of 30 or more, or
(2) A maximum payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or more.
(b)
Flammability Exposure Analysis.
(1)
General.
Within 150 days after December 26, 2008, holders of type certificates must submit for approval to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office a flammability exposure analysis of all fuel tanks defined in the type design, as well as all design variations approved under the type certificate that affect flammability exposure. This analysis must be conducted in accordance with Appendix N of part 25 of this chapter.
(2)
Exception.
This paragraph (b) does not apply to—
(i) Fuel tanks for which the type certificate holder has notified the FAA under paragraph (g) of this section that it will provide design changes and service instructions for Flammability Reduction Means or an Ignition Mitigation Means (IMM) meeting the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) Fuel tanks substantiated to be conventional unheated aluminum wing tanks.
(c)
Design Changes.
For fuel tanks with a Fleet Average Flammability Exposure exceeding 7 percent, one of the following design changes must be made.
(1)
Flammability Reduction Means (FRM).
A means must be provided to reduce the fuel tank flammability.
(i) Fuel tanks that are designed to be Normally Emptied must meet the flammability exposure criteria of Appendix M of part 25 of this chapter if any portion of the tank is located within the fuselage contour.
(ii) For all other fuel tanks, the FRM must meet all of the requirements of Appendix M of part 25 of this chapter, except, instead of complying with paragraph M25.1 of this appendix, the Fleet Average Flammability Exposure may not exceed 7 percent.
(2)
Ignition Mitigation Means (IMM).
A means must be provided to mitigate the effects of an ignition of fuel vapors within the fuel tank such that no damage caused by an ignition will prevent continued safe flight and landing.
(d)
Service Instructions.
No later than December 27, 2010, holders of type certificates required by paragraph (c) of this section to make design changes must meet the requirements specified in either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section. The required service instructions must identify each airplane subject to the applicability provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
(1)
FRM.
The type certificate holder must submit for approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office design changes and service instructions for installation of fuel tank flammability reduction means (FRM) meeting the criteria of paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
IMM.
The type certificate holder must submit for approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office design changes and service instructions for installation of fuel tank IMM that comply with 14 CFR 25.981(c) in effect on December 26, 2008.
(e)
Instructions for Continued Airworthiness (ICA).
No later than December 27, 2010, holders of type certificates required by paragraph (c) of this section to make design changes must submit for approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office, critical design configuration control limitations (CDCCL), inspections, or other procedures to prevent increasing the flammability exposure of any tanks equipped with FRM above that permitted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and to prevent degradation of the performance of any IMM provided under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. These CDCCL, inspections, and procedures must be included in the Airworthiness Limitations Section (ALS) of the ICA required by 14 CFR 25.1529 or paragraph (f) of this section. Unless shown to be impracticable, visible means to identify critical features of the design must be placed in areas of the airplane where foreseeable maintenance actions, repairs, or alterations may compromise the critical design configuration limitations. These visible means must also be identified as a CDCCL.
(f)
Airworthiness Limitations.
Unless previously accomplished, no later than December 27, 2010, holders of type certificates affected by this section must establish an ALS of the maintenance manual or ICA for each airplane configuration evaluated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and submit it to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for approval. The ALS must include a section that contains the CDCCL, inspections, or other procedures developed under paragraph (e) of this section.
(g)
Compliance Plan for Flammability Exposure Analysis.
Within 90 days after December 26, 2008, each holder of a type certificate required to comply with paragraph (b) of this section must submit to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office a compliance plan consisting of the following:
(1) A proposed project schedule for submitting the required analysis, or a determination that compliance with
paragraph (b) of this section is not required because design changes and service instructions for FRM or IMM will be developed and made available as required by this section.
(2) A proposed means of compliance with paragraph (b) of this section, if applicable.
(h)
Compliance Plan for Design Changes and Service Instructions.
Within 210 days after December 26, 2008, each holder of a type certificate required to comply with paragraph (d) of this section must submit to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office a compliance plan consisting of the following:
(1) A proposed project schedule, identifying all major milestones, for meeting the compliance dates specified in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section.
(2) A proposed means of compliance with paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section.
(3) A proposal for submitting a draft of all compliance items required by paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section for review by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office not less than 60 days before the compliance times specified in those paragraphs.
(4) A proposal for how the approved service information and any necessary modification parts will be made available to affected persons.
(i) Each affected type certificate holder must implement the compliance plans, or later revisions, as approved under paragraph (g) and (h) of this section.
[Doc. No. FAA-2005-22997, 73 FR 42499, July 21, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 26-3, 74 FR 31619, July 2, 2009; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 26.35
Changes to type certificates affecting fuel tank flammability.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to holders and applicants for approvals of the following design changes to any airplane subject to 14 CFR 26.33(a):
(1) Any fuel tank designed to be Normally Emptied if the fuel tank installation was approved pursuant to a supplemental type certificate or a field approval before December 26, 2008;
(2) Any fuel tank designed to be Normally Emptied if an application for a supplemental type certificate or an amendment to a type certificate was made before December 26, 2008 and if the approval was not issued before December 26, 2008; and
(3) If an application for a supplemental type certificate or an amendment to a type certificate is made on or after December 26, 2008, any of the following design changes:
(i) Installation of a fuel tank designed to be Normally Emptied,
(ii) Changes to existing fuel tank capacity, or
(iii) Changes that may increase the flammability exposure of an existing fuel tank for which FRM or IMM is required by § 26.33(c).
(b)
Flammability Exposure Analysis
—(1)
General.
By the times specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section, each person subject to this section must submit for approval a flammability exposure analysis of the auxiliary fuel tanks or other affected fuel tanks, as defined in the type design, to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office. This analysis must be conducted in accordance with Appendix N of part 25 of this chapter.
(i) Holders of supplemental type certificates and field approvals: Within 12 months of December 26, 2008,
(ii) Applicants for supplemental type certificates and for amendments to type certificates: Within 12 months after December 26, 2008, or before the certificate is issued, whichever occurs later.
(2)
Exception.
This paragraph does not apply to—
(i) Fuel tanks for which the type certificate holder, supplemental type certificate holder, or field approval holder has notified the FAA under paragraph (f) of this section that it will provide design changes and service instructions for an IMM meeting the requirements of § 25.981(c) in effect December 26, 2008; and
(ii) Fuel tanks substantiated to be conventional unheated aluminum wing tanks.
(c)
Impact Assessment.
By the times specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, each person subject to paragraph (a)(1) of this section holding an approval for installation of a Normally Emptied fuel tank on an airplane
model listed in Table 1 of this section, and each person subject to paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, must submit for approval to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office an assessment of the fuel tank system, as modified by their design change. The assessment must identify any features of the design change that compromise any critical design configuration control limitation (CDCCL) applicable to any airplane on which the design change is eligible for installation.
(1) Holders of supplemental type certificates and field approvals: Before June 26, 2011.
(2) Applicants for supplemental type certificates and for amendments to type certificates: Before June 26, 2011 or before the certificate is issued, whichever occurs later.
Table 1
Model—Boeing
747 Series
737 Series
777 Series
767 Series
757 Series
Model—Airbus
A318, A319, A320, A321 Series
A300, A310 Series
A330, A340 Series
(d)
Design Changes and Service Instructions.
By the times specified in paragraph (e) of this section, each person subject to this section must meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section, as applicable.
(1) For holders and applicants subject to paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(3)(iii) of this section, if the assessment required by paragraph (c) of this section identifies any features of the design change that compromise any CDCCL applicable to any airplane on which the design change is eligible for installation, the holder or applicant must submit for approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office design changes and service instructions for Flammability Impact Mitigation Means (FIMM) that would bring the design change into compliance with the CDCCL. Any fuel tank modified as required by this paragraph must also be evaluated as required by paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Applicants subject to paragraph (a)(2), or (a)(3)(i) of this section must comply with the requirements of 14 CFR 25.981, in effect on December 26, 2008.
(3) Applicants subject to paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section must comply with the requirements of 14 CFR 26.33.
(e)
Compliance Times for Design Changes and Service Instructions.
The following persons subject to this section must comply with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section at the specified times.
(1) Holders of supplemental type certificates and field approvals: Before December 26, 2012.
(2) Applicants for supplemental type certificates and for amendments to type certificates: Before December 26, 2012, or before the certificate is issued, whichever occurs later.
(f)
Compliance Planning.
By the applicable date specified in Table 2 of this section, each person subject to paragraph (a)(1) of this section must submit for approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office compliance plans for the flammability exposure analysis required by paragraph (b) of this section, the impact assessment required by paragraph (c) of this section, and the design changes and service instructions required by paragraph (d) of this section. Each person's compliance plans must include the following:
(1) A proposed project schedule for submitting the required analysis or impact assessment.
(2) A proposed means of compliance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) For the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, a proposal for submitting a draft of all design changes, if any are required, and Airworthiness Limitations (including CDCCLs) for review by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office not less than 60 days before the compliance time specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(4) For the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, a proposal for how the approved service information and
any necessary modification parts will be made available to affected persons.
Table 2—Compliance Planning Dates
Flammability exposure analysis plan
Impact assessment plan
Design changes and service instructions plan
STC and Field Approval Holders
March 26, 2009
February 26, 2011
August 26, 2011.
(g) Each person subject to this section must implement the compliance plans, or later revisions, as approved under paragraph (f) of this section.
[Doc. No. FAA-2005-22997, 73 FR 42499, July 21, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 26-3, 74 FR 31619, July 2, 2009; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 26.37
Pending type certification projects: Fuel tank flammability.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to any new type certificate for a transport category airplane, if the application was made before December 26, 2008, and if the certificate was not issued before December 26, 2008. This section applies only if the airplane would have—
(1) A maximum type-certificated passenger capacity of 30 or more, or
(2) A maximum payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or more.
(b) If the application was made on or after June 6, 2001, the requirements of 14 CFR 25.981 in effect on December 26, 2008, apply.
[Doc. No. FAA-2005-22997, 73 FR 42499, July 21, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 26-3, 74 FR 31619, July 2, 2009]
§ 26.39
Newly produced airplanes: Fuel tank flammability.
(a)
Applicability:
This section applies to Boeing model airplanes specified in Table 1 of this section, including passenger and cargo versions of each model, when application is made for original certificates of airworthiness or export airworthiness approvals after December 27, 2010.
Table 1
Model—Boeing
747 Series
737 Series
777 Series
767 Series
(b) Any fuel tank meeting all of the criteria stated in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section must have flammability reduction means (FRM) or ignition mitigation means (IMM) that meet the requirements of 14 CFR 25.981 in effect on December 26, 2008.
(1) The fuel tank is Normally Emptied.
(2) Any portion of the fuel tank is located within the fuselage contour.
(3) The fuel tank exceeds a Fleet Average Flammability Exposure of 7 percent.
(c) All other fuel tanks that exceed an Fleet Average Flammability Exposure of 7 percent must have an IMM that meets 14 CFR 25.981(d) in effect on December 26, 2008, or an FRM that meets all of the requirements of Appendix M to this part, except instead of complying with paragraph M25.1 of that appendix, the Fleet Average Flammability Exposure may not exceed 7 percent.
[Doc. No. FAA-2005-22997, 73 FR 42499, July 21, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 26-3, 74 FR 31619, July 2, 2009]

# Subpart E—Aging Airplane Safety—Damage Tolerance Data for Repairs and Alterations

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2005-21693, 72 FR 70505, Dec. 12, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 26.41
Definitions.
Affects (or Affected)
means structure has been physically repaired, altered, or modified, or the structural loads acting on the structure have been increased or redistributed.
Baseline structure
means structure that is designed under the original type certificate or amended type certificate for that airplane model.
Damage Tolerance Evaluation (DTE)
means a process that leads to a determination of maintenance actions necessary to detect or preclude fatigue cracking that could contribute to a catastrophic failure. As applied to repairs and alterations, a DTE includes the evaluation both of the repair or alteration and of the fatigue critical structure affected by the repair or alteration.
Damage Tolerance Inspection (DTI)
means the inspection developed as a result of a DTE. A DTI includes the areas to be inspected, the inspection method, the inspection procedures, including acceptance and rejection criteria, the threshold, and any repeat intervals associated with those inspections. The DTI may specify a time limit when a repair or alteration needs to be replaced or modified. If the DTE concludes that DT-based supplemental structural inspections are not necessary, the DTI contains a statement to that effect.
DT data
mean DTE documentation and the DTI.
DTE documentation
means data that identify the evaluated fatigue critical structure, the basic assumptions applied in a DTE, and the results of a DTE.
Fatigue critical structure
means airplane structure that is susceptible to fatigue cracking that could contribute to a catastrophic failure, as determined in accordance with § 25.571 of this chapter. Fatigue critical structure includes structure, which, if repaired or altered, could be susceptible to fatigue cracking and contribute to a catastrophic failure. Such structure may be part of the baseline structure or part of an alteration.
Implementation schedule
consists of documentation that establishes the timing for accomplishing the necessary actions for developing DT data for repairs and alterations, and for incorporating those data into an operator's continuing airworthiness maintenance program. The documentation must identify times when actions must be taken as specific numbers of airplane flight hours, flight cycles, or both.
Published repair data
mean instructions for accomplishing repairs, which are published for general use in structural repair manuals and service bulletins (or equivalent types of documents).
§ 26.43
Holders of and applicants for type certificates—Repairs.
(a)
Applicability.
Except as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, this section applies to transport category, turbine powered airplane models with a type certificate issued after January 1, 1958, that as a result of original type certification or later increase in capacity have—
(1) A maximum type certificated passenger seating capacity of 30 or more; or
(2) A maximum payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or more.
(b)
List of fatigue critical baseline structure.
For airplanes specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the holder of or applicant for a type certificate must—
(1) Identify fatigue critical baseline structure for all airplane model variations and derivatives approved under the type certificate; and
(2) Develop and submit to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for review and approval, a list of the structure identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and, upon approval, make the list available to persons required to comply with § 26.47 and §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(c)
Existing and future published repair data.
For repair data published by a holder of a type certificate that is current as of January 11, 2008 and for all later published repair data, the holder of a type certificate must—
(1) Review the repair data and identify each repair specified in the data that affects fatigue critical baseline structure identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(2) Perform a DTE and develop the DTI for each repair identified under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless previously accomplished;
(3) Submit the DT data to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval; and
(4) Upon approval, make the DTI available to persons required to comply
with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(d)
Future repair data not published.
For repair data developed by a holder of a type certificate that are approved after January 11, 2008 and are not published, the type certificate holder must accomplish the following for repairs specified in the repair data that affect fatigue critical baseline structure:
(1) Perform a DTE and develop the DTI.
(2) Submit the DT data required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section for review and approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees.
(3) Upon approval, make the approved DTI available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(e)
Repair evaluation guidelines.
Except for airplane models whose type certificate is issued after January 11, 2008, holders of a type certificate for each airplane model subject to this section must—
(1) Develop repair evaluation guidelines for operators' use that include—
(i) A process for conducting surveys of affected airplanes that will enable identification and documentation of all existing repairs that affect fatigue critical baseline structure identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and § 26.45(b)(2);
(ii) A process that will enable operators to obtain the DTI for repairs identified under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section; and
(iii) An implementation schedule for repairs covered by the repair evaluation guidelines. The implementation schedule must identify times when actions must be taken as specific numbers of airplane flight hours, flight cycles, or both.
(2) Submit the repair evaluation guidelines to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for review and approval.
(3) Upon approval, make the guidelines available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(4) If the guidelines direct the operator to obtain assistance from the holder of a type certificate, make such assistance available in accordance with the implementation schedule.
(f)
Compliance times.
Holders of type certificates must submit the following to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval by the specified compliance time:
(1) The identified list of fatigue critical baseline structure required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be submitted no later than 180 days after January 11, 2008 or before issuance of the type certificate, whichever occurs later.
(2) For published repair data that are current as of January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (c)(3) of this section must be submitted by June 30, 2009.
(3) For repair data published after January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (c)(3) of this section must be submitted before FAA approval of the repair data.
(4) For unpublished repair data developed after January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be submitted within 12 months of the airplane's return to service or in accordance with a schedule approved by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office.
(5) The repair evaluation guidelines required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be submitted by December 30, 2009.
(g)
Exceptions.
The requirements of this section do not apply to the following transport category airplane models:
(1) Convair CV-240, 340, 440, if modified to include turbine engines.
(2) Vickers Armstrong Viscount, TCDS No. A-814.
(3) Douglas DC-3, if modified to include turbine engines, TCDS No. A-618.
(4) Bombardier CL-44, TCDS No. 1A20.
(5) Mitsubishi YS-11, TCDS No. A1PC.
(6) British Aerospace BAC 1-11, TCDS No. A5EU.
(7) Concorde, TCDS No. A45EU.
(8) deHavilland D.H. 106 Comet 4C, TCDS No. 7A10.
(9) deHavilland DHC-7, TCDS No. A20EA.
(10) VFW-Vereinigte Flugtechnische Werk VFW-614, TCDS No. A39EU.
(11) Illyushin Aviation IL 96T, TCDS No. A54NM.
(12) Bristol Aircraft Britannia 305, TCDS No. 7A2.
(13) Handley Page Herald Type 300, TCDS No. A21N.
(14) Avions Marcel Dassault—Breguet Aviation Mercure 100C, TCDS No. A40EU.
(15) Airbus Caravelle, TCDS No. 7A6.
(16) Lockheed L-300, TCDS No. A2S0.
(17) Boeing 707-100/-200, TCDS No. 4A21.
(18) Boeing 707-300/-400, TCDS No. 4A26.
(19) Boeing 720, TCDS No. 4A28.
[Doc. No. FAA-2005-21693, 72 FR 70505, Dec. 12, 2007, as amended by Amdt. 26-4, 75 FR 11734, Mar. 12, 2010; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 26.45
Holders of type certificates—Alterations and repairs to alterations.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to transport category airplanes subject to § 26.43.
(b)
Fatigue critical alteration structure.
For existing and future alteration data developed by the holder of a type certificate, the holder must—
(1) Review alteration data and identify all alterations that affect fatigue critical baseline structure identified under § 26.43(b)(1);
(2) For each alteration identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, identify any fatigue critical alteration structure;
(3) Develop and submit to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for review and approval a list of the structure identified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(4) Upon approval, make the list required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(c)
DT Data.
For existing and future alteration data developed by the holder of a type certificate that affect fatigue critical baseline structure identified under § 26.43(b)(1), unless previously accomplished, the holder must—
(1) Perform a DTE and develop the DTI for the alteration and fatigue critical baseline structure that is affected by the alteration;
(2) Submit the DT data developed in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) of this section to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval; and
(3) Upon approval, make the DTI available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(d)
DT Data for Repairs Made to Alterations.
For existing and future repair data developed by a holder of a type certificate, the type certificate holder must—
(1) Review the repair data, and identify each repair that affects any fatigue critical alteration structure identified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(2) For each repair identified under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, unless previously accomplished, perform a DTE and develop DTI;
(3) Submit the DT data developed in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval; and
(4) Upon approval, make the DTI available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(e)
Compliance times.
Holders of type certificates must submit the following to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval by the specified compliance time:
(1) The list of fatigue critical alteration structure identified under paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be submitted—
(i) No later than 360 days after January 11, 2008, for alteration data approved before January 11, 2008.
(ii) No later than 30 days after March 12, 2010 or before initial approval of the alteration data, whichever occurs later, for alteration data approved on or after January 11, 2008.
(2) For alteration data developed and approved before January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (c)(2) of
this section must be submitted by June 30, 2009.
(3) For alteration data approved on or after January 11, 2008, DT data required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section must be submitted before initial approval of the alteration data.
(4) For repair data developed and approved before January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section must be submitted by June 30, 2009.
(5) For repair data developed and approved after January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section must be submitted within 12 months after initial approval of the repair data and before making the DT data available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
[Doc. No. FAA-2005-21693, 72 FR 70505, Dec. 12, 2007, as amended by Amdt. 26-4, 75 FR 11734, Mar. 12, 2010; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 26.47
Holders of and applicants for a supplemental type certificate—Alterations and repairs to alterations.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to transport category airplanes subject to § 26.43.
(b)
Fatigue critical alteration structure.
For existing structural alteration data approved under a supplemental certificate, the holder of the supplemental certificate must—
(1) Review the alteration data and identify all alterations that affect fatigue critical baseline structure identified under § 26.43(b)(1);
(2) For each alteration identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, identify any fatigue critical alteration structure;
(3) Develop and submit to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for review and approval a list of the structure identified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(4) Upon approval, make the list required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(c)
DT Data.
For existing and future alteration data developed by the holder of a supplemental type certificate that affect fatigue critical baseline structure identified under § 26.43(b)(1), unless previously accomplished, the holder of a supplemental type certificate must—
(1) Perform a DTE and develop the DTI for the alteration and fatigue critical baseline structure that is affected by the alteration;
(2) Submit the DT data developed in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) of this section to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval; and
(3) Upon approval, make the DTI available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(d)
DT Data for Repairs Made to Alterations.
For existing and future repair data developed by the holder of a supplemental holder of a supplemental type certificate, the holder of a supplemental type certificate must—
(1) Review the repair data, and identify each repair that affects any fatigue critical alteration structure identified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(2) For each repair identified under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, unless previously accomplished, perform a DTE and develop DTI;
(3) Submit the DT data developed in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval; and
(4) Upon approval, make the DTI available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(e)
Compliance times.
Holders of supplemental type certificates must submit the following to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval by the specified compliance time:
(1) The list of fatigue critical alteration structure required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be submitted no later than 360 days after January 11, 2008.
(2) For alteration data developed and approved before January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section must be submitted by June 30, 2009.
(3) For alteration data developed after January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section must be submitted before approval of the alteration data and making it available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
(4) For repair data developed and approved before January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section must be submitted by June 30, 2009.
(5) For repair data developed and approved after January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section, must be submitted within 12 months after initial approval of the repair data and before making the DT data available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.
[Docket No. FAA-2005-21693, 72 FR 70505, Dec. 12, 2007, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 26.49
Compliance plan.
(a)
Compliance plan.
Except for applicants for type certificates and supplemental type certificates whose applications are submitted after January 11, 2008, each person identified in §§ 26.43, 26.45, and 26.47, must submit a compliance plan consisting of the following:
(1) A project schedule identifying all major milestones for meeting the compliance times specified in §§ 26.43(f), 26.45(e), and 26.47(e), as applicable.
(2) A proposed means of compliance with §§ 26.43, 26.45, and 26.47, as applicable.
(3) A plan for submitting a draft of all compliance items required by this subpart for review by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office not less than 60 days before the applicable compliance date.
(b)
Compliance dates for compliance plans.
The following persons must submit the compliance plan described in paragraph (a) of this section to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for approval on the following schedule:
(1) For holders of type certificates, no later than 90 days after January 11, 2008.
(2) For holders of supplemental type certificates no later than 180 days after January 11, 2008.
(3) For applicants for changes to type certificates whose application are submitted before January 11, 2008, no later than 180 days after January 11, 2008.
(c)
Compliance Plan Implementation.
Each affected person must implement the compliance plan as approved in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.
[Docket No. FAA-2005-21693, 72 FR 70505, Dec. 12, 2007, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]
Pt. 27

# PART 27—AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: NORMAL CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
27.1
Applicability.
27.2
Special retroactive requirements.

# Subpart B—Flight

# General
27.21
Proof of compliance.
27.25
Weight limits.
27.27
Center of gravity limits.
27.29
Empty weight and corresponding center of gravity.
27.31
Removable ballast.
27.33
Main rotor speed and pitch limits.

# Performance
27.45
General.
27.49
Performance at minimum operating speed.
27.51
Takeoff.
27.65
Climb: all engines operating.
27.67
Climb: one engine inoperative.
27.71
Autorotation performance.
27.75
Landing.
27.87
Height-velocity envelope.

# Flight Characteristics
27.141
General.
27.143
Controllability and maneuverability.
27.151
Flight controls.
27.161
Trim control.
27.171
Stability: general.
27.173
Static longitudinal stability.
27.175
Demonstration of static longitudinal stability.
27.177
Static directional stability.

# Ground and Water Handling Characteristics
27.231
General.
27.235
Taxiing condition.
27.239
Spray characteristics.
27.241
Ground resonance.

# Miscellaneous Flight Requirements
27.251
Vibration.

# Subpart C—Strength Requirements

# General
27.301
Loads.
27.303
Factor of safety.
27.305
Strength and deformation.
27.307
Proof of structure.
27.309
Design limitations.

# Flight Loads
27.321
General.
27.337
Limit maneuvering load factor.
27.339
Resultant limit maneuvering loads.
27.341
Gust loads.
27.351
Yawing conditions.
27.361
Engine torque.

# Control Surface and System Loads
27.391
General.
27.395
Control system.
27.397
Limit pilot forces and torques.
27.399
Dual control system.
27.411
Ground clearance: tail rotor guard.
27.427
Unsymmetrical loads.

# Ground Loads
27.471
General.
27.473
Ground loading conditions and assumptions.
27.475
Tires and shock absorbers.
27.477
Landing gear arrangement.
27.479
Level landing conditions.
27.481
Tail-down landing conditions.
27.483
One-wheel landing conditions.
27.485
Lateral drift landing conditions.
27.493
Braked roll conditions.
27.497
Ground loading conditions: landing gear with tail wheels.
27.501
Ground loading conditions: landing gear with skids.
27.505
Ski landing conditions.

# Water Loads
27.521
Float landing conditions.

# Main Component Requirements
27.547
Main rotor structure.
27.549
Fuselage, landing gear, and rotor pylon structures.

# Emergency Landing Conditions
27.561
General.
27.562
Emergency landing dynamic conditions.
27.563
Structural ditching provisions.

# Fatigue Evaluation
27.571
Fatigue evaluation of flight structure.
27.573
Damage tolerance and fatigue evaluation of composite rotorcraft structures.

# Subpart D—Design and Construction

# General
27.601
Design.
27.602
Critical parts.
27.603
Materials.
27.605
Fabrication methods.
27.607
Fasteners.
27.609
Protection of structure.
27.610
Lightning and static electricity protection.
27.611
Inspection provisions.
27.613
Material strength properties and design values.
27.619
Special factors.
27.621
Casting factors.
27.623
Bearing factors.
27.625
Fitting factors.
27.629
Flutter.

# Rotors
27.653
Pressure venting and drainage of rotor blades.
27.659
Mass balance.
27.661
Rotor blade clearance.
27.663
Ground resonance prevention means.

# Control Systems
27.671
General.
27.672
Stability augmentation, automatic, and power-operated systems.
27.673
Primary flight control.
27.674
Interconnected controls.
27.675
Stops.
27.679
Control system locks.
27.681
Limit load static tests.
27.683
Operation tests.
27.685
Control system details.
27.687
Spring devices.
27.691
Autorotation control mechanism.
27.695
Power boost and power-operated control system.

# Landing Gear
27.723
Shock absorption tests.
27.725
Limit drop test.
27.727
Reserve energy absorption drop test.
27.729
Retracting mechanism.
27.731
Wheels.
27.733
Tires.
27.735
Brakes.
27.737
Skis.

# Floats and Hulls
27.751
Main float buoyancy.
27.753
Main float design.
27.755
Hulls.

# Personnel and Cargo Accommodations
27.771
Pilot compartment.
27.773
Pilot compartment view.
27.775
Windshields and windows.
27.777
Cockpit controls.
27.779
Motion and effect of cockpit controls.
27.783
Doors.
27.785
Seats, berths, litters, safety belts, and harnesses.
27.787
Cargo and baggage compartments.
27.801
Ditching.
27.805
Flight crew emergency exits.
27.807
Emergency exits.
27.831
Ventilation.
27.833
Heaters.

# Fire Protection
27.853
Compartment interiors.
27.855
Cargo and baggage compartments.
27.859
Heating systems.
27.861
Fire protection of structure, controls, and other parts.
27.863
Flammable fluid fire protection.

# External Loads
27.865
External loads.

# Miscellaneous
27.871
Leveling marks.
27.873
Ballast provisions.

# Subpart E—Powerplant

# General
27.901
Installation.
27.903
Engines.
27.907
Engine vibration.

# Rotor Drive System
27.917
Design.
27.921
Rotor brake.
27.923
Rotor drive system and control mechanism tests.
27.927
Additional tests.
27.931
Shafting critical speed.
27.935
Shafting joints.
27.939
Turbine engine operating characteristics.

# Fuel System
27.951
General.
27.952
Fuel system crash resistance.
27.953
Fuel system independence.
27.954
Fuel system lightning protection.
27.955
Fuel flow.
27.959
Unusable fuel supply.
27.961
Fuel system hot weather operation.
27.963
Fuel tanks: general.
27.965
Fuel tank tests.
27.967
Fuel tank installation.
27.969
Fuel tank expansion space.
27.971
Fuel tank sump.
27.973
Fuel tank filler connection.
27.975
Fuel tank vents.
27.977
Fuel tank outlet.

# Fuel System Components
27.991
Fuel pumps.
27.993
Fuel system lines and fittings.
27.995
Fuel valves.
27.997
Fuel strainer or filter.
27.999
Fuel system drains.

# Oil System
27.1011
Engines: General.
27.1013
Oil tanks.
27.1015
Oil tank tests.
27.1017
Oil lines and fittings.
27.1019
Oil strainer or filter.
27.1021
Oil system drains.
27.1027
Transmissions and gearboxes: General.

# Cooling
27.1041
General.
27.1043
Cooling tests.
27.1045
Cooling test procedures.

# Induction System
27.1091
Air induction.
27.1093
Induction system icing protection.

# Exhaust System
27.1121
General.
27.1123
Exhaust piping.

# Powerplant Controls and Accessories
27.1141
Powerplant controls: general.
27.1143
Engine controls.
27.1145
Ignition switches.
27.1147
Mixture controls.
27.1151
Rotor brake controls.
27.1163
Powerplant accessories.

# Powerplant Fire Protection
27.1183
Lines, fittings, and components.
27.1185
Flammable fluids.
27.1187
Ventilation and drainage.
27.1189
Shutoff means.
27.1191
Firewalls.
27.1193
Cowling and engine compartment covering.
27.1194
Other surfaces.
27.1195
Fire detector systems.

# Subpart F—Equipment

# General
27.1301
Function and installation.
27.1303
Flight and navigation instruments.
27.1305
Powerplant instruments.
27.1307
Miscellaneous equipment.
27.1309
Equipment, systems, and installations.
27.1316
Electrical and electronic system lightning protection.
27.1317
High-intensity Radiated Fields (HIRF) Protection.

# Instruments: Installation
27.1321
Arrangement and visibility.
27.1322
Warning, caution, and advisory lights.
27.1323
Airspeed indicating system.
27.1325
Static pressure systems.
27.1327
Magnetic direction indicator.
27.1329
Automatic pilot and flight guidance system.
27.1337
Powerplant instruments.

# Electrical Systems and Equipment
27.1351
General.
27.1353
Energy storage systems.
27.1357
Circuit protective devices.
27.1361
Master switch.
27.1365
Electric cables.
27.1367
Switches.

# Lights
27.1381
Instrument lights.
27.1383
Landing lights.
27.1385
Position light system installation.
27.1387
Position light system dihedral angles.
27.1389
Position light distribution and intensities.
27.1391
Minimum intensities in the horizontal plane of forward and rear position lights.
27.1393
Minimum intensities in any vertical plane of forward and rear position lights.
27.1395
Maximum intensities in overlapping beams of forward and rear position lights.
27.1397
Color specifications.
27.1399
Riding light.
27.1401
Anticollision light system.

# Safety Equipment
27.1411
General.
27.1413
Safety belts.
27.1415
Ditching equipment.
27.1419
Ice protection.
27.1435
Hydraulic systems.
27.1457
Cockpit voice recorders.
27.1459
Flight data recorders.
27.1461
Equipment containing high energy rotors.

# Subpart G—Operating Limitations and Information
27.1501
General.

# Operating Limitations
27.1503
Airspeed limitations: general.
27.1505
Never-exceed speed.
27.1509
Rotor speed.
27.1519
Weight and center of gravity.
27.1521
Powerplant limitations.
27.1523
Minimum flight crew.
27.1525
Kinds of operations.
27.1527
Maximum operating altitude.
27.1529
Instructions for Continued Airworthiness.

# Markings and Placards
27.1541
General.
27.1543
Instrument markings: general.
27.1545
Airspeed indicator.
27.1547
Magnetic direction indicator.
27.1549
Powerplant instruments.
27.1551
Oil quantity indicator.
27.1553
Fuel quantity indicator.
27.1555
Control markings.
27.1557
Miscellaneous markings and placards.
27.1559
Limitations placard.
27.1561
Safety equipment.
27.1565
Tail rotor.

# Rotorcraft Flight Manual and Approved Manual Material
27.1581
General.
27.1583
Operating limitations.
27.1585
Operating procedures.
27.1587
Performance information.
27.1589
Loading information.
Appendix A to Part 27—Instructions for Continued Airworthiness
Appendix B to Part 27—Airworthiness Criteria for Helicopter Instrument Flight
Appendix C to Part 27—Criteria for Category A
Appendix D to Part 27—HIRF Environments and Equipment HIRF Test Levels

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 40113, 44701-44702, 44704.

# Source:
Docket No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 27.1
Applicability.
(a) This part prescribes airworthiness standards for the issue of type certificates, and changes to those certificates, for normal category rotorcraft with maximum weights of 7,000 pounds or less and nine or less passenger seats.
(b) Each person who applies under Part 21 for such a certificate or change must show compliance with the applicable requirements of this part.
(c) Multiengine rotorcraft may be type certified as Category A provided the requirements referenced in appendix C of this part are met.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-33, 61 FR 21906, May 10, 1996; Amdt. 27-37, 64 FR 45094, Aug. 18, 1999]
§ 27.2
Special retroactive requirements.
(a) For each rotorcraft manufactured after September 16, 1992, each applicant must show that each occupant's seat is
equipped with a safety belt and shoulder harness that meets the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
(1) Each occupant's seat must have a combined safety belt and shoulder harness with a single-point release. Each pilot's combined safety belt and shoulder harness must allow each pilot, when seated with safety belt and shoulder harness fastened, to perform all functions necessary for flight operations. There must be a means to secure belts and harnesses, when not in use, to prevent interference with the operation of the rotorcraft and with rapid egress in an emergency.
(2) Each occupant must be protected from serious head injury by a safety belt plus a shoulder harness that will prevent the head from contacting any injurious object.
(3) The safety belt and shoulder harness must meet the static and dynamic strength requirements, if applicable, specified by the rotorcraft type certification basis.
(4) For purposes of this section, the date of manufacture is either—
(i) The date the inspection acceptance records, or equivalent, reflect that the rotorcraft is complete and meets the FAA-Approved Type Design Data; or
(ii) The date the foreign civil airworthiness authority certifies that the rotorcraft is complete and issues an original standard airworthiness certificate, or equivalent, in that country.
(b) For rotorcraft with a certification basis established prior to October 18, 1999—
(1) The maximum passenger seat capacity may be increased to eight or nine provided the applicant shows compliance with all the airworthiness requirements of this part in effect on October 18, 1999.
(2) The maximum weight may be increased to greater than 6,000 pounds provided—
(i) The number of passenger seats is not increased above the maximum number certificated on October 18, 1999, or
(ii) The applicant shows compliance with all of the airworthiness requirements of this part in effect on October 18, 1999.
[Doc. No. 26078, 56 FR 41051, Aug. 16, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 27-37, 64 FR 45094, Aug. 18, 1999]

# Subpart B—Flight

# General
§ 27.21
Proof of compliance.
Each requirement of this subpart must be met at each appropriate combination of weight and center of gravity within the range of loading conditions for which certification is requested. This must be shown—
(a) By tests upon a rotorcraft of the type for which certification is requested, or by calculations based on, and equal in accuracy to, the results of testing; and
(b) By systematic investigation of each required combination of weight and center of gravity if compliance cannot be reasonably inferred from combinations investigated.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44432, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.25
Weight limits.
(a)
Maximum weight.
The maximum weight (the highest weight at which compliance with each applicable requirement of this part is shown) must be established so that it is—
(1) Not more than—
(i) The highest weight selected by the applicant;
(ii) The design maximum weight (the highest weight at which compliance with each applicable structural loading condition of this part is shown);
(iii) The highest weight at which compliance with each applicable flight requirement of this part is shown; or
(iv) The highest weight in which the provisions of §§ 27.87 or 27.143(c)(1), or combinations thereof, are demonstrated if the weights and operating conditions (altitude and temperature) prescribed by those requirements cannot be met; and
(2) Not less than the sum of—
(i) The empty weight determined under § 27.29; and
(ii) The weight of usable fuel appropriate to the intended operation with full payload;
(iii) The weight of full oil capacity; and
(iv) For each seat, an occupant weight of 170 pounds or any lower weight for which certification is requested.
(b)
Minimum weight.
The minimum weight (the lowest weight at which compliance with each applicable requirement of this part is shown) must be established so that it is—
(1) Not more than the sum of—
(i) The empty weight determined under § 27.29; and
(ii) The weight of the minimum crew necessary to operate the rotorcraft, assuming for each crewmember a weight no more than 170 pounds, or any lower weight selected by the applicant or included in the loading instructions; and
(2) Not less than—
(i) The lowest weight selected by the applicant;
(ii) The design minimum weight (the lowest weight at which compliance with each applicable structural loading condition of this part is shown); or
(iii) The lowest weight at which compliance with each applicable flight requirement of this part is shown.
(c)
Total weight with jettisonable external load.
A total weight for the rotorcraft with a jettisonable external load attached that is greater than the maximum weight established under paragraph (a) of this section may be established for any rotorcraft-load combination if—
(1) The rotorcraft-load combination does not include human external cargo,
(2) Structural component approval for external load operations under either § 27.865 or under equivalent operational standards is obtained,
(3) The portion of the total weight that is greater than the maximum weight established under paragraph (a) of this section is made up only of the weight of all or part of the jettisonable external load,
(4) Structural components of the rotorcraft are shown to comply with the applicable structural requirements of this part under the increased loads and stresses caused by the weight increase over that established under paragraph (a) of this section, and
(5) Operation of the rotorcraft at a total weight greater than the maximum certificated weight established under paragraph (a) of this section is limited by appropriate operating limitations under § 27.865(a) and (d) of this part.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 29, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2324, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-36, 64 FR 43019, Aug. 6, 1999; Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 10998, Feb. 29, 2008; 73 FR 33876, June 16, 2008]
§ 27.27
Center of gravity limits.
The extreme forward and aft centers of gravity and, where critical, the extreme lateral centers of gravity must be established for each weight established under § 27.25. Such an extreme may not lie beyond—
(a) The extremes selected by the applicant;
(b) The extremes within which the structure is proven; or
(c) The extremes within which compliance with the applicable flight requirements is shown.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 962, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 27.29
Empty weight and corresponding center of gravity.
(a) The empty weight and corresponding center of gravity must be determined by weighing the rotorcraft without the crew and payload, but with—
(1) Fixed ballast;
(2) Unusable fuel; and
(3) Full operating fluids, including—
(i) Oil;
(ii) Hydraulic fluid; and
(iii) Other fluids required for normal operation of roto-craft systems, except water intended for injection in the engines.
(b) The condition of the rotorcraft at the time of determining empty weight must be one that is well defined and can be easily repeated, particularly
with respect to the weights of fuel, oil, coolant, and installed equipment.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2324, Jan. 16, 1978]
§ 27.31
Removable ballast.
Removable ballast may be used in showing compliance with the flight requirements of this subpart.
§ 27.33
Main rotor speed and pitch limits.
(a)
Main rotor speed limits.
A range of main rotor speeds must be established that—
(1) With power on, provides adequate margin to accommodate the variations in rotor speed occurring in any appropriate maneuver, and is consistent with the kind of governor or synchronizer used; and
(2) With power off, allows each appropriate autorotative maneuver to be performed throughout the ranges of airspeed and weight for which certification is requested.
(b)
Normal main rotor high pitch limits (power on).
For rotocraft, except helicopters required to have a main rotor low speed warning under paragraph (e) of this section. It must be shown, with power on and without exceeding approved engine maximum limitations, that main rotor speeds substantially less than the minimum approved main rotor speed will not occur under any sustained flight condition. This must be met by—
(1) Appropriate setting of the main rotor high pitch stop;
(2) Inherent rotorcraft characteristics that make unsafe low main rotor speeds unlikely; or
(3) Adequate means to warn the pilot of unsafe main rotor speeds.
(c)
Normal main rotor low pitch limits (power off).
It must be shown, with power off, that—
(1) The normal main rotor low pitch limit provides sufficient rotor speed, in any autorotative condition, under the most critical combinations of weight and airspeed; and
(2) It is possible to prevent overspeeding of the rotor without exceptional piloting skill.
(d)
Emergency high pitch.
If the main rotor high pitch stop is set to meet paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and if that stop cannot be exceeded inadvertently, additional pitch may be made available for emergency use.
(e)
Main rotor low speed warning for helicopters.
For each single engine helicopter, and each multiengine helicopter that does not have an approved device that automatically increases power on the operating engines when one engine fails, there must be a main rotor low speed warning which meets the following requirements:
(1) The warning must be furnished to the pilot in all flight conditions, including power-on and power-off flight, when the speed of a main rotor approaches a value that can jeopardize safe flight.
(2) The warning may be furnished either through the inherent aerodynamic qualities of the helicopter or by a device.
(3) The warning must be clear and distinct under all conditions, and must be clearly distinguishable from all other warnings. A visual device that requires the attention of the crew within the cockpit is not acceptable by itself.
(4) If a warning device is used, the device must automatically deactivate and reset when the low-speed condition is corrected. If the device has an audible warning, it must also be equipped with a means for the pilot to manually silence the audible warning before the low-speed condition is corrected.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 962, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2324, Jan. 16, 1978]

# Performance
§ 27.45
General.
(a) Unless otherwise prescribed, the performance requirements of this subpart must be met for still air and a standard atmosphere.
(b) The performance must correspond to the engine power available under the particular ambient atmospheric conditions, the particular flight condition, and the relative humidity specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section, as appropriate.
(c) The available power must correspond to engine power, not exceeding the approved power, less—
(1) Installation losses; and
(2) The power absorbed by the accessories and services appropriate to the particular ambient atmospheric conditions and the particular flight condition.
(d) For reciprocating engine-powered rotorcraft, the performance, as affected by engine power, must be based on a relative humidity of 80 percent in a standard atmosphere.
(e) For turbine engine-powered rotorcraft, the performance, as affected by engine power, must be based on a relative humidity of—
(1) 80 percent, at and below standard temperature; and
(2) 34 percent, at and above standard temperature plus 50 degrees F. Between these two temperatures, the relative humidity must vary linearly.
(f) For turbine-engine-powered rotorcraft, a means must be provided to permit the pilot to determine prior to takeoff that each engine is capable of developing the power necessary to achieve the applicable rotorcraft performance prescribed in this subpart.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2324, Jan. 16, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44432, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.49
Performance at minimum operating speed.
(a) For helicopters—
(1) The hovering ceiling must be determined over the ranges of weight, altitude, and temperature for which certification is requested, with—
(i) Takeoff power;
(ii) The landing gear extended; and
(iii) The helicopter in-ground effect at a height consistent with normal takeoff procedures; and
(2) The hovering ceiling determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be at least—
(i) For reciprocating engine powered helicopters, 4,000 feet at maximum weight with a standard atmosphere;
(ii) For turbine engine powered helicopters, 2,500 feet pressure altitude at maximum weight at a temperature of standard plus 22 °C (standard plus 40 °F).
(3) The out-of-ground effect hovering performance must be determined over the ranges of weight, altitude, and temperature for which certification is requested, using takeoff power.
(b) For rotorcraft other than helicopters, the steady rate of climb at the minimum operating speed must be determined over the ranges of weight, altitude, and temperature for which certification is requested, with—
(1) Takeoff power; and
(2) The landing gear extended.
[Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 10998, Feb. 29, 2008]
§ 27.51
Takeoff.
The takeoff, with takeoff power and r.p.m. at the most critical center of gravity, and with weight from the maximum weight at sea level to the weight for which takeoff certification is requested for each altitude covered by this section—
(a) May not require exceptional piloting skill or exceptionally favorable conditions throughout the ranges of altitude from standard sea level conditions to the maximum altitude for which takeoff and landing certification is requested, and
(b) Must be made in such a manner that a landing can be made safely at any point along the flight path if an engine fails. This must be demonstrated up to the maximum altitude for which takeoff and landing certification is requested or 7,000 feet density altitude, whichever is less.
[Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 10999, Feb. 29, 2008]
§ 27.65
Climb: all engines operating.
(a) For rotorcraft other than helicopters—
(1) The steady rate of climb, at
V
Y,
must be determined—
(i) With maximum continuous power on each engine;
(ii) With the landing gear retracted; and
(iii) For the weights, altitudes, and temperatures for which certification is requested; and
(2) The climb gradient, at the rate of climb determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, must be either—
(i) At least 1:10 if the horizontal distance required to take off and climb over a 50-foot obstacle is determined for each weight, altitude, and temperature within the range for which certification is requested; or
(ii) At least 1:6 under standard sea level conditions.
(b) Each helicopter must meet the following requirements:
(1) V
Y
must be determined—
(i) For standard sea level conditions;
(ii) At maximum weight; and
(iii) With maximum continuous power on each engine.
(2) The steady rate of climb must be determined—
(i) At the climb speed selected by the applicant at or below V
NE
;
(ii) Within the range from sea level up to the maximum altitude for which certification is requested;
(iii) For the weights and temperatures that correspond to the altitude range set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section and for which certification is requested; and
(iv) With maximum continuous power on each engine.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2324, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-33, 61 FR 21907, May 10, 1996]
§ 27.67
Climb: one engine inoperative.
For multiengine helicopters, the steady rate of climb (or descent), at
V
y
(or at the speed for minimum rate of descent), must be determined with—
(a) Maximum weight;
(b) The critical engine inoperative and the remaining engines at either—
(1) Maximum continuous power and, for helicopters for which certification for the use of 30-minute OEI power is requested, at 30-minute OEI power; or
(2) Continuous OEI power for helicopters for which certification for the use of continuous OEI power is requested.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34210, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.71
Autorotation performance.
For single-engine helicopters and multiengine helicopters that do not meet the Category A engine isolation requirements of Part 29 of this chapter, the minimum rate of descent airspeed and the best angle-of-glide airspeed must be determined in autorotation at—
(a) Maximum weight; and
(b) Rotor speed(s) selected by the applicant.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44433, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.75
Landing.
(a) The rotorcraft must be able to be landed with no excessive vertical acceleration, no tendency to bounce, nose over, ground loop, porpoise, or water loop, and without exceptional piloting skill or exceptionally favorable conditions, with—
(1) Approach or autorotation speeds appropriate to the type of rotorcraft and selected by the applicant;
(2) The approach and landing made with—
(i) Power off, for single engine rotorcraft and entered from steady state autorotation; or
(ii) One-engine inoperative (OEI) for multiengine rotorcraft, with each operating engine within approved operating limitations, and entered from an established OEI approach.
(b) Multiengine rotorcraft must be able to be landed safely after complete power failure under normal operating conditions.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2324, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 10999, Feb. 29, 2008]
§ 27.87
Height-velocity envelope.
(a) If there is any combination of height and forward velocity (including hover) under which a safe landing cannot be made under the applicable power failure condition in paragraph (b) of this section, a limiting height-velocity envelope must be established (including all pertinent information) for that condition, throughout the ranges of—
(1) Altitude, from standard sea level conditions to the maximum altitude capability of the rotorcraft, or 7000 feet density altitude, whichever is less; and
(2) Weight, from the maximum weight at sea level to the weight selected by the applicant for each altitude covered by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. For helicopters, the weight at altitudes above sea level may not be less than the maximum weight or the highest weight allowing hovering out-of-ground effect, whichever is lower.
(b) The applicable power failure conditions are—
(1) For single-engine helicopters, full autorotation;
(2) For multiengine helicopters, OEI (where engine isolation features ensure continued operation of the remaining engines), and the remaining engine(s) within approved limits and at the minimum installed specification power available for the most critical combination of approved ambient temperature and pressure altitude resulting in 7000 feet density altitude or the maximum altitude capability of the helicopter, whichever is less, and
(3) For other rotorcraft, conditions appropriate to the type.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424), sec. 6(c), Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2324, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44433, Nov. 6, 1984; Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 10999, Feb. 29, 2008; Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8737, Feb. 10, 2023]

# Flight Characteristics
§ 27.141
General.
The rotorcraft must—
(a) Except as specifically required in the applicable section, meet the flight characteristics requirements of this subpart—
(1) At the altitudes and temperatures expected in operation;
(2) Under any critical loading condition within the range of weights and centers of gravity for which certification is requested;
(3) For power-on operations, under any condition of speed, power, and rotor r.p.m. for which certification is requested; and
(4) For power-off operations, under any condition of speed and rotor r.p.m. for which certification is requested that is attainable with the controls rigged in accordance with the approved rigging instructions and tolerances;
(b) Be able to maintain any required flight condition and make a smooth transition from any flight condition to any other flight condition without exceptional piloting skill, alertness, or strength, and without danger of exceeding the limit load factor under any operating condition probable for the type, including—
(1) Sudden failure of one engine, for multiengine rotorcraft meeting Transport Category A engine isolation requirements of Part 29 of this chapter;
(2) Sudden, complete power failure for other rotorcraft; and
(3) Sudden, complete control system failures specified in § 27.695 of this part; and
(c) Have any additional characteristic required for night or instrument operation, if certification for those kinds of operation is requested. Requirements for helicopter instrument flight are contained in appendix B of this part.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 962, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-19, 48 FR 4389, Jan. 31, 1983; Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44433, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.143
Controllability and maneuverability.
(a) The rotorcraft must be safely controllable and maneuverable—
(1) During steady flight; and
(2) During any maneuver appropriate to the type, including—
(i) Takeoff;
(ii) Climb;
(iii) Level flight;
(iv) Turning flight;
(v) Autorotation;
(vi) Landing (power on and power off); and
(vii) Recovery to power-on flight from a balked autorotative approach.
(b) The margin of cyclic control must allow satisfactory roll and pitch control at V
NE
with—
(1) Critical weight;
(2) Critical center of gravity;
(3) Critical rotor r.p.m.; and
(4) Power off (except for helicopters demonstrating compliance with paragraph (f) of this section) and power on.
(c) Wind velocities from zero to at least 17 knots, from all azimuths, must be established in which the rotorcraft can be operated without loss of control on or near the ground in any maneuver appropriate to the type (such as crosswind takeoffs, sideward flight, and rearward flight)—
(1) With altitude, from standard sea level conditions to the maximum takeoff and landing altitude capability of the rotorcraft or 7000 feet density altitude, whichever is less; with—
(i) Critical Weight;
(ii) Critical center of gravity;
(iii) Critical rotor r.p.m.;
(2) For takeoff and landing altitudes above 7000 feet density altitude with—
(i) Weight selected by the applicant;
(ii) Critical center of gravity; and
(iii) Critical rotor r.p.m.
(d) Wind velocities from zero to at least 17 knots, from all azimuths, must be established in which the rotorcraft can be operated without loss of control out-of-ground-effect, with—
(1) Weight selected by the applicant;
(2) Critical center of gravity;
(3) Rotor r.p.m. selected by the applicant; and
(4) Altitude, from standard sea level conditions to the maximum takeoff and landing altitude capability of the rotorcraft.
(e) The rotorcraft, after (1) failure of one engine in the case of multiengine rotorcraft that meet Transport Category A engine isolation requirements, or (2) complete engine failure in the case of other rotorcraft, must be controllable over the range of speeds and altitudes for which certification is requested when such power failure occurs with maximum continuous power and critical weight. No corrective action time delay for any condition following power failure may be less than—
(i) For the cruise condition, one second, or normal pilot reaction time (whichever is greater); and
(ii) For any other condition, normal pilot reaction time.
(f) For helicopters for which a V
NE
(power-off) is established under § 27.1505(c), compliance must be demonstrated with the following requirements with critical weight, critical center of gravity, and critical rotor r.p.m.:
(1) The helicopter must be safely slowed to V
NE
(power-off), without exceptional pilot skill, after the last operating engine is made inoperative at power-on V
NE.
(2) At a speed of 1.1 V
NE
(power-off), the margin of cyclic control must allow satisfactory roll and pitch control with power off.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44433, Nov. 6, 1984; Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 10999, Feb. 29, 2008]
§ 27.151
Flight controls.
(a) Longitudinal, lateral, directional, and collective controls may not exhibit excessive breakout force, friction, or preload.
(b) Control system forces and free play may not inhibit a smooth, direct rotorcraft response to control system input.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44433, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.161
Trim control.
The trim control—
(a) Must trim any steady longitudinal, lateral, and collective control forces to zero in level flight at any appropriate speed; and
(b) May not introduce any undesirable discontinuities in control force gradients.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44433, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.171
Stability: general.
The rotorcraft must be able to be flown, without undue pilot fatigue or strain, in any normal maneuver for a period of time as long as that expected in normal operation. At least three landings and takeoffs must be made during this demonstration.
§ 27.173
Static longitudinal stability.
(a) The longitudinal control must be designed so that a rearward movement of the control is necessary to obtain an airspeed less than the trim speed, and a forward movement of the control is necessary to obtain an airspeed more than the trim speed.
(b) Throughout the full range of altitude for which certification is requested, with the throttle and collective pitch held constant during the maneuvers specified in § 27.175(a) through (d), the slope of the control position versus airspeed curve must be positive. However, in limited flight conditions or modes of operation determined by the Administrator to be acceptable, the slope of the control position versus airspeed curve may be neutral or negative if the rotorcraft possesses flight characteristics that allow the pilot to maintain airspeed within ±5 knots of the desired trim airspeed without exceptional piloting skill or alertness.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44433, Nov. 6, 1984, as amended by Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 10999, Feb. 29, 2008]
§ 27.175
Demonstration of static longitudinal stability.
(a)
Climb.
Static longitudinal stability must be shown in the climb condition at speeds from Vy − 10 kt to Vy + 10 kt with—
(1) Critical weight;
(2) Critical center of gravity;
(3) Maximum continuous power;
(4) The landing gear retracted; and
(5) The rotorcraft trimmed at
V
Y.
(b)
Cruise.
Static longitudinal stability must be shown in the cruise condition at speeds from 0.8 V
NE
− 10 kt to 0.8 V
NE
+ 10 kt or, if V
H
is less than 0.8 V
NE
, from V
H
−10 kt to V
H
+ 10 kt, with—
(1) Critical weight;
(2) Critical center of gravity;
(3) Power for level flight at 0.8 V
NE
or V
H
, whichever is less;
(4) The landing gear retracted; and
(5) The rotorcraft trimmed at 0.8 V
NE
or V
H
, whichever is less.
(c)
V
NE.
Static longitudinal stability must be shown at speeds from V
NE
− 20 kt to V
NE
with—
(1) Critical weight;
(2) Critical center of gravity;
(3) Power required for level flight at V
NE
−10 kt or maximum continuous power, whichever is less;
(4) The landing gear retracted; and
(5) The rotorcraft trimmed at V
NE
− 10 kt.
(d)
Autorotation.
Static longitudinal stability must be shown in autorotation at—
(1) Airspeeds from the minimum rate of descent airspeed−10 kt to the minimum rate of descent airspeed + 10 kt, with—
(i) Critical weight;
(ii) Critical center of gravity;
(iii) The landing gear extended; and
(iv) The rotorcraft trimmed at the minimum rate of descent airspeed.
(2) Airspeeds from best angle-of-glide airspeed−10 kt to the best angle-of-glide airspeed + 10 kt, with—
(i) Critical weight;
(ii) Critical center of gravity;
(iii) The landing gear retracted; and
(iv) The rotorcraft trimmed at the best angle-of-glide airspeed.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44433, Nov. 6, 1984; Amdt. 27-34, 62 FR 46173, Aug. 29, 1997; Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 10999, Feb. 29, 2008]
§ 27.177
Static directional stability.
(a) The directional controls must operate in such a manner that the sense and direction of motion of the rotorcraft following control displacement are in the direction of the pedal motion with the throttle and collective controls held constant at the trim conditions specified in § 27.175(a), (b), and (c). Sideslip angles must increase with steadily increasing directional control deflection for sideslip angles up to the lesser of—
(1) ±25 degrees from trim at a speed of 15 knots less than the speed for minimum rate of descent varying linearly to ±10 degrees from trim at V
NE
;
(2) The steady state sideslip angles established by § 27.351;
(3) A sideslip angle selected by the applicant, which corresponds to a sideforce of at least 0.1g; or
(4) The sideslip angle attained by maximum directional control input.
(b) Sufficient cues must accompany the sideslip to alert the pilot when the aircraft is approaching the sideslip limits.
(c) During the maneuver specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the sideslip angle versus directional control position curve may have a negative slope within a small range of angles around trim, provided the desired heading can be maintained without exceptional piloting skill or alertness.
[Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 11000, Feb. 29, 2008]

# Ground and Water Handling Characteristics
§ 27.231
General.
The rotorcraft must have satisfactory ground and water handling characteristics, including freedom from uncontrollable tendencies in any condition expected in operation.
§ 27.235
Taxiing condition.
The rotorcraft must be designed to withstand the loads that would occur when the rotorcraft is taxied over the roughest ground that may reasonably be expected in normal operation.
§ 27.239
Spray characteristics.
If certification for water operation is requested, no spray characteristics during taxiing, takeoff, or landing may obscure the vision of the pilot or damage the rotors, propellers, or other parts of the rotorcraft.
§ 27.241
Ground resonance.
The rotorcraft may have no dangerous tendency to oscillate on the ground with the rotor turning.

# Miscellaneous Flight Requirements
§ 27.251
Vibration.
Each part of the rotorcraft must be free from excessive vibration under each appropriate speed and power condition.

# Subpart C—Strength Requirements

# General
§ 27.301
Loads.
(a) Strength requirements are specified in terms of limit loads (the maximum loads to be expected in service) and ultimate loads (limit loads multiplied by prescribed factors of safety). Unless otherwise provided, prescribed loads are limit loads.
(b) Unless otherwise provided, the specified air, ground, and water loads must be placed in equilibrium with inertia forces, considering each item of mass in the rotorcraft. These loads must be distributed to closely approximate or conservatively represent actual conditions.
(c) If deflections under load would significantly change the distribution of external or internal loads, this redistribution must be taken into account.
§ 27.303
Factor of safety.
Unless otherwise provided, a factor of safety of 1.5 must be used. This factor applies to external and inertia loads unless its application to the resulting internal stresses is more conservative.
§ 27.305
Strength and deformation.
(a) The structure must be able to support limit loads without detrimental or permanent deformation. At any load up to limit loads, the deformation may not interfere with safe operation.
(b) The structure must be able to support ultimate loads without failure. This must be shown by—
(1) Applying ultimate loads to the structure in a static test for at least three seconds; or
(2) Dynamic tests simulating actual load application.
§ 27.307
Proof of structure.
(a) Compliance with the strength and deformation requirements of this subpart must be shown for each critical loading condition accounting for the environment to which the structure will be exposed in operation. Structural analysis (static or fatigue) may be used only if the structure conforms to those structures for which experience has shown this method to be reliable. In other cases, substantiating load tests must be made.
(b) Proof of compliance with the strength requirements of this subpart must include—
(1) Dynamic and endurance tests of rotors, rotor drives, and rotor controls;
(2) Limit load tests of the control system, including control surfaces;
(3) Operation tests of the control system;
(4) Flight stress measurement tests;
(5) Landing gear drop tests; and
(6) Any additional test required for new or unusual design features.
(Secs. 604, 605, 72 Stat. 778, 49 U.S.C. 1424, 1425)
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-3, 33 FR 14105, Sept. 18, 1968; Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 7999, Mar. 6, 1990]
§ 27.309
Design limitations.
The following values and limitations must be established to show compliance with the structural requirements of this subpart:
(a) The design maximum weight.
(b) The main rotor r.p.m. ranges power on and power off.
(c) The maximum forward speeds for each main rotor r.p.m. within the ranges determined under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The maximum rearward and sideward flight speeds.
(e) The center of gravity limits corresponding to the limitations determined under paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(f) The rotational speed ratios between each powerplant and each connected rotating component.
(g) The positive and negative limit maneuvering load factors.

# Flight Loads
§ 27.321
General.
(a) The flight load factor must be assumed to act normal to the longitudinal axis of the rotorcraft, and to be equal in magnitude and opposite in direction to the rotorcraft inertia load factor at the center of gravity.
(b) Compliance with the flight load requirements of this subpart must be shown—
(1) At each weight from the design minimum weight to the design maximum weight; and
(2) With any practical distribution of disposable load within the operating limitations in the Rotorcraft Flight Manual.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55468, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 27.337
Limit maneuvering load factor.
The rotorcraft must be designed for—
(a) A limit maneuvering load factor ranging from a positive limit of 3.5 to a negative limit of −1.0; or
(b) Any positive limit maneuvering load factor not less than 2.0 and any negative limit maneuvering load factor of not less than −0.5 for which—
(1) The probability of being exceeded is shown by analysis and flight tests to be extremely remote; and
(2) The selected values are appropriate to each weight condition between the design maximum and design minimum weights.
[Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 7999, Mar. 6, 1990]
§ 27.339
Resultant limit maneuvering loads.
The loads resulting from the application of limit maneuvering load factors are assumed to act at the center of each rotor hub and at each auxiliary lifting surface, and to act in directions, and with distributions of load among the rotors and auxiliary lifting surfaces, so as to represent each critical maneuvering condition, including power-on and power-off flight with the maximum design rotor tip speed ratio. The rotor tip speed ratio is the ratio of the rotorcraft flight velocity component in the plane of the rotor disc to
the rotational tip speed of the rotor blades, and is expressed as follows:
EC28SE91.083
where—
V =
The airspeed along flight path (f.p.s.);
a =
The angle between the projection, in the plane of symmetry, of the axis of no feathering and a line perpendicular to the flight path (radians, positive when axis is pointing aft);
omega =
The angular velocity of rotor (radians per second); and
R =
The rotor radius (ft).
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 27.341
Gust loads.
The rotorcraft must be designed to withstand, at each critical airspeed including hovering, the loads resulting from a vertical gust of 30 feet per second.
§ 27.351
Yawing conditions.
(a) Each rotorcraft must be designed for the loads resulting from the maneuvers specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section with—
(1) Unbalanced aerodynamic moments about the center of gravity which the aircraft reacts to in a rational or conservative manner considering the principal masses furnishing the reacting inertia forces; and
(2) Maximum main rotor speed.
(b) To produce the load required in paragraph (a) of this section, in unaccelerated flight with zero yaw, at forward speeds from zero up to 0.6 V
NE
—
(1) Displace the cockpit directional control suddenly to the maximum deflection limited by the control stops or by the maximum pilot force specified in § 27.397(a);
(2) Attain a resulting sideslip angle or 90°, whichever is less; and
(3) Return the directional control suddenly to neutral.
(c) To produce the load required in paragraph (a) of this section, in unaccelerated flight with zero yaw, at forward speeds from 0.6 V
NE
up to V
NE
or V
H
, whichever is less—
(1) Displace the cockpit directional control suddenly to the maximum deflection limited by the control stops or by the maximum pilot force specified in § 27.397(a);
(2) Attain a resulting sideslip angle or 15°, whichever is less, at the lesser speed of V
NE
or V
H
;
(3) Vary the sideslip angles of paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section directly with speed; and
(4) Return the directional control suddenly to neutral.
[Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 7999, Mar. 6, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 27-34, 62 FR 46173, Aug. 29, 1997]
§ 27.361
Engine torque.
(a) For turbine engines, the limit torque may not be less than the highest of—
(1) The mean torque for maximum continuous power multiplied by 1.25;
(2) The torque required by § 27.923;
(3) The torque required by § 27.927; or
(4) The torque imposed by sudden engine stoppage due to malfunction or structural failure (such as compressor jamming).
(b) For reciprocating engines, the limit torque may not be less than the mean torque for maximum continuous power multiplied by—
(1) 1.33, for engines with five or more cylinders; and
(2) Two, three, and four, for engines with four, three, and two cylinders, respectively.
[Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34210, Sept. 2, 1988]

# Control Surface and System Loads
§ 27.391
General.
Each auxiliary rotor, each fixed or movable stabilizing or control surface, and each system operating any flight control must meet the requirements of §§ 27.395, 27.397, 27.399, 27.411, and 27.427.
[Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 7999, Mar. 6, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 27-34, 62 FR 46173, Aug. 29, 1997]
§ 27.395
Control system.
(a) The part of each control system from the pilot's controls to the control stops must be designed to withstand pilot forces of not less than—
(1) The forces specified in § 27.397; or
(2) If the system prevents the pilot from applying the limit pilot forces to the system, the maximum forces that
the system allows the pilot to apply, but not less than 0.60 times the forces specified in § 27.397.
(b) Each primary control system, including its supporting structure, must be designed as follows:
(1) The system must withstand loads resulting from the limit pilot forces prescribed in § 27.397.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(3) of this section, when power-operated actuator controls or power boost controls are used, the system must also withstand the loads resulting from the force output of each normally energized power device, including any single power boost or actuator system failure.
(3) If the system design or the normal operating loads are such that a part of the system cannot react to the limit pilot forces prescribed in § 27.397, that part of the system must be designed to withstand the maximum loads that can be obtained in normal operation. The minimum design loads must, in any case, provide a rugged system for service use, including consideration of fatigue, jamming, ground gusts, control inertia, and friction loads. In the absence of rational analysis, the design loads resulting from 0.60 of the specified limit pilot forces are acceptable minimum design loads.
(4) If operational loads may be exceeded through jamming, ground gusts, control inertia, or friction, the system must withstand the limit pilot forces specified in § 27.397, without yielding.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 7999, Mar. 6, 1990]
§ 27.397
Limit pilot forces and torques.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the limit pilot forces are as follows:
(1) For foot controls, 130 pounds.
(2) For stick controls, 100 pounds fore and aft, and 67 pounds laterally.
(b) For flap, tab, stabilizer, rotor brake, and landing gear operating controls, the follows apply (R = radius in inches):
(1) Crank, wheel, and lever controls, [1 + R]/3 × 50 pounds, but not less than 50 pounds nor more than 100 pounds for hand operated controls or 130 pounds for foot operated controls, applied at any angle within 20 degrees of the plane of motion of the control.
(2) Twist controls, 80R inch-pounds.
[Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 27-40, 66 FR 23538, May 9, 2001]
§ 27.399
Dual control system.
Each dual primary flight control system must be designed to withstand the loads that result when pilot forces of 0.75 times those obtained under § 27.395 are applied—
(a) In opposition; and
(b) In the same direction.
§ 27.411
Ground clearance: tail rotor guard.
(a) It must be impossible for the tail rotor to contact the landing surface during a normal landing.
(b) If a tail rotor guard is required to show compliance with paragraph (a) of this section—
(1) Suitable design loads must be established for the guard; and
(2) The guard and its supporting structure must be designed to withstand those loads.
§ 27.427
Unsymmetrical loads.
(a) Horizontal tail surfaces and their supporting structure must be designed for unsymmetrical loads arising from yawing and rotor wake effects in combination with the prescribed flight conditions.
(b) To meet the design criteria of paragraph (a) of this section, in the absence of more rational data, both of the following must be met:
(1) One hundred percent of the maximum loading from the symmetrical flight conditions acts on the surface on one side of the plane of symmetry, and no loading acts on the other side.
(2) Fifty percent of the maximum loading from the symmetrical flight conditions acts on the surface on each side of the plane of symmetry but in opposite directions.
(c) For empennage arrangements where the horizontal tail surfaces are supported by the vertical tail surfaces, the vertical tail surfaces and supporting structure must be designed for the combined vertical and horizontal surface loads resulting from each prescribed flight condition, considered
separately. The flight conditions must be selected so the maximum design loads are obtained on each surface. In the absence of more rational data, the unsymmetrical horizontal tail surface loading distributions described in this section must be assumed.
[Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 7999, Mar. 6, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 27-27, 55 FR 38966, Sept. 21, 1990]

# Ground Loads
§ 27.471
General.
(a)
Loads and equilibrium.
For limit ground loads—
(1) The limit ground loads obtained in the landing conditions in this part must be considered to be external loads that would occur in the rotorcraft structure if it were acting as a rigid body; and
(2) In each specified landing condition, the external loads must be placed in equilibrium with linear and angular inertia loads in a rational or conservative manner.
(b)
Critical centers of gravity.
The critical centers of gravity within the range for which certification is requested must be selected so that the maximum design loads are obtained in each landing gear element.
§ 27.473
Ground loading conditions and assumptions.
(a) For specified landing conditions, a design maximum weight must be used that is not less than the maximum weight. A rotor lift may be assumed to act through the center of gravity throughout the landing impact. This lift may not exceed two-thirds of the design maximum weight.
(b) Unless otherwise prescribed, for each specified landing condition, the rotorcraft must be designed for a limit load factor of not less than the limit inertia load factor substantiated under § 27.725.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 27.475
Tires and shock absorbers.
Unless otherwise prescribed, for each specified landing condition, the tires must be assumed to be in their static position and the shock absorbers to be in their most critical position.
§ 27.477
Landing gear arrangement.
Sections 27.235, 27.479 through 27.485, and 27.493 apply to landing gear with two wheels aft, and one or more wheels forward, of the center of gravity.
§ 27.479
Level landing conditions.
(a)
Attitudes.
Under each of the loading conditions prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, the rotorcraft is assumed to be in each of the following level landing attitudes:
(1) An attitude in which all wheels contact the ground simultaneously.
(2) An attitude in which the aft wheels contact the ground with the forward wheels just clear of the ground.
(b)
Loading conditions.
The rotorcraft must be designed for the following landing loading conditions:
(1) Vertical loads applied under § 27.471.
(2) The loads resulting from a combination of the loads applied under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with drag loads at each wheel of not less than 25 percent of the vertical load at that wheel.
(3) If there are two wheels forward, a distribution of the loads applied to those wheels under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section in a ratio of 40:60.
(c)
Pitching moments.
Pitching moments are assumed to be resisted by—
(1) In the case of the attitude in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the forward landing gear; and
(2) In the case of the attitude in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the angular inertia forces.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964; 29 FR 17885, Dec. 17, 1964]
§ 27.481
Tail-down landing conditions.
(a) The rotorcraft is assumed to be in the maximum nose-up attitude allowing ground clearance by each part of the rotorcraft.
(b) In this attitude, ground loads are assumed to act perpendicular to the ground.
§ 27.483
One-wheel landing conditions.
For the one-wheel landing condition, the rotorcraft is assumed to be in the level attitude and to contact the
ground on one aft wheel. In this attitude—
(a) The vertical load must be the same as that obtained on that side under § 27.479(b)(1); and
(b) The unbalanced external loads must be reacted by rotorcraft inertia.
§ 27.485
Lateral drift landing conditions.
(a) The rotorcraft is assumed to be in the level landing attitude, with—
(1) Side loads combined with one-half of the maximum ground reactions obtained in the level landing conditions of § 27.479 (b)(1); and
(2) The loads obtained under paragraph (a)(1) of this section applied—
(i) At the ground contact point; or
(ii) For full-swiveling gear, at the center of the axle.
(b) The rotorcraft must be designed to withstand, at ground contact—
(1) When only the aft wheels contact the ground, side loads of 0.8 times the vertical reaction acting inward on one side, and 0.6 times the vertical reaction acting outward on the other side, all combined with the vertical loads specified in paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) When all wheels contact the ground simultaneously—
(i) For the aft wheels, the side loads specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(ii) For the forward wheels, a side load of 0.8 times the vertical reaction combined with the vertical load specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 27.493
Braked roll conditions.
Under braked roll conditions with the shock absorbers in their static positions—
(a) The limit vertical load must be based on a load factor of at least—
(1) 1.33, for the attitude specified in § 27.479(a)(1); and
(2) 1.0 for the attitude specified in § 27.479(a)(2); and
(b) The structure must be designed to withstand at the ground contact point of each wheel with brakes, a drag load at least the lesser of—
(1) The vertical load multiplied by a coefficient of friction of 0.8; and
(2) The maximum value based on limiting brake torque.
§ 27.497
Ground loading conditions: landing gear with tail wheels.
(a)
General.
Rotorcraft with landing gear with two wheels forward, and one wheel aft, of the center of gravity must be designed for loading conditions as prescribed in this section.
(b)
Level landing attitude with only the forward wheels contacting the ground.
In this attitude—
(1) The vertical loads must be applied under §§ 27.471 through 27.475;
(2) The vertical load at each axle must be combined with a drag load at that axle of not less than 25 percent of that vertical load; and
(3) Unbalanced pitching moments are assumed to be resisted by angular inertia forces.
(c)
Level landing attitude with all wheels contacting the ground simultaneously.
In this attitude, the rotorcraft must be designed for landing loading conditions as prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Maximum nose-up attitude with only the rear wheel contacting the ground.
The attitude for this condition must be the maximum nose-up attitude expected in normal operation, including autorotative landings. In this attitude—
(1) The appropriate ground loads specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section must be determined and applied, using a rational method to account for the moment arm between the rear wheel ground reaction and the rotorcraft center of gravity; or
(2) The probability of landing with initial contact on the rear wheel must be shown to be extremely remote.
(e)
Level landing attitude with only one forward wheel contacting the ground.
In this attitude, the rotorcraft must be designed for ground loads as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (3) of this section.
(f)
Side loads in the level landing attitude.
In the attitudes specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the following apply:
(1) The side loads must be combined at each wheel with one-half of the maximum vertical ground reactions obtained for that wheel under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. In this condition, the side loads must be—
(i) For the forward wheels, 0.8 times the vertical reaction (on one side) acting inward, and 0.6 times the vertical reaction (on the other side) acting outward; and
(ii) For the rear wheel, 0.8 times the vertical reaction.
(2) The loads specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section must be applied—
(i) At the ground contact point with the wheel in the trailing position (for non-full swiveling landing gear or for full swiveling landing gear with a lock, steering device, or shimmy damper to keep the wheel in the trailing position); or
(ii) At the center of the axle (for full swiveling landing gear without a lock, steering device, or shimmy damper).
(g)
Braked roll conditions in the level landing attitude.
In the attitudes specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and with the shock absorbers in their static positions, the rotorcraft must be designed for braked roll loads as follows:
(1) The limit vertical load must be based on a limit vertical load factor of not less than—
(i) 1.0, for the attitude specified in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(ii) 1.33, for the attitude specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) For each wheel with brakes, a drag load must be applied, at the ground contact point, of not less than the lesser of—
(i) 0.8 times the vertical load; and
(ii) The maximum based on limiting brake torque.
(h)
Rear wheel turning loads in the static ground attitude.
In the static ground attitude, and with the shock absorbers and tires in their static positions, the rotorcraft must be designed for rear wheel turning loads as follows:
(1) A vertical ground reaction equal to the static load on the rear wheel must be combined with an equal sideload.
(2) The load specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section must be applied to the rear landing gear—
(i) Through the axle, if there is a swivel (the rear wheel being assumed to be swiveled 90 degrees to the longitudinal axis of the rotorcraft); or
(ii) At the ground contact point, if there is a lock, steering device or shimmy damper (the rear wheel being assumed to be in the trailing position).
(i)
Taxiing condition.
The rotorcraft and its landing gear must be designed for loads that would occur when the rotorcraft is taxied over the roughest ground that may reasonably be expected in normal operation.
§ 27.501
Ground loading conditions: landing gear with skids.
(a)
General.
Rotorcraft with landing gear with skids must be designed for the loading conditions specified in this section. In showing compliance with this section, the following apply:
(1) The design maximum weight, center of gravity, and load factor must be determined under §§ 27.471 through 27.475.
(2) Structural yielding of elastic spring members under limit loads is acceptable.
(3) Design ultimate loads for elastic spring members need not exceed those obtained in a drop test of the gear with—
(i) A drop height of 1.5 times that specified in § 27.725; and
(ii) An assumed rotor lift of not more than 1.5 times that used in the limit drop tests prescribed in § 27.725.
(4) Compliance with paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section must be shown with—
(i) The gear in its most critically deflected position for the landing condition being considered; and
(ii) The ground reactions rationally distributed along the bottom of the skid tube.
(b)
Vertical reactions in the level landing attitude.
In the level attitude, and with the rotorcraft contacting the ground along the bottom of both skids, the vertical reactions must be applied as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Drag reactions in the level landing attitude.
In the level attitude, and with the rotorcraft contacting the ground along the bottom of both skids, the following apply:
(1) The vertical reactions must be combined with horizontal drag reactions of 50 percent of the vertical reaction applied at the ground.
(2) The resultant ground loads must equal the vertical load specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Sideloads in the level landing attitude.
In the level attitude,and with the rotorcraft contacting the ground along the bottom of both skids, the following apply:
(1) The vertical ground reaction must be—
(i) Equal to the vertical loads obtained in the condition specified in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(ii) Divided equally among the skids.
(2) The vertical ground reactions must be combined with a horizontal sideload of 25 percent of their value.
(3) The total sideload must be applied equally between the skids and along the length of the skids.
(4) The unbalanced moments are assumed to be resisted by angular inertia.
(5) The skid gear must be investigated for—
(i) Inward acting sideloads; and
(ii) Outward acting sideloads.
(e)
One-skid landing loads in the level attitude.
In the level attitude, and with the rotorcraft contacting the ground along the bottom of one skid only, the following apply:
(1) The vertical load on the ground contact side must be the same as that obtained on that side in the condition specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) The unbalanced moments are assumed to be resisted by angular inertia.
(f)
Special conditions.
In addition to the conditions specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the rotorcraft must be designed for the following ground reactions:
(1) A ground reaction load acting up and aft at an angle of 45 degrees to the longitudinal axis of the rotorcraft. This load must be—
(i) Equal to 1.33 times the maximum weight;
(ii) Distributed symmetrically among the skids;
(iii) Concentrated at the forward end of the straight part of the skid tube; and
(iv) Applied only to the forward end of the skid tube and its attachment to the rotorcraft.
(2) With the rotorcraft in the level landing attitude, a vertical ground reaction load equal to one-half of the vertical load determined under paragraph (b) of this section. This load must be—
(i) Applied only to the skid tube and its attachment to the rotorcraft; and
(ii) Distributed equally over 33.3 percent of the length between the skid tube attachments and centrally located midway between the skid tube attachments.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8000, Mar. 6, 1990]
§ 27.505
Ski landing conditions.
If certification for ski operation is requested, the rotorcraft, with skis, must be designed to withstand the following loading conditions (where
P
is the maximum static weight on each ski with the rotorcraft at design maximum weight, and
n
is the limit load factor determined under § 27.473(b).
(a) Up-load conditions in which—
(1) A vertical load of
Pn
and a horizontal load of
Pn/
4 are simultaneously applied at the pedestal bearings; and
(2) A vertical load of 1.33
P
is applied at the pedestal bearings.
(b) A side-load condition in which a side load of 0.35
Pn
is applied at the pedestal bearings in a horizontal plane perpendicular to the centerline of the rotorcraft.
(c) A torque-load condition in which a torque load of 1.33
P
(in foot pounds) is applied to the ski about the vertical axis through the centerline of the pedestal bearings.

# Water Loads
§ 27.521
Float landing conditions.
If certification for float operation is requested, the rotorcraft, with floats, must be designed to withstand the following loading conditions (where the limit load factor is determined under § 27.473(b) or assumed to be equal to that determined for wheel landing gear):
(a) Up-load conditions in which—
(1) A load is applied so that, with the rotorcraft in the static level attitude, the resultant water reaction passes
vertically through the center of gravity; and
(2) The vertical load prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is applied simultaneously with an aft component of 0.25 times the vertical component.
(b) A side-load condition in which—
(1) A vertical load of 0.75 times the total vertical load specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is divided equally among the floats; and
(2) For each float, the load share determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, combined with a total side load of 0.25 times the total vertical load specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, is applied to that float only.

# Main Component Requirements
§ 27.547
Main rotor structure.
(a) Each main rotor assembly (including rotor hubs and blades) must be designed as prescribed in this section.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The main rotor structure must be designed to withstand the following loads prescribed in §§ 27.337 through 27.341:
(1) Critical flight loads.
(2) Limit loads occurring under normal conditions of autorotation. For this condition, the rotor r.p.m. must be selected to include the effects of altitude.
(d) The main rotor structure must be designed to withstand loads simulating—
(1) For the rotor blades, hubs, and flapping hinges, the impact force of each blade against its stop during ground operation; and
(2) Any other critical condition expected in normal operation.
(e) The main rotor structure must be designed to withstand the limit torque at any rotational speed, including zero. In addition:
(1) The limit torque need not be greater than the torque defined by a torque limiting device (where provided), and may not be less than the greater of—
(i) The maximum torque likely to be transmitted to the rotor structure in either direction; and
(ii) The limit engine torque specified in § 27.361.
(2) The limit torque must be distributed to the rotor blades in a rational manner.
(Secs. 604, 605, 72 Stat. 778, 49 U.S.C. 1424, 1425)
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-3, 33 FR 14105, Sept. 18, 1968]
§ 27.549
Fuselage, landing gear, and rotor pylon structures.
(a) Each fuselage, landing gear, and rotor pylon structure must be designed as prescribed in this section. Resultant rotor forces may be represented as a single force applied at the rotor hub attachment point.
(b) Each structure must be designed to withstand—
(1) The critical loads prescribed in §§ 27.337 through 27.341;
(2) The applicable ground loads prescribed in §§ 27.235, 27.471 through 27.485, 27.493, 27.497, 27.501, 27.505, and 27.521; and
(3) The loads prescribed in § 27.547 (d)(2) and (e).
(c) Auxiliary rotor thrust, and the balancing air and inertia loads occurring under accelerated flight conditions, must be considered.
(d) Each engine mount and adjacent fuselage structure must be designed to withstand the loads occurring under accelerated flight and landing conditions, including engine torque.
(Secs. 604, 605, 72 Stat. 778, 49 U.S.C. 1424, 1425)
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-3, 33 FR 14105, Sept. 18, 1968]

# Emergency Landing Conditions
§ 27.561
General.
(a) The rotorcraft, although it may be damaged in emergency landing conditions on land or water, must be designed as prescribed in this section to protect the occupants under those conditions.
(b) The structure must be designed to give each occupant every reasonable chance of escaping serious injury in a crash landing when—
(1) Proper use is made of seats, belts, and other safety design provisions;
(2) The wheels are retracted (where applicable); and
(3) Each occupant and each item of mass inside the cabin that could injure an occupant is restrained when subjected to the following ultimate inertial load factors relative to the surrounding structure:
(i) Upward—4g.
(ii) Forward—16g.
(iii) Sideward—8g.
(iv) Downward—20g, after intended displacement of the seat device.
(v) Rearward—1.5g.
(c) The supporting structure must be designed to restrain, under any ultimate inertial load up to those specified in this paragraph, any item of mass above and/or behind the crew and passenger compartment that could injure an occupant if it came loose in an emergency landing. Items of mass to be considered include, but are not limited to, rotors, transmissions, and engines. The items of mass must be restrained for the following ultimate inertial load factors:
(1) Upward—1.5g.
(2) Forward—12g.
(3) Sideward—6g.
(4) Downward—12g.
(5) Rearward—1.5g
(d) Any fuselage structure in the area of internal fuel tanks below the passenger floor level must be designed to resist the following ultimate inertial factors and loads and to protect the fuel tanks from rupture when those loads are applied to that area:
(i) Upward—1.5g.
(ii) Forward—4.0g.
(iii) Sideward—2.0g.
(iv) Downward—4.0g.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-25, 54 FR 47318, Nov. 13, 1989; Amdt. 27-30, 59 FR 50386, Oct. 3, 1994; Amdt. 27-32, 61 FR 10438, Mar. 13, 1996]
§ 27.562
Emergency landing dynamic conditions.
(a) The rotorcraft, although it may be damaged in an emergency crash landing, must be designed to reasonably protect each occupant when—
(1) The occupant properly uses the seats, safety belts, and shoulder harnesses provided in the design; and
(2) The occupant is exposed to the loads resulting from the conditions prescribed in this section.
(b) Each seat type design or other seating device approved for crew or passenger occupancy during takeoff and landing must successfully complete dynamic tests or be demonstrated by rational analysis based on dynamic tests of a similar type seat in accordance with the following criteria. The tests must be conducted with an occupant, simulated by a 170-pound anthropomorphic test dummy (ATD), as defined by 49 CFR 572, subpart B, or its equivalent, sitting in the normal upright position.
(1) A change in downward velocity of not less than 30 feet per second when the seat or other seating device is oriented in its nominal position with respect to the rotorcraft's reference system, the rotorcraft's longitudinal axis is canted upward 60° with respect to the impact velocity vector, and the rotorcraft's lateral axis is perpendicular to a vertical plane containing the impact velocity vector and the rotorcraft's longitudinal axis. Peak floor deceleration must occur in not more than 0.031 seconds after impact and must reach a minimum of 30g's.
(2) A change in forward velocity of not less than 42 feet per second when the seat or other seating device is oriented in its nominal position with respect to the rotorcraft's reference system, the rotorcraft's longitudinal axis is yawed 10° either right or left of the impact velocity vector (whichever would cause the greatest load on the shoulder harness), the rotorcraft's lateral axis is contained in a horizontal plane containing the impact velocity vector, and the rotorcraft's vertical axis is perpendicular to a horizontal plane containing the impact velocity vector. Peak floor deceleration must occur in not more than 0.071 seconds after impact and must reach a minimum of 18.4g's.
(3) Where floor rails or floor or sidewall attachment devices are used to attach the seating devices to the airframe structure for the conditions of this section, the rails or devices must be misaligned with respect to each other by at least 10° vertically (i.e., pitch out of parallel) and by at least a
10° lateral roll, with the directions optional, to account for possible floor warp.
(c) Compliance with the following must be shown:
(1) The seating device system must remain intact although it may experience separation intended as part of its design.
(2) The attachment between the seating device and the airframe structure must remain intact, although the structure may have exceeded its limit load.
(3) The ATD's shoulder harness strap or straps must remain on or in the immediate vicinity of the ATD's shoulder during the impact.
(4) The safety belt must remain on the ATD's pelvis during the impact.
(5) The ATD's head either does not contact any portion of the crew or passenger compartment, or if contact is made, the head impact does not exceed a head injury criteria (HIC) of 1,000 as determined by this equation.
EC28SE91.084
Where: a(t) is the resultant acceleration at the center of gravity of the head form expressed as a multiple of g (the acceleration of gravity) and t
2
− t
1
is the time duration, in seconds, of major head impact, not to exceed 0.05 seconds.
(6) Loads in individual upper torso harness straps must not exceed 1,750 pounds. If dual straps are used for retaining the upper torso, the total harness strap loads must not exceed 2,000 pounds.
(7) The maximum compressive load measured between the pelvis and the lumbar column of the ATD must not exceed 1,500 pounds.
(d) An alternate approach that achieves an equivalent or greater level of occupant protection, as required by this section, must be substantiated on a rational basis.
[Amdt. 27-25, 54 FR 47318, Nov. 13, 1989]
§ 27.563
Structural ditching provisions.
If certification with ditching provisions is requested, structural strength for ditching must meet the requirements of this section and § 27.801(e).
(a)
Forward speed landing conditions.
The rotorcraft must initially contact the most critical wave for reasonably probable water conditions at forward velocities from zero up to 30 knots in likely pitch, roll, and yaw attitudes. The rotorcraft limit vertical descent velocity may not be less than 5 feet per second relative to the mean water surface. Rotor lift may be used to act through the center of gravity throughout the landing impact. This lift may not exceed two-thirds of the design maximum weight. A maximum forward velocity of less than 30 knots may be used in design if it can be demonstrated that the forward velocity selected would not be exceeded in a normal one-engine-out touchdown.
(b)
Auxiliary or emergency float conditions
—(1)
Floats fixed or deployed before initial water contact.
In addition to the landing loads in paragraph (a) of this section, each auxiliary or emergency float, of its support and attaching structure in the airframe or fuselage, must be designed for the load developed by a fully immersed float unless it can be shown that full immersion is unlikely. If full immersion is unlikely, the highest likely float buoyancy load must be applied. The highest likely buoyancy load must include consideration of a partially immersed float creating restoring moments to compensate the upsetting moments caused by side wind, unsymmetrical rotorcraft loading, water wave action, rotorcraft inertia, and probable structural damage and leakage considered under § 27.801(d). Maximum roll and pitch angles determined from compliance with § 27.801(d) may be used, if significant, to determine the extent of immersion of each float. If the floats are deployed in flight, appropriate air loads derived from the flight limitations with the floats deployed shall be used in substantiation of the floats and their attachment to the rotorcraft. For this purpose, the design airspeed for limit load is the float deployed airspeed operating limit multiplied by 1.11.
(2)
Floats deployed after initial water contact.
Each float must be designed for full or partial immersion perscribed in
paragraph (b)(1) of this section. In addition, each float must be designed for combined vertical and drag loads using a relative limit speed of 20 knots between the rotorcraft and the water. The vertical load may not be less than the highest likely buoyancy load determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
[Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8000, Mar. 6, 1990]

# Fatigue Evaluation
§ 27.571
Fatigue evaluation of flight structure.
(a)
General.
Each portion of the flight structure (the flight structure includes rotors, rotor drive systems between the engines and the rotor hubs, controls, fuselage, landing gear, and their related primary attachments), the failure of which could be catastrophic, must be identified and must be evaluated under paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this section. The following apply to each fatigue evaluation:
(1) The procedure for the evaluation must be approved.
(2) The locations of probable failure must be determined.
(3) Inflight measurement must be included in determining the following:
(i) Loads or stresses in all critical conditions throughout the range of limitations in § 27.309, except that maneuvering load factors need not exceed the maximum values expected in operation.
(ii) The effect of altitude upon these loads or stresses.
(4) The loading spectra must be as severe as those expected in operation including, but not limited to, external cargo operations, if applicable, and ground-air-ground cycles. The loading spectra must be based on loads or stresses determined under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(b)
Fatigue tolerance evaluation.
It must be shown that the fatigue tolerance of the structure ensures that the probability of catastrophic fatigue failure is extremely remote without establishing replacement times, inspection intervals or other procedures under section A27.4 of appendix A.
(c)
Replacement time evaluation.
it must be shown that the probability of catastrophic fatigue failure is extremely remote within a replacement time furnished under section A27.4 of appendix A.
(d)
Fail-safe evaluation.
The following apply to fail-safe evaluation:
(1) It must be shown that all partial failures will become readily detectable under inspection procedures furnished under section A27.4 of appendix A.
(2) The interval between the time when any partial failure becomes readily detectable under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and the time when any such failure is expected to reduce the remaining strength of the structure to limit or maximum attainable loads (whichever is less), must be determined.
(3) It must be shown that the interval determined under paragraph (d)(2) of this section is long enough, in relation to the inspection intervals and related procedures furnished under section A27.4 of appendix A, to provide a probability of detection great enough to ensure that the probability of catastrophic failure is extremely remote.
(e)
Combination of replacement time and failsafe evaluations.
A component may be evaluated under a combination of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. For such component it must be shown that the probability of catastrophic failure is extremely remote with an approved combination of replacement time, inspection intervals, and related procedures furnished under section A27.4 of appendix A.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605, 72 Stat. 752, 775, and 778, (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425; sec. 6(c), 49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Amdt. 27-3, 33 FR 14106, Sept. 18, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 27-12, 42 FR 15044, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 27-18, 45 FR 60177, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8000, Mar. 6, 1990]
§ 27.573
Damage Tolerance and Fatigue Evaluation of Composite Rotorcraft Structures.
(a) Each applicant must evaluate the composite rotorcraft structure under the damage tolerance standards of paragraph (d) of this section unless the applicant establishes that a damage tolerance evaluation is impractical within the limits of geometry, inspectability, and good design practice. If an applicant establishes that it
is impractical within the limits of geometry, inspectability, and good design practice, the applicant must do a fatigue evaluation in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) The methodology used to establish compliance with this section must be submitted to and approved by the Administrator.
(c) Definitions:
(1)
Catastrophic failure
is an event that could prevent continued safe flight and landing.
(2)
Principal Structural Elements (PSEs)
are structural elements that contribute significantly to the carrying of flight or ground loads, the failure of which could result in catastrophic failure of the rotorcraft.
(3)
Threat Assessment
is an assessment that specifies the locations, types, and sizes of damage, considering fatigue, environmental effects, intrinsic and discrete flaws, and impact or other accidental damage (including the discrete source of the accidental damage) that may occur during manufacture or operation.
(d) Damage Tolerance Evaluation:
(1) Each applicant must show that catastrophic failure due to static and fatigue loads, considering the intrinsic or discrete manufacturing defects or accidental damage, is avoided throughout the operational life or prescribed inspection intervals of the rotorcraft by performing damage tolerance evaluations of the strength of composite PSEs and other parts, detail design points, and fabrication techniques. Each applicant must account for the effects of material and process variability along with environmental conditions in the strength and fatigue evaluations. Each applicant must evaluate parts that include PSEs of the airframe, main and tail rotor drive systems, main and tail rotor blades and hubs, rotor controls, fixed and movable control surfaces, engine and transmission mountings, landing gear, other parts, detail design points, and fabrication techniques deemed critical by the FAA. Each damage tolerance evaluation must include:
(i) The identification of all PSEs;
(ii) In-flight and ground measurements for determining the loads or stresses for all PSEs for all critical conditions throughout the range of limits in § 27.309 (including altitude effects), except that maneuvering load factors need not exceed the maximum values expected in service;
(iii) The loading spectra as severe as those expected in service based on loads or stresses determined under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, including external load operations, if applicable, and other operations including high-torque events;
(iv) A threat assessment for all PSEs that specifies the locations, types, and sizes of damage, considering fatigue, environmental effects, intrinsic and discrete flaws, and impact or other accidental damage (including the discrete source of the accidental damage) that may occur during manufacture or operation; and
(v) An assessment of the residual strength and fatigue characteristics of all PSEs that supports the replacement times and inspection intervals established under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) Each applicant must establish replacement times, inspections, or other procedures for all PSEs to require the repair or replacement of damaged parts before a catastrophic failure. These replacement times, inspections, or other procedures must be included in the Airworthiness Limitations Section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 27.1529.
(i) Replacement times for PSEs must be determined by tests, or by analysis supported by tests, and must show that the structure is able to withstand the repeated loads of variable magnitude expected in-service. In establishing these replacement times, the following items must be considered:
(A) Damage identified in the threat assessment required by paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section;
(B) Maximum acceptable manufacturing defects and in-service damage (
i.e.
, those that do not lower the residual strength below ultimate design loads and those that can be repaired to restore ultimate strength); and
(C) Ultimate load strength capability after applying repeated loads.
(ii) Inspection intervals for PSEs must be established to reveal any damage identified in the threat assessment
required by paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section that may occur from fatigue or other in-service causes before such damage has grown to the extent that the component cannot sustain the required residual strength capability. In establishing these inspection intervals, the following items must be considered:
(A) The growth rate, including no-growth, of the damage under the repeated loads expected in-service determined by tests or analysis supported by tests;
(B) The required residual strength for the assumed damage established after considering the damage type, inspection interval, detectability of damage, and the techniques adopted for damage detection. The minimum required residual strength is limit load; and
(C) Whether the inspection will detect the damage growth before the minimum residual strength is reached and restored to ultimate load capability, or whether the component will require replacement.
(3) Each applicant must consider the effects of damage on stiffness, dynamic behavior, loads, and functional performance on all PSEs when substantiating the maximum assumed damage size and inspection interval.
(e) Fatigue Evaluation: If an applicant establishes that the damage tolerance evaluation described in paragraph (d) of this section is impractical within the limits of geometry, inspectability, or good design practice, the applicant must do a fatigue evaluation of the particular composite rotorcraft structure and:
(1) Identify all PSEs considered in the fatigue evaluation;
(2) Identify the types of damage for all PSEs considered in the fatigue evaluation;
(3) Establish supplemental procedures to minimize the risk of catastrophic failure associated with the damages identified in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(4) Include these supplemental procedures in the Airworthiness Limitations section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 27.1529.
[Doc. No. FAA-2009-0660, Amdt. 27-47, 76 FR 74663, Dec. 1, 2011]

# Subpart D—Design and Construction

# General
§ 27.601
Design.
(a) The rotorcraft may have no design features or details that experience has shown to be hazardous or unreliable.
(b) The suitability of each questionable design detail and part must be established by tests.
§ 27.602
Critical parts.
(a)
Critical part.
A critical part is a part, the failure of which could have a catastrophic effect upon the rotocraft, and for which critical characteristics have been identified which must be controlled to ensure the required level of integrity.
(b) If the type design includes critical parts, a critical parts list shall be established. Procedures shall be established to define the critical design characteristics, identify processes that affect those characteristics, and identify the design change and process change controls necessary for showing compliance with the quality assurance requirements of part 21 of this chapter.
[Doc. No. 29311, 64 FR 46232, Aug. 24, 1999]
§ 27.603
Materials.
The suitability and durability of materials used for parts, the failure of which could adversely affect safety, must—
(a) Be established on the basis of experience or tests;
(b) Meet approved specifications that ensure their having the strength and other properties assumed in the design data; and
(c) Take into account the effects of environmental conditions, such as temperature and humidity, expected in service.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-16, 43 FR 50599, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 27.605
Fabrication methods.
(a) The methods of fabrication used must produce consistently sound structures. If a fabrication process (such as gluing, spot welding, or heat-treating) requires close control to reach this objective, the process must be performed according to an approved process specification.
(b) Each new aircraft fabrication method must be substantiated by a test program.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424 and 1425); sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-16, 43 FR 50599, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 27.607
Fasteners.
(a) Each removable bolt, screw, nut, pin, or other fastener whose loss could jeopardize the safe operation of the rotorcraft must incorporate two separate locking devices. The fastener and its locking devices may not be adversely affected by the environmental conditions associated with the particular installation.
(b) No self-locking nut may be used on any bolt subject to rotation in operation unless a nonfriction locking device is used in addition to the self-locking device.
[Amdt. 27-4, 33 FR 14533, Sept. 27, 1968]
§ 27.609
Protection of structure.
Each part of the structure must—
(a) Be suitably protected against deterioration or loss of strength in service due to any cause, including—
(1) Weathering;
(2) Corrosion; and
(3) Abrasion; and
(b) Have provisions for ventilation and drainage where necessary to prevent the accumulation of corrosive, flammable, or noxious fluids.
§ 27.610
Lightning and static electricity protection.
(a) The rotorcraft must be protected against catastrophic effects from lightning.
(b) For metallic components, compliance with paragraph (a) of this section may be shown by—
(1) Electrically bonding the components properly to the airframe; or
(2) Designing the components so that a strike will not endanger the rotorcraft.
(c) For nonmetallic components, compliance with paragraph (a) of this section may be shown by—
(1) Designing the components to minimize the effect of a strike; or
(2) Incorporating acceptable means of diverting the resulting electrical current so as not to endanger the rotorcraft.
(d) The electrical bonding and protection against lightning and static electricity must—
(1) Minimize the accumulation of electrostatic charge;
(2) Minimize the risk of electric shock to crew, passengers, and service and maintenance personnel using normal precautions;
(3) Provide an electrical return path, under both normal and fault conditions, on rotorcraft having grounded electrical systems; and
(4) Reduce to an acceptable level the effects of static electricity on the functioning of essential electrical and electronic equipment.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44433, Nov. 6, 1984, as amended by Amdt. 27-37, 64 FR 45094, Aug. 18, 1999; Amdt. 27-46, 76 FR 33135, June 8, 2011]
§ 27.611
Inspection provisions.
There must be means to allow the close examination of each part that requires—
(a) Recurring inspection;
(b) Adjustment for proper alignment and functioning; or
(c) Lubrication.
§ 27.613
Material strength properties and design values.
(a) Material strength properties must be based on enough tests of material meeting specifications to establish design values on a statistical basis.
(b) Design values must be chosen to minimize the probability of structural failure due to material variability. Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, compliance with this paragraph must be shown by selecting design values that assure material strength with the following probability—
(1) Where applied loads are eventually distributed through a single member within an assembly, the failure of which would result in loss of structural integrity of the component, 99 percent probability with 95 percent confidence; and
(2) For redundant structure, those in which the failure of individual elements would result in applied loads being safely distributed to other load-carrying members, 90 percent probability with 95 percent confidence.
(c) The strength, detail design, and fabrication of the structure must minimize the probability of disastrous fatigue failure, particularly at points of stress concentration.
(d) Design values may be those contained in the following publications (available from the Naval Publications and Forms Center, 5801 Tabor Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19120) or other values approved by the Administrator:
(1) MIL-HDBK-5, “Metallic Materials and Elements for Flight Vehicle Structure”.
(2) MIL-HDBK-17, “Plastics for Flight Vehicles”.
(3) ANC-18, “Design of Wood Aircraft Structures”.
(4) MIL-HDBK-23, “Composite Construction for Flight Vehicles”.
(e) Other design values may be used if a selection of the material is made in which a specimen of each individual item is tested before use and it is determined that the actual strength properties of that particular item will equal or exceed those used in design.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424), sec. 6(c), Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-16, 43 FR 50599, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8000, Mar. 6, 1990]
§ 27.619
Special factors.
(a) The special factors prescribed in §§ 27.621 through 27.625 apply to each part of the structure whose strength is—
(1) Uncertain;
(2) Likely to deteriorate in service before normal replacement; or
(3) Subject to appreciable variability due to—
(i) Uncertainties in manufacturing processes; or
(ii) Uncertainties in inspection methods.
(b) For each part to which §§ 27.621 through 27.625 apply, the factor of safety prescribed in § 27.303 must be multiplied by a special factor equal to—
(1) The applicable special factors prescribed in §§ 27.621 through 27.625; or
(2) Any other factor great enough to ensure that the probability of the part being understrength because of the uncertainties specified in paragraph (a) of this section is extremely remote.
§ 27.621
Casting factors.
(a)
General.
The factors, tests, and inspections specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section must be applied in addition to those necessary to establish foundry quality control. The inspections must meet approved specifications. Paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section apply to structural castings except castings that are pressure tested as parts of hydraulic or other fluid systems and do not support structural loads.
(b)
Bearing stresses and surfaces.
The casting factors specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section—
(1) Need not exceed 1.25 with respect to bearing stresses regardless of the method of inspection used; and
(2) Need not be used with respect to the bearing surfaces of a part whose bearing factor is larger than the applicable casting factor.
(c)
Critical castings.
For each casting whose failure would preclude continued safe flight and landing of the rotorcraft or result in serious injury to any occupant, the following apply:
(1) Each critical casting must—
(i) Have a casting factor of not less than 1.25; and
(ii) Receive 100 percent inspection by visual, radiographic, and magnetic particle (for ferromagnetic materials) or penetrant (for nonferromagnetic materials) inspection methods or approved equivalent inspection methods.
(2) For each critical casting with a casting factor less than 1.50, three sample castings must be static tested and shown to meet—
(i) The strength requirements of § 27.305 at an ultimate load corresponding to a casting factor of 1.25; and
(ii) The deformation requirements of § 27.305 at a load of 1.15 times the limit load.
(d)
Noncritical castings.
For each casting other than those specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the following apply:
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section, the casting factors and corresponding inspections must meet the following table:
Casting factor
Inspection
2.0 or greater
100 percent visual.
Less than 2.0, greater than 1.5
100 percent visual, and magnetic particle (ferromagnetic materials), penetrant (nonferromagnetic materials), or approved equivalent inspection methods.
1.25 through 1.50
100 percent visual, and magnetic particle (ferromagnetic materials). penetrant (nonferromagnetic materials), and radiographic or approved equivalent inspection methods.
(2) The percentage of castings inspected by nonvisual methods may be reduced below that specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section when an approved quality control procedure is established.
(3) For castings procured to a specification that guarantees the mechanical properties of the material in the casting and provides for demonstration of these properties by test of coupons cut from the castings on a sampling basis—
(i) A casting factor of 1.0 may be used; and
(ii) The castings must be inspected as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section for casting factors of “1.25 through 1.50” and tested under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-34, 62 FR 46173, Aug. 29, 1997]
§ 27.623
Bearing factors.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each part that has clearance (free fit), and that is subject to pounding or vibration, must have a bearing factor large enough to provide for the effects of normal relative motion.
(b) No bearing factor need be used on a part for which any larger special factor is prescribed.
§ 27.625
Fitting factors.
For each fitting (part or terminal used to join one structural member to another) the following apply:
(a) For each fitting whose strength is not proven by limit and ultimate load tests in which actual stress conditions are simulated in the fitting and surrounding structures, a fitting factor of at least 1.15 must be applied to each part of—
(1) The fitting;
(2) The means of attachment; and
(3) The bearing on the joined members.
(b) No fitting factor need be used—
(1) For joints made under approved practices and based on comprehensive test data (such as continuous joints in metal plating, welded joints, and scarf joints in wood); and
(2) With respect to any bearing surface for which a larger special factor is used.
(c) For each integral fitting, the part must be treated as a fitting up to the point at which the section properties become typical of the member.
(d) Each seat, berth, litter, safety belt, and harness attachment to the structure must be shown by analysis, tests, or both, to be able to withstand the inertia forces prescribed in § 27.561(b)(3) multiplied by a fitting factor of 1.33.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-35, 63 FR 43285, Aug. 12, 1998]
§ 27.629
Flutter.
Each aerodynamic surface of the rotorcraft must be free from flutter under each appropriate speed and power condition.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8000, Mar. 6, 1990]

# Rotors
§ 27.653
Pressure venting and drainage of rotor blades.
(a) For each rotor blade—
(1) There must be means for venting the internal pressure of the blade;
(2) Drainage holes must be provided for the blade; and
(3) The blade must be designed to prevent water from becoming trapped in it.
(b) Paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section does not apply to sealed rotor blades capable of withstanding the maximum pressure differentials expected in service.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 27.659
Mass balance.
(a) The rotors and blades must be mass balanced as necessary to—
(1) Prevent excessive vibration; and
(2) Prevent flutter at any speed up to the maximum forward speed.
(b) The structural integrity of the mass balance installation must be substantiated.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 27.661
Rotor blade clearance.
There must be enough clearance between the rotor blades and other parts of the structure to prevent the blades from striking any part of the structure during any operating condition.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 27.663
Ground resonance prevention means.
(a) The reliability of the means for preventing ground resonance must be shown either by analysis and tests, or reliable service experience, or by showing through analysis or tests that malfunction or failure of a single means will not cause ground resonance.
(b) The probable range of variations, during service, of the damping action of the ground resonance prevention means must be established and must be investigated during the test required by § 27.241.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8000, Mar. 6, 1990]

# Control Systems
§ 27.671
General.
(a) Each control and control system must operate with the ease, smoothness, and positiveness appropriate to its function.
(b) Each element of each flight control system must be designed, or distinctively and permanently marked, to minimize the probability of any incorrect assembly that could result in the malfunction of the system.
§ 27.672
Stability augmentation, automatic, and power-operated systems.
If the functioning of stability augmentation or other automatic or power-operated systems is necessary to show compliance with the flight characteristics requirements of this part, such systems must comply with § 27.671 of this part and the following:
(a) A warning which is clearly distinguishable to the pilot under expected flight conditions without requiring the pilot's attention must be provided for any failure in the stability augmentation system or in any other automatic or power-operated system which could result in an unsafe condition if the pilot is unaware of the failure. Warning systems must not activate the control systems.
(b) The design of the stability augmentation system or of any other automatic or power-operated system must allow initial counteraction of failures without requiring exceptional pilot skill or strength by overriding the failure by movement of the flight controls in the normal sense and deactivating the failed system.
(c) It must be shown that after any single failure of the stability augmentation system or any other automatic or power-operated system—
(1) The rotorcraft is safely controllable when the failure or malfunction occurs at any speed or altitude within the approved operating limitations;
(2) The controllability and maneuverability requirements of this part are met within a practical operational flight envelope (for example, speed, altitude, normal acceleration, and rotorcraft configurations) which is described in the Rotorcraft Flight Manual; and
(3) The trim and stability characteristics are not impaired below a level needed to permit continued safe flight and landing.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44433, Nov. 6, 1984; 49 FR 47594, Dec. 6, 1984]
§ 27.673
Primary flight control.
Primary flight controls are those used by the pilot for immediate control of pitch, roll, yaw, and vertical motion of the rotorcraft.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44434, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.674
Interconnected controls.
Each primary flight control system must provide for safe flight and landing and operate independently after a malfunction, failure, or jam of any auxiliary interconnected control.
[Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8001, Mar. 6, 1990]
§ 27.675
Stops.
(a) Each control system must have stops that positively limit the range of motion of the pilot's controls.
(b) Each stop must be located in the system so that the range of travel of its control is not appreciably affected by—
(1) Wear;
(2) Slackness; or
(3) Takeup adjustments.
(c) Each stop must be able to withstand the loads corresponding to the design conditions for the system.
(d) For each main rotor blade—
(1) Stops that are appropriate to the blade design must be provided to limit travel of the blade about its hinge points; and
(2) There must be means to keep the blade from hitting the droop stops during any operation other than starting and stopping the rotor.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424), sec. 6(c), Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-16, 43 FR 50599, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 27.679
Control system locks.
If there is a device to lock the control system with the rotorcraft on the ground or water, there must be means to—
(a) Give unmistakable warning to the pilot when the lock is engaged; and
(b) Prevent the lock from engaging in flight.
§ 27.681
Limit load static tests.
(a) Compliance with the limit load requirements of this part must be shown by tests in which—
(1) The direction of the test loads produces the most severe loading in the control system; and
(2) Each fitting, pulley, and bracket used in attaching the system to the main structure is included.
(b) Compliance must be shown (by analyses or individual load tests) with the special factor requirements for control system joints subject to angular motion.
§ 27.683
Operation tests.
It must be shown by operation tests that, when the controls are operated from the pilot compartment with the control system loaded to correspond with loads specified for the system, the system is free from—
(a) Jamming;
(b) Excessive friction; and
(c) Excessive deflection.
§ 27.685
Control system details.
(a) Each detail of each control system must be designed to prevent jamming, chafing, and interference from cargo, passengers, loose objects or the freezing of moisture.
(b) There must be means in the cockpit to prevent the entry of foreign objects into places where they would jam the system.
(c) There must be means to prevent the slapping of cables or tubes against other parts.
(d) Cable systems must be designed as follows:
(1) Cables, cable fittings, turnbuckles, splices, and pulleys must be of an acceptable kind.
(2) The design of the cable systems must prevent any hazardous change in cable tension throughout the range of travel under any operating conditions and temperature variations.
(3) No cable smaller than three thirty-seconds of an inch diameter may be used in any primary control system.
(4) Pulley kinds and sizes must correspond to the cables with which they are used. The pulley cable combinations and strength values which must be used are specified in Military Handbook MIL-HDBK-5C, Vol. 1
Vol. 2,
Metallic Materials and Elements for Flight Vehicle Structures, (Sept. 15, 1976, as amended through December 15, 1978). This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. section 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the Naval Publications and Forms Center, 5801 Tabor Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19120. Copies may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
(5) Pulleys must have close fitting guards to prevent the cables from being displaced or fouled.
(6) Pulleys must lie close enough to the plane passing through the cable to prevent the cable from rubbing against the pulley flange.
(7) No fairlead may cause a change in cable direction of more than 3°.
(8) No clevis pin subject to load or motion and retained only by cotter pins may be used in the control system.
(9) Turnbuckles attached to parts having angular motion must be installed to prevent binding throughout the range of travel.
(10) There must be means for visual inspection at each fairlead, pulley, terminal, and turnbuckle.
(e) Control system joints subject to angular motion must incorporate the following special factors with respect to the ultimate bearing strength of the softest material used as a bearing:
(1) 3.33 for push-pull systems other than ball and roller bearing systems.
(2) 2.0 for cable systems.
(f) For control system joints, the manufacturer's static, non-Brinell rating of ball and roller bearings must not be exceeded.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8001, Mar. 6, 1990; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 27-49, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 27.687
Spring devices.
(a) Each control system spring device whose failure could cause flutter or other unsafe characteristics must be reliable.
(b) Compliance with paragraph (a) of this section must be shown by tests simulating service conditions.
§ 27.691
Autorotation control mechanism.
Each main rotor blade pitch control mechanism must allow rapid entry into autorotation after power failure.
§ 27.695
Power boost and power-operated control system.
(a) If a power boost or power-operated control system is used, an alternate system must be immediately available that allows continued safe flight and landing in the event of—
(1) Any single failure in the power portion of the system; or
(2) The failure of all engines.
(b) Each alternate system may be a duplicate power portion or a manually operated mechanical system. The power portion includes the power source (such as hydraulic pumps), and such items as valves, lines, and actuators.
(c) The failure of mechanical parts (such as piston rods and links), and the jamming of power cylinders, must be considered unless they are extremely improbable.

# Landing Gear
§ 27.723
Shock absorption tests.
The landing inertia load factor and the reserve energy absorption capacity of the landing gear must be substantiated by the tests prescribed in §§ 27.725 and 27.727, respectively. These tests must be conducted on the complete rotorcraft or on units consisting of wheel, tire, and shock absorber in their proper relation.
§ 27.725
Limit drop test.
The limit drop test must be conducted as follows:
(a) The drop height must be—
(1) 13 inches from the lowest point of the landing gear to the ground; or
(2) Any lesser height, not less than eight inches, resulting in a drop contact velocity equal to the greatest probable sinking speed likely to occur
at ground contact in normal power-off landings.
(b) If considered, the rotor lift specified in § 27.473(a) must be introduced into the drop test by appropriate energy absorbing devices or by the use of an effective mass.
(c) Each landing gear unit must be tested in the attitude simulating the landing condition that is most critical from the standpoint of the energy to be absorbed by it.
(d) When an effective mass is used in showing compliance with paragraph (b) of this section, the following formula may be used instead of more rational computations:
EC28SE91.085
where:
W
e
= the effective weight to be used in the drop test (lbs.);
W
=
W
M
for main gear units (lbs.), equal to the static reaction on the particular unit with the rotorcraft in the most critical attitude. A rational method may be used in computing a main gear static reaction, taking into consideration the moment arm between the main wheel reaction and the rotorcraft center of gravity.
W
=
W
N
for nose gear units (lbs.), equal to the vertical component of the static reaction that would exist at the nose wheel, assuming that the mass of the rotorcraft acts at the center of gravity and exerts a force of 1.0
g
downward and 0.25
g
forward.
W
=
W
T
for tailwheel units (lbs.), equal to whichever of the following is critical:
(1) The static weight on the tailwheel with the rotorcraft resting on all wheels; or
(2) The vertical component of the ground reaction that would occur at the tailwheel, assuming that the mass of the rotorcraft acts at the center of gravity and exerts a force of l
g
downward with the rotorcraft in the maximum nose-up attitude considered in the nose-up landing conditions.
h
= specified free drop height (inches).
L
= ration of assumed rotor lift to the rotorcraft weight.
d
= deflection under impact of the tire (at the proper inflation pressure) plus the vertical component of the axle travels (inches) relative to the drop mass.
n
= limit inertia load factor.
n
j
= the load factor developed, during impact, on the mass used in the drop test (i.e., the acceleration
dv/dt
in
g
's recorded in the drop test plus 1.0).
§ 27.727
Reserve energy absorption drop test.
The reserve energy absorption drop test must be conducted as follows:
(a) The drop height must be 1.5 times that specified in § 27.725(a).
(b) Rotor lift, where considered in a manner similar to that prescribed in § 27.725(b), may not exceed 1.5 times the lift allowed under that paragraph.
(c) The landing gear must withstand this test without collapsing. Collapse of the landing gear occurs when a member of the nose, tail, or main gear will not support the rotorcraft in the proper attitude or allows the rotorcraft structure, other than the landing gear and external accessories, to impact the landing surface.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8001, Mar. 6, 1990]
§ 27.729
Retracting mechanism.
For rotorcraft with retractable landing gear, the following apply:
(a)
Loads.
The landing gear, retracting mechansim, wheel-well doors, and supporting structure must be designed for—
(1) The loads occurring in any maneuvering condition with the gear retracted;
(2) The combined friction, inertia, and air loads occurring during retraction and extension at any airspeed up to the design maximum landing gear operating speed; and
(3) The flight loads, including those in yawed flight, occurring with the gear extended at any airspeed up to the design maximum landing gear extended speed.
(b)
Landing gear lock.
A positive means must be provided to keep the gear extended.
(c)
Emergency operation.
When other than manual power is used to operate the gear, emergency means must be provided for extending the gear in the event of—
(1) Any reasonably probable failure in the normal retraction system; or
(2) The failure of any single source of hydraulic, electric, or equivalent energy.
(d)
Operation tests.
The proper functioning of the retracting mechanism must be shown by operation tests.
(e)
Position indicator.
There must be a means to indicate to the pilot when the gear is secured in the extreme positions.
(f)
Control.
The location and operation of the retraction control must meet the requirements of §§ 27.777 and 27.779.
(g)
Landing gear warning.
An aural or equally effective landing gear warning device must be provided that functions continuously when the rotorcraft is in a normal landing mode and the landing gear is not fully extended and locked. A manual shutoff capability must be provided for the warning device and the warning system must automatically reset when the rotorcraft is no longer in the landing mode.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44434, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.731
Wheels.
(a) Each landing gear wheel must be approved.
(b) The maximum static load rating of each wheel may not be less than the corresponding static ground reaction with—
(1) Maximum weight; and
(2) Critical center of gravity.
(c) The maximum limit load rating of each wheel must equal or exceed the maximum radial limit load determined under the applicable ground load requirements of this part.
§ 27.733
Tires.
(a) Each landing gear wheel must have a tire—
(1) That is a proper fit on the rim of the wheel; and
(2) Of the proper rating.
(b) The maximum static load rating of each tire must equal or exceed the static ground reaction obtained at its wheel, assuming—
(1) The design maximum weight; and
(2) The most unfavorable center of gravity.
(c) Each tire installed on a retractable landing gear system must, at the maximum size of the tire type expected in service, have a clearance to surrounding structure and systems that is adequate to prevent contact between the tire and any part of the structure or systems.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 27.735
Brakes.
For rotorcraft with wheel-type landing gear, a braking device must be installed that is—
(a) Controllable by the pilot;
(b) Usable during power-off landings; and
(c) Adequate to—
(1) Counteract any normal unbalanced torque when starting or stopping the rotor; and
(2) Hold the rotorcraft parked on a 10-degree slope on a dry, smooth pavement.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44434, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.737
Skis.
The maximum limit load rating of each ski must equal or exceed the maximum limit load determined under the applicable ground load requirements of this part.

# Floats and Hulls
§ 27.751
Main float buoyancy.
(a) For main floats, the buoyancy necessary to support the maximum weight of the rotorcraft in fresh water must be exceeded by—
(1) 50 percent, for single floats; and
(2) 60 percent, for multiple floats.
(b) Each main float must have enough water-tight compartments so that, with any single main float compartment flooded, the main floats will provide a margin of positive stability great enough to minimize the probability of capsizing.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 27.753
Main float design.
(a)
Bag floats.
Each bag float must be designed to withstand—
(1) The maximum pressure differential that might be developed at the maximum altitude for which certification with that float is requested; and
(2) The vertical loads prescribed in § 27.521(a), distributed along the length of the bag over three-quarters of its projected area.
(b)
Rigid floats.
Each rigid float must be able to withstand the vertical, horizontal, and side loads prescribed in § 27.521. These loads may be distributed along the length of the float.
§ 27.755
Hulls.
For each rotorcraft, with a hull and auxiliary floats, that is to be approved for both taking off from and landing on water, the hull and auxiliary floats must have enough watertight compartments so that, with any single compartment flooded, the buoyancy of the hull and auxiliary floats (and wheel tires if used) provides a margin of positive stability great enough to minimize the probability of capsizing.

# Personnel and Cargo Accommodations
§ 27.771
Pilot compartment.
For each pilot compartment—
(a) The compartment and its equipment must allow each pilot to perform his duties without unreasonable concentration or fatigue;
(b) If there is provision for a second pilot, the rotorcraft must be controllable with equal safety from either pilot seat; and
(c) The vibration and noise characteristics of cockpit appurtenances may not interfere with safe operation.
§ 27.773
Pilot compartment view.
(a) Each pilot compartment must be free from glare and reflections that could interfere with the pilot's view, and designed so that—
(1) Each pilot's view is sufficiently extensive, clear, and undistorted for safe operation; and
(2) Each pilot is protected from the elements so that moderate rain conditions do not unduly impair his view of the flight path in normal flight and while landing.
(b) If certification for night operation is requested, compliance with paragraph (a) of this section must be shown by ground or night flight tests.
(c) A vision system with a transparent display surface located in the pilot's outside field of view, such as a head up-display, head mounted display, or other equivalent display, must meet the following requirements:
(1) While the vision system display is in operation, it must compensate for interference with the pilot's outside field of view such that the combination of what is visible in the display and what remains visible through and around it, allows the pilot compartment to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (b) of this section.
(2) The pilot's view of the external scene may not be distorted by the transparent display surface or by the vision system imagery. When the vision system displays imagery or any symbology that is referenced to the imagery and outside scene topography, including attitude symbology, flight path vector, and flight path angle reference cue, that imagery and symbology must be aligned with, and scaled to, the external scene.
(3) The vision system must provide a means to allow the pilot using the display to immediately deactivate and reactivate the vision system imagery, on demand, without removing the pilot's hands from the primary flight and power controls, or their equivalent.
(4) When the vision system is not in operation it must permit the pilot compartment to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (b) of this section.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Docket FAA-2013-0485, Amdt. 27-48, 81 FR 90170, Dec. 13, 2016; Docket FAA-2016-9275, Amdt. 27-50, 83 FR 9423, Mar. 6, 2018]
§ 27.775
Windshields and windows.
Windshields and windows must be made of material that will not break into dangerous fragments.
[Amdt. 27-27, 55 FR 38966, Sept. 21, 1990]
§ 27.777
Cockpit controls.
Cockpit controls must be—
(a) Located to provide convenient operation and to prevent confusion and inadvertent operation; and
(b) Located and arranged with respect to the pilots' seats so that there is full and unrestricted movement of each control without interference from
the cockpit structure or the pilot's clothing when pilots from 5′2″ to 6′0″ in height are seated.
§ 27.779
Motion and effect of cockpit controls.
Cockpit controls must be designed so that they operate in accordance with the following movements and actuation:
(a) Flight controls, including the collective pitch control, must operate with a sense of motion which corresponds to the effect on the rotorcraft.
(b) Twist-grip engine power controls must be designed so that, for lefthand operation, the motion of the pilot's hand is clockwise to increase power when the hand is viewed from the edge containing the index finger. Other engine power controls, excluding the collective control, must operate with a forward motion to increase power.
(c) Normal landing gear controls must operate downward to extend the landing gear.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44434, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.783
Doors.
(a) Each closed cabin must have at least one adequate and easily accessible external door.
(b) Each external door must be located where persons using it will not be endangered by the rotors, propellers, engine intakes, and exhausts when appropriate operating procedures are used. If opening procedures are required, they must be marked inside, on or adjacent to the door opening device.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8001, Mar. 6, 1990]
§ 27.785
Seats, berths, litters, safety belts, and harnesses.
(a) Each seat, safety belt, harness, and adjacent part of the rotorcraft at each station designated for occupancy during takeoff and landing must be free of potentially injurious objects, sharp edges, protuberances, and hard surfaces and must be designed so that a person making proper use of these facilities will not suffer serious injury in an emergency landing as a result of the static inertial load factors specified in § 27.561(b) and dynamic conditions specified in § 27.562.
(b) Each occupant must be protected from serious head injury by a safety belt plus a shoulder harness that will prevent the head from contacting any injurious object except as provided for in § 27.562(c)(5). A shoulder harness (upper torso restraint), in combination with the safety belt, constitutes a torso restraint system as described in TSO-C114.
(c) Each occupant's seat must have a combined safety belt and shoulder harness with a single-point release. Each pilot's combined safety belt and shoulder harness must allow each pilot when seated with safety belt and shoulder harness fastened to perform all functions necessary for flight operations. There must be a means to secure belts and harnesses, when not in use, to prevent interference with the operation of the rotorcraft and with rapid egress in an emergency.
(d) If seat backs do not have a firm handhold, there must be hand grips or rails along each aisle to enable the occupants to steady themselves while using the aisle in moderately rough air.
(e) Each projecting object that could injure persons seated or moving about in the rotorcraft in normal flight must be padded.
(f) Each seat and its supporting structure must be designed for an occupant weight of at least 170 pounds considering the maximum load factors, inertial forces, and reactions between occupant, seat, and safety belt or harness corresponding with the applicable flight and ground load conditions, including the emergency landing conditions of § 27.561(b). In addition—
(1) Each pilot seat must be designed for the reactions resulting from the application of the pilot forces prescribed in § 27.397; and
(2) The inertial forces prescribed in § 27.561(b) must be multiplied by a factor of 1.33 in determining the strength of the attachment of—
(i) Each seat to the structure; and
(ii) Each safety belt or harness to the seat or structure.
(g) When the safety belt and shoulder harness are combined, the rated strength of the safety belt and shoulder
harness may not be less than that corresponding to the inertial forces specified in § 27.561(b), considering the occupant weight of at least 170 pounds, considering the dimensional characteristics of the restraint system installation, and using a distribution of at least a 60-percent load to the safety belt and at least a 40-percent load to the shoulder harness. If the safety belt is capable of being used without the shoulder harness, the inertial forces specified must be met by the safety belt alone.
(h) When a headrest is used, the headrest and its supporting structure must be designed to resist the inertia forces specified in § 27.561, with a 1.33 fitting factor and a head weight of at least 13 pounds.
(i) Each seating device system includes the device such as the seat, the cushions, the occupant restraint system, and attachment devices.
(j) Each seating device system may use design features such as crushing or separation of certain parts of the seats to reduce occupant loads for the emergency landing dynamic conditions of § 27.562; otherwise, the system must remain intact and must not interfere with rapid evacuation of the rotorcraft.
(k) For the purposes of this section, a litter is defined as a device designed to carry a nonambulatory person, primarily in a recumbent position, into and on the rotorcraft. Each berth or litter must be designed to withstand the load reaction of an occupant weight of at least 170 pounds when the occupant is subjected to the forward inertial factors specified in § 27.561(b). A berth or litter installed within 15° or less of the longitudinal axis of the rotorcraft must be provided with a padded end-board, cloth diaphram, or equivalent means that can withstand the forward load reaction. A berth or litter oriented greater than 15° with the longitudinal axis of the rotorcraft must be equipped with appropriate restraints, such as straps or safety belts, to withstand the forward load reaction. In addition—
(1) The berth or litter must have a restraint system and must not have corners or other protuberances likely to cause serious injury to a person occupying it during emergency landing conditions; and
(2) The berth or litter attachment and the occupant restraint system attachments to the structure must be designed to withstand the critical loads resulting from flight and ground load conditions and from the conditions prescribed in § 27.561(b). The fitting factor required by § 27.625(d) shall be applied.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44434, Nov. 6, 1984, as amended by Amdt. 27-25, 54 FR 47319, Nov. 13, 1989; Amdt. 27-35, 63 FR 43285, Aug. 12, 1998]
§ 27.787
Cargo and baggage compartments.
(a) Each cargo and baggage compartment must be designed for its placarded maximum weight of contents and for the critical load distributions at the appropriate maximum load factors corresponding to the specified flight and ground load conditions, except the emergency landing conditions of § 27.561.
(b) There must be means to prevent the contents of any compartment from becoming a hazard by shifting under the loads specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Under the emergency landing conditions of § 27.561, cargo and baggage compartments must—
(1) Be positioned so that if the contents break loose they are unlikely to cause injury to the occupants or restrict any of the escape facilities provided for use after an emergency landing; or
(2) Have sufficient strength to withstand the conditions specified in § 27.561 including the means of restraint, and their attachments, required by paragraph (b) of this section. Sufficient strength must be provided for the maximum authorized weight of cargo and baggage at the critical loading distribution.
(d) If cargo compartment lamps are installed, each lamp must be installed so as to prevent contact between lamp bulb and cargo.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-27, 55 FR 38966, Sept. 21, 1990]
§ 27.801
Ditching.
(a) If certification with ditching provisions is requested, the rotorcraft
must meet the requirements of this section and §§ 27.807(d), 27.1411 and 27.1415.
(b) Each practicable design measure, compatible with the general characteristics of the rotorcraft, must be taken to minimize the probability that in an emergency landing on water, the behavior of the rotorcraft would cause immediate injury to the occupants or would make it impossible for them to escape.
(c) The probable behavior of the rotorcraft in a water landing must be investigated by model tests or by comparison with rotorcraft of similar configuration for which the ditching characteristics are known. Scoops, flaps, projections, and any other factor likely to affect the hydrodynamic characteristics of the rotorcraft must be considered.
(d) It must be shown that, under reasonably probable water conditions, the flotation time and trim of the rotorcraft will allow the occupants to leave the rotorcraft and enter the life rafts required by § 27.1415. If compliance with this provision is shown by buoyancy and trim computations, appropriate allowances must be made for probable structural damage and leakage. If the rotorcraft has fuel tanks (with fuel jettisoning provisions) that can reasonably be expected to withstand a ditching without leakage, the jettisonable volume of fuel may be considered as buoyancy volume.
(e) Unless the effects of the collapse of external doors and windows are accounted for in the investigation of the probable behavior of the rotorcraft in a water landing (as prescribed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section), the external doors and windows must be designed to withstand the probable maximum local pressures.
[Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 27.805
Flight crew emergency exits.
(a) For rotorcraft with passenger emergency exits that are not convenient to the flight crew, there must be flight crew emergency exits, on both sides of the rotorcraft or as a top hatch in the flight crew area.
(b) Each flight crew emergency exit must be of sufficient size and must be located so as to allow rapid evacuation of the flight crew. This must be shown by test.
(c) Each flight crew emergency exit must not be obstructed by water or flotation devices after an emergency landing on water. This must be shown by test, demonstration, or analysis.
[Doc. No. 29247, 64 FR 45094, Aug. 18, 1999]
§ 27.807
Emergency exits.
(a)
Number and location.
(1) There must be at least one emergency exit on each side of the cabin readily accessible to each passenger. One of these exits must be usable in any probable attitude that may result from a crash;
(2) Doors intended for normal use may also serve as emergency exits, provided that they meet the requirements of this section; and
(3) If emergency flotation devices are installed, there must be an emergency exit accessible to each passenger on each side of the cabin that is shown by test, demonstration, or analysis to;
(i) Be above the waterline; and
(ii) Open without interference from flotation devices, whether stowed or deployed.
(b)
Type and operation.
Each emergency exit prescribed by paragraph (a) of this section must—
(1) Consist of a movable window or panel, or additional external door, providing an unobstructed opening that will admit a 19-by 26-inch ellipse;
(2) Have simple and obvious methods of opening, from the inside and from the outside, which do not require exceptional effort;
(3) Be arranged and marked so as to be readily located and opened even in darkness; and
(4) Be reasonably protected from jamming by fuselage deformation.
(c)
Tests.
The proper functioning of each emergency exit must be shown by test.
(d)
Ditching emergency exits for passengers.
If certification with ditching provisions is requested, the markings required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be designed to remain visible if the rotorcraft is capsized and the cabin is submerged.
[Doc. No. 29247, 64 FR 45094, Aug. 18, 1999]
§ 27.831
Ventilation.
(a) The ventilating system for the pilot and passenger compartments must be designed to prevent the presence of excessive quantities of fuel fumes and carbon monoxide.
(b) The concentration of carbon monoxide may not exceed one part in 20,000 parts of air during forward flight or hovering in still air. If the concentration exceeds this value under other conditions, there must be suitable operating restrictions.
§ 27.833
Heaters.
Each combustion heater must be approved.
[Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34210, Sept. 2, 1988]

# Fire Protection
§ 27.853
Compartment interiors.
For each compartment to be used by the crew or passengers—
(a) The materials must be at least flame-resistant;
(b) [Reserved]
(c) If smoking is to be prohibited, there must be a placard so stating, and if smoking is to be allowed—
(1) There must be an adequate number of self-contained, removable ashtrays; and
(2) Where the crew compartment is separated from the passenger compartment, there must be at least one illuminated sign (using either letters or symbols) notifying all passengers when smoking is prohibited. Signs which notify when smoking is prohibited must—
(i) When illuminated, be legible to each passenger seated in the passenger cabin under all probable lighting conditions; and
(ii) Be so constructed that the crew can turn the illumination on and off.
[Amdt. 27-17, 45 FR 7755, Feb. 4, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 27-37, 64 FR 45095, Aug. 18, 1999]
§ 27.855
Cargo and baggage compartments.
(a) Each cargo and baggage compartment must be constructed of, or lined with, materials that are at least—
(1) Flame resistant, in the case of compartments that are readily accessible to a crewmember in flight; and
(2) Fire resistant, in the case of other compartments.
(b) No compartment may contain any controls, wiring, lines, equipment, or accessories whose damage or failure would affect safe operation, unless those items are protected so that—
(1) They cannot be damaged by the movement of cargo in the compartment; and
(2) Their breakage or failure will not create a fire hazard.
§ 27.859
Heating systems.
(a)
General.
For each heating system that involves the passage of cabin air over, or close to, the exhaust manifold, there must be means to prevent carbon monoxide from entering any cabin or pilot compartment.
(b)
Heat exchangers.
Each heat exchanger must be—
(1) Of suitable materials;
(2) Adequately cooled under all conditions; and
(3) Easily disassembled for inspection.
(c)
Combustion heater fire protection.
Except for heaters which incorporate designs to prevent hazards in the event of fuel leakage in the heater fuel system, fire within the ventilating air passage, or any other heater malfunction, each heater zone must incorporate the fire protection features of the applicable requirements of §§ 27.1183, 27.1185, 27.1189, 27.1191, and be provided with—
(1) Approved, quick-acting fire detectors in numbers and locations ensuring prompt detection of fire in the heater region.
(2) Fire extinguisher systems that provide at least one adequate discharge to all areas of the heater region.
(3) Complete drainage of each part of each zone to minimize the hazards resulting from failure or malfunction of any component containing flammable fluids. The drainage means must be—
(i) Effective under conditions expected to prevail when drainage is needed; and
(ii) Arranged so that no discharged fluid will cause an additional fire hazard.
(4) Ventilation, arranged so that no discharged vapors will cause an additional fire hazard.
(d)
Ventilating air ducts.
Each ventilating air duct passing through any heater region must be fireproof.
(1) Unless isolation is provided by fireproof valves or by equally effective means, the ventilating air duct downstream of each heater must be fireproof for a distance great enough to ensure that any fire originating in the heater can be contained in the duct.
(2) Each part of any ventilating duct passing through any region having a flammable fluid system must be so constructed or isolated from that system that the malfunctioning of any component of that system cannot introduce flammable fluids or vapors into the ventilating airstream.
(e)
Combustion air ducts.
Each combustion air duct must be fireproof for a distance great enough to prevent damage from backfiring or reverse flame propagation.
(1) No combustion air duct may connect with the ventilating airstream unless flames from backfires or reverse burning cannot enter the ventilating airstream under any operating condition, including reverse flow or malfunction of the heater or its associated components.
(2) No combustion air duct may restrict the prompt relief of any backfire that, if so restricted, could cause heater failure.
(f)
Heater control: General.
There must be means to prevent the hazardous accumulation of water or ice on or in any heater control component, control system tubing, or safety control.
(g)
Heater safety controls.
For each combustion heater, safety control means must be provided as follows:
(1) Means independent of the components provided for the normal continuous control of air temperature, airflow, and fuel flow must be provided for each heater to automatically shut off the ignition and fuel supply of that heater at a point remote from that heater when any of the following occurs:
(i) The heat exchanger temperature exceeds safe limits.
(ii) The ventilating air temperature exceeds safe limits.
(iii) The combustion airflow becomes inadequate for safe operation.
(iv) The ventilating airflow becomes inadequate for safe operation.
(2) The means of complying with paragraph (g)(1) of this section for any individual heater must—
(i) Be independent of components serving any other heater, the heat output of which is essential for safe operation; and
(ii) Keep the heater off until restarted by the crew.
(3) There must be means to warn the crew when any heater, the heat output of which is essential for safe operation, has been shut off by the automatic means prescribed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(h)
Air intakes.
Each combustion and ventilating air intake must be located so that no flammable fluids or vapors can enter the heater system—
(1) During normal operation; or
(2) As a result of the malfunction of any other component.
(i)
Heater exhaust.
Each heater exhaust system must meet the requirements of §§ 27.1121 and 27.1123.
(1) Each exhaust shroud must be sealed so that no flammable fluids or hazardous quantities of vapors can reach the exhaust system through joints.
(2) No exhaust system may restrict the prompt relief of any backfire that, if so restricted, could cause heater failure.
(j)
Heater fuel systems.
Each heater fuel system must meet the powerplant fuel system requirements affecting safe heater operation. Each heater fuel system component in the ventilating airstream must be protected by shrouds so that no leakage from those components can enter the ventilating airstream.
(k)
Drains.
There must be means for safe drainage of any fuel that might accumulate in the combustion chamber or the heat exchanger.
(1) Each part of any drain that operates at high temperatures must be protected in the same manner as heater exhausts.
(2) Each drain must be protected against hazardous ice accumulation under any operating condition.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34211, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.861
Fire protection of structure, controls, and other parts.
Each part of the structure, controls, rotor mechanism, and other parts essential to a controlled landing that would be affected by powerplant fires must be fireproof or protected so they can perform their essential functions for at least 5 minutes under any foreseeable powerplant fire conditions.
[Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8001, Mar. 6, 1990]
§ 27.863
Flammable fluid fire protection.
(a) In each area where flammable fluids or vapors might escape by leakage of a fluid system, there must be means to minimize the probability of ignition of the fluids and vapors, and the resultant hazards if ignition does occur.
(b) Compliance with paragraph (a) of this section must be shown by analysis or tests, and the following factors must be considered:
(1) Possible sources and paths of fluid leakage, and means of detecting leakage.
(2) Flammability characteristics of fluids, including effects of any combustible or absorbing materials.
(3) Possible ignition sources, including electrical faults, overheating of equipment, and malfunctioning of protective devices.
(4) Means available for controlling or extinguishing a fire, such as stopping flow of fluids, shutting down equipment, fireproof containment, or use of extinguishing agents.
(5) Ability of rotorcraft components that are critical to safety of flight to withstand fire and heat.
(c) If action by the flight crew is required to prevent or counteract a fluid fire (e.g. equipment shutdown or actuation of a fire extinguisher) quick acting means must be provided to alert the crew.
(d) Each area where flammable fluids or vapors might escape by leakage of a fluid system must be identified and defined.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424), sec. 6(c), Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Amdt. 27-16, 43 FR 50599, Oct. 30, 1978]

# External Loads
§ 27.865
External loads.
(a) It must be shown by analysis, test, or both, that the rotorcraft external load attaching means for rotorcraft-load combinations to be used for nonhuman external cargo applications can withstand a limit static load equal to 2.5, or some lower load factor approved under §§ 27.337 through 27.341, multiplied by the maximum external load for which authorization is requested. It must be shown by analysis, test, or both that the rotorcraft external load attaching means and corresponding personnel carrying device system for rotorcraft-load combinations to be used for human external cargo applications can withstand a limit static load equal to 3.5 or some lower load factor, not less than 2.5, approved under §§ 27.337 through 27.341, multiplied by the maximum external load for which authorization is requested. The load for any rotorcraft-load combination class, for any external cargo type, must be applied in the vertical direction. For jettisonable external loads of any applicable external cargo type, the load must also be applied in any direction making the maximum angle with the vertical that can be achieved in service but not less than 30°. However, the 30° angle may be reduced to a lesser angle if—
(1) An operating limitation is established limiting external load operations to such angles for which compliance with this paragraph has been shown; or
(2) It is shown that the lesser angle can not be exceeded in service.
(b) The external load attaching means, for jettisonable rotorcraft-load combinations, must include a quick-release system to enable the pilot to release the external load quickly during flight. The quick-release system must consist of a primary quick release subsystem and a backup quick release subsystem that are isolated from one another. The quick-release system, and the means by which it is controlled, must comply with the following:
(1) A control for the primary quick release subsystem must be installed either on one of the pilot's primary controls or in an equivalently accessible
location and must be designed and located so that it may be operated by either the pilot or a crewmember without hazardously limiting the ability to control the rotorcraft during an emergency situation.
(2) A control for the backup quick release subsystem, readily accessible to either the pilot or another crewmember, must be provided.
(3) Both the primary and backup quick release subsystems must—
(i) Be reliable, durable, and function properly with all external loads up to and including the maximum external limit load for which authorization is requested.
(ii) Be protected against electromagnetic interference (EMI) from external and internal sources and against lightning to prevent inadvertent load release.
(A) The minimum level of protection required for jettisonable rotorcraft-load combinations used for nonhuman external cargo is a radio frequency field strength of 20 volts per meter.
(B) The minimum level of protection required for jettisonable rotorcraft-load combinations used for human external cargo is a radio frequency field strength of 200 volts per meter.
(iii) Be protected against any failure that could be induced by a failure mode of any other electrical or mechanical rotorcraft system.
(c) For rotorcraft-load combinations to be used for human external cargo applications, the rotorcraft must—
(1) For jettisonable external loads, have a quick-release system that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and that—
(i) Provides a dual actuation device for the primary quick release subsystem, and
(ii) Provides a separate dual actuation device for the backup quick release subsystem;
(2) Have a reliable, approved personnel carrying device system that has the structural capability and personnel safety features essential for external occupant safety;
(3) Have placards and markings at all appropriate locations that clearly state the essential system operating instructions and, for the personnel carrying device system, the ingress and egress instructions;
(4) Have equipment to allow direct intercommunication among required crewmembers and external occupants; and
(5) Have the appropriate limitations and procedures incorporated in the flight manual for conducting human external cargo operations.
(d) The critically configured jettisonable external loads must be shown by a combination of analysis, ground tests, and flight tests to be both transportable and releasable throughout the approved operational envelope without hazard to the rotorcraft during normal flight conditions. In addition, these external loads must be shown to be releasable without hazard to the rotorcraft during emergency flight conditions.
(e) A placard or marking must be installed next to the external-load attaching means clearly stating any operational limitations and the maximum authorized external load as demonstrated under § 27.25 and this section.
(f) The fatigue evaluation of § 27.571 of this part does not apply to rotorcraft-load combinations to be used for nonhuman external cargo except for the failure of critical structural elements that would result in a hazard to the rotorcraft. For rotorcraft-load combinations to be used for human external cargo, the fatigue evaluation of § 27.571 of this part applies to the entire quick release and personnel carrying device structural systems and their attachments.
[Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8001, Mar. 6, 1990; Amdt. 27-36, 64 FR 43019, Aug. 6, 1999]

# Miscellaneous
§ 27.871
Leveling marks.
There must be reference marks for leveling the rotorcraft on the ground.
§ 27.873
Ballast provisions.
Ballast provisions must be designed and constructed to prevent inadvertent shifting of ballast in flight.

# Subpart E—Powerplant

# General
§ 27.901
Installation.
(a) For the purpose of this part, the powerplant installation includes each part of the rotorcraft (other than the main and auxiliary rotor structures) that—
(1) Is necessary for propulsion;
(2) Affects the control of the major propulsive units; or
(3) Affects the safety of the major propulsive units between normal inspections or overhauls.
(b) For each powerplant installation—
(1) Each component of the installation must be constructed, arranged, and installed to ensure its continued safe operation between normal inspections or overhauls for the range of temperature and altitude for which approval is requested;
(2) Accessibility must be provided to allow any inspection and maintenance necessary for continued airworthiness;
(3) Electrical interconnections must be provided to prevent differences of potential between major components of the installation and the rest of the rotorcraft;
(4) Axial and radial expansion of turbine engines may not affect the safety of the installation; and
(5) Design precautions must be taken to minimize the possibility of incorrect assembly of components and equipment essential to safe operation of the rotorcraft, except where operation with the incorrect assembly can be shown to be extremely improbable.
(c) The installation must comply with—
(1) The installation instructions provided under § 33.5 of this chapter; and
(2) The applicable provisions of this subpart.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603, 72 Stat. 752, 775, 49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423; sec. 6(c), 49 U.S.C. 1655(c))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-12, 42 FR 15044, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34211, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.903
Engines.
(a)
Engine type certification.
Each engine must have an approved type certificate. Reciprocating engines for use in helicopters must be qualified in accordance with § 33.49(d) of this chapter or be otherwise approved for the intended usage.
(b)
Engine or drive system cooling fan blade protection.
(1) If an engine or rotor drive system cooling fan is installed, there must be a means to protect the rotorcraft and allow a safe landing if a fan blade fails. This must be shown by showing that—
(i) The fan blades are contained in case of failure;
(ii) Each fan is located so that a failure will not jeopardize safety; or
(iii) Each fan blade can withstand an ultimate load of 1.5 times the centrifugal force resulting from operation limited by the following:
(A) For fans driven directly by the engine—
(
1
) The terminal engine r.p.m. under uncontrolled conditions; or
(
2
) An overspeed limiting device.
(B) For fans driven by the rotor drive system, the maximum rotor drive system rotational speed to be expected in service, including transients.
(2) Unless a fatigue evaluation under § 27.571 is conducted, it must be shown that cooling fan blades are not operating at resonant conditions within the operating limits of the rotorcraft.
(c)
Turbine engine installation.
For turbine engine installations, the powerplant systems associated with engine control devices, systems, and instrumentation must be designed to give reasonable assurance that those engine operating limitations that adversely affect turbine rotor structural integrity will not be exceeded in service.
(d)
Restart capability.
(1) A means to restart any engine in flight must be provided.
(2) Except for the in-flight shutdown of all engines, engine restart capability must be demonstrated throughout a flight envelope for the rotorcraft.
(3) Following the in-flight shutdown of all engines, in-flight engine restart capability must be provided.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34211, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 11000, Feb. 29, 2008; Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8737, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 27.907
Engine vibration.
(a) Each engine must be installed to prevent the harmful vibration of any part of the engine or rotorcraft.
(b) The addition of the rotor and the rotor drive system to the engine may not subject the principal rotating parts of the engine to excessive vibration stresses. This must be shown by a vibration investigation.
(c) No part of the rotor drive system may be subjected to excessive vibration stresses.

# Rotor Drive System
§ 27.917
Design.
(a) Each rotor drive system must incorporate a unit for each engine to automatically disengage that engine from the main and auxiliary rotors if that engine fails.
(b) Each rotor drive system must be arranged so that each rotor necessary for control in autorotation will continue to be driven by the main rotors after disengagement of the engine from the main and auxiliary rotors.
(c) If a torque limiting device is used in the rotor drive system, it must be located so as to allow continued control of the rotorcraft when the device is operating.
(d) The rotor drive system includes any part necessary to transmit power from the engines to the rotor hubs. This includes gear boxes, shafting, universal joints, couplings, rotor brake assemblies, clutches, supporting bearings for shafting, any attendant accessory pads or drives, and any cooling fans that are a part of, attached to, or mounted on the rotor drive system.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 27.921
Rotor brake.
If there is a means to control the rotation of the rotor drive system independently of the engine, any limitations on the use of that means must be specified, and the control for that means must be guarded to prevent inadvertent operation.
§ 27.923
Rotor drive system and control mechanism tests.
(a) Each part tested as prescribed in this section must be in a serviceable condition at the end of the tests. No intervening disassembly which might affect test results may be conducted.
(b) Each rotor drive system and control mechanism must be tested for not less than 100 hours. The test must be conducted on the rotorcraft, and the torque must be absorbed by the rotors to be installed, except that other ground or flight test facilities with other appropriate methods of torque absorption may be used if the conditions of support and vibration closely simulate the conditions that would exist during a test on the rotorcraft.
(c) A 60-hour part of the test prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section must be run at not less than maximum continuous torque and the maximum speed for use with maximum continuous torque. In this test, the main rotor controls must be set in the position that will give maximum longitudinal cyclic pitch change to simulate forward flight. The auxiliary rotor controls must be in the position for normal operation under the conditions of the test.
(d) A 30-hour or, for rotorcraft for which the use of either 30-minute OEI power or continuous OEI power is requested, a 25-hour part of the test prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section must be run at not less than 75 percent of maximum continuous torque and the minimum speed for use with 75 percent of maximum continuous torque. The main and auxiliary rotor controls must be in the position for normal operation under the conditions of the test.
(e) A 10-hour part of the test prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section must be run at not less than takeoff torque and the maximum speed for use with takeoff torque. The main and auxiliary rotor controls must be in the normal position for vertical ascent.
(1) For multiengine rotorcraft for which the use of 2
1/2
minute OEI power
is requested, 12 runs during the 10-hour test must be conducted as follows:
(i) Each run must consist of at least one period of 2
1/2
minutes with takeoff torque and the maximum speed for use with takeoff torque on all engines.
(ii) Each run must consist of at least one period for each engine in sequence, during which that engine simulates a power failure and the remaining engines are run at 2
1/2
minute OEI torque and the maximum speed for use with 2
1/2
minute OEI torque for 2
1/2
minutes.
(2) For multiengine turbine-powered rotorcraft for which the use of 30-second and 2-minute OEI power is requested, 10 runs must be conducted as follows:
(i) Immediately following a takeoff run of at least 5 minutes, each power source must simulate a failure, in turn, and apply the maximum torque and the maximum speed for use with 30-second OEI power to the remaining affected drive system power inputs for not less than 30 seconds, followed by application of the maximum torque and the maximum speed for use with 2-minute OEI power for not less than 2 minutes. At least one run sequence must be conducted from a simulated “flight idle” condition. When conducted on a bench test, the test sequence must be conducted following stabilization at takeoff power.
(ii) For the purpose of this paragraph, an affected power input includes all parts of the rotor drive system which can be adversely affected by the application of higher or asymmetric torque and speed prescribed by the test.
(iii) This test may be conducted on a representative bench test facility when engine limitations either preclude repeated use of this power or would result in premature engine removal during the test. The loads, the vibration frequency, and the methods of application to the affected rotor drive system components must be representative of rotorcraft conditions. Test components must be those used to show compliance with the remainder of this section.
(f) The parts of the test prescribed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section must be conducted in intervals of not less than 30 minutes and may be accomplished either on the ground or in flight. The part of the test prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section must be conducted in intervals of not less than five minutes.
(g) At intervals of not more than five hours during the tests prescribed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, the engine must be stopped rapidly enough to allow the engine and rotor drive to be automatically disengaged from the rotors.
(h) Under the operating conditions specified in paragraph (c) of this section, 500 complete cycles of lateral control, 500 complete cycles of longitudinal control of the main rotors, and 500 complete cycles of control of each auxiliary rotor must be accomplished. A “complete cycle” involves movement of the controls from the neutral position, through both extreme positions, and back to the neutral position, except that control movements need not produce loads or flapping motions exceeding the maximum loads or motions encountered in flight. The cycling may be accomplished during the testing prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(i) At least 200 start-up clutch engagements must be accomplished—
(1) So that the shaft on the driven side of the clutch is accelerated; and
(2) Using a speed and method selected by the applicant.
(j) For multiengine rotorcraft for which the use of 30-minute OEI power is requested, five runs must be made at 30-minute OEI torque and the maximum speed for use with 30-minute OEI torque, in which each engine, in sequence, is made inoperative and the remaining engine(s) is run for a 30-minute period.
(k) For multiengine rotorcraft for which the use of continuous OEI power is requested, five runs must be made at continuous OEI torque and the maximum speed for use with continuous OEI torque, in which each engine, in sequence, is made inoperative and the
remaining engine(s) is run for a 1-hour period.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603, 72 Stat. 752, 775, 49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423; sec. 6(c), 49 U.S.C. 1655(c))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-12, 42 FR 15044, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34212, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 27-29, 59 FR 47767, Sept. 16, 1994]
§ 27.927
Additional tests.
(a) Any additional dynamic, endurance, and operational tests, and vibratory investigations necessary to determine that the rotor drive mechanism is safe, must be performed.
(b) If turbine engine torque output to the transmission can exceed the highest engine or transmission torque rating limit, and that output is not directly controlled by the pilot under normal operating conditions (such as where the primary engine power control is accomplished through the flight control), the following test must be made:
(1) Under conditions associated with all engines operating, make 200 applications, for 10 seconds each, or torque that is at least equal to the lesser of—
(i) The maximum torque used in meeting § 27.923 plus 10 percent; or
(ii) The maximum attainable torque output of the engines, assuming that torque limiting devices, if any, function properly.
(2) For multiengine rotorcraft under conditions associated with each engine, in turn, becoming inoperative, apply to the remaining transmission torque inputs the maximum torque attainable under probable operating conditions, assuming that torque limiting devices, if any, function properly. Each transmission input must be tested at this maximum torque for at least 15 minutes.
(3) The tests prescribed in this paragraph must be conducted on the rotorcraft at the maximum rotational speed intended for the power condition of the test and the torque must be absorbed by the rotors to be installed, except that other ground or flight test facilities with other appropriate methods of torque absorption may be used if the conditions of support and vibration closely simulate the conditions that would exist during a test on the rotorcraft.
(c) It must be shown by tests that the rotor drive system is capable of operating under autorotative conditions for 15 minutes after the loss of pressure in the rotor drive primary oil system.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603, 72 Stat. 752, 775, 49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423; sec. 6(c), 49 U.S.C. 1655(c))
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 963, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 27-12, 42 FR 15045, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34212, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.931
Shafting critical speed.
(a) The critical speeds of any shafting must be determined by demonstration except that analytical methods may be used if reliable methods of analysis are available for the particular design.
(b) If any critical speed lies within, or close to, the operating ranges for idling, power on, and autorotative conditions, the stresses occurring at that speed must be within safe limits. This must be shown by tests.
(c) If analytical methods are used and show that no critical speed lies within the permissible operating ranges, the margins between the calculated critical speeds and the limits of the allowable operating ranges must be adequate to allow for possible variations between the computed and actual values.
§ 27.935
Shafting joints.
Each universal joint, slip joint, and other shafting joints whose lubrication is necessary for operation must have provision for lubrication.
§ 27.939
Turbine engine operating characteristics.
(a) Turbine engine operating characteristics must be investigated in flight to determine that no adverse characteristics (such as stall, surge, or flameout) are present, to a hazardous degree, during normal and emergency operation within the range of operating limitations of the rotorcraft and of the engine.
(b) The turbine engine air inlet system may not, as a result of airflow distortion during normal operation, cause vibration harmful to the engine.
(c) For governor-controlled engines, it must be shown that there exists no hazardous torsional instability of the
drive system associated with critical combinations of power, rotational speed, and control displacement.
[Amdt. 27-1, 32 FR 6914, May 5, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55469, Dec. 20, 1976]

# Fuel System
§ 27.951
General.
(a) Each fuel system must be constructed and arranged to ensure a flow of fuel at a rate and pressure established for proper engine functioning under any likely operating condition, including the maneuvers for which certification is requested.
(b) Each fuel system must be arranged so that—
(1) No fuel pump can draw fuel from more than one tank at a time; or
(2) There are means to prevent introducing air into the system.
(c) Each fuel system for a turbine engine must be capable of sustained operation throughout its flow and pressure range with fuel initially saturated with water at 80 °F. and having 0.75cc of free water per gallon added and cooled to the most critical condition for icing likely to be encountered in operation.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-9, 39 FR 35461, Oct. 1, 1974]
§ 27.952
Fuel system crash resistance.
Unless other means acceptable to the Administrator are employed to minimize the hazard of fuel fires to occupants following an otherwise survivable impact (crash landing), the fuel systems must incorporate the design features of this section. These systems must be shown to be capable of sustaining the static and dynamic deceleration loads of this section, considered as ultimate loads acting alone, measured at the system component's center of gravity, without structural damage to system components, fuel tanks, or their attachments that would leak fuel to an ignition source.
(a)
Drop test requirements.
Each tank, or the most critical tank, must be drop-tested as follows:
(1) The drop height must be at least 50 feet.
(2) The drop impact surface must be nondeforming.
(3) The tank must be filled with water to 80 percent of the normal, full capacity.
(4) The tank must be enclosed in a surrounding structure representative of the installation unless it can be established that the surrounding structure is free of projections or other design features likely to contribute to rupture of the tank.
(5) The tank must drop freely and impact in a horizontal position ±10°.
(6) After the drop test, there must be no leakage.
(b)
Fuel tank load factors.
Except for fuel tanks located so that tank rupture with fuel release to either significant ignition sources, such as engines, heaters, and auxiliary power units, or occupants is extremely remote, each fuel tank must be designed and installed to retain its contents under the following ultimate inertial load factors, acting alone.
(1) For fuel tanks in the cabin:
(i) Upward—4g.
(ii) Forward—16g.
(iii) Sideward—8g.
(iv) Downward—20g.
(2) For fuel tanks located above or behind the crew or passenger compartment that, if loosened, could injure an occupant in an emergency landing:
(i) Upward—1.5g.
(ii) Forward—8g.
(iii) Sideward—2g.
(iv) Downward—4g.
(3) For fuel tanks in other areas:
(i) Upward—1.5g.
(ii) Forward—4g.
(iii) Sideward—2g.
(iv) Downward—4g.
(c)
Fuel line self-sealing breakaway couplings.
Self-sealing breakaway couplings must be installed unless hazardous relative motion of fuel system components to each other or to local rotorcraft structure is demonstrated to be extremely improbable or unless other means are provided. The couplings or equivalent devices must be installed at all fuel tank-to-fuel line connections, tank-to-tank interconnects, and at other points in the fuel system where local structural deformation could lead to the release of fuel.
(1) The design and construction of self-sealing breakaway couplings must
incorporate the following design features:
(i) The load necessary to separate a breakaway coupling must be between 25 to 50 percent of the minimum ultimate failure load (ultimate strength) of the weakest component in the fluid-carrying line. The separation load must in no case be less than 300 pounds, regardless of the size of the fluid line.
(ii) A breakaway coupling must separate whenever its ultimate load (as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section) is applied in the failure modes most likely to occur.
(iii) All breakaway couplings must incorporate design provisions to visually ascertain that the coupling is locked together (leak-free) and is open during normal installation and service.
(iv) All breakaway couplings must incorporate design provisions to prevent uncoupling or unintended closing due to operational shocks, vibrations, or accelerations.
(v) No breakaway coupling design may allow the release of fuel once the coupling has performed its intended function.
(2) All individual breakaway couplings, coupling fuel feed systems, or equivalent means must be designed, tested, installed, and maintained so that inadvertent fuel shutoff in flight is improbable in accordance with § 27.955(a) and must comply with the fatigue evaluation requirements of § 27.571 without leaking.
(3) Alternate, equivalent means to the use of breakaway couplings must not create a survivable impact-induced load on the fuel line to which it is installed greater than 25 to 50 percent of the ultimate load (strength) of the weakest component in the line and must comply with the fatigue requirements of § 27.571 without leaking.
(d)
Frangible or deformable structural attachments.
Unless hazardous relative motion of fuel tanks and fuel system components to local rotorcraft structure is demonstrated to be extremely improbable in an otherwise survivable impact, frangible or locally deformable attachments of fuel tanks and fuel system components to local rotorcraft structure must be used. The attachment of fuel tanks and fuel system components to local rotorcraft structure, whether frangible or locally deformable, must be designed such that its separation or relative local deformation will occur without rupture or local tear-out of the fuel tank or fuel system components that will cause fuel leakage. The ultimate strength of frangible or deformable attachments must be as follows:
(1) The load required to separate a frangible attachment from its support structure, or deform a locally deformable attachment relative to its support structure, must be between 25 and 50 percent of the minimum ultimate load (ultimate strength) of the weakest component in the attached system. In no case may the load be less than 300 pounds.
(2) A frangible or locally deformable attachment must separate or locally deform as intended whenever its ultimate load (as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) is applied in the modes most likely to occur.
(3) All frangible or locally deformable attachments must comply with the fatigue requirements of § 27.571.
(e)
Separation of fuel and ignition sources.
To provide maximum crash resistance, fuel must be located as far as practicable from all occupiable areas and from all potential ignition sources.
(f)
Other basic mechanical design criteria.
Fuel tanks, fuel lines, electrical wires, and electrical devices must be designed, constructed, and installed, as far as practicable, to be crash resistant.
(g)
Rigid or semirigid fuel tanks.
Rigid or semirigid fuel tank or bladder walls must be impact and tear resistant.
[Doc. No. 26352, 59 FR 50386, Oct. 3, 1994]
§ 27.953
Fuel system independence.
(a) Each fuel system for multiengine rotorcraft must allow fuel to be supplied to each engine through a system independent of those parts of each system supplying fuel to other engines. However, separate fuel tanks need not be provided for each engine.
(b) If a single fuel tank is used on a multiengine rotorcraft, the following must be provided:
(1) Independent tank outlets for each engine, each incorporating a shutoff valve at the tank. This shutoff valve may also serve as the firewall shutoff
valve required by § 27.995 if the line between the valve and the engine compartment does not contain a hazardous amount of fuel that can drain into the engine compartment.
(2) At least two vents arranged to minimize the probability of both vents becoming obstructed simultaneously.
(3) Filler caps designed to minimize the probability of incorrect installation or inflight loss.
(4) A fuel system in which those parts of the system from each tank outlet to any engine are independent of each part of each system supplying fuel to other engines.
§ 27.954
Fuel system lightning protection.
The fuel system must be designed and arranged to prevent the ignition of fuel vapor within the system by—
(a) Direct lightning strikes to areas having a high probability of stroke attachment;
(b) Swept lightning strokes to areas where swept strokes are highly probable; or
(c) Corona and streamering at fuel vent outlets.
[Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34212, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.955
Fuel flow.
(a)
General.
The fuel system for each engine must be shown to provide the engine with at least 100 percent of the fuel required under each operating and maneuvering condition to be approved for the rotorcraft including, as applicable, the fuel required to operate the engine(s) under the test conditions required by § 27.927. Unless equivalent methods are used, compliance must be shown by test during which the following provisions are met except that combinations of conditions which are shown to be improbable need not be considered.
(1) The fuel pressure, corrected for critical accelerations, must be within the limits specified by the engine type certificate data sheet.
(2) The fuel level in the tank may not exceed that established as the unusable fuel supply for that tank under § 27.959, plus the minimum additional fuel necessary to conduct the test.
(3) The fuel head between the tank outlet and the engine inlet must be critical with respect to rotorcraft flight attitudes.
(4) The critical fuel pump (for pump-fed systems) is installed to produce (by actual or simulated failure) the critical restriction to fuel flow to be expected from pump failure.
(5) Critical values of engine rotation speed, electrical power, or other sources of fuel pump motive power must be applied.
(6) Critical values of fuel properties which adversely affect fuel flow must be applied.
(7) The fuel filter required by § 27.997 must be blocked to the degree necessary to simulate the accumulation of fuel contamination required to activate the indicator required by § 27.1305(q).
(b)
Fuel transfer systems.
If normal operation of the fuel system requires fuel to be transferred to an engine feed tank, the transfer must occur automatically via a system which has been shown to maintain the fuel level in the engine feed tank within acceptable limits during flight or surface operation of the rotorcraft.
(c)
Multiple fuel tanks.
If an engine can be supplied with fuel from more than one tank, the fuel systems must, in addition to having appropriate manual switching capability, be designed to prevent interruption of fuel flow to that engine, without attention by the flightcrew, when any tank supplying fuel to that engine is depleted of usable fuel during normal operation, and any other tank that normally supplies fuel to the engine alone contains usable fuel.
[Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34212, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.959
Unusable fuel supply.
The unusable fuel supply for each tank must be established as not less than the quantity at which the first evidence of malfunction occurs under the most adverse fuel feed condition occurring under any intended operations and flight maneuvers involving that tank.
§ 27.961
Fuel system hot weather operation.
Each suction lift fuel system and other fuel systems with features conducive to vapor formation must be shown
by test to operate satisfactorily (within certification limits) when using fuel at a temperature of 110 °F under critical operating conditions including, if applicable, the engine operating conditions defined by § 27.927 (b)(1) and (b)(2).
[Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34212, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.963
Fuel tanks: general.
(a) Each fuel tank must be able to withstand, without failure, the vibration, inertia, fluid, and structural loads to which it may be subjected in operation.
(b) Each fuel tank of 10 gallons or greater capacity must have internal baffles, or must have external support to resist surging.
(c) Each fuel tank must be separated from the engine compartment by a firewall. At least one-half inch of clear airspace must be provided between the tank and the firewall.
(d) Spaces adjacent to the surfaces of fuel tanks must be ventilated so that fumes cannot accumulate in the tank compartment in case of leakage. If two or more tanks have interconnected outlets, they must be considered as one tank, and the airspaces in those tanks must be interconnected to prevent the flow of fuel from one tank to another as a result of a difference in pressure between those airspaces.
(e) The maximum exposed surface temperature of any component in the fuel tank must be less, by a safe margin as determined by the Administrator, than the lowest expected autoignition temperature of the fuel or fuel vapor in the tank. Compliance with this requirement must be shown under all operating conditions and under all failure or malfunction conditions of all components inside the tank.
(f) Each fuel tank installed in personnel compartments must be isolated by fume-proof and fuel-proof enclosures that are drained and vented to the exterior of the rotorcraft. The design and construction of the enclosures must provide necessary protection for the tank, must be crash resistant during a survivable impact in accordance with § 27.952, and must be adequate to withstand loads and abrasions to be expected in personnel compartments.
(g) Each flexible fuel tank bladder or liner must be approved or shown to be suitable for the particular application and must be puncture resistant. Puncture resistance must be shown by meeting the TSO-C80, paragraph 16.0, requirements using a minimum puncture force of 370 pounds.
(h) Each integral fuel tank must have provisions for inspection and repair of its interior.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 27-30, 59 FR 50387, Oct. 3, 1994]
§ 27.965
Fuel tank tests.
(a) Each fuel tank must be able to withstand the applicable pressure tests in this section without failure or leakage. If practicable, test pressures may be applied in a manner simulating the pressure distribution in service.
(b) Each conventional metal tank, nonmetallic tank with walls that are not supported by the rotorcraft structure, and integral tank must be subjected to a pressure of 3.5 p.s.i. unless the pressure developed during maximum limit acceleration or emergency deceleration with a full tank exceeds this value, in which case a hydrostatic head, or equivalent test, must be applied to duplicate the acceleration loads as far as possible. However, the pressure need not exceed 3.5 p.s.i. on surfaces not exposed to the acceleration loading.
(c) Each nonmetallic tank with walls supported by the rotorcraft structure must be subjected to the following tests:
(1) A pressure test of at least 2.0 p.s.i. This test may be conducted on the tank alone in conjunction with the test specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) A pressure test, with the tank mounted in the rotorcraft structure, equal to the load developed by the reaction of the contents, with the tank full, during maximum limit acceleration or emergency deceleration. However, the pressure need not exceed 2.0 p.s.i. on surfaces not exposed to the acceleration loading.
(d) Each tank with large unsupported or unstiffened flat areas, or with other features whose failure or deformation
could cause leakage, must be subjected to the following test or its equivalent:
(1) Each complete tank assembly and its support must be vibration tested while mounted to simulate the actual installation.
(2) The tank assembly must be vibrated for 25 hours while two-thirds full of any suitable fluid. The amplitude of vibration may not be less than one thirty-second of an inch, unless otherwise substantiated.
(3) The test frequency of vibration must be as follows:
(i) If no frequency of vibration resulting from any r.p.m. within the normal operating range of engine or rotor system speeds is critical, the test frequency of vibration, in number of cycles per minute must, unless a frequency based on a more rational calculation is used, be the number obtained by averaging the maximum and minimum power-on engine speeds (r.p.m.) for reciprocating engine powered rotorcraft or 2,000 c.p.m. for turbine engine powered rotorcraft.
(ii) If only one frequency of vibration resulting from any r.p.m. within the normal operating range of engine or rotor system speeds is critical, that frequency of vibration must be the test frequency.
(iii) If more than one frequency of vibration resulting from any r.p.m. within the normal operating range of engine or rotor system speeds is critical, the most critical of these frequencies must be the test frequency.
(4) Under paragraphs (d)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the time of test must be adjusted to accomplish the same number of vibration cycles as would be accomplished in 25 hours at the frequency specified in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.
(5) During the test, the tank assembly must be rocked at the rate of 16 to 20 complete cycles per minute through an angle of 15 degrees on both sides of the horizontal (30 degrees total), about the most critical axis, for 25 hours. If motion about more than one axis is likely to be critical, the tank must be rocked about each critical axis for 12
1/2
hours.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603, 72 Stat. 752, 775, 49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423; sec. 6(c), 49 U.S.C. 1655(c))
[Amdt. 27-12, 42 FR 15045, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 27.967
Fuel tank installation.
(a) Each fuel tank must be supported so that tank loads are not concentrated on unsupported tank surfaces. In addition—
(1) There must be pads, if necessary, to prevent chafing between each tank and its supports;
(2) The padding must be nonabsorbent or treated to prevent the absorption of fuel;
(3) If flexible tank liners are used, they must be supported so that it is not necessary for them to withstand fluid loads; and
(4) Each interior surface of tank compartments must be smooth and free of projections that could cause wear of the liner unless—
(i) There are means for protection of the liner at those points; or
(ii) The construction of the liner itself provides such protection.
(b) Any spaces adjacent to tank surfaces must be adequately ventilated to avoid accumulation of fuel or fumes in those spaces due to minor leakage. If the tank is in a sealed compartment, ventilation may be limited to drain holes that prevent clogging and excessive pressure resulting from altitude changes. If flexible tank liners are installed, the venting arrangement for the spaces between the liner and its container must maintain the proper relationship to tank vent pressures for any expected flight condition.
(c) The location of each tank must meet the requirements of § 27.1185 (a) and (c).
(d) No rotorcraft skin immediately adjacent to a major air outlet from the engine compartment may act as the wall of the integral tank.
[Doc. No. 26352, 59 FR 50387, Oct. 3, 1994]
§ 27.969
Fuel tank expansion space.
Each fuel tank or each group of fuel tanks with interconnected vent systems must have an expansion space of
not less than 2 percent of the tank capacity. It must be impossible to fill the fuel tank expansion space inadvertently with the rotorcraft in the normal ground attitude.
[Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.971
Fuel tank sump.
(a) Each fuel tank must have a drainable sump with an effective capacity in any ground attitude to be expected in service of 0.25 percent of the tank capacity or
1/16
gallon, whichever is greater, unless—
(1) The fuel system has a sediment bowl or chamber that is accessible for preflight drainage and has a minimum capacity of 1 ounce for every 20 gallons of fuel tank capacity; and
(2) Each fuel tank drain is located so that in any ground attitude to be expected in service, water will drain from all parts of the tank to the sediment bowl or chamber.
(b) Each sump, sediment bowl, and sediment chamber drain required by this section must comply with the drain provisions of § 27.999(b).
[Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.973
Fuel tank filler connection.
(a) Each fuel tank filler connection must prevent the entrance of fuel into any part of the rotorcraft other than the tank itself during normal operations and must be crash resistant during a survivable impact in accordance with § 27.952(c). In addition—
(1) Each filler must be marked as prescribed in § 27.1557(c)(1);
(2) Each recessed filler connection that can retain any appreciable quantity of fuel must have a drain that discharges clear of the entire rotorcraft; and
(3) Each filler cap must provide a fuel-tight seal under the fluid pressure expected in normal operation and in a survivable impact.
(b) Each filler cap or filler cap cover must warn when the cap is not fully locked or seated on the filler connection.
[Doc. No. 26352, 59 FR 50387, Oct. 3, 1994]
§ 27.975
Fuel tank vents.
(a) Each fuel tank must be vented from the top part of the expansion space so that venting is effective under all normal flight conditions. Each vent must minimize the probability of stoppage by dirt or ice.
(b) The venting system must be designed to minimize spillage of fuel through the vents to an ignition source in the event of a rollover during landing, ground operation, or a survivable impact.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 27-30, 59 FR 50387, Oct. 3, 1994; Amdt. 27-35, 63 FR 43285, Aug. 12, 1998]
§ 27.977
Fuel tank outlet.
(a) There must be a fuel stainer for the fuel tank outlet or for the booster pump. This strainer must—
(1) For reciprocating engine powered rotorcraft, have 8 to 16 meshes per inch; and
(2) For turbine engine powered rotorcraft, prevent the passage of any object that could restrict fuel flow or damage any fuel system component.
(b) The clear area of each fuel tank outlet strainer must be at least five times the area of the outlet line.
(c) The diameter of each strainer must be at least that of the fuel tank outlet.
(d) Each finger strainer must be accessible for inspection and cleaning.
[Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976]

# Fuel System Components
§ 27.991
Fuel pumps.
Compliance with § 27.955 may not be jeopardized by failure of—
(a) Any one pump except pumps that are approved and installed as parts of a type certificated engine; or
(b) Any component required for pump operation except, for engine driven pumps, the engine served by that pump.
[Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.993
Fuel system lines and fittings.
(a) Each fuel line must be installed and supported to prevent excessive vibration and to withstand loads due to fuel pressure and accelerated flight conditions.
(b) Each fuel line connected to components of the rotorcraft between
which relative motion could exist must have provisions for flexibility.
(c) Flexible hose must be approved.
(d) Each flexible connection in fuel lines that may be under pressure or subjected to axial loading must use flexible hose assemblies.
(e) No flexible hose that might be adversely affected by high temperatures may be used where excessive temperatures will exist during operation or after engine shutdown.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 964, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 27.995
Fuel valves.
(a) There must be a positive, quick-acting valve to shut off fuel to each engine individually.
(b) The control for this valve must be within easy reach of appropriate crewmembers.
(c) Where there is more than one source of fuel supply there must be means for independent feeding from each source.
(d) No shutoff valve may be on the engine side of any firewall.
§ 27.997
Fuel strainer or filter.
There must be a fuel strainer or filter between the fuel tank outlet and the inlet of the first fuel system component which is susceptible to fuel contamination, including but not limited to the fuel metering device or an engine positive displacement pump, whichever is nearer the fuel tank outlet. This fuel strainer or filter must—
(a) Be accessible for draining and cleaning and must incorporate a screen or element which is easily removable;
(b) Have a sediment trap and drain except that it need not have a drain if the strainer or filter is easily removable for drain purposes;
(c) Be mounted so that its weight is not supported by the connecting lines or by the inlet or outlet connections of the strainer or filter itself, unless adequate strength margins under all loading conditions are provided in the lines and connections; and
(d) Provide a means to remove from the fuel any contaminant which would jeopardize the flow of fuel through rotorcraft or engine fuel system components required for proper rotorcraft fuel system or engine fuel system operation.
[Amdt. 27-9, 39 FR 35461, Oct. 1, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 27-20, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.999
Fuel system drains.
(a) There must be at least one accessible drain at the lowest point in each fuel system to completely drain the system with the rotorcraft in any ground attitude to be expected in service.
(b) Each drain required by paragraph (a) of this section must—
(1) Discharge clear of all parts of the rotorcraft;
(2) Have manual or automatic means to assure positive closure in the off position; and
(3) Have a drain valve—
(i) That is readily accessible and which can be easily opened and closed; and
(ii) That is either located or protected to prevent fuel spillage in the event of a landing with landing gear retracted.
[Doc. No. 574, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988]

# Oil System
§ 27.1011
Engines: General.
(a) Each engine must have an independent oil system that can supply it with an appropriate quantity of oil at a temperature not above that safe for continuous operation.
(b) The usable oil capacity of each system may not be less than the product of the endurance of the rotorcraft under critical operating conditions and the maximum oil consumption of the engine under the same conditions, plus a suitable margin to ensure adequate circulation and cooling. Instead of a rational analysis of endurance and consumption, a usable oil capacity of one gallon for each 40 gallons of usable fuel may be used.
(c) The oil cooling provisions for each engine must be able to maintain the oil inlet temperature to that engine at or
below the maximum established value. This must be shown by flight tests.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.1013
Oil tanks.
Each oil tank must be designed and installed so that—
(a) It can withstand, without failure, each vibration, inertia, fluid, and structural load expected in operation;
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Where used with a reciprocating engine, it has an expansion space of not less than the greater of 10 percent of the tank capacity or 0.5 gallon, and where used with a turbine engine, it has an expansion space of not less than 10 percent of the tank capacity.
(d) It is impossible to fill the tank expansion space inadvertently with the rotorcraft in the normal ground attitude;
(e) Adequate venting is provided; and
(f) There are means in the filler opening to prevent oil overflow from entering the oil tank compartment.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-9, 39 FR 35461, Oct. 1, 1974]
§ 27.1015
Oil tank tests.
Each oil tank must be designed and installed so that it can withstand, without leakage, an internal pressure of 5 p.s.i., except that each pressurized oil tank used with a turbine engine must be designed and installed so that it can withstand, without leakage, an internal pressure of 5 p.s.i., plus the maximum operating pressure of the tank.
[Amdt. 27-9, 39 FR 35462, Oct. 1, 1974]
§ 27.1017
Oil lines and fittings.
(a) Each oil line must be supported to prevent excessive vibration.
(b) Each oil line connected to components of the rotorcraft between which relative motion could exist must have provisions for flexibility.
(c) Flexible hose must be approved.
(d) Each oil line must have an inside diameter of not less than the inside diameter of the engine inlet or outlet. No line may have splices between connections.
§ 27.1019
Oil strainer or filter.
(a) Each turbine engine installation must incorporate an oil strainer or filter through which all of the engine oil flows and which meets the following requirements:
(1) Each oil strainer or filter that has a bypass must be constructed and installed so that oil will flow at the normal rate through the rest of the system with the strainer or filter completely blocked.
(2) The oil strainer or filter must have the capacity (with respect to operating limitations established for the engine) to ensure that engine oil system functioning is not impaired when the oil is contaminated to a degree (with respect to particle size and density) that is greater than that established for the engine under Part 33 of this chapter.
(3) The oil strainer or filter, unless it is installed at an oil tank outlet, must incorporate a means to indicate contamination before it reaches the capacity established in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(4) The bypass of a strainer or filter must be constructed and installed so that the release of collected contaminants is minimized by appropriate location of the bypass to ensure that collected contaminants are not in the bypass flow path.
(5) An oil strainer or filter that has no bypass, except one that is installed at an oil tank outlet, must have a means to connect it to the warning system required in § 27.1305(r).
(b) Each oil strainer or filter in a powerplant installation using reciprocating engines must be constructed and installed so that oil will flow at the normal rate through the rest of the system with the strainer or filter element completely blocked.
[Amdt. 27-9, 39 FR 35462, Oct. 1, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 27-20, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.1021
Oil system drains.
A drain (or drains) must be provided to allow safe drainage of the oil system. Each drain must—
(a) Be accessible; and
(b) Have manual or automatic means for positive locking in the closed position.
[Amdt. 27-20, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 27.1027
Transmissions and gearboxes: General.
(a) The lubrication system for components of the rotor drive system that require continuous lubrication must be sufficiently independent of the lubrication systems of the engine(s) to ensure lubrication during autorotation.
(b) Pressure lubrication systems for transmissions and gearboxes must comply with the engine oil system requirements of §§ 27.1013 (except paragraph (c)), 27.1015, 27.1017, 27.1021, and 27.1337(d).
(c) Each pressure lubrication system must have an oil strainer or filter through which all of the lubricant flows and must—
(1) Be designed to remove from the lubricant any contaminant which may damage transmission and drive system components or impede the flow of lubricant to a hazardous degree;
(2) Be equipped with a means to indicate collection of contaminants on the filter or strainer at or before opening of the bypass required by paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and
(3) Be equipped with a bypass constructed and installed so that—
(i) The lubricant will flow at the normal rate through the rest of the system with the strainer or filter completely blocked; and
(ii) The release of collected contaminants is minimized by appropriate location of the bypass to ensure that collected contaminants are not in the bypass flowpath.
(d) For each lubricant tank or sump outlet supplying lubrication to rotor drive systems and rotor drive system components, a screen must be provided to prevent entrance into the lubrication system of any object that might obstruct the flow of lubricant from the outlet to the filter required by paragraph (c) of this section. The requirements of paragraph (c) do not apply to screens installed at lubricant tank or sump outlets.
(e) Splash-type lubrication systems for rotor drive system gearboxes must comply with §§ 27.1021 and 27.1337(d).
[Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988, as amended by Amdt. 27-37, 64 FR 45095, Aug. 18, 1999]

# Cooling
§ 27.1041
General.
(a) Each powerplant cooling system must be able to maintain the temperatures of powerplant components within the limits established for these components under critical surface (ground or water) and flight operating conditions for which certification is required and after normal shutdown. Powerplant components to be considered include but may not be limited to engines, rotor drive system components, auxiliary power units, and the cooling or lubricating fluids used with these components.
(b) Compliance with paragraph (a) of this section must be shown in tests conducted under the conditions prescribed in that paragraph.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34213, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.1043
Cooling tests.
(a)
General.
For the tests prescribed in § 27.1041(b), the following apply:
(1) If the tests are conducted under conditions deviating from the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the recorded powerplant temperatures must be corrected under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section unless a more rational correction method is applicable.
(2) No corrected temperature determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may exceed established limits.
(3) For reciprocating engines, the fuel used during the cooling tests must be of the minimum grade approved for the engines, and the mixture settings must be those normally used in the flight stages for which the cooling tests are conducted.
(4) The test procedures must be as prescribed in § 27.1045.
(b)
Maximum ambient atmospheric temperature.
A maximum ambient atmospheric temperature corresponding to
sea level conditions of at least 100 degrees F. must be established. The assumed temperature lapse rate is 3.6 degrees F. per thousand feet of altitude above sea level until a temperature of −69.7 degrees F. is reached, above which altitude the temperature is considered constant at −69.7 degrees F. However, for winterization installations, the applicant may select a maximum ambient atmospheric temperature corresponding to sea level conditions of less than 100 degrees F.
(c)
Correction factor (except cylinder barrels).
Unless a more rational correction applies, temperatures of engine fluids and power-plant components (except cylinder barrels) for which temperature limits are established, must be corrected by adding to them the difference between the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature and the temperature of the ambient air at the time of the first occurrence of the maximum component or fluid temperature recorded during the cooling test.
(d)
Correction factor for cylinder barrel temperatures.
Cylinder barrel temperatures must be corrected by adding to them 0.7 times the difference between the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature and the temperature of the ambient air at the time of the first occurrence of the maximum cylinder barrel temperature recorded during the cooling test.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 1978]
§ 27.1045
Cooling test procedures.
(a)
General.
For each stage of flight, the cooling tests must be conducted with the rotorcraft—
(1) In the configuration most critical for cooling; and
(2) Under the conditions most critical for cooling.
(b)
Temperature stabilization.
For the purpose of the cooling tests, a temperature is “stabilized” when its rate of change is less than two degrees F. per minute. The following component and engine fluid temperature stabilization rules apply:
(1) For each rotorcraft, and for each stage of flight—
(i) The temperatures must be stabilized under the conditions from which entry is made into the stage of flight being investigated; or
(ii) If the entry condition normally does not allow temperatures to stabilize, operation through the full entry condition must be conducted before entry into the stage of flight being investigated in order to allow the temperatures to attain their natural levels at the time of entry.
(2) For each helicopter during the takeoff stage of flight, the climb at takeoff power must be preceded by a period of hover during which the temperatures are stabilized.
(c)
Duration of test.
For each stage of flight the tests must be continued until—
(1) The temperatures stabilize or 5 minutes after the occurrence of the highest temperature recorded, as appropriate to the test condition;
(2) That stage of flight is completed; or
(3) An operating limitation is reached.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988]

# Induction System
§ 27.1091
Air induction.
(a) The air induction system for each engine must supply the air required by that engine under the operating conditions and maneuvers for which certification is requested.
(b) Each cold air induction system opening must be outside the cowling if backfire flames can emerge.
(c) If fuel can accumulate in any air induction system, that system must have drains that discharge fuel—
(1) Clear of the rotorcraft; and
(2) Out of the path of exhaust flames.
(d) For turbine engine powered rotorcraft—
(1) There must be means to prevent hazardous quantities of fuel leakage or overflow from drains, vents, or other components of flammable fluid systems
from entering the engine intake system; and
(2) The air inlet ducts must be located or protected so as to minimize the ingestion of foreign matter during takeoff, landing, and taxiing.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 964, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.1093
Induction system icing protection.
(a)
Reciprocating engines.
Each reciprocating engine air induction system must have means to prevent and eliminate icing. Unless this is done by other means, it must be shown that, in air free of visible moisture at a temperature of 30 degrees F., and with the engines at 75 percent of maximum continuous power—
(1) Each rotorcraft with sea level engines using conventional venturi carburetors has a preheater that can provide a heat rise of 90 degrees F.;
(2) Each rotorcraft with sea level engines using carburetors tending to prevent icing has a sheltered alternate source of air, and that the preheat supplied to the alternate air intake is not less than that provided by the engine cooling air downstream of the cylinders;
(3) Each rotorcraft with altitude engines using conventional venturi carburetors has a preheater capable of providing a heat rise of 120 degrees F.; and
(4) Each rotorcraft with altitude engines using carburetors tending to prevent icing has a preheater that can provide a heat rise of—
(i) 100 degrees F.; or
(ii) If a fluid deicing system is used, at least 40 degrees F.
(b)
Turbine engine.
(1) It must be shown that each turbine engine and its air inlet system can operate throughout the flight power range of the engine (including idling)—
(i) Without accumulating ice on engine or inlet system components that would adversely affect engine operation or cause a serious loss of power under the icing conditions specified in appendix C of Part 29 of this chapter; and
(ii) In snow, both falling and blowing, without adverse effect on engine operation, within the limitations established for the rotorcraft.
(2) Each turbine engine must idle for 30 minutes on the ground, with the air bleed available for engine icing protection at its critical condition, without adverse effect, in an atmosphere that is at a temperature between 15° and 30 °F (between −9° and −1 °C) and has a liquid water content not less than 0.3 gram per cubic meter in the form of drops having a mean effective diameter not less than 20 microns, followed by momentary operation at takeoff power or thrust. During the 30 minutes of idle operation, the engine may be run up periodically to a moderate power or thrust setting in a manner acceptable to the Administrator.
(c)
Supercharged reciprocating engines.
For each engine having superchargers to pressurize the air before it enters the carburetor, the heat rise in the air caused by that supercharging at any altitude may be utilized in determining compliance with paragraph (a) of this section if the heat rise utilized is that which will be available, automatically, for the applicable altitude and operating condition because of supercharging.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603, 72 Stat. 752, 775, 49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423; sec. 6(c), 49 U.S.C. 1655(c))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-12, 42 FR 15045, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 27-20, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988]

# Exhaust System
§ 27.1121
General.
For each exhaust system—
(a) There must be means for thermal expansion of manifolds and pipes;
(b) There must be means to prevent local hot spots;
(c) Exhaust gases must discharge clear of the engine air intake, fuel system components, and drains;
(d) Each exhaust system part with a surface hot enough to ignite flammable fluids or vapors must be located or shielded so that leakage from any system carrying flammable fluids or vapors will not result in a fire caused by impingement of the fluids or vapors on
any part of the exhaust system including shields for the exhaust system;
(e) Exhaust gases may not impair pilot vision at night due to glare;
(f) If significant traps exist, each turbine engine exhaust system must have drains discharging clear of the rotorcraft, in any normal ground and flight attitudes, to prevent fuel accumulation after the failure of an attempted engine start;
(g) Each exhaust heat exchanger must incorporate means to prevent blockage of the exhaust port after any internal heat exchanger failure.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603, 72 Stat. 752, 775, 49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423; sec. 6(c), 49 U.S.C. 1655(c))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-12, 42 FR 15045, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 27.1123
Exhaust piping.
(a) Exhaust piping must be heat and corrosion resistant, and must have provisions to prevent failure due to expansion by operating temperatures.
(b) Exhaust piping must be supported to withstand any vibration and inertia loads to which it would be subjected in operations.
(c) Exhaust piping connected to components between which relative motion could exist must have provisions for flexibility.
[Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976]

# Powerplant Controls and Accessories
§ 27.1141
Powerplant controls: general.
(a) Powerplant controls must be located and arranged under § 27.777 and marked under § 27.1555.
(b) Each flexible powerplant control must be approved.
(c) Each control must be able to maintain any set position without—
(1) Constant attention; or
(2) Tendency to creep due to control loads or vibration.
(d) Controls of powerplant valves required for safety must have—
(1) For manual valves, positive stops or in the case of fuel valves suitable index provisions, in the open and closed position; and
(2) For power-assisted valves, a means to indicate to the flight crew when the valve—
(i) Is in the fully open or fully closed position; or
(ii) Is moving between the fully open and fully closed position.
(e) For turbine engine powered rotorcraft, no single failure or malfunction, or probable combination thereof, in any powerplant control system may cause the failure of any powerplant function necessary for safety.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603, 72 Stat. 752, 775, 49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423; sec. 6(c), 49 U.S.C. 1655(c))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-12, 42 FR 15045, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 27-33, 61 FR 21907, May 10, 1996]
§ 27.1143
Engine controls.
(a) There must be a separate power control for each engine.
(b) Power controls must be grouped and arranged to allow—
(1) Separate control of each engine; and
(2) Simultaneous control of all engines.
(c) Each power control must provide a positive and immediately responsive means of controlling its engine.
(d) If a power control incorporates a fuel shutoff feature, the control must have a means to prevent the inadvertent movement of the control into the shutoff position. The means must—
(1) Have a positive lock or stop at the idle position; and
(2) Require a separate and distinct operation to place the control in the shutoff position.
(e) For rotorcraft to be certificated for a 30-second OEI power rating, a means must be provided to automatically activate and control the 30-second OEI power and prevent any engine from exceeding the installed engine limits associated with the 30-second OEI power rating approved for the rotorcraft.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 27-29, 59 FR 47767, Sept. 16, 1994]
§ 27.1145
Ignition switches.
(a) There must be means to quickly shut off all ignition by the grouping of switches or by a master ignition control.
(b) Each group of ignition switches, except ignition switches for turbine engines for which continuous ignition is not required, and each master ignition control must have a means to prevent its inadvertent operation.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603, 72 Stat. 752, 775, 49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423; sec. 6(c), 49 U.S.C. 1655(c))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-12, 42 FR 15045, Mar. 17, 1977]
§ 27.1147
Mixture controls.
If there are mixture controls, each engine must have a separate control and the controls must be arranged to allow—
(a) Separate control of each engine; and
(b) Simultaneous control of all engines.
§ 27.1151
Rotor brake controls.
(a) It must be impossible to apply the rotor brake inadvertently in flight.
(b) There must be means to warn the crew if the rotor brake has not been completely released before takeoff.
[Doc. No. 28008, 61 FR 21907, May 10, 1996]
§ 27.1163
Powerplant accessories.
(a) Each engine-mounted accessory must—
(1) Be approved for mounting on the engine involved;
(2) Use the provisions on the engine for mounting; and
(3) Be sealed in such a way as to prevent contamination of the engine oil system and the accessory system.
(b) Unless other means are provided, torque limiting means must be provided for accessory drives located on any component of the transmission and rotor drive system to prevent damage to these components from excessive accessory load.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 964, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 27-20, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988]

# Powerplant Fire Protection
§ 27.1183
Lines, fittings, and components.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each line, fitting, and other component carrying flammable fluid in any area subject to engine fire conditions must be fire resistant, except that flammable fluid tanks and supports which are part of and attached to the engine must be fireproof or be enclosed by a fireproof shield unless damage by fire to any non-fireproof part will not cause leakage or spillage of flammable fluid. Components must be shielded or located so as to safeguard against the ignition of leaking flammable fluid. An integral oil sump of less than 25-quart capacity on a reciprocating engine need not be fireproof nor be enclosed by a fireproof shield.
(b) Paragraph (a) does not apply to—
(1) Lines, fittings, and components which are already approved as part of a type certificated engine; and
(2) Vent and drain lines, and their fittings, whose failure will not result in, or add to, a fire hazard.
(c) Each flammable fluid drain and vent must discharge clear of the induction system air inlet.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-1, 32 FR 6914, May 5, 1967; Amdt. 27-9, 39 FR 35462, Oct. 1, 1974; Amdt. 27-20, 49 FR 6849, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 27.1185
Flammable fluids.
(a) Each fuel tank must be isolated from the engines by a firewall or shroud.
(b) Each tank or reservoir, other than a fuel tank, that is part of a system containing flammable fluids or gases must be isolated from the engine by a firewall or shroud, unless the design of the system, the materials used in the tank and its supports, the shutoff means, and the connections, lines and controls provide a degree of safety equal to that which would exist if the tank or reservoir were isolated from the engines.
(c) There must be at least one-half inch of clear airspace between each tank and each firewall or shroud isolating that tank, unless equivalent
means are used to prevent heat transfer from each engine compartment to the flammable fluid.
(d) Absorbent materials close to flammable fluid system components that might leak must be covered or treated to prevent the absorption of hazardous quantities of fluids.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 964, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-37, 64 FR 45095, Aug. 18, 1999]
§ 27.1187
Ventilation and drainage.
Each compartment containing any part of the powerplant installation must have provision for ventilation and drainage of flammable fluids. The drainage means must be—
(a) Effective under conditions expected to prevail when drainage is needed, and
(b) Arranged so that no discharged fluid will cause an additional fire hazard.
[Doc. No. 29247, 64 FR 45095, Aug. 18, 1999]
§ 27.1189
Shutoff means.
(a) There must be means to shut off each line carrying flammable fluids into the engine compartment, except—
(1) Lines, fittings, and components forming an intergral part of an engine;
(2) For oil systems for which all components of the system, including oil tanks, are fireproof or located in areas not subject to engine fire conditions; and
(3) For reciprocating engine installations only, engine oil system lines in installation using engines of less than 500 cu. in. displacement.
(b) There must be means to guard against inadvertent operation of each shutoff, and to make it possible for the crew to reopen it in flight after it has been closed.
(c) Each shutoff valve and its control must be designed, located, and protected to function properly under any condition likely to result from an engine fire.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 964, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-20, 49 FR 6850, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.1191
Firewalls.
(a) Each engine, including the combustor, turbine, and tailpipe sections of turbine engines must be isolated by a firewall, shroud, or equivalent means, from personnel compartments, structures, controls, rotor mechanisms, and other parts that are—
(1) Essential to a controlled landing: and
(2) Not protected under § 27.861.
(b) Each auxiliary power unit and combustion heater, and any other combustion equipment to be used in flight, must be isolated from the rest of the rotorcraft by firewalls, shrouds, or equivalent means.
(c) In meeting paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, account must be taken of the probable path of a fire as affected by the airflow in normal flight and in autorotation.
(d) Each firewall and shroud must be constructed so that no hazardous quantity of air, fluids, or flame can pass from any engine compartment to other parts of the rotorcraft.
(e) Each opening in the firewall or shroud must be sealed with close-fitting, fireproof grommets, bushings, or firewall fittings.
(f) Each firewall and shroud must be fireproof and protected against corrosion.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 22 FR 964, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 27.1193
Cowling and engine compartment covering.
(a) Each cowling and engine compartment covering must be constructed and supported so that it can resist the vibration, inertia, and air loads to which it may be subjected in operation.
(b) There must be means for rapid and complete drainage of each part of the cowling or engine compartment in the normal ground and flight attitudes.
(c) No drain may discharge where it might cause a fire hazard.
(d) Each cowling and engine compartment covering must be at least fire resistant.
(e) Each part of the cowling or engine compartment covering subject to high temperatures due to its nearness to exhaust system parts or exhaust gas impingement must be fireproof.
(f) A means of retaining each openable or readily removable panel, cowling, or engine or rotor drive system covering must be provided to preclude hazardous damage to rotors or critical control components in the event of structural or mechanical failure of the normal retention means, unless such failure is extremely improbable.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 27.1194
Other surfaces.
All surfaces aft of, and near, powerplant compartments, other than tail surfaces not subject to heat, flames, or sparks emanating from a powerplant compartment, must be at least fire resistant.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 964, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 27.1195
Fire detector systems.
Each turbine engine powered rotorcraft must have approved quick-acting fire detectors in numbers and locations insuring prompt detection of fire in the engine compartment which cannot be readily observed in flight by the pilot in the cockpit.
[Amdt. 27-5, 36 FR 5493, Mar. 24, 1971]

# Subpart F—Equipment

# General
§ 27.1301
Function and installation.
Each item of installed equipment must—
(a) Be of a kind and design appropriate to its intended function;
(b) Be labeled as to its identification, function, or operating limitations, or any applicable combination of these factors;
(c) Be installed according to limitations specified for that equipment; and
(d) Function properly when installed.
§ 27.1303
Flight and navigation instruments.
The following are the required flight and navigation instruments:
(a) An airspeed indicator.
(b) An altimeter.
(c) A magnetic direction indicator.
§ 27.1305
Powerplant instruments.
The following are the required powerplant instruments:
(a) A carburetor air temperature indicator, for each engine having a preheater that can provide a heat rise in excess of 60 °F.
(b) A cylinder head temperature indicator, for each—
(1) Air cooled engine;
(2) Rotorcraft with cooling shutters; and
(3) Rotorcraft for which compliance with § 27.1043 is shown in any condition other than the most critical flight condition with respect to cooling.
(c) A fuel pressure indicator, for each pump-fed engine.
(d) A fuel quantity indicator, for each fuel tank.
(e) A means to indicate manifold pressure for each altitude engine.
(f) An oil temperature warning device to indicate when the temperature exceeds a safe value in each main rotor drive gearbox (including any gearboxes essential to rotor phasing) having an oil system independent of the engine oil system.
(g) An oil pressure warning device to indicate when the pressure falls below a safe value in each pressure-lubricated main rotor drive gearbox (including any gearboxes essential to rotor phasing) having an oil system independent of the engine oil system.
(h) An oil pressure indicator for each engine.
(i) An oil quantity indicator for each oil tank.
(j) An oil temperature indicator for each engine.
(k) A means to indicate the r.p.m. of each engine and at least one tachometer, as applicable, for:
(1) The r.p.m. of the single main rotor;
(2) The common r.p.m. of any main rotors whose speeds cannot vary appreciably with respect to each other; or
(3) The r.p.m. of each main rotor whose speed can vary appreciably with respect to that of another main rotor.
(l) A low fuel warning device for each fuel tank which feeds an engine. This device must—
(1) Provide a warning to the flightcrew when approximately 10 minutes of usable fuel remains in the tank; and
(2) Be independent of the normal fuel quantity indicating system.
(m) Means to indicate to the flightcrew the failure of any fuel pump installed to show compliance with § 27.955.
(n) A means to indicate the gas temperature for each turbine engine.
(o) A means to enable the pilot to determine the torque of each turbine engine, if a torque limitation is established for that engine under § 27.1521(e).
(p) For each turbine engine, an indicator to indicate the functioning of the powerplant ice protection system.
(q) An indicator for the fuel filter required by § 27.997 to indicate the occurrence of contamination of the filter at the degree established by the applicant in compliance with § 27.955.
(r) For each turbine engine, a warning means for the oil strainer or filter required by § 27.1019, if it has no bypass, to warn the pilot of the occurrence of contamination of the strainer or filter before it reaches the capacity established in accordance with § 27.1019(a)(2).
(s) An indicator to indicate the functioning of any selectable or controllable heater used to prevent ice clogging of fuel system components.
(t) For rotorcraft for which a 30-second/2-minute OEI power rating is requested, a means must be provided to alert the pilot when the engine is at the 30-second and the 2-minute OEI power levels, when the event begins, and when the time interval expires.
(u) For each turbine engine utilizing 30-second/2-minute OEI power, a device or system must be provided for use by ground personnel which—
(1) Automatically records each usage and duration of power at the 30-second and 2-minute OEI levels;
(2) Permits retrieval of the recorded data;
(3) Can be reset only by ground maintenance personnel; and
(4) Has a means to verify proper operation of the system or device.
(v) Warning or caution devices to signal to the flight crew when ferromagnetic particles are detected by the chip detector required by § 27.1337(e).
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-9, 39 FR 35462, Oct. 1, 1974; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 27-29, 59 FR 47767, Sept. 16, 1994; Amdt. 27-37, 64 FR 45095, Aug. 18, 1999; 64 FR 47563, Aug. 31, 1999; Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8737, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 27.1307
Miscellaneous equipment.
The following is the required miscellaneous equipment:
(a) An approved seat for each occupant.
(b) An approved safety belt for each occupant.
(c) A master switch arrangement.
(d) An adequate source of electrical energy, where electrical energy is necessary for operation of the rotorcraft.
(e) Electrical protective devices.
§ 27.1309
Equipment, systems, and installations.
The equipment, systems, and installations whose functioning is required by this subchapter must be designed and installed to ensure that they perform their intended functions under any foreseeable operating condition. For any item of equipment or system whose failure has not been specifically addressed by another requirement in this chapter, the following requirements also apply:
(a) The design of each item of equipment, system, and installation must be analyzed separately and in relation to other rotorcraft systems and installations to determine and identify any failure that would affect the capability of the rotorcraft or the ability of the crew to perform their duties in all operating conditions.
(b) Each item of equipment, system, and installation must be designed and installed so that:
(1) The occurrence of any catastrophic failure condition is extremely improbable;
(2) The occurrence of any major failure condition is no more than improbable; and
(3) For the occurrence of any other failure condition between major and catastrophic, the probability of the failure condition must be inversely proportional to its consequences.
(c) A means to alert the crew in the event of a failure must be provided when an unsafe system operating condition exists and to enable them to take corrective action. Systems, controls, and associated monitoring and crew alerting means must be designed to minimize crew errors that could create additional hazards.
(d) Compliance with the requirements of this section must be shown by analysis and, where necessary, by ground, flight, or simulator tests. The analysis must account for:
(1) Possible modes of failure, including malfunctions and misleading data and input from external sources;
(2) The effect of multiple failures and latent failures;
(3) The resulting effects on the rotorcraft and occupants, considering the stage of flight and operating conditions; and
(4) The crew alerting cues and the corrective action required.
[Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8737, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 27.1316
Electrical and electronic system lightning protection.
(a) Each electrical and electronic system that performs a function, for which failure would prevent the continued safe flight and landing of the rotorcraft, must be designed and installed so that—
(1) The function is not adversely affected during and after the time the rotorcraft is exposed to lightning; and
(2) The system automatically recovers normal operation of that function in a timely manner after the rotorcraft is exposed to lightning.
(b) For rotorcraft approved for instrument flight rules operation, each electrical and electronic system that performs a function, for which failure would reduce the capability of the rotorcraft or the ability of the flightcrew to respond to an adverse operating condition, must be designed and installed so that the function recovers normal operation in a timely manner after the rotorcraft is exposed to lightning.
[Doc. No. FAA-2010-0224, Amdt. 27-46, 76 FR 33135, June 8, 2011]
§ 27.1317
High-intensity Radiated Fields (HIRF) Protection.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each electrical and electronic system that performs a function whose failure would prevent the continued safe flight and landing of the rotorcraft must be designed and installed so that—
(1) The function is not adversely affected during and after the time the rotorcraft is exposed to HIRF environment I, as described in appendix D to this part;
(2) The system automatically recovers normal operation of that function, in a timely manner, after the rotorcraft is exposed to HIRF environment I, as described in appendix D to this part, unless this conflicts with other operational or functional requirements of that system;
(3) The system is not adversely affected during and after the time the rotorcraft is exposed to HIRF environment II, as described in appendix D to this part; and
(4) Each function required during operation under visual flight rules is not adversely affected during and after the time the rotorcraft is exposed to HIRF environment III, as described in appendix D to this part.
(b) Each electrical and electronic system that performs a function whose failure would significantly reduce the capability of the rotorcraft or the ability of the flightcrew to respond to an adverse operating condition must be designed and installed so the system is not adversely affected when the equipment providing these functions is exposed to equipment HIRF test level 1 or 2, as described in appendix D to this part.
(c) Each electrical and electronic system that performs a function whose failure would reduce the capability of the rotorcraft or the ability of the flightcrew to respond to an adverse operating condition, must be designed and installed so the system is not adversely affected when the equipment providing these functions is exposed to equipment HIRF test level 3, as described in appendix D to this part.
(d) Before December 1, 2012, an electrical or electronic system that performs a function whose failure would
prevent the continued safe flight and landing of a rotorcraft may be designed and installed without meeting the provisions of paragraph (a) provided—
(1) The system has previously been shown to comply with special conditions for HIRF, prescribed under § 21.16, issued before December 1, 2007;
(2) The HIRF immunity characteristics of the system have not changed since compliance with the special conditions was demonstrated; and
(3) The data used to demonstrate compliance with the special conditions is provided.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-23657, 72 FR 44026, Aug. 6, 2007]

# Instruments: Installation
§ 27.1321
Arrangement and visibility.
(a) Each flight, navigation, and powerplant instrument for use by any pilot must be easily visible to him.
(b) For each multiengine rotorcraft, identical powerplant instruments must be located so as to prevent confusion as to which engine each instrument relates.
(c) Instrument panel vibration may not damage, or impair the readability or accuracy of, any instrument.
(d) If a visual indicator is provided to indicate malfunction of an instrument, it must be effective under all probable cockpit lighting conditions.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964; 29 FR 17885, Dec. 17, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-13, 42 FR 36971, July 18, 1977]
§ 27.1322
Warning, caution, and advisory lights.
If warning, caution or advisory lights are installed in the cockpit, they must, unless otherwise approved by the Administrator, be—
(a) Red, for warning lights (lights indicating a hazard which may require immediate corrective action):
(b) Amber, for caution lights (lights indicating the possible need for future corrective action);
(c) Green, for safe operation lights; and
(d) Any other color, including white, for lights not described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided the color differs sufficiently from the colors prescribed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section to avoid possible confusion.
[Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 27.1323
Airspeed indicating system.
(a) Each airspeed indicating instrument must be calibrated to indicate true airspeed (at sea level with a standard atmosphere) with a minimum practicable instrument calibration error when the corresponding pitot and static pressures are applied.
(b) The airspeed indicating system must be calibrated in flight at forward speeds of 20 knots and over.
(c) At each forward speed above 80 percent of the climbout speed, the airspeed indicator must indicate true airspeed, at sea level with a standard atmosphere, to within an allowable installation error of not more than the greater of—
(1) ±3 percent of the calibrated airspeed; or
(2) Five knots.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-13, 42 FR 36972, July 18, 1977]
§ 27.1325
Static pressure systems.
(a) Each instrument with static air case connections must be vented so that the influence of rotorcraft speed, the opening and closing of windows, airflow variation, and moisture or other foreign matter does not seriously affect its accuracy.
(b) Each static pressure port must be designed and located in such manner that the correlation between air pressure in the static pressure system and true ambient atmospheric static pressure is not altered when the rotorcraft encounters icing conditions. An anti-icing means or an alternate source of static pressure may be used in showing compliance with this requirement. If the reading of the altimeter, when on
the alternate static pressure system, differs from the reading of the altimeter when on the primary static system by more than 50 feet, a correction card must be provided for the alternate static system.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, if the static pressure system incorporates both a primary and an alternate static pressure source, the means for selecting one or the other source must be designed so that—
(1) When either source is selected, the other is blocked off; and
(2) Both sources cannot be blocked off simultaneously.
(d) For unpressurized rotorcraft, paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply if it can be demonstrated that the static pressure system calibration, when either static pressure source is selected is not changed by the other static pressure source being open or blocked.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-13, 42 FR 36972, July 18, 1977]
§ 27.1327
Magnetic direction indicator.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section—
(1) Each magnetic direction indicator must be installed so that its accuracy is not excessively affected by the rotorcraft's vibration or magnetic fields; and
(2) The compensated installation may not have a deviation, in level flight, greater than 10 degrees on any heading.
(b) A magnetic nonstabilized direction indicator may deviate more than 10 degrees due to the operation of electrically powered systems such as electrically heated windshields if either a magnetic stabilized direction indicator, which does not have a deviation in level flight greater than 10 degrees on any heading, or a gyroscopic direction indicator, is installed. Deviations of a magnetic nonstabilized direction indicator of more than 10 degrees must be placarded in accordance with § 27.1547(e).
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Amdt. 27-13, 42 FR 36972, July 18, 1977]
§ 27.1329
Automatic pilot and flight guidance system.
For the purpose of this subpart, an automatic pilot and flight guidance system may consist of an autopilot, flight director, or a component that interacts with stability augmentation or trim.
(a) Each automatic pilot and flight guidance system must be designed so that it:
(1) Can be overpowered by one pilot to allow control of the rotorcraft;
(2) Provides a means to disengage the system, or any malfunctioning component of the system, by each pilot to prevent it from interfering with the control of the rotorcraft; and
(3) Provides a means to indicate to the flight crew its current mode of operation. Selector switch position is not acceptable as a means of indication.
(b) Unless there is automatic synchronization, each system must have a means to readily indicate to the pilot the alignment of the actuating device in relation to the control system it operates.
(c) Each manually operated control for the system's operation must be readily accessible to the pilots.
(d) The system must be designed so that, within the range of adjustment available to the pilot, it cannot produce hazardous loads on the rotorcraft, or create hazardous deviations in the flight path, under any flight condition appropriate to its use or in the event of a malfunction, assuming that corrective action begins within a reasonable period of time.
(e) If the automatic pilot and flight guidance system integrates signals from auxiliary controls or furnishes signals for operation of other equipment, there must be a means to prevent improper operation.
(f) If the automatic pilot system can be coupled to airborne navigation equipment, means must be provided to
indicate to the pilots the current mode of operation. Selector switch position is not acceptable as a means of indication.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984, as amended by Amdt. 27-35, 63 FR 43285, Aug. 12, 1998; Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8738, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 27.1337
Powerplant instruments.
(a)
Instruments and instrument lines.
(1) Each powerplant instrument line must meet the requirements of §§ 27.- 961 and 27.993.
(2) Each line carrying flammable fluids under pressure must—
(i) Have restricting orifices or other safety devices at the source of pressure to prevent the escape of excessive fluid if the line fails; and
(ii) Be installed and located so that the escape of fluids would not create a hazard.
(3) Each powerplant instrument that utilizes flammable fluids must be installed and located so that the escape of fluid would not create a hazard.
(b)
Fuel quantity indicator.
Each fuel quantity indicator must be installed to clearly indicate to the flight crew the quantity of fuel in each tank in flight. In addition—
(1) Each fuel quantity indicator must be calibrated to read “zero” during level flight when the quantity of fuel remaining in the tank is equal to the unusable fuel supply determined under § 27.959;
(2) When two or more tanks are closely interconnected by a gravity feed system and vented, and when it is impossible to feed from each tank separately, at least one fuel quantity indicator must be installed; and
(3) Each exposed sight gauge used as a fuel quantity indicator must be protected against damage.
(c)
Fuel flowmeter system.
If a fuel flowmeter system is installed, each metering component must have a means for bypassing the fuel supply if malfunction of that component severely restricts fuel flow.
(d)
Oil quantity indicator.
There must be means to indicate the quantity of oil in each tank—
(1) On the ground (including during the filling of each tank); and
(2) In flight, if there is an oil transfer system or reserve oil supply system.
(e) Rotor drive system transmissions and gearboxes utilizing ferromagnetic materials must be equipped with chip detectors designed to indicate the presence of ferromagnetic particles resulting from damage or excessive wear. Chip detectors must—
(1) Be designed to provide a signal to the device required by § 27.1305(v) and be provided with a means to allow crewmembers to check, in flight, the function of each detector electrical circuit and signal.
(2) [Reserved]
(Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603, 72 Stat. 752, 775, 49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423; sec. 6(c) 49 U.S.C. 1655(c))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-12, 42 FR 15046, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 27-37, 64 FR 45095, Aug. 18, 1999]

# Electrical Systems and Equipment
§ 27.1351
General.
(a)
Electrical system capacity.
Electrical equipment must be adequate for its intended use. In addition—
(1) Electric power sources, their transmission cables, and their associated control and protective devices must be able to furnish the required power at the proper voltage to each load circuit essential for safe operation; and
(2) Compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be shown by an electrical load analysis, or by electrical measurements that take into account the electrical loads applied to the electrical system, in probable combinations and for probable durations.
(b)
Function.
For each electrical system, the following apply:
(1) Each system, when installed, must be—
(i) Free from hazards in itself, in its method of operation, and in its effects on other parts of the rotorcraft; and
(ii) Protected from fuel, oil, water, other detrimental substances, and mechanical damage.
(2) Electric power sources must function properly when connected in combination or independently.
(3) No failure or malfunction of any source may impair the ability of any remaining source to supply load circuits essential for safe operation.
(4) Each electric power source control must allow the independent operation of each source.
(c)
Generating system.
There must be at least one generator if the system supplies power to load circuits essential for safe operation. In addition—
(1) Each generator must be able to deliver its continuous rated power;
(2) Generator voltage control equipment must be able to dependably regulate each generator output within rated limits;
(3) Each generator must have a reverse current cutout designed to disconnect the generator from the battery and from the other generators when enough reverse current exists to damage that generator; and
(4) Each generator must have an overvoltage control designed and installed to prevent damage to the electrical system, or to equipment supplied by the electrical system, that could result if that generator were to develop an overvoltage condition.
(d)
Instruments.
There must be means to indicate to appropriate crewmembers the electric power system quantities essential for safe operation of the system. In addition—
(1) For direct current systems, an ammeter that can be switched into each generator feeder may be used; and
(2) If there is only one generator, the ammeter may be in the battery feeder.
(e)
External power.
If provisions are made for connecting external power to the rotorcraft, and that external power can be electrically connected to equipment other than that used for engine starting, means must be provided to ensure that no external power supply having a reverse polarity, or a reverse phase sequence, can supply power to the rotorcraft's electrical system.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-13, 42 FR 36972, July 18, 1977]
§ 27.1353
Energy storage systems.
Energy storage systems must be designed and installed as follows:
(a) Energy storage systems must provide automatic protective features for any conditions that could prevent continued safe flight and landing.
(b) Energy storage systems must not emit any flammable, explosive, or toxic gases, smoke, or fluids that could accumulate in hazardous quantities within the rotorcraft.
(c) Corrosive fluids or gases that escape from the system must not damage surrounding structures, adjacent equipment, or systems necessary for continued safe flight and landing.
(d) The maximum amount of heat and pressure that can be generated during any operation or under any failure condition of the energy storage system or its individual components must not result in any hazardous effect on rotorcraft structure, equipment, or systems necessary for continued safe flight and landing.
(e) Energy storage system installations required for continued safe flight and landing of the rotorcraft must have monitoring features and a means to indicate to the pilot the status of all critical system parameters.
[Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8738, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 27.1357
Circuit protective devices.
(a) Protective devices, such as fuses or circuit breakers, must be installed in each electrical circuit other than—
(1) The main circuits of starter motors; and
(2) Circuits in which no hazard is presented by their omission.
(b) A protective device for a circuit essential to flight safety may not be used to protect any other circuit.
(c) Each resettable circuit protective device (“trip free” device in which the tripping mechanism cannot be overridden by the operating control) must be designed so that—
(1) A manual operation is required to restore service after trippling; and
(2) If an overload or circuit fault exists, the device will open the circuit regardless of the position of the operating control.
(d) If the ability to reset a circuit breaker or replace a fuse is essential to safety in flight, that circuit breaker or fuse must be located and identified so that it can be readily reset or replaced in flight.
(e) If fuses are used, there must be one spare of each rating, or 50 percent spare fuses of each rating, whichever is greater.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964; 29 FR 17885, Dec. 17, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-13, 42 FR 36972, July 18, 1977]
§ 27.1361
Master switch.
(a) There must be a master switch arrangement to allow ready disconnection of each electric power source from the main bus. The point of disconnection must be adjacent to the sources controlled by the switch.
(b) Load circuits may be connected so that they remain energized after the switch is opened, if they are protected by circuit protective devices, rated at five amperes or less, adjacent to the electric power source.
(c) The master switch or its controls must be installed so that the switch is easily discernible and accessible to a crewmember in flight.
§ 27.1365
Electric cables.
(a) Each electric connecting cable must be of adequate capacity.
(b) Each cable that would overheat in the event of circuit overload or fault must be at least flame resistant and may not emit dangerous quantities of toxic fumes.
(c) Insulation on electrical wire and cable installed in the rotorcraft must be self-extinguishing when tested in accordance with appendix F, part I(a)(3), of part 25 of this chapter.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-35, 63 FR 43285, Aug. 12, 1998]
§ 27.1367
Switches.
Each switch must be—
(a) Able to carry its rated current;
(b) Accessible to the crew; and
(c) Labeled as to operation and the circuit controlled.

# Lights
§ 27.1381
Instrument lights.
The instrument lights must—
(a) Make each instrument, switch, and other devices for which they are provided easily readable; and
(b) Be installed so that—
(1) Their direct rays are shielded from the pilot's eyes; and
(2) No objectionable reflections are visible to the pilot.
§ 27.1383
Landing lights.
(a) Each required landing or hovering light must be approved.
(b) Each landing light must be installed so that—
(1) No objectionable glare is visible to the pilot;
(2) The pilot is not adversely affected by halation; and
(3) It provides enough light for night operation, including hovering and landing.
(c) At least one separate switch must be provided, as applicable—
(1) For each separately installed landing light; and
(2) For each group of landing lights installed at a common location.
§ 27.1385
Position light system installation.
(a)
General.
Each part of each position light system must meet the applicable requirements of this section, and each system as a whole must meet the requirements of §§ 27.1387 through 27.1397.
(b)
Forward position lights.
Forward position lights must consist of a red and a green light spaced laterally as far apart as practicable and installed forward on the rotorcraft so that, with the rotorcraft in the normal flying position, the red light is on the left side and the green light is on the right side. Each light must be approved.
(c)
Rear position light.
The rear position light must be a white light mounted as far aft as practicable, and must be approved.
(d)
Circuit.
The two forward position lights and the rear position light must make a single circuit.
(e)
Light covers and color filters.
Each light cover or color filter must be at least flame resistant and may not change color or shape or lose any appreciable light transmission during normal use.
§ 27.1387
Position light system dihedral angles.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, each forward and rear position light must, as installed, show unbroken light within the dihedral angles described in this section.
(b) Dihedral angle
L
(left) is formed by two intersecting vertical planes, the first parallel to the longitudinal axis of the rotorcraft, and the other at 110 degrees to the left of the first, as viewed when looking forward along the longitudinal axis.
(c) Dihedral angle
R
(right) is formed by two intersecting vertical planes, the first parallel to the longitudinal axis of the rotorcraft, and the other at 110 degrees to the right of the first, as viewed when looking forward along the longitudinal axis.
(d) Dihedral angle
A
(aft) is formed by two intersecting vertical planes making angles of 70 degrees to the right and to the left, respectively, to a vertical plane passing through the longitudinal axis, as viewed when looking aft along the longitudinal axis.
(e) If the rear position light, when mounted as far aft as practicable in accordance with § 25.1385(c), cannot show unbroken light within dihedral angle A (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section), a solid angle or angles of obstructed visibility totaling not more than 0.04 steradians is allowable within that dihedral angle, if such solid angle is within a cone whose apex is at the rear position light and whose elements make an angle of 30° with a vertical line passing through the rear position light.
(49 U.S.C. 1655(c))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-7, 36 FR 21278, Nov. 5, 1971]
§ 27.1389
Position light distribution and intensities.
(a)
General.
the intensities prescribed in this section must be provided by new equipment with light covers and color filters in place. Intensities must be determined with the light source operating at a steady value equal to the average luminous output of the source at the normal operating voltage of the rotorcraft. The light distribution and intensity of each position light must meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Forward and rear position lights.
The light distribution and intensities of forward and rear position lights must be expressed in terms of minimum intensities in the horizontal plane, minimum intensities in any vertical plane, and maximum intensities in overlapping beams, within dihedral angles
L, R,
and
A,
and must meet the following requirements:
(1)
Intensities in the horizontal plane.
Each intensity in the horizontal plane (the plane containing the longitudinal axis of the rotorcraft and perpendicular to the plane of symmetry of the rotorcraft) must equal or exceed the values in § 27.1391.
(2)
Intensities in any vertical plane.
Each intensity in any vertical plane (the plane perpendicular to the horizontal plane) must equal or exceed the appropriate value in § 27.1393, where
I
is the minimum intensity prescribed in § 27.1391 for the corresponding angles in the horizontal plane.
(3)
Intensities in overlaps between adjacent signals.
No intensity in any overlap between adjacent signals may exceed the values in § 27.1395, except that higher intensities in overlaps may be used with main beam intensities substantially greater than the minima specified in §§ 27.1391 and 27.1393, if the overlap intensities in relation to the main beam intensities do not adversely affect signal clarity. When the peak intensity of the forward position lights is greater than 100 candles, the maximum overlap intensities between them may exceed the values in § 27.1395 if the overlap intensity in Area A is not more than 10 percent of peak position light intensity and the overlap intensity in Area B is not more than 2.5 percent of peak position light intensity.
§ 27.1391
Minimum intensities in the horizontal plane of forward and rear position lights.
Each position light intensity must equal or exceed the applicable values in the following table:
Dihedral angle (light included)
Angle from right or left of longitudinal axis, measured from dead ahead
Intensity (candles)
L
and
R
(forward red and green)
10° to 10°
10° to 20°
20° to 110°
40
30
5
A
(rear white)
110° to 180°
20
§ 27.1393
Minimum intensities in any vertical plane of forward and rear position lights.
Each position light intensity must equal or exceed the applicable values in the following table:
Angle above or below the horizontal plane
Intensity,
l
0°
1.00
0° to 5°
0.90
5° to 10°
0.80
10° to 15°
0.70
15° to 20°
0.50
20° to 30°
0.30
30° to 40°
0.10
40° to 90°
0.05
§ 27.1395
Maximum intensities in overlapping beams of forward and rear position lights.
No position light intensity may exceed the applicable values in the following table, except as provided in § 27.1389(b)(3).
Overlaps
Maximum Intensity
Area A (candles)
Area B (candles)
Green in dihedral angle
L
10
1
Red in dihedral angle
R
10
1
Green in dihedral angle
A
5
1
Red in dihedral angle
A
5
1
Rear white in dihedral angle
L
5
1
Rear white in dihedral angle
R
5
1
Where—
(a) Area A includes all directions in the adjacent dihedral angle that pass through the light source and intersect the common boundary plane at more than 10 degrees but less than 20 degrees, and
(b) Area B includes all directions in the adjacent dihedral angle that pass through the light source and intersect the common boundary plane at more than 20 degrees.
§ 27.1397
Color specifications.
Each position light color must have the applicable International Commission on Illumination chromaticity coordinates as follows:
(a)
Aviation red
—
y
is not greater than 0.335; and
z
is not greater than 0.002.
(b)
Aviation green
—
x
is not greater than 0.440−0.320
y
;
x
is not greater than
y
−0.170; and
y
is not less than 0.390−0.170
x.
(c)
Aviation white
—
x
is not less than 0.300 and not greater than 0.540;
y
is not less than
x
−0.040” or
y
c
−0.010, whichever is the smaller; and
y
is not greater than
x
+ 0.020 nor 0.636−0.400
x
;
Where
y
c
is the
y
coordinate of the Planckian radiator for the value of
x
considered.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-6, 36 FR 12972, July 10, 1971]
§ 27.1399
Riding light.
(a) Each riding light required for water operation must be installed so that it can—
(1) Show a white light for at least two nautical miles at night under clear atmospheric conditions; and
(2) Show a maximum practicable unbroken light with the rotorcraft on the water.
(b) Externally hung lights may be used.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 964, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 27.1401
Anticollision light system.
(a)
General.
If certification for night operation is requested, the rotorcraft must have an anticollision light system that—
(1) Consists of one or more approved anticollision lights located so that their emitted light will not impair the crew's vision or detract from the conspicuity of the position lights; and
(2) Meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.
(b)
Field of coverage.
The system must consist of enough lights to illuminate the vital areas around the rotorcraft, considering the physical configuration and flight characteristics of the rotorcraft. The field of coverage must extend in each direction within at least 30 degrees below the horizontal plane of the rotorcraft, except that there may
be solid angles of obstructed visibility totaling not more than 0.5 steradians.
(c)
Flashing characteristics.
The arrangement of the system, that is, the number of light sources, beam width, speed of rotation, and other characteristics, must give an effective flash frequency of not less than 40, nor more than 100, cycles per minute. The effective flash frequency is the frequency at which the rotorcraft's complete anticollision light system is observed from a distance, and applies to each sector of light including any overlaps that exist when the system consists of more than one light source. In overlaps, flash frequencies may exceed 100, but not 180, cycles per minute.
(d)
Color.
Each anticollision light must be aviation red and must meet the applicable requirements of § 27.1397.
(e)
Light intensity.
The minimum light intensities in any vertical plane, measured with the red filter (if used) and expressed in terms of “effective” intensities, must meet the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. The following relation must be assumed:
EC28SE91.086
where:
I
e
= effective intensity (candles).
I(t)
= instantaneous intensity as a function of time.
t
2
−
t
1
= flash time interval (seconds).
Normally, the maximum value of effective intensity is obtained when
t
2
and
t
1
are chosen so that the effective intensity is equal to the instantaneous intensity at
t
2
and
t
1
.
(f)
Minimum effective intensities for anticollision light.
Each anticollision light effective intensity must equal or exceed the applicable values in the following table:
Angle above or below the horizontal plane
Effective intensity (candles)
0° to 5°
150
5° to 10°
90
10° to 20°
30
20° to 30°
15
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-6, 36 FR 12972, July 10, 1971; Amdt. 27-10, 41 FR 5290, Feb. 5, 1976]

# Safety Equipment
§ 27.1411
General.
(a) Required safety equipment to be used by the crew in an emergency, such as flares and automatic liferaft releases, must be readily accessible.
(b) Stowage provisions for required safety equipment must be furnished and must—
(1) Be arranged so that the equipment is directly accessible and its location is obvious; and
(2) Protect the safety equipment from damage caused by being subjected to the inertia loads specified in § 27.561.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 27.1413
Safety belts.
Each safety belt must be equipped with a metal to metal latching device.
(Secs. 313, 314, and 601 through 610 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354, 1355, and 1421 through 1430) and sec. 6(c), Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-15, 43 FR 46233, Oct. 5, 1978; Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.1415
Ditching equipment.
(a) Emergency flotation and signaling equipment required by any operating rule in this chapter must meet the requirements of this section.
(b) Each raft and each life preserver must be approved and must be installed so that it is readily available to the crew and passengers. The storage provisions for life preservers must accommodate one life preserver for each occupant for which certification for ditching is requested.
(c) Each raft released automatically or by the pilot must be attached to the rotorcraft by a line to keep it alongside the rotorcraft. This line must be weak enough to break before submerging the empty raft to which it is attached.
(d) Each signaling device must be free from hazard in its operation and must be installed in an accessible location.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 27.1419
Ice protection.
(a) To obtain certification for flight into icing conditions, compliance with this section must be shown.
(b) It must be demonstrated that the rotorcraft can be safely operated in the continuous maximum and intermittent maximum icing conditions determined under appendix C of Part 29 of this chapter within the rotorcraft altitude envelope. An analysis must be performed to establish, on the basis of the rotorcraft's operational needs, the adequacy of the ice protection system for the various components of the rotorcraft.
(c) In addition to the analysis and physical evaluation prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, the effectiveness of the ice protection system and its components must be shown by flight tests of the rotorcraft or its components in measured natural atmospheric icing conditions and by one or more of the following tests as found necessary to determine the adequacy of the ice protection system:
(1) Laboratory dry air or simulated icing tests, or a combination of both, of the components or models of the components.
(2) Flight dry air tests of the ice protection system as a whole, or its individual components.
(3) Flight tests of the rotorcraft or its components in measured simulated icing conditions.
(d) The ice protection provisions of this section are considered to be applicable primarily to the airframe. Powerplant installation requirements are contained in Subpart E of this part.
(e) A means must be indentified or provided for determining the formation of ice on critical parts of the rotorcraft. Unless otherwise restricted, the means must be available for nighttime as well as daytime operation. The rotorcraft flight manual must describe the means of determining ice formation and must contain information necessary for safe operation of the rotorcraft in icing conditions.
[Amdt. 27-19, 48 FR 4389, Jan. 31, 1983]
§ 27.1435
Hydraulic systems.
(a)
Design.
Each hydraulic system and its elements must withstand, without yielding, any structural loads expected in addition to hydraulic loads.
(b)
Tests.
Each system must be substantiated by proof pressure tests. When proof tested, no part of any system may fail, malfunction, or experience a permanent set. The proof load of each system must be at least 1.5 times the maximum operating pressure of that system.
(c)
Accumulators.
No hydraulic accumulator or pressurized reservoir may be installed on the engine side of any firewall unless it is an integral part of an engine.
§ 27.1457
Cockpit voice recorders.
(a) Each cockpit voice recorder required by the operating rules of this chapter must be approved, and must be installed so that it will record the following:
(1) Voice communications transmitted from or received in the rotorcraft by radio.
(2) Voice communications of flight crewmembers on the flight deck.
(3) Voice communications of flight crewmembers on the flight deck, using the rotorcraft's interphone system.
(4) Voice or audio signals identifying navigation or approach aids introduced into a headset or speaker.
(5) Voice communications of flight crewmembers using the passenger loudspeaker system, if there is such a system, and if the fourth channel is available in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
(6) If datalink communication equipment is installed, all datalink communications, using an approved data message set. Datalink messages must be recorded as the output signal from the communications unit that translates the signal into usable data.
(b) The recording requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be met:
(1) By installing a cockpit-mounted area microphone located in the best position for recording voice communications originating at the first and second pilot stations and voice communications of other crewmembers on the flight deck when directed to those stations; or
(2) By installing a continually energized or voice-actuated lip microphone at the first and second pilot stations.
The microphone specified in this paragraph must be so located and, if necessary, the preamplifiers and filters of the recorder must be adjusted or supplemented so that the recorded communications are intelligible when recorded under flight cockpit noise conditions and played back. The level of intelligibility must be approved by the Administrator. Repeated aural or visual playback of the record may be used in evaluating intelligibility.
(c) Each cockpit voice recorder must be installed so that the part of the communication or audio signals specified in paragraph (a) of this section obtained from each of the following sources is recorded on a separate channel:
(1) For the first channel, from each microphone, headset, or speaker used at the first pilot station.
(2) For the second channel, from each microphone, headset, or speaker used at the second pilot station.
(3) For the third channel, from the cockpit-mounted area microphone, or the continually energized or voice-actuated lip microphone at the first and second pilot stations.
(4) For the fourth channel, from:
(i) Each microphone, headset, or speaker used at the stations for the third and fourth crewmembers; or
(ii) If the stations specified in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section are not required or if the signal at such a station is picked up by another channel, each microphone on the flight deck that is used with the passenger loudspeaker system if its signals are not picked up by another channel.
(iii) Each microphone on the flight deck that is used with the rotorcraft's loudspeaker system if its signals are not picked up by another channel.
(d) Each cockpit voice recorder must be installed so that:
(1)(i) It receives its electrical power from the bus that provides the maximum reliability for operation of the cockpit voice recorder without jeopardizing service to essential or emergency loads.
(ii) It remains powered for as long as possible without jeopardizing emergency operation of the rotorcraft.
(2) There is an automatic means to simultaneously stop the recorder and prevent each erasure feature from functioning, within 10 minutes after crash impact;
(3) There is an aural or visual means for preflight checking of the recorder for proper operation;
(4) Whether the cockpit voice recorder and digital flight data recorder are installed in separate boxes or in a combination unit, no single electrical failure external to the recorder may disable both the cockpit voice recorder and the digital flight data recorder; and
(5) It has an independent power source—
(i) That provides 10 ±1 minutes of electrical power to operate both the cockpit voice recorder and cockpit-mounted area microphone;
(ii) That is located as close as practicable to the cockpit voice recorder; and
(iii) To which the cockpit voice recorder and cockpit-mounted area microphone are switched automatically in the event that all other power to the cockpit voice recorder is interrupted either by normal shutdown or by any other loss of power to the electrical power bus.
(e) The record container must be located and mounted to minimize the probability of rupture of the container as a result of crash impact and consequent heat damage to the record from fire.
(f) If the cockpit voice recorder has a bulk erasure device, the installation must be designed to minimize the probability of inadvertent operation and actuation of the device during crash impact.
(g) Each recorder container must be either bright orange or bright yellow.
(h) When both a cockpit voice recorder and a flight data recorder are required by the operating rules, one combination unit may be installed, provided that all other requirements of this section and the requirements for
flight data recorders under this part are met.
[Amdt. 27-22, 53 FR 26144, July 11, 1988, as amended by Amdt. 27-43, 73 FR 12563, Mar. 7, 2008; 74 FR 32800, July 9, 2009; Amdt. 27-45, 75 FR 17045, Apr. 5, 2010]
§ 27.1459
Flight data recorders.
(a) Each flight recorder required by the operating rules of Subchapter G of this chapter must be installed so that:
(1) It is supplied with airspeed, altitude, and directional data obtained from sources that meet the accuracy requirements of §§ 27.1323, 27.1325, and 27.1327 of this part, as applicable;
(2) The vertical acceleration sensor is rigidly attached, and located longitudinally within the approved center of gravity limits of the rotorcraft;
(3)(i) It receives its electrical power from the bus that provides the maximum reliability for operation of the flight data recorder without jeopardizing service to essential or emergency loads.
(ii) It remains powered for as long as possible without jeopardizing emergency operation of the rotorcraft.
(4) There is an aural or visual means for preflight checking of the recorder for proper recording of data in the storage medium;
(5) Except for recorders powered solely by the engine-driven electrical generator system, there is an automatic means to simultaneously stop a recorder that has a data erasure feature and prevent each erasure feature from functioning, within 10 minutes after any crash impact; and
(6) Whether the cockpit voice recorder and digital flight data recorder are installed in separate boxes or in a combination unit, no single electrical failure external to the recorder may disable both the cockpit voice recorder and the digital flight data recorder.
(b) Each nonejectable recorder container must be located and mounted so as to minimize the probability of container rupture resulting from crash impact and subsequent damage to the record from fire.
(c) A correlation must be established between the flight recorder readings of airspeed, altitude, and heading and the corresponding readings (taking into account correction factors) of the first pilot's instruments. This correlation must cover the airspeed range over which the aircraft is to be operated, the range of altitude to which the aircraft is limited, and 360 degrees of heading. Correlation may be established on the ground as appropriate.
(d) Each recorder container must:
(1) Be either bright orange or bright yellow;
(2) Have a reflective tape affixed to its external surface to facilitate its location under water; and
(3) Have an underwater locating device, when required by the operating rules of this chapter, on or adjacent to the container which is secured in such a manner that they are not likely to be separated during crash impact.
(e) When both a cockpit voice recorder and a flight data recorder are required by the operating rules, one combination unit may be installed, provided that all other requirements of this section and the requirements for cockpit voice recorders under this part are met.
[Amdt. 27-22, 53 FR 26144, July 11, 1988, as amended by Amdt. 27-43, 73 FR 12564, Mar. 7, 2008; 74 FR 32800, July 9, 2009; Amdt. 27-45, 75 FR 17045, Apr. 5, 2010]
§ 27.1461
Equipment containing high energy rotors.
(a) Equipment containing high energy rotors must meet paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section.
(b) High energy rotors contained in equipment must be able to withstand damage caused by malfunctions, vibration, abnormal speeds, and abnormal temperatures. In addition—
(1) Auxiliary rotor cases must be able to contain damage caused by the failure of high energy rotor blades; and
(2) Equipment control devices, systems, and instrumentation must reasonably ensure that no operating limitations affecting the integrity of high energy rotors will be exceeded in service.
(c) It must be shown by test that equipment containing high energy rotors can contain any failure of a high energy rotor that occurs at the highest speed obtainable with the normal speed control devices inoperative.
(d) Equipment containing high energy rotors must be located where
rotor failure will neither endanger the occupants nor adversely affect continued safe flight.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 964, Jan. 26, 1968]

# Subpart G—Operating Limitations and Information
§ 27.1501
General.
(a) Each operating limitation specified in §§ 27.1503 through 27.1525 and other limitations and information necessary for safe operation must be established.
(b) The operating limitations and other information necessary for safe operation must be made available to the crewmembers as prescribed in §§ 27.1541 through 27.1589.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 1978]

# Operating Limitations
§ 27.1503
Airspeed limitations: general.
(a) An operating speed range must be established.
(b) When airspeed limitations are a function of weight, weight distribution, altitude, rotor speed, power, or other factors, airspeed limitations corresponding with the critical combinations of these factors must be established.
§ 27.1505
Never-exceed speed.
(a) The never-exceed speed, V
NE,
must be established so that it is—
(1) Not less than 40 knots (CAS); and
(2) Not more than the lesser of—
(i) 0.9 times the maximum forward speeds established under § 27.309;
(ii) 0.9 times the maximum speed shown under §§ 27.251 and 27.629; or
(iii) 0.9 times the maximum speed substantiated for advancing blade tip mach number effects.
(b) V
NE
may vary with altitude, r.p.m., temperature, and weight, if—
(1) No more than two of these variables (or no more than two instruments integrating more than one of these variables) are used at one time; and
(2) The ranges of these variables (or of the indications on instruments integrating more than one of these variables) are large enough to allow an operationally practical and safe variation of V
NE
.
(c) For helicopters, a stabilized power-off V
NE
denoted as V
NE
(power-off) may be established at a speed less than V
NE
established pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, if the following conditions are met:
(1) V
NE
(power-off) is not less than a speed midway between the power-on V
NE
and the speed used in meeting the requirements of—
(i) § 27.65(b) for single engine helicopters; and
(ii) § 27.67 for multiengine helicopters.
(2) V
NE
(power-off) is—
(i) A constant airspeed;
(ii) A constant amount less than power-on V
NE
; or
(iii) A constant airspeed for a portion of the altitude range for which certification is requested, and a constant amount less than power-on V
NE
for the remainder of the altitude range.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 964, Jan. 26, 1968, and Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.1509
Rotor speed.
(a)
Maximum power-off (autorotation).
The maximum power-off rotor speed must be established so that it does not exceed 95 percent of the lesser of—
(1) The maximum design r.p.m. determined under § 27.309(b); and
(2) The maximum r.p.m. shown during the type tests.
(b)
Minimum power off.
The minimum power-off rotor speed must be established so that it is not less than 105 percent of the greater of—
(1) The minimum shown during the type tests; and
(2) The minimum determined by design substantiation.
(c)
Minimum power on.
The minimum power-on rotor speed must be established so that it is—
(1) Not less than the greater of—
(i) The minimum shown during the type tests; and
(ii) The minimum determined by design substantiation; and
(2) Not more than a value determined under § 27.33(a)(1) and (b)(1).
§ 27.1519
Weight and center of gravity.
The weight and center of gravity limitations determined under §§ 27.25 and 27.27, respectively, must be established as operating limitations.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 965, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.1521
Powerplant limitations.
(a)
General.
The powerplant limitations prescribed in this section must be established so that they do not exceed the corresponding limits for which the engines are type certificated.
(b)
Takeoff operation.
The powerplant takeoff operation must be limited by—
(1) The maximum rotational speed, which may not be greater than—
(i) The maximum value determined by the rotor design; or
(ii) The maximum value shown during the type tests;
(2) The maximum allowable manifold pressure (for reciprocating engines);
(3) The time limit for the use of the power corresponding to the limitations established in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section;
(4) If the time limit in paragraph (b)(3) of this section exceeds two minutes, the maximum allowable cylinder head, coolant outlet, or oil temperatures;
(5) The gas temperature limits for turbine engines over the range of operating and atmospheric conditions for which certification is requested.
(c)
Continuous operation.
The continuous operation must be limited by—
(1) The maximum rotational speed which may not be greater than—
(i) The maximum value determined by the rotor design; or
(ii) The maximum value shown during the type tests;
(2) The minimum rotational speed shown under the rotor speed requirements in § 27.1509(c); and
(3) The gas temperature limits for turbine engines over the range of operating and atmospheric conditions for which certification is requested.
(d)
Fuel grade or designation.
The minimum fuel grade (for reciprocating engines), or fuel designation (for turbine engines), must be established so that it is not less than that required for the operation of the engines within the limitations in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(e)
Turboshaft engine torque.
For rotorcraft with main rotors driven by turboshaft engines, and that do not have a torque limiting device in the transmission system, the following apply:
(1) A limit engine torque must be established if the maximum torque that the engine can exert is greater than—
(i) The torque that the rotor drive system is designed to transmit; or
(ii) The torque that the main rotor assembly is designed to withstand in showing compliance with § 27.547(e).
(2) The limit engine torque established under paragraph (e)(1) of this section may not exceed either torque specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(f)
Ambient temperature.
For turbine engines, ambient temperature limitations (including limitations for winterization installations, if applicable) must be established as the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature at which compliance with the cooling provisions of §§ 27.1041 through 27.1045 is shown.
(g)
Two and one-half-minute OEI power operation.
Unless otherwise authorized, the use of 2
1/2
-minute OEI power must be limited to engine failure operation of multiengine, turbine-powered rotorcraft for not longer than 2
1/2
minutes after failure of an engine. The use of 2
1/2
-minute OEI power must also be limited by—
(1) The maximum rotational speed, which may not be greater than—
(i) The maximum value determined by the rotor design; or
(ii) The maximum demonstrated during the type tests;
(2) The maximum allowable gas temperature; and
(3) The maximum allowable torque.
(h)
Thirty-minute OEI power operation.
Unless otherwise authorized, the use of 30-minute OEI power must be limited
to multiengine, turbine-powered rotorcraft for not longer than 30 minutes after failure of an engine. The use of 30-minute OEI power must also be limited by—
(1) The maximum rotational speed, which may not be greater than—
(i) The maximum value determined by the rotor design; or
(ii) The maximum value demonstrated during the type tests;
(2) The maximum allowable gas temperature; and
(3) The maximum allowable torque.
(i)
Continuous OEI power operation.
Unless otherwise authorized, the use of continuous OEI power must be limited to multiengine, turbine-powered rotorcraft for continued flight after failure of an engine. The use of continuous OEI power must also be limited by—
(1) The maximum rotational speed, which may not be greater than—
(i) The maximum value determined by the rotor design; or
(ii) The maximum value demonstrated during the type tests;
(2) The maximum allowable gas temperature; and
(3) The maximum allowable torque.
(j)
Rated 30-second OEI power operation.
Rated 30-second OEI power is permitted only on multiengine, turbine-powered rotorcraft, also certificated for the use of rated 2-minute OEI power, and can only be used for continued operation of the remaining engine(s) after a failure or precautionary shutdown of an engine. It must be shown that following application of 30-second OEI power, any damage will be readily detectable by the applicable inspections and other related procedures furnished in accordance with Section A27.4 of appendix A of this part and Section A33.4 of appendix A of part 33. The use of 30-second OEI power must be limited to not more than 30 seconds for any period in which that power is used, and by—
(1) The maximum rotational speed, which may not be greater than—
(i) The maximum value determined by the rotor design; or
(ii) The maximum value demonstrated during the type tests;
(2) The maximum allowable gas temperature; and
(3) The maximum allowable torque.
(k)
Rated 2-minute OEI power operation.
Rated 2-minute OEI power is permitted only on multiengine, turbine-powered rotorcraft, also certificated for the use of rated 30-second OEI power, and can only be used for continued operation of the remaining engine(s) after a failure or precautionary shutdown of an engine. It must be shown that following application of 2-minute OEI power, any damage will be readily detectable by the applicable inspections and other related procedures furnished in accordance with Section A27.4 of appendix A of this part and Section A33.4 of appendix A of part 33. The use of 2-minute OEI power must be limited to not more than 2 minutes for any period in which that power is used, and by—
(1) The maximum rotational speed, which may not be greater than—
(i) The maximum value determined by the rotor design; or
(ii) The maximum value demonstrated during the type tests;
(2) The maximum allowable gas temperature; and
(3) The maximum allowable torque.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34214, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 27-29, 59 FR 47767, Sept. 16, 1994]
§ 27.1523
Minimum flight crew.
The minimum flight crew must be established so that it is sufficient for safe operation, considering—
(a) The workload on individual crewmembers;
(b) The accessibility and ease of operation of necessary controls by the appropriate crewmember; and
(c) The kinds of operation authorized under § 27.1525.
§ 27.1525
Kinds of operations.
The kinds of operations (such as VFR, IFR, day, night, or icing) for which the rotorcraft is approved are established by demonstrated compliance
with the applicable certification requirements and by the installed equipment.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.1527
Maximum operating altitude.
The maximum altitude up to which operation is allowed, as limited by flight, structural, powerplant, functional, or equipment characteristics, must be established.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 1978]
§ 27.1529
Instructions for Continued Airworthiness.
The applicant must prepare Instructions for Continued Airworthiness in accordance with appendix A to this part that are acceptable to the Administrator. The instructions may be incomplete at type certification if a program exists to ensure their completion prior to delivery of the first rotorcraft or issuance of a standard certificate of airworthiness, whichever occurs later.
[Amdt. 27-18, 45 FR 60177, Sept. 11, 1980]

# Markings and Placards
§ 27.1541
General.
(a) The rotorcraft must contain—
(1) The markings and placards specified in §§ 27.1545 through 27.1565, and
(2) Any additional information, instrument markings, and placards required for the safe operation of rotorcraft with unusual design, operating or handling characteristics.
(b) Each marking and placard prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section—
(1) Must be displayed in a conspicuous place; and
(2) May not be easily erased, disfigured, or obscured.
§ 27.1543
Instrument markings: general.
For each instrument—
(a) When markings are on the cover glass of the instrument, there must be means to maintain the correct alignment of the glass cover with the face of the dial; and
(b) Each arc and line must be wide enough, and located, to be clearly visible to the pilot.
§ 27.1545
Airspeed indicator.
(a) Each airspeed indicator must be marked as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, with the marks located at the corresponding indicated airspeeds.
(b) The following markings must be made:
(1) A red line—
(i) For rotorcraft other than helicopters, at V
NE
.
(ii) For helicopters, at V
NE
(power-on).
(iii) For helicopters, at V
NE
(power-off). If V
NE
(power-off) is less than V
NE
(power-on) and both are simultaneously displayed, the red line at V
NE
(power-off) must be clearly distinguishable from the red line at V
NE
(power-on).
(2) [Reserved]
(3) For the caution range, a yellow range.
(4) For the normal operating range, a green or unmarked range.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 1978; 43 FR 3900, Jan. 30, 1978; Amdt. 27-16, 43 FR 50599, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8738, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 27.1547
Magnetic direction indicator.
(a) A placard meeting the requirements of this section must be installed on or near the magnetic direction indicator.
(b) The placard must show the calibration of the instrument in level flight with the engines operating.
(c) The placard must state whether the calibration was made with radio receivers on or off.
(d) Each calibration reading must be in terms of magnetic heading in not more than 45 degree increments.
(e) If a magnetic nonstabilized direction indicator can have a deviation of more than 10 degrees caused by the operation of electrical equipment, the
placard must state which electrical loads, or combination of loads, would cause a deviation of more than 10 degrees when turned on.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-13, 42 FR 36972, July 18, 1977]
§ 27.1549
Powerplant instruments.
For each required powerplant instrument, as appropriate to the type of instrument—
(a) Each maximum and, if applicable, minimum safe operating limit must be marked with a red line;
(b) Each normal operating range must be marked as a green or unmarked range;
(c) Each takeoff and precautionary range must be marked with a yellow range or yellow line;
(d) Each engine or rotor range that is restricted because of excessive vibration stresses must be marked with red ranges or red lines; and
(e) Each OEI limit or approved operating range must be marked to be clearly differentiated from the markings of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section except that no marking is normally required for the 30-second OEI limit.
[Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 27-23, 53 FR 34215, Sept. 2, 1988; Amdt. 27-29, 59 FR 47768, Sept. 16, 1994; Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8738, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 27.1551
Oil quantity indicator.
Each oil quantity indicator must be marked with enough increments to indicate readily and accurately the quantity of oil.
§ 27.1553
Fuel quantity indicator.
If the unusable fuel supply for any tank exceeds one gallon, or five percent of the tank capacity, whichever is greater, a red arc must be marked on its indicator extending from the calibrated zero reading to the lowest reading obtainable in level flight.
§ 27.1555
Control markings.
(a) Each cockpit control, other than primary flight controls or control whose function is obvious, must be plainly marked as to its function and method of operation.
(b) For powerplant fuel controls—
(1) Each fuel tank selector control must be marked to indicate the position corresponding to each tank and to each existing cross feed position;
(2) If safe operation requires the use of any tanks in a specific sequence, that sequence must be marked on, or adjacent to, the selector for those tanks; and
(3) Each valve control for any engine of a multiengine rotorcraft must be marked to indicate the position corresponding to each engine controlled.
(c) Usable fuel capacity must be marked as follows:
(1) For fuel systems having no selector controls, the usable fuel capacity of the system must be indicated at the fuel quantity indicator unless it is:
(i) Provided by another system or equipment readily accessible to the pilot; and
(ii) Contained in the limitations section of the rotorcraft flight manual.
(2) For fuel systems having selector controls, the usable fuel capacity available at each selector control position must be indicated near the selector control.
(d) For accessory, auxiliary, and emergency controls—
(1) Each essential visual position indicator, such as those showing rotor pitch or landing gear position, must be marked so that each crewmember can determine at any time the position of the unit to which it relates; and
(2) Each emergency control must be red and must be marked as to method of operation.
(e) For rotorcraft incorporating retractable landing gear, the maximum landing gear operating speed must be displayed in clear view of the pilot.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55470, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984; Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8738, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 27.1557
Miscellaneous markings and placards.
(a)
Baggage and cargo compartments, and ballast location.
Each baggage and cargo compartment, and each ballast location must have a placard stating any limitations on contents, including weight, that are necessary under the loading requirements.
(b)
Seats.
If the maximum allowable weight to be carried in a seat is less than 170 pounds, a placard stating the lesser weight must be permanently attached to the seat structure.
(c)
Fuel and oil filler openings.
The following apply:
(1) Fuel filler openings must be marked at or near the filler cover with—
(i) The word “fuel”;
(ii) For reciprocating engine powered rotorcraft, the minimum fuel grade;
(iii) For turbine engine powered rotorcraft, the permissible fuel designations; and
(iv) For pressure fueling systems, the maximum permissible fueling supply pressure and the maximum permissible defueling pressure.
(2) Oil filler openings must be marked at or near the filler cover with the word “oil”.
(d)
Emergency exit placards.
Each placard and operating control for each emergency exit must be red. A placard must be near each emergency exit control and must clearly indicate the location of that exit and its method of operation.
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-11, 41 FR 55471, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 27.1559
Limitations placard.
There must be a placard in clear view of the pilot that specifies the kinds of operations (such as VFR, IFR, day, night, or icing) for which the rotorcraft is approved.
[Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.1561
Safety equipment.
(a) Each safety equipment control to be operated by the crew in emergency, such as controls for automatic liferaft releases, must be plainly marked as to its method of operation.
(b) Each location, such as a locker or compartment, that carries any fire extinguishing, signaling, or other life saving equipment, must be so marked.
§ 27.1565
Tail rotor.
Each tail rotor must be marked so that its disc is conspicuous under normal daylight ground conditions.
[Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 965, Jan. 26, 1968]

# Rotorcraft Flight Manual and Approved Manual Material
§ 27.1581
General.
(a)
Furnishing information.
A Rotorcraft Flight Manual must be furnished with each rotorcraft, and it must contain the following:
(1) Information required by §§ 27.1583 through 27.1589.
(2) Other information that is necessary for safe operation because of design, operating, or handling characteristics.
(b)
Approved information.
Each part of the manual listed in §§ 27.1583 through 27.1589, that is appropriate to the rotorcraft, must be furnished, verified, and approved, and must be segregated, identified, and clearly distinguished from each unapproved part of that manual.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Table of contents.
Each Rotorcraft Flight Manual must include a table of contents if the complexity of the manual indicates a need for it.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 1978]
§ 27.1583
Operating limitations.
(a)
Airspeed and rotor limitations.
Information necessary for the marking of airspeed and rotor limitations on, or near, their respective indicators must be furnished. The significance of each limitation and of the color coding must be explained.
(b)
Powerplant limitations.
The following information must be furnished:
(1) Limitations required by § 27.1521.
(2) Explanation of the limitations, when appropriate.
(3) Information necessary for marking the instruments required by §§ 27.1549 through 27.1553.
(c)
Weight and loading distribution.
The weight and center of gravity limits required by §§ 27.25 and 27.27, respectively, must be furnished. If the variety of possible loading conditions warrants, instructions must be included to allow ready observance of the limitations.
(d)
Flight crew.
When a flight crew of more than one is required, the number and functions of the minimum flight crew determined under § 27.1523 must be furnished.
(e)
Kinds of operation.
Each kind of operation for which the rotorcraft and its equipment installations are approved must be listed.
(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Altitude.
The altitude established under § 27.1527 and an explanation of the limiting factors must be furnished.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-2, 33 FR 965, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-16, 43 FR 50599, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 27.1585
Operating procedures.
(a) Parts of the manual containing operating procedures must have information concerning any normal and emergency procedures and other information necessary for safe operation, including takeoff and landing procedures and associated airspeeds. The manual must contain any pertinent information including—
(1) The kind of takeoff surface used in the tests and each appropriate climbout speed; and
(2) The kind of landing surface used in the tests and appropriate approach and glide airspeeds.
(b) For multiengine rotorcraft, information identifying each operating condition in which the fuel system independence prescribed in § 27.953 is necessary for safety must be furnished, together with instructions for placing the fuel system in a configuration used to show compliance with that section.
(c) For helicopters for which a V
NE
(power-off) is established under § 27.1505(c), information must be furnished to explain the V
NE
(power-off) and the procedures for reducing airspeed to not more than the V
NE
(power-off) following failure of all engines.
(d) For each rotorcraft showing compliance with § 27.1353 (g)(2) or (g)(3), the operating procedures for disconnecting the battery from its charging source must be furnished.
(e) If the unusable fuel supply in any tank exceeds five percent of the tank capacity, or one gallon, whichever is greater, information must be furnished which indicates that when the fuel quantity indicator reads “zero” in level flight, any fuel remaining in the fuel tank cannot be used safely in flight.
(f) Information on the total quantity of usable fuel for each fuel tank must be furnished.
(g) The airspeeds and rotor speeds for minimum rate of descent and best glide angle as prescribed in § 27.71 must be provided.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Amdt. 27-1, 32 FR 6914, May 5, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2326, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-16, 43 FR 50599, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 27.1587
Performance information.
(a) The Rotorcraft Flight Manual must contain the following information, determined in accordance with §§ 27.49 through 27.87 and 27.143(c) and (d):
(1) Enough information to determine the limiting height-velocity envelope.
(2) Information relative to—
(i) The steady rates of climb and descent, in-ground effect and out-of-ground effect hovering ceilings, together with the corresponding airspeeds and other pertinent information including the calculated effects of altitude and temperatures;
(ii) The maximum weight for each altitude and temperature condition at which the rotorcraft can safely hover in-ground effect and out-of-ground effect in winds of not less than 17 knots
from all azimuths. These data must be clearly referenced to the appropriate hover charts. In addition, if there are other combinations of weight, altitude and temperature for which performance information is provided and at which the rotorcraft cannot land and take off safely with the maximum wind value, those portions of the operating envelope and the appropriate safe wind conditions must be stated in the Rotorcraft Flight Manual;
(iii) For reciprocating engine-powered rotorcraft, the maximum atmospheric temperature at which compliance with the cooling provisions of §§ 27.1041 through 27.1045 is shown; and
(iv) Glide distance as a function of altitude when autorotating at the speeds and conditions for minimum rate of descent and best glide as determined in § 27.71.
(b) The Rotorcraft Flight Manual must contain—
(1) In its performance information section any pertinent information concerning the takeoff weights and altitudes used in compliance with § 27.51; and
(2) The horizontal takeoff distance determined in accordance with § 27.65(a)(2)(i).
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2326, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984; Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 11000, Feb. 29, 2008; 73 FR 33876, June 16, 2008; Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8739, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 27.1589
Loading information.
There must be loading instructions for each possible loading condition between the maximum and minimum weights determined under § 27.25 that can result in a center of gravity beyond any extreme prescribed in § 27.27, assuming any probable occupant weights.
Pt. 27, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 27—Instructions for Continued Airworthiness
A27.1
General.
(a) This appendix specifies requirements for the preparation of Instructions for Continued Airworthiness as required by § 27.1529.
(b) The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness for each rotorcraft must include the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness for each engine and rotor (hereinafter designated ‘products’), for each appliance required by this chapter, and any required information relating to the interface of those appliances and products with the rotorcraft. If Instructions for Continued Airworthiness are not supplied by the manufacturer of an appliance or product installed in the rotorcraft, the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness for the rotorcraft must include the information essential to the continued airworthiness of the rotorcraft.
(c) The applicant must submit to the FAA a program to show how changes to the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness made by the applicant or by the manufacturers of products and appliances installed in the rotorcraft will be distributed.
A27.2
Format.
(a) The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must be in the form of a manual or manuals as appropriate for the quantity of data to be provided.
(b) The format of the manual or manuals must provide for a practical arrangement.
A27.3
Content.
The contents of the manual or manuals must be prepared in the English language. The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must contain the following manuals or sections, as appropriate, and information:
(a)
Rotorcraft maintenance manual or section.
(1) Introduction information that includes an explanation of the rotorcraft's features and data to the extent necessary for maintenance or preventive maintenance.
(2) A description of the rotorcraft and its systems and installations including its engines, rotors, and appliances.
(3) Basic control and operation information describing how the rotorcraft components and systems are controlled and how they operate, including any special procedures and limitations that apply.
(4) Servicing information that covers details regarding servicing points, capacities of tanks, reservoirs, types of fluids to be used, pressures applicable to the various systems, location of access panels for inspection and servicing, locations of lubrication points, the lubricants to be used, equipment required for servicing, tow instructions and limitations, mooring, jacking, and leveling information.
(b)
Maintenance instructions.
(1) Scheduling information for each part of the rotorcraft and its engines, auxiliary power units, rotors, accessories, instruments and equipment that provides the recommended periods at which they should be cleaned, inspected, adjusted, tested, and lubricated, and the degree
of inspection, the applicable wear tolerances, and work recommended at these periods. However, the applicant may refer to an accessory, instrument, or equipment manufacturer as the source of this information if the applicant shows the item has an exceptionally high degree of complexity requiring specialized maintenance techniques, test equipment, or expertise. The recommended overhaul periods and necessary cross references to the Airworthiness Limitations section of the manual must also be included. In addition, the applicant must include an inspection program that includes the frequency and extent of the inspections necessary to provide for the continued airworthiness of the rotorcraft.
(2) Troubleshooting information describing problem malfunctions, how to recognize those malfunctions, and the remedial action for those malfunctions.
(3) Information describing the order and method of removing and replacing products and parts with any necessary precautions to be taken.
(4) Other general procedural instructions including procedures for system testing during ground running, symmetry checks, weighing and determining the center of gravity, lifting and shoring, and storage limitations.
(c) Diagrams of structural access plates and information needed to gain access for inspections when access plates are not provided.
(d) Details for the application of special inspection techniques including radiographic and ultrasonic testing where such processes are specified.
(e) Information needed to apply protective treatments to the structure after inspection.
(f) All data relative to structural fasteners such as identification, discarded recommendations, and torque values.
(g) A list of special tools needed.
A27.4
Airworthiness Limitations section.
The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must contain a section, titled Airworthiness Limitations that is segregated and clearly distinguishable from the rest of the document. This section must set forth each mandatory replacement time, structural inspection interval, and related structural inspection procedure required for type certification. If the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness consist of multiple documents, the section required by this paragraph must be included in the principal manual. This section must contain a legible statement in a prominent location that reads: “The Airworthiness Limitations section is FAA approved and specifies inspections and other maintenance required under §§ 43.16 and 91.403 of the Federal Aviation Regulations unless an alternative program has been FAA approved.”
[Amdt. 27-18, 45 FR 60177, Sept. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 27-24, 54 FR 34329, Aug. 18, 1989; Amdt. 27-47, 76 FR 74663, Dec. 1, 2011]
Pt. 27, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 27—Airworthiness Criteria for Helicopter Instrument Flight
I.
General.
A normal category helicopter may not be type certificated for operation under the instrument flight rules (IFR) of this chapter unless it meets the design and installation requirements contained in this appendix.
II.
Definitions.
(a) V
YI
means instrument climb speed, utilized instead of V
Y
for compliance with the climb requirements for instrument flight.
(b) V
NEI
means instrument flight never exceed speed, utilized instead of V
NE
for compliance with maximum limit speed requirements for instrument flight.
(c) V
MINI
means instrument flight minimum speed, utilized in complying with minimum limit speed requirements for instrument flight.
III.
Trim.
It must be possible to trim the cyclic, collective, and directional control forces to zero at all approved IFR airspeeds, power settings, and configurations appropriate to the type.
IV.
Static longitudinal stability.
(a)
General.
The helicopter must possess positive static longitudinal control force stability at critical combinations of weight and center of gravity at the conditions specified in paragraph IV (b) or (c) of this appendix, as appropriate. The stick force must vary with speed so that any substantial speed change results in a stick force clearly perceptible to the pilot. For single-pilot approval, the airspeed must return to within 10 percent of the trim speed when the control force is slowly released for each trim condition specified in paragraph IV(b) of the this appendix.
(b)
For single-pilot approval:
(1)
Climb.
Stability must be shown in climb throughout the speed range 20 knots either side of trim with—
(i) The helicopter trimmed at V
YI
;
(ii) Landing gear retracted (if retractable); and
(iii) Power required for limit climb rate (at least 1,000 fpm) at V
YI
or maximum continuous power, whichever is less.
(2)
Cruise.
Stability must be shown throughout the speed range from 0.7 to 1.1 V
H
or V
NEI
, whichever is lower, not to exceed ±20 knots from trim with—
(i) The helicopter trimmed and power adjusted for level flight at 0.9 V
H
or 0.9 V
NEI
, whichever is lower; and
(ii) Landing gear retracted (if retractable).
(3)
Slow cruise.
Stability must be shown throughout the speed range from 0.9 V
MINI
to 1.3 V
MINI
or 20 knots above trim speed, whichever is greater, with—
(i) the helicopter trimmed and power adjusted for level flight at 1.1 V
MINI
; and
(ii) Landing gear retracted (if retractable).
(4)
Descent.
Stability must be shown throughout the speed range 20 knots either side of trim with—
(i) The helicopter trimmed at 0.8 V
H
or 0.8 V
NEI
(or 0.8 V
LE
for the landing gear extended case), whichever is lower;
(ii) Power required for 1,000 fpm descent at trim speed; and
(iii) Landing gear extended and retracted, if applicable.
(5)
Approach.
Stability must be shown throughout the speed range from 0.7 times the minimum recommended approach speed to 20 knots above the maximum recommended approach speed with—
(i) The helicopter trimmed at the recommended approach speed or speeds;
(ii) Landing gear extended and retracted, if applicable; and
(iii) Power required to maintain a 3° glide path and power required to maintain the steepest approach gradient for which approval is requested.
(c) Helicopters approved for a minimum crew of two pilots must comply with the provisions of paragraphs IV(b)(2) and IV(b)(5) of this appendix.
V.
Static Lateral Directional Stability.
(a) Static directional stability must be positive throughout the approved ranges of airspeed, power, and vertical speed. In straight and steady sideslips up to ±10° from trim, directional control position must increase without discontinuity with the angle of sideslip, except for a small range of sideslip angles around trim. At greater angles up to the maximum sideslip angle appropriate to the type, increased directional control position must produce an increased angle of sideslip. It must be possible to maintain balanced flight without exceptional pilot skill or alertness.
(b) During sideslips up to ±10° from trim throughout the approved ranges of airspeed, power, and vertical speed, there must be no negative dihedral stability perceptible to the pilot through lateral control motion or force. Longitudinal cyclic movement with sideslip must not be excessive.
VI.
Dynamic stability.
(a) For single-pilot approval—
(1) Any oscillation having a period of less than 5 seconds must damp to
1/2
amplitude in not more than one cycle.
(2) Any oscillation having a period of 5 seconds or more but less than 10 seconds must damp to
1/2
amplitude in not more than two cycles.
(3) Any oscillation having a period of 10 seconds or more but less than 20 seconds must be damped.
(4) Any oscillation having a period of 20 seconds or more may not achieve double amplitude in less than 20 seconds.
(5) Any aperiodic response may not achieve double amplitude in less than 6 seconds.
(b) For helicopters approved with a minimum crew of two pilots—
(1) Any oscillation having a period of less than 5 seconds must damp to
1/2
amplitude in not more than two cycles.
(2) Any oscillation having a period of 5 seconds or more but less than 10 seconds must be damped.
(3) Any oscillation having a period of 10 seconds or more may not achieve double amplitude in less than 10 seconds.
VII.
Stability Augmentation System (SAS).
(a) If a SAS is used, the reliability of the SAS must be related to the effects of its failure. Any SAS failure condition that would prevent continued safe flight and landing must be extremely improbable. It must be shown that, for any failure condition of the SAS that is not shown to be extremely improbable—
(1) The helicopter is safely controllable when the failure or malfunction occurs at any speed or altitude within the approved IFR operating limitations; and
(2) The overall flight characteristics of the helicopter allow for prolonged instrument flight without undue pilot effort. Additional unrelated probable failures affecting the control system must be considered. In addition—
(i) The controllability and maneuverability requirements in Subpart B of this part must be met throughout a practical flight envelope;
(ii) The flight control, trim, and dynamic stability characteristics must not be impaired below a level needed to allow continued safe flight and landing; and
(iii) The static longitudinal and static directional stability requirements of Subpart B must be met throughout a practical flight envelope.
(b) The SAS must be designed so that it cannot create a hazardous deviation in flight path or produce hazardous loads on the helicopter during normal operation or in the event of malfunction or failure, assuming corrective action begins within an appropriate period of time. Where multiple systems are installed, subsequent malfunction conditions must be considered in sequence unless their occurrence is shown to be improbable.
VIII.
Equipment, systems, and installation.
The basic equipment and installation must comply with §§ 29.1303, 29.1431, and 29.1433, with the following exceptions and additions:
(a)
Flight and Navigation Instruments.
(1) A magnetic gyro-stablized direction indicator
instead of a gyroscopic direction indicator required by § 29.1303(h); and
(2) A standby attitude indicator which meets the requirements of §§ 29.1303(g)(1) through (7) instead of a rate-of-turn indicator required by § 29.1303(g). For two-pilot configurations, one pilot's primary indicator may be designated for this purpose. If standby batteries are provided, they may be charged from the aircraft electrical system if adequate isolation is incorporated.
(b)
Miscellaneous requirements.
(1) Instrument systems and other systems essential for IFR flight that could be adversely affected by icing must be adequately protected when exposed to the continuous and intermittent maximum icing conditions defined in appendix C of Part 29 of this chapter, whether or not the rotorcraft is certificated for operation in icing conditions.
(2) There must be means in the generating system to automatically de-energize and disconnect from the main bus any power source developing hazardous overvoltage.
(3) Each required flight instrument using a power supply (electric, vacuum, etc.) must have a visual means integral with the instrument to indicate the adequacy of the power being supplied.
(4) When multiple systems performing like functions are required, each system must be grouped, routed, and spaced so that physical separation between systems is provided to ensure that a single malfunction will not adversely affect more than one system.
(5) For systems that operate the required flight instruments at each pilot's station—
(i) For pneumatic systems, only the required flight instruments for the first pilot may be connected to that operating system;
(ii) Additional instruments, systems, or equipment may not be connected to an operating system for a second pilot unless provisions are made to ensure the continued normal functioning of the required instruments in the event of any malfunction of the additional instruments, systems, or equipment which is not shown to be extremely improbable;
(iii) The equipment, systems, and installations must be designed so that one display of the information essential to the safety of flight which is provided by the instruments will remain available to a pilot, without additional crewmember action, after any single failure or combination of failures that is not shown to be extremely improbable; and
(iv) For single-pilot configurations, instruments which require a static source must be provided with a means of selecting an alternate source and that source must be calibrated.
IX.
Rotorcraft Flight Manual.
A Rotorcraft Flight Manual or Rotorcraft Flight Manual IFR Supplement must be provided and must contain—
(a)
Limitations.
The approved IFR flight envelope, the IFR flightcrew composition, the revised kinds of operation, and the steepest IFR precision approach gradient for which the helicopter is approved;
(b)
Procedures.
Required information for proper operation of IFR systems and the recommended procedures in the event of stability augmentation or electrical system failures; and
(c)
Performance.
If V
YI
differs from V
Y
, climb performance at V
YI
and with maximum continuous power throughout the ranges of weight, altitude, and temperature for which approval is requested.
X. Electrical and electronic system lightning protection. For regulations concerning lightning protection for electrical and electronic systems, see § 27.1316.
[Amdt. 27-19, 48 FR 4389, Jan. 31, 1983, as amended by Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 11000, Feb. 29, 2008; Amdt. 27-46, 76 FR 33135, June 8, 2011; Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8739, Feb. 10, 2023]
Pt. 27, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 27—Criteria for Category A
C27.1 General.
A small multiengine rotorcraft may not be type certificated for Category A operation unless it meets the design installation and performance requirements contained in this appendix in addition to the requirements of this part.
C27.2 Applicable part 29 sections. The following sections of part 29 of this chapter must be met in addition to the requirements of this part:
29.45(a) and (b)(2)—General.
29.49(a)—Performance at minimum operating speed.
29.51—Takeoff data: General.
29.53—Takeoff: Category A.
29.55—Takeoff decision point: Category A.
29.59—Takeoff Path: Category A.
29.60—Elevated heliport takeoff path: Category A.
29.61—Takeoff distance: Category A.
29.62—Rejected takeoff: Category A.
29.64—Climb: General.
29.65(a)—Climb: AEO.
29.67(a)—Climb: OEI.
29.75—Landing: General.
29.77—Landing decision point: Category A.
29.79—Landing: Category A.
29.81—Landing distance (Ground level sites): Category A.
29.85—Balked landing: Category A.
29.87(a)—Height-velocity envelope.
29.547(a) and (b)—Main and tail rotor structure.
29.861(a)—Fire protection of structure, controls, and other parts.
29.901(c)—Powerplant: Installation.
29.903 (b) and (c)—Engines.
29.908(a)—Cooling fans.
29.917(b) and (c)(1)—Rotor drive system: Design.
29.927(c)(1)—Additional tests.
29.953(a)—Fuel system independence.
29.1027(a)—Transmission and gearboxes: General.
29.1045(a)(1), (b), (c), (d), and (f)—Climb cooling test procedures.
29.1047(a)—Takeoff cooling test procedures.
29.1181(a)—Designated fire zones: Regions included.
29.1187(e)—Drainage and ventilation of fire zones.
29.1189(c)—Shutoff means.
29.1191(a)(1)—Firewalls.
29.1193(e)—Cowling and engine compartment covering.
29.1195(a) and (d)—Fire extinguishing systems (one shot).
29.1197—Fire extinguishing agents.
29.1199—Extinguishing agent containers.
29.1201—Fire extinguishing system materials.
29.1305(a) (6) and (b)—Powerplant instruments.
29.1309(b)(2) (i) and (d)—Equipment, systems, and installations.
29.1323(c)(1)—Airspeed indicating system.
29.1331(b)—Instruments using a power supply.
29.1351(d)(2)—Electrical systems and equipment: General (operation without normal electrical power).
29.1587(a)—Performance information.

# Note:
In complying with the paragraphs listed in paragraph C27.2 above, relevant material in the AC “Certification of Transport Category Rotorcraft” should be used.
[Doc. No. 28008, 61 FR 21907, May 10, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8739, Feb. 10, 2023]
Pt. 27, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 27—HIRF Environments and Equipment HIRF Test Levels
This appendix specifies the HIRF environments and equipment HIRF test levels for electrical and electronic systems under § 27.1317. The field strength values for the HIRF environments and laboratory equipment HIRF test levels are expressed in root-mean-square units measured during the peak of the modulation cycle.
(a) HIRF environment I is specified in the following table:
Table I.—HIRF Environment I
Frequency
Field strength
(volts/meter)
Peak
Average
10 kHz-2 MHz
50
50
2 MHz-30 MHz
100
100
30 MHz-100 MHz
50
50
100 MHz-400 MHz
100
100
400 MHz-700 MHz
700
50
700 MHz-1 GHz
700
100
1 GHz-2 GHz
2,000
200
2 GHz-6 GHz
3,000
200
6 GHz-8 GHz
1,000
200
8 GHz-12 GHz
3,000
300
12 GHz-18 GHz
2,000
200
18 GHz-40 GHz
600
200
In this table, the higher field strength applies at the frequency band edges.
(b) HIRF environment II is specified in the following table:
Table II.—HIRF Environment II
Frequency
Field strength
(volts/meter)
Peak
Average
10 kHz-500 kHz
20
20
500 kHz-2 MHz
30
30
2 MHz-30 MHz
100
100
30 MHz-100 MHz
10
10
100 MHz-200 MHz
30
10
200 MHz-400 MHz
10
10
400 MHz-1 GHz
700
40
1 GHz-2 GHz
1,300
160
2 GHz-4 GHz
3,000
120
4 GHz-6 GHz
3,000
160
6 GHz-8 GHz
400
170
8 GHz-12 GHz
1,230
230
12 GHz-18 GHz
730
190
18 GHz-40 GHz
600
150
In this table, the higher field strength applies at the frequency band edges.
(c) HIRF environment III is specified in the following table:
Table III.—HIRF Environment III
Frequency
Field strength
(volts/meter)
Peak
Average
10 kHz-100 kHz
150
150
100 kHz-400 MHz
200
200
400 MHz-700 MHz
730
200
700 MHz-1 GHz
1,400
240
1 GHz-2 GHz
5,000
250
2 GHz-4 GHz
6,000
490
4 GHz-6 GHz
7,200
400
6 GHz-8 GHz
1,100
170
8 GHz-12 GHz
5,000
330
12 GHz-18 GHz
2,000
330
18 GHz-40 GHz
1,000
420
In this table, the higher field strength applies at the frequency band edges.
(d)
Equipment HIRF Test Level 1.
(1) From 10 kilohertz (kHz) to 400 megahertz (MHz), use conducted susceptibility tests with continuous wave (CW) and 1 kHz square wave modulation with 90 percent depth or greater. The conducted susceptibility current must start at a minimum of 0.6 milliamperes (mA) at 10
kHz, increasing 20 decibels (dB) per frequency decade to a minimum of 30 mA at 500 kHz.
(2) From 500 kHz to 40 MHz, the conducted susceptibility current must be at least 30 mA.
(3) From 40 MHz to 400 MHz, use conducted susceptibility tests, starting at a minimum of 30 mA at 40 MHz, decreasing 20 dB per frequency decade to a minimum of 3 mA at 400 MHz.
(4) From 100 MHz to 400 MHz, use radiated susceptibility tests at a minimum of 20 volts per meter (V/m) peak with CW and 1 kHz square wave modulation with 90 percent depth or greater.
(5) From 400 MHz to 8 gigahertz (GHz), use radiated susceptibility tests at a minimum of 150 V/m peak with pulse modulation of 4 percent duty cycle with a 1 kHz pulse repetition frequency. This signal must be switched on and off at a rate of 1 Hz with a duty cycle of 50 percent.
(e)
Equipment HIRF Test Level 2.
Equipment HIRF test level 2 is HIRF environment II in table II of this appendix reduced by acceptable aircraft transfer function and attenuation curves. Testing must cover the frequency band of 10 kHz to 8 GHz.
(f)
Equipment HIRF Test Level 3.
(1) From 10 kHz to 400 MHz, use conducted susceptibility tests, starting at a minimum of 0.15 mA at 10 kHz, increasing 20 dB per frequency decade to a minimum of 7.5 mA at 500 kHz.
(2) From 500 kHz to 40 MHz, use conducted susceptibility tests at a minimum of 7.5 mA.
(3) From 40 MHz to 400 MHz, use conducted susceptibility tests, starting at a minimum of 7.5 mA at 40 MHz, decreasing 20 dB per frequency decade to a minimum of 0.75 mA at 400 MHz.
(4) From 100 MHz to 8 GHz, use radiated susceptibility tests at a minimum of 5 V/m.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-23657, 72 FR 44027, Aug. 6, 2007]
Pt. 29

# PART 29—AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY ROTORCRAFT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
29.1
Applicability.
29.2
Special retroactive requirements.

# Subpart B—Flight

# General
29.21
Proof of compliance.
29.25
Weight limits.
29.27
Center of gravity limits.
29.29
Empty weight and corresponding center of gravity.
29.31
Removable ballast.
29.33
Main rotor speed and pitch limits.

# Performance
29.45
General.
29.49
Performance at minimum operating speed.
29.51
Takeoff data: general.
29.53
Takeoff: Category A.
29.55
Takeoff decision point (TDP): Category A.
29.59
Takeoff path: Category A.
29.60
Elevated heliport takeoff path: Category A.
29.61
Takeoff distance: Category A.
29.62
Rejected takeoff: Category A.
29.63
Takeoff: Category B.
29.64
Climb: General.
29.65
Climb: All engines operating.
29.67
Climb: One engine inoperative (OEI).
29.71
Helicopter angle of glide: Category B.
29.75
Landing: General.
29.77
Landing Decision Point (LDP): Category A.
29.79
Landing: Category A.
29.81
Landing distance: Category A.
29.83
Landing: Category B.
29.85
Balked landing: Category A.
29.87
Height-velocity envelope.

# Flight Characteristics
29.141
General.
29.143
Controllability and maneuverability.
29.151
Flight controls.
29.161
Trim control.
29.171
Stability: general.
29.173
Static longitudinal stability.
29.175
Demonstration of static longitudinal stability.
29.177
Static directional stability.
29.181
Dynamic stability: Category A rotorcraft.

# Ground and Water Handling Characteristics
29.231
General.
29.235
Taxiing condition.
29.239
Spray characteristics.
29.241
Ground resonance.

# Miscellaneous Flight Requirements
29.251
Vibration.

# Subpart C—Strength Requirements

# General
29.301
Loads.
29.303
Factor of safety.
29.305
Strength and deformation.
29.307
Proof of structure.
29.309
Design limitations.

# Flight Loads
29.321
General.
29.337
Limit maneuvering load factor.
29.339
Resultant limit maneuvering loads.
29.341
Gust loads.
29.351
Yawing conditions.
29.361
Engine torque.

# Control Surface and System Loads
29.391
General.
29.395
Control system.
29.397
Limit pilot forces and torques.
29.399
Dual control system.
29.411
Ground clearance: tail rotor guard.
29.427
Unsymmetrical loads.

# Ground Loads
29.471
General.
29.473
Ground loading conditions and assumptions.
29.475
Tires and shock absorbers.
29.477
Landing gear arrangement.
29.479
Level landing conditions.
29.481
Tail-down landing conditions.
29.483
One-wheel landing conditions.
29.485
Lateral drift landing conditions.
29.493
Braked roll conditions.
29.497
Ground loading conditions: landing gear with tail wheels.
29.501
Ground loading conditions: landing gear with skids.
29.505
Ski landing conditions.
29.511
Ground load: unsymmetrical loads on multiple-wheel units.

# Water Loads
29.519
Hull type rotorcraft: Water-based and amphibian.
29.521
Float landing conditions.

# Main Component Requirements
29.547
Main and tail rotor structure.
29.549
Fuselage and rotor pylon structures.
29.551
Auxiliary lifting surfaces.

# Emergency Landing Conditions
29.561
General.
29.562
Emergency landing dynamic conditions.
29.563
Structural ditching provisions.

# Fatigue Evaluation
29.571
Fatigue tolerance evaluation of metallic structure.
29.573
Damage tolerance and fatigue evaluation of composite rotorcraft structures.

# Subpart D—Design and Construction

# General
29.601
Design.
29.602
Critical parts.
29.603
Materials.
29.605
Fabrication methods.
29.607
Fasteners.
29.609
Protection of structure.
29.610
Lightning and static electricity protection.
29.611
Inspection provisions.
29.613
Material strength properties and design values.
29.619
Special factors.
29.621
Casting factors.
29.623
Bearing factors.
29.625
Fitting factors.
29.629
Flutter and divergence.
29.631
Bird strike.

# Rotors
29.653
Pressure venting and drainage of rotor blades.
29.659
Mass balance.
29.661
Rotor blade clearance.
29.663
Ground resonance prevention means.

# Control Systems
29.671
General.
29.672
Stability augmentation, automatic, and power-operated systems.
29.673
Primary flight controls.
29.674
Interconnected controls.
29.675
Stops.
29.679
Control system locks.
29.681
Limit load static tests.
29.683
Operation tests.
29.685
Control system details.
29.687
Spring devices.
29.691
Autorotation control mechanism.
29.695
Power boost and power-operated control system.

# Landing Gear
29.723
Shock absorption tests.
29.725
Limit drop test.
29.727
Reserve energy absorption drop test.
29.729
Retracting mechanism.
29.731
Wheels.
29.733
Tires.
29.735
Brakes.
29.737
Skis.

# Floats and Hulls
29.751
Main float buoyancy.
29.753
Main float design.
29.755
Hull buoyancy.
29.757
Hull and auxiliary float strength.

# Personnel and Cargo Accommodations
29.771
Pilot compartment.
29.773
Pilot compartment view.
29.775
Windshields and windows.
29.777
Cockpit controls.
29.779
Motion and effect of cockpit controls.
29.783
Doors.
29.785
Seats, berths, litters, safety belts, and harnesses.
29.787
Cargo and baggage compartments.
29.801
Ditching.
29.803
Emergency evacuation.
29.805
Flight crew emergency exits.
29.807
Passenger emergency exits.
29.809
Emergency exit arrangement.
29.811
Emergency exit marking.
29.812
Emergency lighting.
29.813
Emergency exit access.
29.815
Main aisle width.
29.831
Ventilation.
29.833
Heaters.

# Fire Protection
29.851
Fire extinguishers.
29.853
Compartment interiors.
29.855
Cargo and baggage compartments.
29.859
Combustion heater fire protection.
29.861
Fire protection of structure, controls, and other parts.
29.863
Flammable fluid fire protection.

# External Loads
29.865
External loads.

# Miscellaneous
29.871
Leveling marks.
29.873
Ballast provisions.

# Subpart E—Powerplant

# General
29.901
Installation.
29.903
Engines.
29.907
Engine vibration.
29.908
Cooling fans.

# Rotor Drive System
29.917
Design.
29.921
Rotor brake.
29.923
Rotor drive system and control mechanism tests.
29.927
Additional tests.
29.931
Shafting critical speed.
29.935
Shafting joints.
29.939
Turbine engine operating characteristics.

# Fuel System
29.951
General.
29.952
Fuel system crash resistance.
29.953
Fuel system independence.
29.954
Fuel system lightning protection.
29.955
Fuel flow.
29.957
Flow between interconnected tanks.
29.959
Unusable fuel supply.
29.961
Fuel system hot weather operation.
29.963
Fuel tanks: general.
29.965
Fuel tank tests.
29.967
Fuel tank installation.
29.969
Fuel tank expansion space.
29.971
Fuel tank sump.
29.973
Fuel tank filler connection.
29.975
Fuel tank vents and carburetor vapor vents.
29.977
Fuel tank outlet.
29.979
Pressure refueling and fueling provisions below fuel level.

# Fuel System Components
29.991
Fuel pumps.
29.993
Fuel system lines and fittings.
29.995
Fuel valves.
29.997
Fuel strainer or filter.
29.999
Fuel system drains.
29.1001
Fuel jettisoning.

# Oil System
29.1011
Engines: general.
29.1013
Oil tanks.
29.1015
Oil tank tests.
29.1017
Oil lines and fittings.
29.1019
Oil strainer or filter.
29.1021
Oil system drains.
29.1023
Oil radiators.
29.1025
Oil valves.
29.1027
Transmission and gearboxes: general.

# Cooling
29.1041
General.
29.1043
Cooling tests.
29.1045
Climb cooling test procedures.
29.1047
Takeoff cooling test procedures.
29.1049
Hovering cooling test procedures.

# Induction System
29.1091
Air induction.
29.1093
Induction system icing protection.
29.1101
Carburetor air preheater design.
29.1103
Induction systems ducts and air duct systems.
29.1105
Induction system screens.
29.1107
Inter-coolers and after-coolers.
29.1109
Carburetor air cooling.

# Exhaust System
29.1121
General.
29.1123
Exhaust piping.
29.1125
Exhaust heat exchangers.

# Powerplant Controls and Accessories
29.1141
Powerplant controls: general.
29.1142
Auxiliary power unit controls.
29.1143
Engine controls.
29.1145
Ignition switches.
29.1147
Mixture controls.
29.1151
Rotor brake controls.
29.1157
Carburetor air temperature controls.
29.1159
Supercharger controls.
29.1163
Powerplant accessories.
29.1165
Engine ignition systems.

# Powerplant Fire Protection
29.1181
Designated fire zones: regions included.
29.1183
Lines, fittings, and components.
29.1185
Flammable fluids.
29.1187
Drainage and ventilation of fire zones.
29.1189
Shutoff means.
29.1191
Firewalls.
29.1193
Cowling and engine compartment covering.
29.1194
Other surfaces.
29.1195
Fire extinguishing systems.
29.1197
Fire extinguishing agents.
29.1199
Extinguishing agent containers.
29.1201
Fire extinguishing system materials.
29.1203
Fire detector systems.

# Subpart F—Equipment

# General
29.1301
Function and installation.
29.1303
Flight and navigation instruments.
29.1305
Powerplant instruments.
29.1307
Miscellaneous equipment.
29.1309
Equipment, systems, and installations.
29.1316
Electrical and electronic system lightning protection.
29.1317
High-intensity Radiated Fields (HIRF) Protection.

# Instruments: Installation
29.1321
Arrangement and visibility.
29.1322
Warning, caution, and advisory lights.
29.1323
Airspeed indicating system.
29.1325
Static pressure and pressure altimeter systems.
29.1327
Magnetic direction indicator.
29.1329
Automatic pilot and flight guidance system.
29.1331
Instruments using a power supply.
29.1333
Instrument systems.
29.1337
Powerplant instruments.

# Electrical Systems and Equipment
29.1351
General.
29.1353
Energy storage systems.
29.1355
Distribution system.
29.1357
Circuit protective devices.
29.1359
Electrical system fire and smoke protection.
29.1363
Electrical system tests.

# Lights
29.1381
Instrument lights.
29.1383
Landing lights.
29.1385
Position light system installation.
29.1387
Position light system dihedral angles.
29.1389
Position light distribution and intensities.
29.1391
Minimum intensities in the horizontal plane of forward and rear position lights.
29.1393
Minimum intensities in any vertical plane of forward and rear position lights.
29.1395
Maximum intensities in overlapping beams of forward and rear position lights.
29.1397
Color specifications.
29.1399
Riding light.
29.1401
Anticollision light system.

# Safety Equipment
29.1411
General.
29.1413
Safety belts: passenger warning device.
29.1415
Ditching equipment.
29.1419
Ice protection.

# Miscellaneous Equipment
29.1431
Electronic equipment.
29.1433
Vacuum systems.
29.1435
Hydraulic systems.
29.1439
Protective breathing equipment.
29.1457
Cockpit voice recorders.
29.1459
Flight data recorders.
29.1461
Equipment containing high energy rotors.

# Subpart G—Operating Limitations and Information
29.1501
General.

# Operating Limitations
29.1503
Airspeed limitations: general.
29.1505
Never-exceed speed.
29.1509
Rotor speed.
29.1517
Limiting height-velocity envelope.
29.1519
Weight and center of gravity.
29.1521
Powerplant limitations.
29.1522
Auxiliary power unit limitations.
29.1523
Minimum flight crew.
29.1525
Kinds of operations.
29.1527
Maximum operating altitude.
29.1529
Instructions for Continued Air­worthiness.

# Markings and Placards
29.1541
General.
29.1543
Instrument markings: general.
29.1545
Airspeed indicator.
29.1547
Magnetic direction indicator.
29.1549
Powerplant instruments.
29.1551
Oil quantity indicator.
29.1553
Fuel quantity indicator.
29.1555
Control markings.
29.1557
Miscellaneous markings and placards.
29.1559
Limitations placard.
29.1561
Safety equipment.
29.1565
Tail rotor.

# Rotorcraft Flight Manual
29.1581
General.
29.1583
Operating limitations.
29.1585
Operating procedures.
29.1587
Performance information.
29.1589
Loading information.
Appendix A to Part 29—Instructions for Continued Airworthiness
Appendix B to Part 29—Airworthiness Criteria for Helicopter Instrument Flight
Appendix C to Part 29—Icing Certification
Appendix D to Part 29—Criteria for Demonstration of Emergency Evacuation Procedures Under § 29.803
Appendix E to Part 29—HIRF Environments and Equipment HIRF Test Levels

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 40113, 44701-44702, 44704.

# Source:
Docket No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 29.1
Applicability.
(a) This part prescribes airworthiness standards for the issue of type certificates, and changes to those certificates, for transport category rotorcraft.
(b) Transport category rotorcraft must be certificated in accordance with either the Category A or Category B requirements of this part. A multiengine rotorcraft may be type certificated as both Category A and Category B with appropriate and different operating limitations for each category.
(c) Rotorcraft with a maximum weight greater than 20,000 pounds and 10 or more passenger seats must be type certificated as Category A rotorcraft.
(d) Rotorcraft with a maximum weight greater than 20,000 pounds and nine or less passenger seats may be type certificated as Category B rotorcraft provided the Category A requirements of Subparts C, D, E, and F of this part are met.
(e) Rotorcraft with a maximum weight of 20,000 pounds or less but with 10 or more passenger seats may be type certificated as Category B rotorcraft provided the Category A requirements of §§ 29.67(a)(2), 29.87, 29.1517, and subparts C, D, E, and F of this part are met.
(f) Rotorcraft with a maximum weight of 20,000 pounds or less and nine or less passenger seats may be type certificated as Category B rotorcraft.
(g) Each person who applies under Part 21 for a certificate or change described in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section must show compliance with the applicable requirements of this part.
[Amdt. 29-21, 48 FR 4391, Jan. 31, 1983, as amended by Amdt. 29-39, 61 FR 21898, May 10, 1996; 61 FR 33963, July 1, 1996]
§ 29.2
Special retroactive requirements.
For each rotorcraft manufactured after September 16, 1992, each applicant must show that each occupant's seat is equipped with a safety belt and shoulder harness that meets the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
(a) Each occupant's seat must have a combined safety belt and shoulder harness with a single-point release. Each pilot's combined safety belt and shoulder harness must allow each pilot, when seated with safety belt and shoulder harness fastened, to perform all functions necessary for flight operations. There must be a means to secure belts and harnesses, when not in use, to prevent interference with the operation of the rotorcraft and with rapid egress in an emergency.
(b) Each occupant must be protected from serious head injury by a safety belt plus a shoulder harness that will prevent the head from contacting any injurious object.
(c) The safety belt and shoulder harness must meet the static and dynamic strength requirements, if applicable, specified by the rotorcraft type certification basis.
(d) For purposes of this section, the date of manufacture is either—
(1) The date the inspection acceptance records, or equivalent, reflect that the rotorcraft is complete and meets the FAA-Approved Type Design Data; or
(2) The date that the foreign civil airworthiness authority certifies the rotorcraft is complete and issues an original standard airworthiness certificate, or equivalent, in that country.
[Doc. No. 26078, 56 FR 41052, Aug. 16, 1991]

# Subpart B—Flight

# General
§ 29.21
Proof of compliance.
Each requirement of this subpart must be met at each appropriate combination of weight and center of gravity within the range of loading conditions for which certification is requested. This must be shown—
(a) By tests upon a rotorcraft of the type for which certification is requested, or by calculations based on, and equal in accuracy to, the results of testing; and
(b) By systematic investigation of each required combination of weight and center of gravity, if compliance
cannot be reasonably inferred from combinations investigated.
[Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-24, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 29.25
Weight limits.
(a)
Maximum weight.
The maximum weight (the highest weight at which compliance with each applicable requirement of this part is shown) or, at the option of the applicant, the highest weight for each altitude and for each practicably separable operating condition, such as takeoff, enroute operation, and landing, must be established so that it is not more than—
(1) The highest weight selected by the applicant;
(2) The design maximum weight (the highest weight at which compliance with each applicable structural loading condition of this part is shown); or
(3) The highest weight at which compliance with each applicable flight requirement of this part is shown.
(4) For Category B rotorcraft with 9 or less passenger seats, the maximum weight, altitude, and temperature at which the rotorcraft can safely operate near the ground with the maximum wind velocity determined under § 29.143(c) and may include other demonstrated wind velocities and azimuths. The operating envelopes must be stated in the Limitations section of the Rotorcraft Flight Manual.
(b)
Minimum weight.
The minimum weight (the lowest weight at which compliance with each applicable requirement of this part is shown) must be established so that it is not less than—
(1) The lowest weight selected by the applicant;
(2) The design minimum weight (the lowest weight at which compliance with each structural loading condition of this part is shown); or
(3) The lowest weight at which compliance with each applicable flight requirement of this part is shown.
(c)
Total weight with jettisonable external load.
A total weight for the rotorcraft with a jettisonable external load attached that is greater than the maximum weight established under paragraph (a) of this section may be established for any rotorcraft-load combination if—
(1) The rotorcraft-load combination does not include human external cargo,
(2) Structural component approval for external load operations under either § 29.865 or under equivalent operational standards is obtained,
(3) The portion of the total weight that is greater than the maximum weight established under paragraph (a) of this section is made up only of the weight of all or part of the jettisonable external load,
(4) Structural components of the rotorcraft are shown to comply with the applicable structural requirements of this part under the increased loads and stresses caused by the weight increase over that established under paragraph (a) of this section, and
(5) Operation of the rotorcraft at a total weight greater than the maximum certificated weight established under paragraph (a) of this section is limited by appropriate operating limitations under § 29.865 (a) and (d) of this part.
[Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-12, 41 FR 55471, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 29-43, 64 FR 43020, Aug. 6, 1999; Amdt. 29-51, 73 FR 11001, Feb. 29, 2008]
§ 29.27
Center of gravity limits.
The extreme forward and aft centers of gravity and, where critical, the extreme lateral centers of gravity must be established for each weight established under § 29.25. Such an extreme may not lie beyond—
(a) The extremes selected by the applicant;
(b) The extremes within which the structure is proven; or
(c) The extremes within which compliance with the applicable flight requirements is shown.
[Amdt. 29-3, 33 FR 965, Jan. 26, 1968]
§ 29.29
Empty weight and corresponding center of gravity.
(a) The empty weight and corresponding center of gravity must be determined by weighing the rotorcraft without the crew and payload, but with—
(1) Fixed ballast;
(2) Unusable fuel; and
(3) Full operating fluids, including—
(i) Oil;
(ii) Hydraulic fluid; and
(iii) Other fluids required for normal operation of rotorcraft systems, except water intended for injection in the engines.
(b) The condition of the rotorcraft at the time of determining empty weight must be one that is well defined and can be easily repeated, particularly with respect to the weights of fuel, oil, coolant, and installed equipment.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150. Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-15, 43 FR 2326, Jan. 16, 1978]
§ 29.31
Removable ballast.
Removable ballast may be used in showing compliance with the flight requirements of this subpart.
§ 29.33
Main rotor speed and pitch limits.
(a)
Main rotor speed limits.
A range of main rotor speeds must be established that—
(1) With power on, provides adequate margin to accommodate the variations in rotor speed occurring in any appropriate maneuver, and is consistent with the kind of governor or synchronizer used; and
(2) With power off, allows each appropriate autorotative maneuver to be performed throughout the ranges of airspeed and weight for which certification is requested.
(b)
Normal main rotor high pitch limit (power on).
For rotorcraft, except helicopters required to have a main rotor low speed warning under paragraph (e) of this section, it must be shown, with power on and without exceeding approved engine maximum limitations, that main rotor speeds substantially less than the minimum approved main rotor speed will not occur under any sustained flight condition. This must be met by—
(1) Appropriate setting of the main rotor high pitch stop;
(2) Inherent rotorcraft characteristics that make unsafe low main rotor speeds unlikely; or
(3) Adequate means to warn the pilot of unsafe main rotor speeds.
(c)
Normal main rotor low pitch limit (power off).
It must be shown, with power off, that—
(1) The normal main rotor low pitch limit provides sufficient rotor speed, in any autorotative condition, under the most critical combinations of weight and airspeed; and
(2) It is possible to prevent overspeeding of the rotor without exceptional piloting skill.
(d)
Emergency high pitch.
If the main rotor high pitch stop is set to meet paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and if that stop cannot be exceeded inadvertently, additional pitch may be made available for emergency use.
(e)
Main rotor low speed warning for helicopters.
For each single engine helicopter, and each multiengine helicopter that does not have an approved device that automatically increases power on the operating engines when one engine fails, there must be a main rotor low speed warning which meets the following requirements:
(1) The warning must be furnished to the pilot in all flight conditions, including power-on and power-off flight, when the speed of a main rotor approaches a value that can jeopardize safe flight.
(2) The warning may be furnished either through the inherent aerodynamic qualities of the helicopter or by a device.
(3) The warning must be clear and distinct under all conditions, and must be clearly distinguishable from all other warnings. A visual device that requires the attention of the crew within the cockpit is not acceptable by itself.
(4) If a warning device is used, the device must automatically deactivate and reset when the low-speed condition is corrected. If the device has an audible warning, it must also be equipped with a means for the pilot to manually
silence the audible warning before the low-speed condition is corrected.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c) of the Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-3, 33 FR 965, Jan. 26, 1968; Amdt. 29-15, 43 FR 2326, Jan. 16, 1978]

# Performance
§ 29.45
General.
(a) The performance prescribed in this subpart must be determined—
(1) With normal piloting skill and;
(2) Without exceptionally favorable conditions.
(b) Compliance with the performance requirements of this subpart must be shown—
(1) For still air at sea level with a standard atmosphere and;
(2) For the approved range of atmospheric variables.
(c) The available power must correspond to engine power, not exceeding the approved power, less—
(1) Installation losses; and
(2) The power absorbed by the accessories and services at the values for which certification is requested and approved.
(d) For reciprocating engine-powered rotorcraft, the performance, as affected by engine power, must be based on a relative humidity of 80 percent in a standard atmosphere.
(e) For turbine engine-powered rotorcraft, the performance, as affected by engine power, must be based on a relative humidity of—
(1) 80 percent, at and below standard temperature; and
(2) 34 percent, at and above standard temperature plus 50 °F.
Between these two temperatures, the relative humidity must vary linearly.
(f) For turbine-engine-power rotorcraft, a means must be provided to permit the pilot to determine prior to takeoff that each engine is capable of developing the power necessary to achieve the applicable rotorcraft performance prescribed in this subpart.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c), Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-15, 43 FR 2326, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 29-24, 49 FR 44436, Nov. 6, 1984]
§ 29.49
Performance at minimum operating speed.
(a) For each Category A helicopter, the hovering performance must be determined over the ranges of weight, altitude, and temperature for which takeoff data are scheduled—
(1) With not more than takeoff power;
(2) With the landing gear extended; and
(3) At a height consistent with the procedure used in establishing the takeoff, climbout, and rejected takeoff paths.
(b) For each Category B helicopter, the hovering performance must be determined over the ranges of weight, altitude, and temperature for which certification is requested, with—
(1) Takeoff power;
(2) The landing gear extended; and
(3) The helicopter in ground effect at a height consistent with normal takeoff procedures.
(c) For each helicopter, the out-of-ground effect hovering performance must be determined over the ranges of weight, altitude, and temperature for which certification is requested with takeoff power.
(d) For rotorcraft other than helicopters, the steady rate of climb at the minimum operating speed must be determined over the ranges of weight, altitude, and temperature for which certification is requested with—
(1) Takeoff power; and
(2) The landing gear extended.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21898, May 10, 1996; 61 FR 33963, July 1, 1996]
§ 29.51
Takeoff data: general.
(a) The takeoff data required by §§ 29.53, 29.55, 29.59, 29.60, 29.61, 29.62, 29.63, and 29.67 must be determined—
(1) At each weight, altitude, and temperature selected by the applicant; and
(2) With the operating engines within approved operating limitations.
(b) Takeoff data must—
(1) Be determined on a smooth, dry, hard surface; and
(2) Be corrected to assume a level takeoff surface.
(c) No takeoff made to determine the data required by this section may require exceptional piloting skill or alertness, or exceptionally favorable conditions.
[Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-39, 61 FR 21899, May 10, 1996]
§ 29.53
Takeoff: Category A.
The takeoff performance must be determined and scheduled so that, if one engine fails at any time after the start of takeoff, the rotorcraft can—
(a) Return to, and stop safely on, the takeoff area; or
(b) Continue the takeoff and climbout, and attain a configuration and airspeed allowing compliance with § 29.67(a)(2).
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21899, May 10, 1996; 61 FR 33963, July 1, 1996]
§ 29.55
Takeoff decision point (TDP): Category A.
(a) The TDP is the first point from which a continued takeoff capability is assured under § 29.59 and is the last point in the takeoff path from which a rejected takeoff is assured within the distance determined under § 29.62.
(b) The TDP must be established in relation to the takeoff path using no more than two parameters; e.g., airspeed and height, to designate the TDP.
(c) Determination of the TDP must include the pilot recognition time interval following failure of the critical engine.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21899, May 10, 1996]
§ 29.59
Takeoff path: Category A.
(a) The takeoff path extends from the point of commencement of the takeoff procedure to a point at which the rotorcraft is 1,000 feet above the takeoff surface and compliance with § 29.67(a)(2) is shown. In addition—
(1) The takeoff path must remain clear of the height-velocity envelope established in accordance with § 29.87;
(2) The rotorcraft must be flown to the engine failure point; at which point, the critical engine must be made inoperative and remain inoperative for the rest of the takeoff;
(3) After the critical engine is made inoperative, the rotorcraft must continue to the takeoff decision point, and then attain V
TOSS
;
(4) Only primary controls may be used while attaining V
TOSS
and while establishing a positive rate of climb. Secondary controls that are located on the primary controls may be used after a positive rate of climb and V
TOSS
are established but in no case less than 3 seconds after the critical engine is made inoperative; and
(5) After attaining V
TOSS
and a positive rate of a climb, the landing gear may be retracted.
(b) During the takeoff path determination made in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and after attaining V
TOSS
and a positive rate of climb, the climb must be continued at a speed as close as practicable to, but not less than, V
TOSS
until the rotorcraft is 200 feet above the takeoff surface. During this interval, the climb performance must meet or exceed that required by § 29.67(a)(1).
(c) During the continued takeoff, the rotorcraft shall not descend below 15 feet above the takeoff surface when the takeoff decision point is above 15 feet.
(d) From 200 feet above the takeoff surface, the rotorcraft takeoff path must be level or positive until a height 1,000 feet above the takeoff surface is attained with not less than the rate of climb required by § 29.67(a)(2). Any secondary or auxiliary control may be used after attaining 200 feet above the takeoff surface.
(e) Takeoff distance will be determined in accordance with § 29.61.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21899, May 10, 1996; 61 FR 33963, July 1, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 29-44, 64 FR 45337, Aug. 19, 1999]
§ 29.60
Elevated heliport takeoff path: Category A.
(a) The elevated heliport takeoff path extends from the point of commencement of the takeoff procedure to a
point in the takeoff path at which the rotorcraft is 1,000 feet above the takeoff surface and compliance with § 29.67(a)(2) is shown. In addition—
(1) The requirements of § 29.59(a) must be met;
(2) While attaining V
TOSS
and a positive rate of climb, the rotorcraft may descend below the level of the takeoff surface if, in so doing and when clearing the elevated heliport edge, every part of the rotorcraft clears all obstacles by at least 15 feet;
(3) The vertical magnitude of any descent below the takeoff surface must be determined; and
(4) After attaining V
TOSS
and a positive rate of climb, the landing gear may be retracted.
(b) The scheduled takeoff weight must be such that the climb requirements of § 29.67 (a)(1) and (a)(2) will be met.
(c) Takeoff distance will be determined in accordance with § 29.61.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21899, May 10, 1996; 61 FR 33963, July 1, 1996]
§ 29.61
Takeoff distance: Category A.
(a) The normal takeoff distance is the horizontal distance along the takeoff path from the start of the takeoff to the point at which the rotorcraft attains and remains at least 35 feet above the takeoff surface, attains and maintains a speed of at least V
TOSS
, and establishes a positive rate of climb, assuming the critical engine failure occurs at the engine failure point prior to the takeoff decision point.
(b) For elevated heliports, the takeoff distance is the horizontal distance along the takeoff path from the start of the takeoff to the point at which the rotorcraft attains and maintains a speed of at least V
TOSS
and establishes a positive rate of climb, assuming the critical engine failure occurs at the engine failure point prior to the takeoff decision point.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21899, May 10, 1996]
§ 29.62
Rejected takeoff: Category A.
The rejected takeoff distance and procedures for each condition where takeoff is approved will be established with—
(a) The takeoff path requirements of §§ 29.59 and 29.60 being used up to the TDP where the critical engine failure is recognized and the rotorcraft is landed and brought to a complete stop on the takeoff surface;
(b) The remaining engines operating within approved limits;
(c) The landing gear remaining extended throughout the entire rejected takeoff; and
(d) The use of only the primary controls until the rotorcraft is on the ground. Secondary controls located on the primary control may not be used until the rotorcraft is on the ground. Means other than wheel brakes may be used to stop the rotorcraft if the means are safe and reliable and consistent results can be expected under normal operating conditions.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21899, May 10, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 29-44, 64 FR 45337, Aug. 19, 1999]
§ 29.63
Takeoff: Category B.
The horizontal distance required to take off and climb over a 50-foot obstacle must be established with the most unfavorable center of gravity. The takeoff may be begun in any manner if—
(a) The takeoff surface is defined;
(b) Adequate safeguards are maintained to ensure proper center of gravity and control positions; and
(c) A landing can be made safely at any point along the flight path if an engine fails.
[Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-12, 41 FR 55471, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 29.64
Climb: General.
Compliance with the requirements of §§ 29.65 and 29.67 must be shown at each weight, altitude, and temperature within the operational limits established for the rotorcraft and with the most unfavorable center of gravity for each configuration. Cowl flaps, or other means of controlling the engine-cooling air supply, will be in the position that provides adequate cooling at the temperatures and altitudes for which certification is requested.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21900, May 10, 1996]
§ 29.65
Climb: All engines operating.
(a) The steady rate of climb must be determined—
(1) With maximum continuous power;
(2) With the landing gear retracted; and
(3) At V
y
for standard sea level conditions and at speeds selected by the applicant for other conditions.
(b) For each Category B rotorcraft except helicopters, the rate of climb determined under paragraph (a) of this section must provide a steady climb gradient of at least 1:6 under standard sea level conditions.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, 603, 604, and 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, 1423, 1424, and 1425); and sec. 6(c), Dept. of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150. Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-15, 43 FR 2326, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 29-39, 61 FR 21900, May 10, 1996; 61 FR 33963, July 1, 1996]
§ 29.67
Climb: One engine inoperative (OEI).
(a) For Category A rotorcraft, in the critical takeoff configuration existing along the takeoff path, the following apply:
(1) The steady rate of climb without ground effect, 200 feet above the takeoff surface, must be at least 100 feet per minute for each weight, altitude, and temperature for which takeoff data are to be scheduled with—
(i) The critical engine inoperative and the remaining engines within approved operating limitations, except that for rotorcraft for which the use of 30-second/2-minute OEI power is requested, only the 2-minute OEI power may be used in showing compliance with this paragraph;
(ii) The landing gear extended; and
(iii) The takeoff safety speed selected by the applicant.
(2) The steady rate of climb without ground effect, 1000 feet above the takeoff surface, must be at least 150 feet per minute, for each weight, altitude, and temperature for which takeoff data are to be scheduled with—
(i) The critical engine inoperative and the remaining engines at maximum continuous power including continuous OEI power, if approved, or at 30-minute OEI power for rotorcraft for which certification for use of 30-minute OEI power is requested;
(ii) The landing gear retracted; and
(iii) The speed selected by the applicant.
(3) The steady rate of climb (or descent) in feet per minute, at each altitude and temperature at which the rotorcraft is expected to operate and at any weight within the range of weights for which certification is requested, must be determined with—
(i) The critical engine inoperative and the remaining engines at maximum continuous power including continuous OEI power, if approved, and at 30-minute OEI power for rotorcraft for which certification for the use of 30-minute OEI power is requested;
(ii) The landing gear retracted; and
(iii) The speed selected by the applicant.
(b) For multiengine Category B rotorcraft meeting the Category A engine isolation requirements, the steady rate of climb (or descent) must be determined at the speed for best rate of climb (or minimum rate of descent) at each altitude, temperature, and weight at which the rotorcraft is expected to operate, with the critical engine inoperative and the remaining engines at maximum continuous power including continuous OEI power, if approved, and at 30-minute OEI power for rotorcraft for which certification for the use of 30-minute OEI power is requested.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21900, May 10, 1996; 61 FR 33963, July 1, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 29-44, 64 FR 45337, Aug. 19, 1999; 64 FR 47563, Aug. 31, 1999]
§ 29.71
Helicopter angle of glide: Category B.
For each category B helicopter, except multiengine helicopters meeting the requirements of § 29.67(b) and the powerplant installation requirements of category A, the steady angle of glide must be determined in autorotation—
(a) At the forward speed for minimum rate of descent as selected by the applicant;
(b) At the forward speed for best glide angle;
(c) At maximum weight; and
(d) At the rotor speed or speeds selected by the applicant.
[Amdt. 29-12, 41 FR 55471, Dec. 20, 1976]
§ 29.75
Landing: General.
(a) For each rotorcraft—
(1) The corrected landing data must be determined for a smooth, dry, hard, and level surface;
(2) The approach and landing must not require exceptional piloting skill or exceptionally favorable conditions; and
(3) The landing must be made without excessive vertical acceleration or tendency to bounce, nose over, ground loop, porpoise, or water loop.
(b) The landing data required by §§ 29.77, 29.79, 29.81, 29.83, and 29.85 must be determined—
(1) At each weight, altitude, and temperature for which landing data are approved;
(2) With each operating engine within approved operating limitations; and
(3) With the most unfavorable center of gravity.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21900, May 10, 1996]
§ 29.77
Landing Decision Point (LDP): Category A.
(a) The LDP is the last point in the approach and landing path from which a balked landing can be accomplished in accordance with § 29.85.
(b) Determination of the LDP must include the pilot recognition time interval following failure of the critical engine.
[Doc. No. 24802, 64 FR 45338, Aug. 19, 1999]
§ 29.79
Landing: Category A.
(a) For Category A rotorcraft—
(1) The landing performance must be determined and scheduled so that if the critical engine fails at any point in the approach path, the rotorcraft can either land and stop safely or climb out and attain a rotorcraft configuration and speed allowing compliance with the climb requirement of § 29.67(a)(2);
(2) The approach and landing paths must be established with the critical engine inoperative so that the transition between each stage can be made smoothly and safely;
(3) The approach and landing speeds must be selected by the applicant and must be appropriate to the type of rotorcraft; and
(4) The approach and landing path must be established to avoid the critical areas of the height-velocity envelope determined in accordance with § 29.87.
(b) It must be possible to make a safe landing on a prepared landing surface after complete power failure occurring during normal cruise.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21900, May 10, 1996]
§ 29.81
Landing distance: Category A.
The horizontal distance required to land and come to a complete stop (or to a speed of approximately 3 knots for water landings) from a point 50 ft above the landing surface must be determined from the approach and landing paths established in accordance with § 29.79.
[Doc. No. 24802, 64 FR 45338, Aug. 19, 1999]
§ 29.83
Landing: Category B.
(a) For each Category B rotorcraft, the horizontal distance required to land and come to a complete stop (or to a speed of approximately 3 knots for water landings) from a point 50 feet above the landing surface must be determined with—
(1) Speeds appropriate to the type of rotorcraft and chosen by the applicant to avoid the critical areas of the height-velocity envelope established under § 29.87; and
(2) The approach and landing made with power on and within approved limits.
(b) Each multiengined Category B rotorcraft that meets the powerplant installation requirements for Category A must meet the requirements of—
(1) Sections 29.79 and 29.81; or
(2) Paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) It must be possible to make a safe landing on a prepared landing surface if complete power failure occurs during normal cruise.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21900, May 10, 1996; 61 FR 33963, July 1, 1996]
§ 29.85
Balked landing: Category A.
For Category A rotorcraft, the balked landing path with the critical engine inoperative must be established so that—
(a) The transition from each stage of the maneuver to the next stage can be made smoothly and safely;
(b) From the LDP on the approach path selected by the applicant, a safe climbout can be made at speeds allowing compliance with the climb requirements of § 29.67(a)(1) and (2); and
(c) The rotorcraft does not descend below 15 feet above the landing surface. For elevated heliport operations, descent may be below the level of the landing surface provided the deck edge clearance of § 29.60 is maintained and the descent (loss of height) below the landing surface is determined.
[Doc. No. 24802, 64 FR 45338, Aug. 19, 1999]
§ 29.87
Height-velocity envelope.
(a) If there is any combination of height and forward velocity (including hover) under which a safe landing cannot be made after failure of the critical engine and with the remaining engines (where applicable) operating within approved limits, a height-velocity envelope must be established for—
(1) All combinations of pressure altitude and ambient temperature for which takeoff and landing are approved; and
(2) Weight from the maximum weight (at sea level) to the highest weight approved for takeoff and landing at each altitude. For helicopters, this weight need not exceed the highest weight allowing hovering out-of-ground effect at each altitude.
(b) For single-engine or multiengine rotorcraft that do not meet the Category A engine isolation requirements, the height-velocity envelope for complete power failure must be established.
[Doc. No. 24802, 61 FR 21901, May 10, 1996; 61 FR 33963, July 1, 1996]

# Flight Characteristics
§ 29.141
General.
The rotorcraft must—
(a) Except as specifically required in the applicable section, meet the flight characteristics requirements of this subpart—
(1) At the approved operating altitudes and temperatures;
(2) Under any critical loading condition within the range of weights and centers of gravity for which certification is requested; and
(3) For power-on operations, under any condition of speed, power, and rotor r.p.m. for which certification is requested; and
