means a reduction in grade or rate of basic pay that is initiated by the employee for his or her benefit, convenience, or personal advantage. A reduction in grade or pay that is caused or influenced by a management action is not considered to be at an employee's request, except that the voluntary reduction in grade or pay of an employee in response to a management action directly related to personal cause is considered to be at the employee's request.
Reduced in grade or pay for personal cause
means a reduction in grade or rate of basic pay based on the conduct, character, or unacceptable performance of an employee. In situations in which an employee is reduced in grade or pay for inability to perform the duties of his or her position because of a medical or physical condition beyond the employee's control, the reduction in grade or pay is not considered to be for personal cause.
Reorganization
means the planned elimination, addition, redistribution, or restructuring of functions or duties either wholly within an agency or between agencies.
Retained rate
means a rate above the maximum rate of the employee's highest applicable rate range that is payable under subpart C of this part.
Temporary promotion
means a promotion that has a definite time limitation or is otherwise designated as temporary when the affected employee is informed in advance.
Temporary reassignment
means a reassignment that has a definite time limitation or is otherwise designated as temporary when the affected employee is informed in advance.
Where different pay schedules apply
means, in the context of applying the geographic conversion rule, that an employee's official worksite is changed to a new location that would cause the employee to lose or gain coverage under a location-based pay schedule if the employee were to remain in the same position of record.
[70 FR 31305, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66154, Nov. 7, 2008; 77 FR 28222, May 11, 2012]
§ 536.104
Reasonable offer.
(a) For the purpose of determining whether grade retention eligibility or entitlement must be terminated under § 536.207 or 536.208, the offer of a position is a reasonable offer if the position's grade is equal to or higher than the retained grade and if all the conditions in paragraph (c) of this section are met. If the offered position is in a different pay system, § 536.105 must be applied to determine whether the grade of the offered position is equal to or greater than the retained grade.
(b) For the purpose of determining whether pay retention eligibility or entitlement must be terminated under § 536.308, the offer of a position is a reasonable offer if the employee's rate of basic pay in the position would be equal to or greater than the rate to which the employee is or would be entitled under the pay retention provisions and if all the conditions in paragraph (c) of this section are met.
(c) An offer of a position must meet the following additional conditions to qualify as a reasonable offer:
(1) The offer must be in writing and must include an official position description of the offered position;
(2) The offer must inform the employee that entitlement to grade or pay retention will terminate if the offer is declined and that the employee may appeal the reasonableness of the offer as provided in § 536.402;
(3) The offered position must be of equal or greater tenure than the employee's position before the action resulting in the grade or pay retention entitlement;
(4) The offered position must be full-time, unless the employee's position immediately before the action resulting in entitlement to grade or pay retention was less than full-time, in which case the offered position must have a work schedule providing for no fewer hours of work per week or per pay period than the position held before the action; and
(5) The offered position must be in the same commuting area as the employee's position immediately before the offer, unless the employee is subject to a mobility agreement or a published agency policy that requires employee mobility.
§ 536.105
Comparing grades under different pay systems.
(a)
General.
An agency must compare the comparison rates (as defined in § 536.103) of the applicable grades to determine whether a grade of a position is equal to, higher than, or lower than the grade of another position when—
(1) Determining eligibility for grade retention upon movement from a position under a covered pay system to a lower-graded position under a different covered pay system (including determinations under § 536.203 that involve different covered pay systems);
(2) Determining whether grade retention eligibility is lost or grade retention is terminated when an employee is placed in a lower-graded position under a different covered pay system and the action is taken for personal cause or at the employee's request;
(3) Determining whether grade retention eligibility is lost or grade retention is terminated based on movement to a position under a different covered pay system with an equal or higher grade;
(4) Determining whether grade retention eligibility is lost or grade retention is terminated based on declination of a reasonable offer of a position under a different pay system with an equal or higher grade; and
(5) Determining whether pay retention eligibility is lost or a retained rate is terminated when an employee is placed in a lower-graded position under a different covered pay system and the action is taken for personal cause or at the employee's request.
(b)
Geographic conversion.
When comparing positions under paragraph (a) of this section which are stationed in different geographic locations where different pay schedules apply, the comparison rate of the employee's existing position of record (as in effect before the movement to a position in a different pay system) must be determined as if the official worksite of that position of record were the same as the official worksite of the new or offered position of record. Geographic conversion is not necessary for the purpose of comparing grades if an employee is being moved to (or given a reasonable offer of) a position under the same covered pay system (
i.e.
, same grading structure).
[70 FR 31305, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66155, Nov. 7, 2008]

# Subpart B—Grade Retention

# Source:
70 FR 31305, May 31, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 536.201
Mandatory grade retention.
(a) Subject to the requirements in this section and in §§ 536.102 and 536.203, an agency must provide grade retention to an employee who moves from a position under a covered pay system to a lower-graded position under a covered pay system as a result of—
(1) Reduction in force procedures, or
(2) A reclassification process.
(b) An agency must apply § 536.105 in determining whether a position under a different covered pay system is a lower-graded position.
(c) An employee's movement to a lower-graded position is considered to be the result of reduction in force procedures when the employee has received a specific reduction in force notice and—
(1) The employee is placed in the position offered in the notice; or
(2) The employee is placed in a position other than that offered in the notice but in the same agency, if the position was offered in writing and at the initiative of management.
(d) An employee's movement to a lower-graded position is considered to be the result of a reclassification process when—
(1) The employee remains in his or her position after it is reclassified; or
(2) The employee is placed in a different position in the same agency before the effective date of the reclassification action, if the position was offered in writing and at the initiative of management after the employee received a specific written notice that the position would be reclassified to a lower grade.
[70 FR 31305, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66155, Nov. 7, 2008]
§ 536.202
Optional grade retention.
(a) Subject to the requirements in §§ 536.102 and 536.203, an authorized agency official may provide grade retention to an employee moving from a position under a covered pay system to a lower-graded position under a covered pay system when—
(1) Management announces a reorganization or reclassification decision in writing (including a general notice or a specific notice) that may or would affect the employee; and
(2) The employee moves to a lower-graded position (either at the employee's initiative or in response to a management-initiated offer) on or before the date the announced reorganization or reclassification is effected.
(b) An agency must apply § 536.105 in determining whether a position under a different covered pay system is a lower-graded position.
(c) When an employee is offered a position with grade retention under this section in anticipation of a reduction in grade, the agency must inform the employee in writing that acceptance of the position is not required and that declination of the offer will not affect the employee's entitlement to grade retention under § 536.201 if the agency
actually moves the employee to the lower-graded position.
[70 FR 31305, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66155, Nov. 7, 2008]
§ 536.203
Additional eligibility requirements for grade retention.
(a) An employee is eligible for grade retention under § 536.201(a)(1) only if the employee has served for at least 52 consecutive weeks in one or more positions under a covered pay system at one or more grades higher than the grade of the position in which the employee is being placed. Such service is deemed to include service performed by an employee of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c)) who is moved to a position in the civil service employment system of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, without a break in service of more than 3 days.
(b) An employee is eligible for grade retention under § 536.201(a)(2) based on a reclassification of his or her position only if, immediately before the reduction in grade, that position was classified at the existing grade or a higher grade for a continuous period of at least 1 year.
(c) An employee is eligible for grade retention under § 536.202 only if, immediately before being placed in the lower grade, the employee has served for at least 52 consecutive weeks in one or more positions under a covered pay system at one or more grades higher than that lower grade. Such service is deemed to include service performed by an employee of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c)) who is moved to a position in the civil service employment system of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, without a break in service of more than 3 days.
(d) Eligibility for grade retention under § 536.201 or § 536.202 ceases under the conditions specified in § 536.207.
§ 536.204
Period of grade retention.
(a) Unless grade retention is terminated under § 536.208, an employee is entitled to retain the grade held immediately before the action that provides entitlement to grade retention for 2 years beginning on the date the employee is placed in the lower-graded position.
(b) During the 2-year period of grade retention, if an agency further reduces an employee in grade under circumstances also entitling the employee to grade retention, the employee must continue to retain the previous retained grade for the remainder of the first 2-year period. At the end of the first 2-year period, the employee is entitled to retain the grade of the position from which the second reduction in grade was made for 2 years following the effective date of the second reduction in grade.
(c) Notwithstanding § 536.207(a)(1), grade retention continues to apply to an employee serving under an interim appointment made under 5 CFR 772.102 for the duration of the original 2-year grade retention period if the employee's grade was retained under this part in the appointment immediately preceding the interim appointment.
§ 536.205
Applicability of retained grade.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an agency must treat an employee's retained grade as the employee's grade for all purposes, including pay and pay administration, premium pay, retirement, life insurance, and eligibility for training. If the employee's actual position of record is under a different covered pay system than the covered pay system associated with the retained grade, the agency also must treat the employee as being under the covered pay system associated with the retained grade for the same purposes.
(b) An agency may not use an employee's retained grade—
(1) In any reduction in force procedure;
(2) To determine whether an employee has been reduced in grade for the purpose of terminating grade or pay retention (
i.e.
, based on personal cause or at the employee's request);
(3) To determine whether an employee retains status as a GM employee (as defined in 5 CFR 531.203); or
(4) To determine whether an employee is exempt or nonexempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended.
§ 536.206
Determining an employee's rate of basic pay under grade retention.
(a)
General.
(1) When an employee becomes entitled to grade retention or becomes covered by one or more different pay schedules (because of a change in the employee's position of record, a change in the employee's official worksite, or the establishment of a new pay schedule) during a period of grade retention, the agency must apply the rules in this section to determine the employee's rate of basic pay.
(2) This section does not apply to an employee whose entitlement to grade retention is terminated under one of the conditions in § 536.208. (See § 536.208(d).)
(b)
Preexisting rate within a range.
If an employee is entitled to a rate of basic pay within the applicable rate range before the action resulting in application of this section, the employee is entitled to the rate(s) of basic pay in the applicable pay schedule(s) for the employee's position of record after the action (including the retained grade) which correspond to the employee's grade and step (or relative position in range for a GM employee) immediately before the action. The employee's payable rate is the corresponding rate in the highest applicable rate range for the employee's position of record after the action (including the retained grade). If an employee's rate of basic pay otherwise would be reduced because of placement under a lower-paying pay schedule (excluding any reduction that results from a geographic conversion), the employee would be eligible for pay retention under subpart C of this part to the same extent as other employees holding the same position of record whose actual grade is the same as the employee's retained grade.
(c)
Preexisting retained or saved rate.
(1) If an employee is entitled to a retained rate immediately before the action resulting in application of this section, the agency must determine the employee's payable rate of basic pay under §§ 536.303 and 536.304.
(2) If an employee is entitled to a saved rate under 5 CFR 359.705, the agency must determine the employee's payable rate of basic pay under that section.
(d)
Order of processing pay actions.
When an action resulting in application of this section takes effect on the same effective date as other pay actions that affect an employee's rate of basic pay (e.g., within-grade increase), the actions will be processed in the order prescribed in the rules governing the covered pay system of the employee's position of record (e.g., 5 CFR 531.206 for GS positions and 5 CFR 532.413 for Federal Wage System positions).
[70 FR 31305, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66155, Nov. 7, 2008]
§ 536.207
Loss of eligibility for grade retention.
(a) Eligibility for grade retention as a result of an entitlement under § 536.201 ceases if any of the following conditions occurs at any time after the employee receives written notice of the reduction in grade, but before the commencement of the 2-year period of grade retention:
(1) The employee has a break in service of 1 workday or more;
(2) The employee is reduced in grade for personal cause or at the employee's request (based on the actual grade of the employee's position rather than the employee's retained grade and, when a movement to a different covered pay system is involved, a comparison of comparison rates under § 536.105);
(3) The employee moves to a position under a covered pay system with a grade that is equal to or higher than the retained grade (as determined under § 536.105), excluding a temporary promotion;
(4) The employee declines a reasonable offer of a position with a grade equal to or higher than the retained grade (as determined under §§ 536.104 and 536.105);
(5) The employee elects in writing to terminate the benefits of grade retention; or
(6) The employee moves to a position not under a covered pay system.
(b) Eligibility for grade retention as a result of entitlement under § 536.202
ceases if any of the following conditions occurs at any time after management informs the employee of an impending reorganization or reclassification that will or could result in a reduction in grade, but before the commencement of the 2-year period of grade retention:
(1) Any of the conditions listed in paragraph (a) of this section except that an employee's request for placement in a lower-graded position, in lieu of displacing another employee at his or her grade under reduction in force procedures, is not a declination of a reasonable offer for grade retention purposes; or
(2) The employee fails to enroll in, or to comply with reasonable written requirements established to assure full consideration under, a program providing priority consideration for placement.
(c) If an employee loses eligibility for grade retention under this section, the employee's rate of basic pay must be set in accordance with the pay-setting rules and pay rates applicable to the employee's position of record (e.g., 5 CFR part 531, subpart B, for GS positions). An employee is not eligible for pay retention under subpart C of this part based on an action that provided eligibility for grade retention if the employee elects to terminate eligibility for grade retention under paragraph (a)(5) or (b) of this section.
[70 FR 31305, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66155, Nov. 7, 2008]
§ 536.208
Termination of grade retention.
(a) Grade retention under § 536.201 terminates if any of the conditions listed in § 536.207(a) occurs after commencement of the 2-year period of grade retention.
(b) Grade retention under § 536.202 terminates if any of the conditions listed in § 536.207(b) occurs after the commencement of the 2-year period of grade retention.
(c) Termination of grade retention benefits takes effect—
(1) At the end of the day before separation from service if termination is the result of a break in service;
(2) At the end of the day before placement if the termination is the result of the employee's placement in another position; or
(3) At the end of the last day of the pay period in which the employee—
(i) Declines a reasonable offer;
(ii) Elects to terminate grade retention benefits (except that, if an employee's election specifically provides that the termination will take effect at the end of a later pay period, the election is considered to be made effective on the last day of that later pay period for the purpose of applying this paragraph); or
(iii) Fails to enroll in, or comply with reasonable written requirements established to assure full consideration under, a program providing priority consideration for placement.
(d) If an employee's entitlement to grade retention terminates under this section, the employee's rate of basic pay must be set in accordance with the pay-setting rules and pay rates applicable to the employee's position of record (e.g., 5 CFR part 531, subpart B, for GS positions). An employee is not entitled to pay retention under subpart C of this part based on a reduction in basic pay resulting from waiver of the employee's grade retention entitlement under paragraph (a)(5) or (b) of § 536.207.
[70 FR 31305, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66155, Nov. 7, 2008]

# Subpart C—Pay Retention

# Source:
70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 536.301
Mandatory pay retention.
(a) Subject to the requirements in § 536.102 and this section, an agency must provide pay retention to an employee who moves between positions under a covered pay system or from a position not under a covered pay system to a position under a covered pay system and whose payable rate of basic pay otherwise would be reduced (after application of any applicable geographic conversion under § 536.303(a)) as a result of—
(1) The expiration of the 2-year period of grade retention under subpart B of this part;
(2) A reduction in force or reclassification action that places an employee
in a lower-graded position when the employee does not meet the eligibility requirements for grade retention under subpart B of this part;
(3) A management action that places an employee in a non-special rate position or in a lower-paid special rate position from a special rate position;
(4) A management action that places an employee under a different pay schedule;
(5) A management action that places an employee in a formal employee development program generally utilized Governmentwide (e.g., Recent Graduates Program); or
(6) A reduction or elimination of scheduled rates, special schedules, or special rate schedules, excluding—
(i) A statutory reduction in scheduled rates of pay under the General Schedule, including a reduction authorized under 5 U.S.C. 5303(b); or
(ii) A statutory reduction in a prevailing rate schedule established under 5 U.S.C. chapter 53, subchapter IV, and 5 CFR part 532.
(b) An agency must establish a retained rate when application of a promotion increase rule for General Schedule or prevailing rate employees results in a payable rate of basic pay that exceeds the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range for the employee's new position. (See the promotion increase rules in 5 U.S.C. 5334(b) and 5 CFR 531.214 for GS employees and in 5 CFR 532.407 for prevailing rate employees—in particular, the special provisions in these promotion increase rules on establishing a retained rate equal to an employee's existing rate when that existing rate exceeds the applicable range maximum.) Once established, such a retained rate is governed by the provisions of this subpart.
(c) If an employee's official worksite changes in conjunction with an action that may entitle the employee to pay retention under paragraph (a) of this section, the agency must apply the geographic conversion rule in § 536.303(a) before determining whether an employee's rate of basic pay otherwise would be reduced.
(d) An employee is considered “placed” under paragraph (a)(2), (3), (4), and (5) of this section only when the employee remains in a position in the same agency. Optional pay retention under § 536.302 may apply when an employee transfers to a different agency as a result of a reduction in force or reclassification action or is selected by a different agency to fill a position under a formal employee development program, if all other qualifying conditions are met.
(e) Eligibility for pay retention under this section ceases under the conditions specified in § 536.308.
[70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66155, Nov. 7, 2008; 77 FR 28223, May 11, 2012]
§ 536.302
Optional pay retention.
(a) Subject to the requirements in § 536.102 and this section, an authorized agency official may provide pay retention to an employee not entitled to pay retention under § 536.301, but whose payable rate of basic pay otherwise would be reduced (after application of any applicable geographic conversion under § 536.303(a)) as the result of a management action. This includes a management action to move an employee's position, without a break in service of more than 3 days, from a Department of Defense or Coast Guard nonappropriated fund instrumentality (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c)) to a position under a covered pay system in the same agency.
(b) If an employee's official worksite changes in conjunction with an action that may entitle the employee to pay retention under paragraph (a) of this section, the agency must apply the geographic conversion rule in § 536.303(a) before determining whether an employee's rate of basic pay otherwise would be reduced.
(c) Eligibility for pay retention under this section ceases under the conditions specified in § 536.308.
§ 536.303
Geographic conversion.
(a)
Geographic conversion at time of action that may provide initial entitlement to pay retention.
If, in conjunction with a pay action that may entitle the employee to pay retention under §§ 536.301 or 536.302, an employee's official worksite is changed to a new location where different pay schedules apply, the agency must convert the employee's rate(s)
of basic pay to the applicable pay schedule(s) in the new location before applying the pay retention rules in this subpart or any other simultaneous pay action (other than a general pay adjustment). The agency must identify the highest applicable rate range that would apply to the employee's position of record before the pay action as if that position were stationed at the new official worksite and determine the employee's converted payable rate of basic pay based on the step (or relative position in range for a GM employee) in that range that corresponds to the employee's step (or relative position in range for a GM employee) before the pay action. A reduction in an employee's payable rate of basic pay resulting from this geographic conversion is not a basis for entitlement to pay retention. The pay retention rules in this subpart must be applied as if the employee's payable rate of basic pay after geographic conversion is the employee's existing payable rate of basic pay in effect immediately before the action.
(b)
Geographic conversion when a retained rate employee's official worksite is changed.
When an employee is receiving a retained rate and the employee's official worksite is changed to a new location where different pay schedules apply, the agency must apply the following rules (after applying any simultaneous general pay adjustment under § 536.305) to derive the converted retained rate that will be used as the existing retained rate in determining the employee's pay retention entitlement in the new position of record and at the new official worksite:
(1) Identify the maximum rate for the highest applicable rate range that applies to the employee's former position of record based on the former official worksite;
(2) Identify the maximum rate for the highest applicable rate range that would apply to the employee's former position of record if the employee were stationed at the official worksite for the new position of record;
(3) Divide the maximum rate identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section by the maximum rate identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and round the result to the fourth decimal place; and
(4) Multiply the factor resulting from paragraph (b)(3) of this section by the employee's former retained rate and round to the nearest whole dollar (for an annual rate) or the nearest whole cent (for an hourly rate) to derive the employee's converted retained rate at the new official worksite.
[70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66155, Nov. 7, 2008]
§ 536.304
Determining an employee's pay retention entitlement.
(a)
General.
(1) When an employee becomes entitled to pay retention under § 536.301 or 536.302 or undergoes a change in his or her position of record or pay schedule while receiving a retained rate (when the terminating conditions for pay retention under § 536.308 do not apply), the agency must determine the employee's pay retention entitlement following the rules in this section.
(2) Any general pay adjustment (including a retained rate adjustment under § 536.305) that takes effect on the same date as an action described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be processed first, before any other pay action and before applying the rules in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(4), (b), or (c) of this section, as applicable.
(3) If the location of an employee's official worksite changes in conjunction with an action that may provide initial entitlement to pay retention, the agency must apply the geographic conversion rule under § 536.303(a) before applying the rules in paragraph (b) of this section. The converted rate of basic pay must be treated as the employee's existing payable rate of basic pay in applying those rules.
(4) If the location of an employee's official worksite changes while he or she is receiving a retained rate, the agency must apply the geographic conversion rule under § 536.303(b) before applying the rules in paragraph (c) of this section. The converted retained rate must be treated as the employee's existing retained rate in applying those rules.
(5) When an employee's pay retention entitlement is established or redetermined under this section on the same
effective date as other pay actions that affect an employee's rate of basic pay, the actions must be processed in the order prescribed under the rules governing the covered pay system of the employee's position of record (e.g., 5 CFR 531.206 for GS positions and 5 CFR 532.413 for Federal Wage System positions).
(6) In applying this section, an agency must convert an employee's existing annual rate of pay to an hourly rate of pay if the employee's new position is under a pay system that uses only hourly rates. An agency must convert an employee's existing hourly rate of pay to an annual rate of pay if the employee's new position is under a pay system that uses annual rates of pay.
(b)
Determining initial pay retention entitlement.
When an employee becomes entitled to pay retention under § 536.301 or 536.302, the agency must determine the employee's pay retention entitlement under the following rules (subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section):
(1) If an employee's existing payable rate of basic pay is less than or equal to the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range for the grade of the employee's position of record immediately after the event causing the pay retention entitlement, the employee is entitled to the lowest rate of basic pay in such rate range that equals or exceeds the employee's existing payable rate of basic pay. If an employee's payable rate of basic pay is set at or below the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range, pay retention under this subpart ceases to apply to the employee.
(2) If the employee's existing payable rate of basic pay is greater than the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range for the grade of the employee's position immediately after the event causing the pay retention entitlement, the employee is entitled to a retained rate equal to the employee's existing payable rate of basic pay, subject to the limitations in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) A newly established retained rate may not exceed—
(i) 150 percent of the maximum payable rate of basic pay of the highest applicable rate range for the grade of the employee's position of record; or
(ii) The Executive Level IV maximum rate limitation established under § 536.306.
(4) In applying this section for an employee who becomes eligible for pay retention while serving on a temporary promotion or temporary reassignment, the agency must use the rate of basic pay the employee would have received if the temporary promotion or temporary reassignment had not occurred.
(c)
Redetermining pay retention entitlement at time of change in position or pay schedule.
When an employee receiving a retained rate undergoes a change in position or pay schedule that results in a new highest applicable rate range (and when the terminating conditions for pay retention under § 536.308(a)(1), (3), (4), and (5) do not apply), the agency must determine the employee's pay retention entitlement under the following rules (subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section):
(1) If the employee's grade and pay system are not changing and if the employee's existing retained rate is less than or equal to the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range for the employee's position of record immediately after the position or schedule change, the employee is entitled to the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range, and pay retention ceases to apply.
(2) If the employee's grade and pay system are not changing and if the employee's existing retained rate is greater than the maximum rate on the highest applicable rate range for the employee's position of record immediately after the position or schedule change, the employee continues to be entitled to the existing retained rate.
(3) If the employee's pay system is not changing but the employee is being promoted to a higher-graded position, the agency must apply the applicable promotion rules to determine the employee's payable rate of basic pay (e.g., the rules in 5 CFR 531.214(d)(5) for GS positions and 5 CFR 532.407 for Federal Wage System positions). If the promotion action results in a terminating condition as described in § 536.308 (e.g., the resulting rate is equal to or greater than the existing retained rate), pay
retention ceases to apply. Otherwise, the employee's existing retained rate continues.
(4) If the employee is moving to a position under a different covered pay system whose grade has a higher comparison rate, the agency must apply the applicable pay administration rules to determine the employee's payable rate of basic pay (e.g., part 531, subpart B, for GS positions and part 532 for Federal Wage System provisions). If the promotion action results in a terminating condition as described in § 536.308 (e.g., the resulting rate is equal to or greater than the existing retained rate), pay retention ceases to apply. Otherwise, the employee's existing retained rate continues.
(5) In applying this section to a retained rate employee who receives a temporary promotion or temporary reassignment, the temporary promotion or temporary reassignment is not a basis for permanently terminating an employee's pay retention entitlement. When the temporary promotion or temporary reassignment ends, the employee's pay retention entitlement will be determined as if the employee had not received the temporary promotion or temporary reassignment.
(6) Notwithstanding § 536.308(a)(1), an agency must continue a retained rate entitlement for an employee serving under an interim appointment made under 5 CFR 772.102 if the employee's pay was retained under this subpart under the appointment immediately preceding the interim appointment.
[70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66156, Nov. 7, 2008]
§ 536.305
Adjusting an employee's retained rate when a pay schedule is adjusted.
(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, when the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range for an employee's position of record is increased while the employee is receiving a retained rate, the employee is entitled to 50 percent of the amount of the increase in that maximum rate, subject to the maximum rate limitation in § 536.306. This 50-percent adjustment rule applies only when the maximum rate increases are attributable to the adjustment of the employee's existing pay schedule or the establishment of a new pay schedule that covers the employee's existing position of record.
(2) As provided in 5 CFR 531.206, a retained rate adjustment under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is a general pay adjustment that must be applied before any geographic conversion under § 536.303(b) or any other simultaneous pay action. The retained rate adjustment under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be determined based on the employee's position of record and official worksite as in effect immediately before the effective date of the adjustment.
(3) Consistent with 5 U.S.C. 5363(c), a change in the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range based on a change in the employee's official worksite is not considered in applying paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The employee's new retained rate must be determined under the geographic conversion rule in § 536.303(b).
(4) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to an increase in an employee's highest applicable rate range that results from a change in the employee's position of record. Such an increase is not attributable to an adjustment in the pay schedule applicable to the employee's position and thus is not an increase as described in 5 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2)(B).
(b) When a pay schedule adjustment causes an employee's retained rate (after any adjustment under this section) to become equal to or lower than the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range for the grade of the employee's position, the employee is entitled to the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range, and pay retention ceases to apply.
§ 536.306
Limitation on retained rates.
(a) A retained rate may not at any time exceed the rate payable for level IV of the Executive Schedule.
(b) When an employee's retained rate is limited under this section, an agency may not apply this subpart or the provisions of any other law or regulation to the rate of basic pay the employee would have received but for this limitation.
§ 536.307
Treatment of a retained rate as basic pay for other purposes.
(a) A retained rate is considered to be an employee's rate of basic pay for the purpose of computing or applying—
(1) Retirement deductions, contributions, and benefits under 5 U.S.C. chapters 83 and 84;
(2) Life insurance premiums and benefits under 5 U.S.C. chapter 87;
(3) Premium pay under 5 U.S.C. chapter 55, subchapter V, and 5 CFR part 532 and part 550, subparts A and I;
(4) Severance pay under 5 U.S.C. 5595 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart G;
(5) Post differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5925 and danger pay allowances under 5 U.S.C. 5928;
(6) Nonforeign area cost-of-living allowances and post differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5941(a) and 5 CFR part 591, subpart B;
(7) Lump-sum payments for accumulated and annual leave under 5 CFR part 550, subpart L;
(8) General Schedule pay administration provisions (e.g., promotion increases) to the extent provided in 5 CFR part 531, subpart B;
(9) Pay administration provisions for prevailing rate employees to the extent provided in 5 CFR part 532;
(10) Adverse action provisions in 5 CFR part 752;
(11) Other provisions as specified in other statutes or regulations; and
(12) Payments and benefits equivalent to those listed in this section under other legal authorities, as determined by the head of the agency or other authorized official responsible for administering such payments or benefits.
(b) For the purpose of applying other laws and regulations not listed in paragraph (a) of this section to an employee receiving a retained rate, the employee's rate of basic pay is deemed to be the applicable maximum rate of basic pay for the employee's position of record (e.g., the maximum rate of basic pay for a locality rate range or special rate range, as applicable, for the purpose of computing a percentage-based award under 5 CFR 451.104(g)).
[70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66156, Nov. 7, 2008]
§ 536.308
Loss of eligibility for or termination of pay retention.
(a) Eligibility for pay retention ceases if any of the following conditions occurs at any time after the employee has received written notification that the employee's pay will be reduced, and entitlement to pay retention terminates if any of the following conditions occurs after the commencement of pay retention:
(1) The employee has a break in service of 1 workday or more;
(2) The employee is entitled to a rate of basic pay under a covered pay system which is equal to or greater than the employee's retained rate (after applying any applicable geographic conversion under paragraph (b) of this section), except that entitlement to a retained rate will not be terminated based on entitlement to an equal or higher rate of basic pay during a temporary promotion or temporary reassignment but will be held in abeyance during that temporary period.
(3) The employee declines a reasonable offer (as determined under § 536.104) of a position in which the employee's rate of basic pay would be equal to or greater than the employee's retained rate (after applying any applicable geographic conversion under paragraph (b) of this section);
(4) The employee is reduced in grade for personal cause or at the employee's request (based on the actual grade of the employee's position rather than the employee's retained grade and, when a movement to a different covered pay system is involved, a comparison of comparison rates under § 536.105); or
(5) The employee moves to a position not under a covered pay system.
(b) When the rate comparison required by paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section involves a new or offered position that is located in a different geographic area where different pay schedules would apply to the employee's existing position of record, the agency must convert the employee's existing retained rate using the geographic conversion rules in § 536.303(b) before making the rate comparison. The converted retained rate must be compared to the payable rate of basic pay for the new or
offered position in determining whether the rate of basic pay for an offered position is equal to or higher than the employee's retained rate.
(c) Termination of pay retention benefits takes effect—
(1) At the end of the day before separation from service if termination is the result of a break in service;
(2) At the end of the day before the employee becomes entitled to an equal or greater rate as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section;
(3) At the end of the day before placement or movement if the termination is the result of the employee's placement in or movement to another position; or
(4) At the end of the last day of the pay period in which the employee declines a reasonable offer.
(d) If an employee's eligibility for pay retention ceases or entitlement to pay retention terminates under this section, the employee's rate of basic pay must be set using the pay-setting rules applicable to the employee's position of record (e.g., 5 CFR part 531, subpart B, for GS positions). However, when an employee's retained rate is terminated under paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section and the employee's grade is unchanged, the employee's payable rate of basic pay may not be set below the maximum rate of the highest applicable rate range.
[70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 66156, Nov. 7, 2008]
§ 536.309
Converting retained rates on May 1, 2005.
(a) Consistent with section 301(d)(2) of Public Law 108-411, an agency must convert an employee's retained rate or similar rate, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, to a retained rate under this subpart on May 1, 2005. The new retained rate must equal the retained rate in effect on April 30, 2005, as adjusted to include any applicable locality payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304 or similar provision of law.
(b) This section applies to an employee under a covered pay system who, on April 30, 2005, was receiving—
(1) A retained rate under 5 U.S.C. 5363;
(2) A rate paid under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5334(b) or 5 U.S.C. 5362 which was greater than the maximum rate of basic pay payable for the grade of the employee's position of record; or
(3) A continued rate of pay under 5 CFR part 531, subpart C or G (as contained in the January 1, 2005, edition of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, parts 1 to 699) which was greater than the maximum rate of basic pay payable for the grade of the employee's position.
(c) The conversion rules in this section must be applied before any simultaneous pay action that takes effect on May 1, 2005.
§ 536.310
Exceptions for certain employees in nonforeign areas.
(a) Notwithstanding §§ 536.304(b)(3) and 536.306(a), an employee who is receiving a retained rate in excess of Executive Schedule level IV on January 1, 2012, consistent with the Non-Foreign Retirement Equity Assurance Act of 2009 (subtitle B of title XIX of Pub. L. 111-84), may continue to receive a retained rate higher than Executive Schedule level IV until—
(1) The retained rate becomes equal to or falls below Executive Schedule level IV; or
(2) The employee ceases to be entitled to pay retention under § 536.308.
(b) Notwithstanding 5 U.S.C. 5361(1) and § 536.102(b)(2), an employee who is employed on a temporary or term basis is not barred from receiving a retained rate if such employee—
(1) Is receiving a special rate above Executive Schedule level IV on January 1, 2012, and is covered by paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) Is receiving a special rate incorporating an additional adjustment under section 1915(b)(1) of the Non-Foreign Retirement Equity Assurance Act (subtitle B of title XIX of Pub. L. 111-84) at the time the employee's special rate schedule is reduced or terminated.
[76 FR 68634, Nov. 7, 2011]

# Subpart D—Appeals and Miscellaneous Provisions

# Source:
45 FR 85656, Dec. 30, 1980, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005.
§ 536.401
Placement and classification plans.
(a) Agencies which employ individuals subject to this part are required to establish in writing placement and classification plans.
(b) The placement and classification plans must commit the agency to:
(1) Identify and correct classification errors; and
(2) Correct position management problems; and
(3) Carry out specific planned efforts to place employees subject to this part; and
(4) Pursue placement efforts that do not adversely affect affirmative action goals.
[45 FR 85656, Dec. 30, 1980. Redesignated at 70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005.]
§ 536.402
Appeal of termination of benefits because of reasonable offer.
(a) Except as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section, an employee whose grade or pay retention benefits are terminated on the grounds the employee declined a reasonable offer of a position the grade or pay of which is equal to or greater than his or her retained grade or pay may appeal the termination to the Office of Personnel Management.
(b) An employee who appeals under this section shall file the appeal in writing with the Office of Personnel Management not later than 20 calendar days after being notified that his or her grade of pay retention benefits have been terminated, and shall state in the appeal the reasons why the employee believes the offer of a position was not a reasonable offer.
(c) The Office of Personnel Management may conduct any investigation or hearing it determines necessary to ascertain the facts of the case.
(d) If a decision by the Office of Personnel Management on an appeal under this section requires corrective action by an agency, including the retroactive or prospective restoration of grade or pay retention benefits, the agency shall take that corrective action.
(e) Termination of benefits based on a declination of a reasonable offer by an employee in an exclusively recognized bargaining unit may be reviewed under the negotiated grievance and arbitration procedures in accordance with chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, and the terms of any applicable collective bargaining agreement. An employee in an exclusively recognized bargaining unit may not appeal a termination of benefits to the Office of Personnel Management if the grievance procedure of the agreement by which he or she is covered provides for this review.
(f) Decisions issued by the Office of Personnel Management shall be considered final decisions. OPM may, at its discretion, reconsider an original appellate decision when new and material information is presented, in writing, by the employee or the agency, which establishes a reasonable doubt as to the appropriateness of the original decision. The request must show that the information was not readily available when the decision was issued. A request for reconsideration of an original appeal decision must be submitted to OPM within 30 calendar days of the date of the original decision.
[45 FR 85656, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 428, Jan. 4, 1985; 50 FR 45389, Oct. 31, 1985. Redesignated at 70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005]
§ 536.403
Documentation.
The application of the provisions of this part shall be documented in writing as a permanent part of the employee's Official Personnel Folder. As a minimum this documentation will include a copy of the letter described in § 536.404.
[45 FR 85656, Dec. 30, 1980. Redesignated and amended at 70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005]
§ 536.404
Issuance of employee letters.
When an employee is entitled to grade and/or pay retention, the employing agency shall give to the employee, with a copy of the Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) documenting entitlement to grade and/or pay retention, a letter describing the circumstances warranting grade and/or pay retention, and the nature of that entitlement.
[45 FR 85656, Dec. 30, 1980. Redesignated at 70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005]
§ 536.405
Availability of information.
(a) The Office, upon a request which identifies the individual from whose file the information is sought, shall disclose the following information from an appeal file to a member of the public, except when the disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy:
(1) Confirmation of the name of the individual from whose file the information is sought and the names of the other parties concerned;
(2) The status of the appeal;
(3) The results of the appeal (
i.e.,
proper title, pay plan, series, and grade);
(4) The classification requested (
i.e.,
title, pay plan, series, and grade); and
(5) With the consent of the parties concerned, other reasonably identified information from the file.
(b) The Office will disclose to the parties concerned, the information contained in an appeal file in proceedings under this part, except when the disclosure would violate the proscription against the disclosure of medical information in § 297.205 of this chapter. For the purposes of this section, “the parties concerned” means the Government employee or former Government employee involved in the proceedings, his or her representative designated in writing, and the representative of the agency or the Office involved in the proceeding.
[50 FR 3313, Jan. 24, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 18879, May 3, 1989. Redesignated and amended at 70 FR 31310, May 31, 2005]
Pt. 537

# PART 537—REPAYMENT OF STUDENT LOANS
Sec.
537.101
Purpose.
537.102
Definitions.
537.103
Agency student loan repayment plans.
537.104
Employee eligibility.
537.105
Criteria for payment.
537.106
Conditions and procedures for providing student loan repayment benefits.
537.107
Service agreements.
537.108
Loss of eligibility for student loan repayment benefits.
537.109
Employee reimbursements to the Government.
537.110
Records and reports.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 2301, 2302, and 5379(g); E.O. 11478, 3 CFR 1966-1970 Comp., page 803, unless otherwise noted, E.O. 13087; and E.O. 13152.

# Source:
73 FR 64865, Oct. 31, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 537.101
Purpose.
This part implements 5 U.S.C. 5379, which authorizes agencies to establish a student loan repayment program for the purpose of recruiting or retaining highly qualified personnel. Under such a program, an agency may agree to repay (by direct payment to the loan holder on behalf of the employee) all or part of any outstanding qualifying student loan or loans previously taken out by a job candidate to whom an offer of employment has been made, or by a current employee of the agency.
§ 537.102
Definitions.
The definitions in this section apply only to part 537. In this part:
Agency
has the meaning given that term in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of 5 U.S.C. 4101(1).
Authorized agency official
means the head of an Executive agency or an official who is authorized to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Employee
means an employee of an agency who satisfies the definition of the term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.
Loan payment
means the net payment made by an agency to the holder of a student loan (after deducting any tax withholdings that may be made from the gross student loan repayment benefit credited to the employee).
Service agreement
means a written agreement between an agency and an employee (or job candidate) under which the employee (or job candidate) agrees to a specified period of service in exchange for student loan repayment benefits, subject to the conditions set forth under this part.
Student loan means
—
(1) A loan made, insured, or guaranteed under parts B, D or E of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965; or
(2) A health education assistance loan made or insured under part A of title VII of the Public Health Service Act or under part E of title VIII of that Act.
Student loan repayment benefit
means the benefit provided to an employee under this part in which an agency repays (by a direct payment on behalf of the employee) a qualifying student loan as described in § 537.106(b) previously taken out by such employee. The dollar value of this benefit is the gross amount credited to the employee at the time of a loan payment to the holder of the student loan, before deducting any employee tax withholdings from that gross amount as described in § 537.106(a)(6)(iii). A student loan repayment benefit is not considered basic pay for any purpose.
Time-limited appointment
means a non-permanent appointment including—
(1) A temporary appointment under 5 CFR part 316, subpart D, or similar authority;
(2) A term appointment under 5 CFR part 316, subpart C, or similar authority;
(3) An overseas limited appointment with a time limitation under 5 CFR part 301, subpart B;
(4) A limited term or limited emergency appointment in the Senior Executive Service, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a), or an equivalent appointment made for similar purposes;
(5) A Veterans Recruitment Appointment under 5 CFR part 307;
(6) A Presidential Management Fellows Program appointment under § 213.3402(c) of this chapter;
(7) A Recent Graduates Program appointment under § 213.3402(b) of this chapter; and
(8) An appointment under the fellowship and similar programs authority at 5 CFR 213.3102(r).
[73 FR 64865, Oct. 31, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 28223, May 11, 2012]
§ 537.103
Agency student loan repayment plans.
Before providing student loan repayment benefits under this part, an agency must establish a student loan repayment plan. This plan must include the following elements:
(a) The designation of officials with authority to review and approve offering student loan repayment benefits (which may parallel the approval delegations used for other recruitment, relocation, and retention incentives);
(b) The situations in which the student loan repayment authority may be used;
(c) The criteria to meet or consider in authorizing student loan repayment benefits, including criteria for determining the size and timing of the loan payment(s);
(d) A system for selecting employees (or job candidates) to receive student loan repayment benefits that ensures fair and equitable treatment;
(e) The requirements associated with service agreements (including a basis for determining the length of service to be required if it is greater than the statutory minimum);
(f) The procedures for making loan payments;
(g) The provisions for recovering any amount outstanding from an employee who fails to satisfy a service agreement and conditions for waiving an employee's obligation to reimburse the agency for payments made under this part; and
(h) Documentation and recordkeeping requirements sufficient to allow reconstruction of each action to approve a student loan repayment benefit.
§ 537.104
Employee eligibility.
(a) Subject to the conditions in 5 U.S.C. 5379 and this part, an authorized agency official may approve student loan repayment benefits to recruit a highly qualified job candidate or retain a highly qualified employee who, during the service period established under a service agreement (consistent with § 537.107), will be serving under—
(1) An appointment other than a time-limited appointment; or
(2) A time-limited appointment if—
(i) The employee (or job candidate) will have at least 3 years remaining under the appointment after the beginning of the service period established under a service agreement; or
(ii) The time-limited appointment authority leads to conversion to another appointment of sufficient duration so that his or her employment with the agency is projected to last for at least 3 additional years after the beginning of the service period established under a service agreement.
(b) An employee occupying a position that is excepted from the competitive
service because of its confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character is ineligible for student loan repayment benefits.
(c) An employee becomes ineligible for student loan repayment benefits under the conditions described in § 537.108.
§ 537.105
Criteria for payment.
(a)
General criteria.
Before authorizing student loan repayment benefits for an employee (or job candidate), an agency must make a written determination that—
(1) The employee (or job candidate) is highly qualified and otherwise eligible (as described in § 537.104); and
(2)(i) In a case where the authorization is granted to recruit a job candidate to fill an agency position, the agency otherwise would encounter difficulty in filling a position with a highly qualified individual; or
(ii) In a case where the authorization is granted to retain a current employee of the agency, the employee otherwise is likely to leave the agency for employment outside the Federal service and it is essential to retain the employee based on the employee's high or unique qualifications or a special need of the agency.
(b)
Retention considerations.
In making a determination under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, an agency must consider the extent to which the employee's departure would affect the agency's ability to carry out an activity or perform a function that is deemed essential to its mission.
(c)
Current Federal employees.
An agency may not authorize student loan repayment benefits to recruit an individual from outside the agency who is currently employed in the Federal service.
(d)
Selection.
When selecting employees (or job candidates) to receive student loan repayment benefits, agencies must ensure that benefits are awarded without regard to race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy and gender identity), national origin, age (as defined by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended), disability, genetic information (including family medical history), marital status, political affiliation, sexual orientation, labor affiliation or nonaffiliation, status as a parent, or any other non-merit-based factor, unless specifically designated by statute as a factor that must be taken into consideration when awarding such benefits, or retaliation for exercising rights with respect to the categories enumerated above, where retaliation rights are available.
[73 FR 64865, Oct. 31, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 43923, July 29, 2014]
§ 537.106
Conditions and procedures for providing student loan repayment benefits.
(a)
General conditions.
(1) Student loan repayment benefits may be provided at the discretion of the agency and are subject to such terms, limitations, or conditions as may be mutually agreed to in writing by the agency and the employee (or job candidate) as part of a service agreement under § 537.107.
(2) The student loan to be repaid must be a qualifying student loan as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) The agency must document in writing each approval of student loan repayment benefits. An authorized agency official must review and approve each written determination. The written determination must show the employee (or job candidate) meets the criteria specified in § 537.105.
(4) An authorized agency official must approve student loan repayment benefits in connection with a recruitment action before the job candidate actually enters on duty in the position for which he or she was recruited. The agency and the job candidate may sign the service agreement consistent with § 537.107 before the job candidate begins serving in the position, but the agency may not begin making loan payments until the job candidate begins serving in the position.
(5) Student loan repayment benefits are in addition to basic pay and any other form of compensation otherwise payable to the employee involved.
(6) Appropriate tax withholdings must be deducted or applied at the time any payment is made. Since these tax implications could create a financial hardship for the recipient of the
student loan repayment benefit, agencies may lessen the impact of tax withholdings on an employee's paycheck in one of the following ways:
(i) Make smaller payments at periodic intervals throughout the year, rather than issue payments under this part in one lump sum;
(ii) Allow the employee to write a check to the agency to cover his or her tax liability, rather than have the tax liability withheld from the employee's paycheck;
(iii) Deduct the amount of taxes to be withheld from the student loan repayment benefit before the balance is issued as a loan payment to the holder of the loan.

# Note to § 537.106(
a

# )(6):
Contact the Internal Revenue Service for further details concerning these options, as well as the tax withholding implications of payments under this part.
(b)
Qualifying student loans.
(1) The agency may make loan payments only for student loan debts that are outstanding at the time the agency and the employee (or job candidate) enter into a service agreement. Before authorizing loan payments, an agency must verify with the holder of the loan that the employee (or job candidate) has an outstanding student loan that qualifies for repayment under this part. The agency must verify remaining balances to ensure that loans are not overpaid.
(2) The agency may repay more than one loan if the employee's student loan repayment benefit does not exceed the limits set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) These regulations do not impose a limit on the age of a student loan for qualification purposes. The agency may, however, specify in its agency plan that only student loans made within a certain timeframe are eligible for repayment.
(c)
Benefit amount.
(1) In determining the amount of student loan repayment benefits to approve, an agency must consider the employee's (or job candidate's) value to the agency and how far in advance the agency is permitted to commit funds. If an agency decides to make additional student loan repayment benefits contingent on budget levels or other factors, it must address these contingent benefits in the written service agreement as described in § 537.107(a).
(2) The amount of student loan repayment benefits provided by an agency is subject to both of the following limits:
(i) $10,000 per employee per calendar year; and
(ii) A total of $60,000 per employee.
(3) In applying the limits in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the agency must count the full student loan repayment benefit (
i.e.
, before deducting any tax withholdings as described in paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section).
(d)
Employee responsibility.
Loan payments made by an agency under this part do not exempt an employee from his or her responsibility and/or liability for any loan(s) the individual has taken out. The employee also is responsible for any income tax obligations resulting from the student loan repayment benefit.
§ 537.107
Service agreements.
(a) Before an employing agency makes any loan payments for an employee, the employee (or job candidate) must sign a written service agreement to complete a specified period of service with the agency and to reimburse the agency for the student loan repayment benefit when required by § 537.109. The service agreement also may specify any other employment conditions the agency considers to be appropriate, including the employee's (or job candidate's) position and the duties he or she is expected to perform, his or her work schedule, his or her level of performance, and the geographic location of his or her position. (See §§ 537.108 and 537.109.) The service agreement may address the possibility that, during the period the agreement is in effect, the agency may modify the agreement to provide student loan repayment benefits in addition to those fixed in the agreement based on contingencies or conditions specified in the agreement.
(b) The minimum period of service to be established under a service agreement is 3 years, regardless of the amount of student loan repayment benefits authorized. The agency and the
employee may mutually agree to modify an existing service agreement, subject to the limitations at § 537.106(c)(2), to provide additional student loan repayment benefits for additional service without the need for an entirely new service agreement (which would require a new 3-year minimum service period). Periods of leave without pay, or other periods during which the employee is not in a pay status, do not count toward completion of the required service period. Thus, the service completion date must be extended by the total amount of time spent in non-pay status. However, as provided by 5 CFR 353.107, absence because of uniformed service or compensable injury is considered creditable toward the required service period upon reemployment.
(c) A service agreement made under this part in no way constitutes a promise of, or right or entitlement to, appointment, continued employment, or noncompetitive conversion to the competitive service. This condition should be stated in the service agreement.
(d) The service period begins on the date specified in the service agreement. That beginning date may not be—
(1) Earlier than the date the service agreement is signed; or
(2) Earlier than the date the individual begins serving in the position for which he or she was recruited (when student loan repayment benefits are approved to recruit a job candidate to fill an agency position).
(e) The service agreement must contain a provision addressing whether the individual would be required to reimburse the paying agency for student loan repayment benefits if he or she voluntarily separates from the paying agency to work for another agency before the end of the service period. (See § 537.109(b)(2).)
(f) The agency may include in a service agreement specific conditions (in addition to those required by law) that trigger the loss of eligibility for student loan repayment benefits and/or a requirement that the employee reimburse the agency for student loan repayment benefits already received. (See §§ 537.108(a)(3) and 537.109(a)(2).) However, a service agreement may not require reimbursement based on—
(1) An employee's failure to maintain performance at a particular level (unless the employee is separated based on unacceptable performance); or
(2) An involuntary separation for reasons other than misconduct, unacceptable performance, or a negative suitability determination under 5 CFR part 731 (e.g., an involuntary separation resulting from a reduction in force or medical reasons).
§ 537.108
Loss of eligibility for student loan repayment benefits.
(a) An employee receiving student loan repayment benefits from an agency is ineligible for continued benefits from that agency if the employee—
(1) Separates from the agency;
(2) Does not maintain an acceptable level of performance, as determined under standards and procedures prescribed by the agency; or
(3) Violates a condition in the service agreement, if the agreement specifically provides that eligibility is lost when the condition is violated.
(b) For the purpose of applying paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an acceptable level of performance is one that is equivalent to level 3 (“Fully Successful” or equivalent) or higher, as described in 5 CFR 430.208(d). An employee loses eligibility for student loan repayment benefits if his or her most recent official performance evaluation does not meet this requirement.
§ 537.109
Employee reimbursements to the Government.
(a) An employee is indebted to the Federal Government and must reimburse the paying agency for the amount of any student loan repayment benefits received under a service agreement if he or she—
(1) Fails to complete the period of service required in the applicable service agreement (except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section); or
(2) Violates any other condition that specifically triggers a reimbursement requirement under the agreement.
(b) An agency may not apply paragraph (a) of this section based on an employee's failure to complete the required period of service established under a service agreement if—
(1) The employee is involuntarily separated for reasons other than misconduct, unacceptable performance, or a negative suitability determination under 5 CFR part 731; or
(2) The employee leaves the paying agency voluntarily to enter into the service of any other agency, unless reimbursement to the agency is otherwise required in the service agreement, as provided by § 537.107(e).
(c) If an agency and an employee mutually agree to modify an existing service agreement to provide additional student loan repayment benefits for additional service (as provided by § 537.107(b)), the modified service agreement may stipulate that, if the employee completes the initial service period but fails to complete the additional service period, he or she is required to reimburse the paying agency only for the amount of any student loan repayment benefits received during the additional service period.
(d) If an employee fails to reimburse the paying agency for the amount owed under paragraph (a) of this section, a sum equal to the amount outstanding is recoverable from the employee under the agency's regulations for collection by offset from an indebted Government employee under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, or through the appropriate provisions governing Federal debt collection if the individual is no longer a Federal employee.
(e) An authorized agency official may waive, in whole or in part, a right of recovery of an employee's debt if he or she determines that recovery would be against equity and good conscience or against the public interest. (See 5 U.S.C. 5379(c)(3).)
(f) Any amount reimbursed by, or recovered from, an employee under this section must be credited to the appropriation account from which the amount involved was originally paid. Any amount so credited must be merged with other sums in such account and must be available for the same purposes and time period, and subject to the same limitations (if any), as the sums with which merged. (See 5 U.S.C. 5379(c)(4).)
§ 537.110
Records and reports.
(a) Each agency must keep a record of each determination to provide student loan repayment benefits under this part and make such records available for review upon request by OPM. Such a record may be destroyed when 3 years have elapsed since the end of the service period specified in the employee's service agreement unless any dispute has arisen regarding the agreement. If the service agreement has not been fulfilled, there are other disputes regarding the agreement or the loan payouts, or the agreement has become the subject of litigation, the records should be kept until the agency is notified by agency counsel that all pending claims have been resolved, all litigation concluded, and any applicable periods for seeking further review has elapsed and, in any event, for a minimum of 6 years from the date the facts giving rise to the dispute occurred. If debt collection is pursued against the employee for repayments made by the agency, the agency must keep the records until the agency is notified by agency counsel that the debt is fully collected, compromised, or settled finally and that any applicable period for seeking further review has elapsed.
(b) By March 31st of each year, each agency must submit a written report to OPM containing information about student loan repayment benefits it provided to employees during the previous calendar year. Each report must include the following information:
(1) The number of employees who received student loan repayment benefits;
(2) The job classifications of the employees who received student loan repayment benefits; and
(3) The cost to the Federal Government of providing student loan repayment benefits.
Pt. 550

# PART 550—PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)

# Subpart A—Premium Pay

# General Provisions
Sec.
550.101
Coverage and exemptions.
550.102
Entitlement.
550.103
Definitions.

# Maximum Earnings Limitations
550.105
Biweekly maximum earnings limitation.
550.106
Annual maximum earnings limitation.
550.107
Premium payments capped on a biweekly basis when an annual limitation otherwise applies.

# Overtime Pay
550.111
Authorization of overtime pay.
550.112
Computation of overtime work.
550.113
Computation of overtime pay.
550.114
Compensatory time off.

# Night Pay
550.121
Authorization of night pay differential.
550.122
Computation of night pay differential.

# Pay for Holiday Work
550.131
Authorization of pay for holiday work.
550.132
Relation to overtime, night, and Sunday pay.

# Regularly Scheduled Standby Duty Pay
550.141
Authorization of premium pay on an annual basis.
550.142
General restrictions.
550.143
Bases for determining positions for which premium pay under § 550.141 is authorized.
550.144
Rates of premium pay payable under § 550.141.

# Administratively Uncontrollable Work
550.151
Authorization of premium pay on an annual basis.
550.152
[Reserved]
550.153
Bases for determining positions for which premium pay under § 550.151 is authorized.
550.154
Rates of premium pay payable under § 550.151.

# General Rules Governing Payments of Premium Pay on an Annual Basis
550.161
Responsibilities of the agencies.
550.162
Payment provisions.
550.163
Relationship to other payments.
550.164
Construction and computation of existing aggregate rates.

# Pay for Sunday Work
550.171
Authorization of pay for Sunday work.
550.172
Relation to overtime, night, and holiday pay.

# Law Enforcement Availability Pay
550.181
Coverage.
550.182
Unscheduled duty.
550.183
Substantial hours requirement.
550.184
Annual certification.
550.185
Payment of availability pay.
550.186
Relationship to other payments.
550.187
Transitional provisions.

# Subpart B—Advances in Pay
550.201
Purpose.
550.202
Definitions.
550.203
Advances in pay.
550.204
Agency procedures.
550.205
Recovery of advances in pay.
550.206
Waiver of repayment.

# Subpart C—Allotments From Federal Employees

# Definitions
550.301
Definitions.

# General Provisions
550.311
Authority of agency.
550.312
General limitations.

# Labor Organization
550.321
Authority.
550.322
Saving provision.

# Association of Management Officials and/or Supervisors
550.331
Scope.

# Combined Federal Campaign
550.341
Scope.

# Income Tax Withholding
550.351
Scope.

# Alimony and/or Child Support
550.361
Scope.

# Foreign Affairs Agency Organizations
550.371
Scope.

# Subpart D—Payments During Evacuation
550.401
Purpose, applicability, authority, and administration.
550.402
Definitions.
550.403
Advance payments; evacuation payments; special allowances.
550.404
Computation of advance payments and evacuation payments; time periods.
550.405
Determination of special allowances.
550.406
Work assignments during evacuation; return to duty.
550.407
Termination of payments during evacuation.
550.408
Review of accounts; service credit.
550.409
Evacuation payments during a pandemic health crisis.

# Subpart E—Pay From More Than One Position
550.501
Scope.
550.502
Definitions.
550.503
Exceptions in emergencies.
550.504
Other exceptions.
550.505
Report to OPM.

# Subpart F—Computation of Pay for Biweekly Pay Periods
550.601
Purpose.
550.602
Coverage.
550.603
Definitions.
550.604
Biweekly pay periods and computation of pay.
550.605
Exceptions.
550.606
Reporting exceptions to OPM.

# Subpart G—Severance Pay
550.701
Introduction.
550.702
Coverage.
550.703
Definitions.
550.704
Eligibility for severance pay.
550.705
Criteria for meeting the requirement for 12 months of continuous employment.
550.706
Criteria for meeting the requirement for involuntary separation.
550.707
Computation of severance pay fund.
550.708
Creditable service.
550.709
Accrual and payment of severance pay.
550.710
Suspension of severance pay.
550.711
Termination of severance pay entitlement.
550.712
Reemployment; recredit of service.
550.713
Records.
550.714
Panama Canal Commission employees.

# Subpart H—Back Pay
550.801
Applicability.
550.802
Coverage.
550.803
Definitions.
550.804
Determining entitlement to back pay.
550.805
Back pay computations.
550.806
Interest computations.
550.807
Payment of reasonable attorney fees.
550.808
Prohibition against setting aside proper promotions.
Appendix A to Subpart H of Part 550—Information on Computing Certain Common Deductions From Back Pay Awards

# Subpart I—Pay for Duty Involving Physical Hardship or Hazard
550.901
Purpose.
550.902
Definitions.
550.903
Establishment of hazard pay differentials.
550.904
Authorization of hazard pay differential.
550.905
Payment of hazard pay differential.
550.906
Termination of hazard pay differential.
550.907
Relationship to additional pay payable under other statutes.
Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 550—Schedule of Pay Differentials Authorized for Hazardous Duty Under Subpart I
Appendix A-1 to Subpart I of Part 550—Windchill Chart

# Subpart J—Compensatory Time Off for Religious Observances
550.1001
Purpose.
550.1002
Coverage.
550.1003
Definitions.
550.1004
Employee responsibilities.
550.1005
Agency responsibilities.
550.1006
Scheduling time to earn and use religious compensatory time off.
550.1007
Accumulation and documentation.
550.1008
Employee separation or transfer.
550.1009
Relationship to premium pay and overtime work.
550.1010
Transitional provisions.

# Subpart K—Collection by Offset From Indebted Government Employees
550.1101
Purpose.
550.1102
Scope.
550.1103
Definitions.
550.1104
Agency regulations.
550.1105
Review and approval of agency regulations.
550.1106
Time limit on collection of debts.
550.1107
Obtaining the services of a hearing official.
550.1108
Requesting recovery through centralized administrative offset.
550.1109
Requesting recovery when the current paying agency is not the creditor agency.
550.1110
Debt collection centers.

# Subpart L—Lump-Sum Payment for Accumulated and Accrued Annual Leave
550.1201
Purpose, applicability, and administration.
550.1202
Definitions.
550.1203
Eligibility.
550.1204
Projecting the lump-sum leave period.
550.1205
Calculating a lump-sum payment.
550.1206
Refunding a lump-sum payment.
550.1207
Recrediting annual leave.

# Subpart M—Firefighter Pay
550.1301
Purpose, applicability, and administration.
550.1302
Definitions.
550.1303
Hourly rates of basic pay.
550.1304
Overtime hourly rates of pay.
550.1305
Treatment as basic pay.
550.1306
Relationship to other entitlements.
550.1307
Authority to regularize paychecks.

# Subpart N—Compensatory Time Off for Travel
550.1401
Purpose.
550.1402
Coverage.
550.1403
Definitions.
550.1404
Creditable travel time.
550.1405
Crediting compensatory time off.
550.1406
Use of accrued compensatory time off.
550.1407
Forfeiture of unused compensatory time off.
550.1408
Prohibition against payment for unused compensatory time off.
550.1409
Inapplicability of premium pay and aggregate pay caps.

# Subpart O—Flag Recognition Benefit for Fallen Federal Civilian Employees
550.1501
General.
550.1502
Coverage.
550.1503
Definitions.
550.1504
Eligibility.
550.1505
Order of precedence.
550.1506
Beneficiary receipt of a flag.
550.1507
Agency responsibilities.

# Subpart P—Overtime Pay for Border Patrol Agents

# General Provisions
550.1601
Purpose and authority.
550.1602
Coverage.
550.1603
Definitions.
550.1604
Authority of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
550.1605
Interpretation instruction.

# Assignment of Regular Tour of Duty and Overtime Supplement
550.1611
Assignments for an annual period.
550.1612
Assignments made at other times.
550.1613
Selection of agents for assignment.
550.1614
Limit on percentage of agents who do not have a Level 1 regular tour of duty.
550.1615
Pay assignment continuity.
550.1616
Corrective actions.

# Treatment of Overtime Work
550.1621
Rules for types of regular tour of duty.
550.1622
Circumstances requiring special treatment.
550.1623
Overtime work outside the regular tour of duty.
550.1624
Regularly scheduled overtime outside the regular tour of duty.
550.1625
Irregular overtime and compensatory time off.
550.1626
Leave without pay during regular time and absences during obligated overtime hours.

# Relationship to Other Provisions
550.1631
Other types of premium pay.
550.1632
Hazardous duty pay.
550.1633
Treatment of overtime supplement as basic pay.
550.1634
Leave and other paid time off.
550.1635
Alternative work schedule.
550.1636
Exemption from Fair Labor Standards Act.
550.1637
Travel time.
550.1638
Official time.

# Source:
33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Premium Pay

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5304 note, 5305 note, 5504(d), 5541(2)(iv), 5545a(h)(2)(B) and (i), 5547(b) and (c), 5548, and 6101(c); sections 407 and 2316, Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681-101 and 2681-828 (5 U.S.C. 5545a); section 2(h), Pub. L. 113-277, 128 Stat. 3005; E.O. 12748, 3 CFR, 1992 Comp., p. 316.

# General Provisions
§ 550.101
Coverage and exemptions.
(a)
Employees to whom this subpart applies.
(1) This subpart applies to each employee in or under an Executive agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, except those named in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(2) The sections in this subpart incorporating special provisions for certain types of work (§§ 550.141 through 550.164, inclusive) apply also to each employee of the judicial branch or the legislative branch who is subject to subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code.
(b)
Employees to whom this subpart does not apply.
This subpart does not apply to:
(1) An elected official;
(2) The head of a department;
(3) [Reserved]
(4) An employee whose pay is fixed and adjusted from time to time in accordance with prevailing rates under subchapter IV of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, or by a wage board or similar administrative authority serving the same purpose, except that § 550.113(d) is applicable to such an employee whose rate of basic pay is fixed on an annual or monthly basis;
(5) An employee outside the continental United States or in Alaska who is paid in accordance with local prevailing wage rates for the area in which employed;
(6) An employee of the Tennessee Valley Authority;
(7) An employee of the Central Intelligence Agency (sec. 10, 63 Stat. 212, as amended; 50 U.S.C. 403j);
(8) A seaman to whom section 1(a) of the act of March 24, 1943 (57 Stat. 45; 50 U.S.C. App. 1291(a)) applies;
(9) A member of the United States Park Police or the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division, except for the purpose of night pay under §§ 550.121 and 550.122, pay for holiday work under §§ 550.131 and 550.132, and pay for Sunday work under §§ 550.171 and 550.172 of this subpart;
(10) An officer or member of the crew of a vessel, whose pay is fixed and adjusted from time to time as nearly as is consistent with the public interest in accordance with prevailing rates and practices in the maritime industry (30 Comp. Gen. 158);
(11) A civilian keeper of a lighthouse, or a civilian employed on a lightship or another vessel of the Coast Guard (14 U.S.C. 432(f));
(12) A physician, dentist, nurse, or any other employee in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, Veterans Administration, whose pay is fixed under chapter 73 of title 38, United States Code;
(13) A student-employee as defined by section 5351 of title 5, United States Code;
(14) An employee of the Environmental Science Services Administration engaged in the conduct of meteorological investigations in the Arctic region (62 Stat. 286; 15 U.S.C. 327);
(15) An employee of a Federal land bank, a Federal intermediate credit bank, or a bank for cooperatives;
(16) A “teacher” or an individual holding a “teaching position” as defined by section 901 of title 20, United States Code;
(17) A Foreign Service officer or a member of the Senior Foreign Service; or
(18) A member of the Senior Executive Service.
(c)
Employees to whom §§ 550.111, 550.113, and 550.114 of this subpart do not apply.
Except for the purpose of determining hours of work in excess of 8 hours in a day, §§ 550.111, 550.113, and 550.114 of this subpart do not apply to an employee who is subject to the overtime pay provisions of section 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 and part 551 of this chapter.
(d)
Services to which this subpart does not apply.
This subpart does not apply to overtime, night, Sunday, or holiday services for which additional pay is provided by the act of:
(1) February 13, 1911, as amended (36 Stat. 899, as amended; 19 U.S.C. 261, 267), involving customs inspectors and canine enforcement officers;
(2) July 24, 1919 (41 Stat. 241; 7 U.S.C. 394), involving employees engaged in enforcement of the Meat Inspection Act;
(3) March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1467; 8 U.S.C. 1353
a
), involving inspectors and employees, Immigration and Naturalization Service;
(4) May 27, 1936, as amended (49 Stat. 1380, as amended; 46 U.S.C. 382b), involving local inspectors of steam vessels and assistants, U.S. shipping commissioners, deputies, and assistants, and customs officers and employees;
(5) March 23, 1941 (55 Stat. 46; 47 U.S.C. 154(f)(3)), involving certain engineers of the Federal Communications OPM;
(6) August 4, 1949 (63 Stat. 495; 7 U.S.C. 349a), involving employees of the Bureau of Animal Industry who work at establishments which prepare virus, serum, toxin, and analogous products for use in the treatment of domestic animals; or
(7) August 28, 1950 (64 Stat. 561; 7 U.S.C. 2260), involving employees of the Department of Agriculture performing inspection or quarantine services relating to imports into and exports from the United States.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 48 FR 3933, Jan. 28, 1983; 56 FR 20341, May 3, 1991; 57 FR 2432, Jan. 22, 1992; 64 FR 69174, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.102
Entitlement.
A department (and for the purpose of §§ 550.141 through 550.164, inclusive, a legislative or judicial branch agency)
must determine an employee's entitlement to premium pay consistent with subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code.
[64 FR 69174, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.103
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Administrative workweek
means any period of 7 consecutive days (as defined in this section) designated in advance by the head of the agency under section 6101 of title 5, United States Code.
Agency
means—
(1) A
department
as defined in this section; and
(2) A legislative or judicial branch agency which has positions that are subject to subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code.
Basic workweek,
for full-time employees, means the 40-hour workweek established in accordance with § 610.111 of this chapter.
Criminal investigator
means a law enforcement officer as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5541(3) and this section—
(1) Whose position is properly classified under the GS-1811 or GS-1812 series in the General Schedule classification system based on OPM classification standards (or would be so classified if covered under that system);
(2) Who is a pilot employed by the United States Customs Service;
(3) Who is a special agent in the Diplomatic Security Service in a position which has been properly determined by the Department of State to have a Foreign Service primary skill code of 2501;
(4) Who is a special agent in the Diplomatic Security Service who has been placed by the Department of State in a non-covered position on a long-term training assignment that will be career-enhancing for a current or future assignment as a Diplomatic Security Service special agent, provided the employee is expected to return to duties as a special agent in a Foreign Service position with a 2501 primary skill code or to a position properly classified in the GS-1811 series immediately following such training;
(5) Who occupies a position in the Department of State in which he or she performs duties and responsibilities of a special agent requiring Foreign Service primary skill code 2501, pending the opening of a position with primary skill code 2501 and placement in that position as a special agent; or
(6) Who is a special agent in the Diplomatic Security Service with a Foreign Service personal primary skill code of 2501 (or whose position immediately prior to the detail was properly classified in the GS-1811 series) and who meets all of the following three conditions:
(i) The individual is assigned outside the Department of State;
(ii) The assigned position would have a primary skill code of 2501 (or would be properly classified in the GS-1811 series under the General Schedule classification system based on OPM classification standards) if the position were under the Foreign Service (or General Schedule) in the Department of State; and
(iii) The individual is expected to return to a position as a special agent in the Diplomatic Security Service with a 2501 primary skill code (or to a position that is properly classified in the GS-1811 series) immediately following such outside assignment.
Day
(for overtime pay purposes) means any 24-hour period designated by an agency within the administrative workweek applicable to the employee. A day need not correspond to the 24-hour period of a calendar day. If the agency has not designated another period of time, a day is a calendar day.
Department
means an executive agency and a military department as defined by sections 105 and 102 of title 5, United States Code.
Emergency
means a temporary condition posing a direct threat to human life or property, including a forest wildfire emergency.
Employee
means an employee to whom this subpart applies.
Head of a department
means the head of a department and, except for the purpose of § 550.101(b)(2), an official who has been delegated authority to act for the head of a department in the matter concerned.
Holiday work
means nonovertime work performed by an employee during a regularly scheduled daily tour of duty on a holiday designated in accordance with § 610.202 of this chapter.
Irregular or occasional overtime work
means overtime work that is not part of an employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek.
Law enforcement officer
means an employee who—
(1) Is a law enforcement officer within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8331(20) (as further defined in § 831.902 of this chapter) or 5 U.S.C. 8401(17) (as further defined in § 842.802 of this chapter), as applicable;
(2) In the case of an employee who holds a secondary position, as defined in § 831.902 of this chapter, and is subject to the Civil Service Retirement System, but who does not qualify to be considered a law enforcement officer within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8331(20), would so qualify if such employee had transferred directly to such position after serving as a law enforcement officer within the meaning of such section;
(3) In the case of an employee who holds a secondary position, as defined in § 842.802 of this chapter, and is subject to the Federal Employees Retirement System, but who does not qualify to be considered a law enforcement officer within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8401(17), would so qualify if such employee had transferred directly to such position after performing duties described in 5 U.S.C. 8401(17)(A) and (B) for at least 3 years; and
(4) In the case of an employee who is not subject to either the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees Retirement System—
(i) Holds a position that the agency head (as defined in §§ 831.902 and 842.802 of this chapter) determines would satisfy paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of this definition if the employee were subject to the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees Retirement System (subject to OPM oversight as described in §§ 831.911 and 842.808 of this chapter); or
(ii) Is a special agent in the Diplomatic Security Service.
Nightwork
has the meaning given that term in § 550.121, and includes any nightwork preformed by an employee as part of his or her regularly scheduled administrative workweek.
Overtime work
has the meaning given that term in § 550.111 and includes irregular or occasional overtime work and regular overtime work.
Performing work in connection with an emergency
means performing work that is directly related to resolving or coping with an emergency or its immediate aftermath.
Premium pay
means the dollar value of earned hours of compensatory time off and additional pay authorized by subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart for overtime, night, Sunday, or holiday work; or for standby duty, administratively uncontrollable overtime work, or availability duty. This excludes overtime pay paid to employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act and compensatory time off earned in lieu of such overtime pay. This includes an overtime supplement received by a Border Patrol agent under 5 U.S.C. 5550 and subpart P of this part for regularly scheduled overtime hours within the agent's regular tour of duty and the dollar value of hours of compensatory time off earned by such an agent.
Protective duties
means duties authorized by section 3056(a) of title 18, United States Code, or by section 2709(a)(3) of title 22, United States Code.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee, including any applicable locality payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; special rate supplement under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; retained rate under 5 CFR part 536; or similar payment or supplement under other legal authority, before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any other kind.
Regular overtime work
means overtime work that is part of an employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek.
Regular tour of duty,
with respect to a Border Patrol agent covered by 5 U.S.C. 5550 and subpart P of this part, means the basic 40-hour workweek plus any regularly scheduled overtime work hours that the agent is assigned to work as part of an officially established 5-day weekly work schedule generally consisting of—
(1) 10-hour workdays (including 2 overtime hours each workday) in exchange for a 25-percent overtime supplement (Level 1); or
(2) 9-hour workdays (including 1 overtime hour each workday) in exchange for a 12.5-percent overtime supplement (Level 2).
Regularly scheduled administrative workweek,
for a full-time employee, means the period within an administrative workweek, established in accordance with § 610.111 of this chapter, within which the employee is regularly scheduled to work. For a part-time employee, it means the officially prescribed days and hours within an administrative workweek during which the employee is regularly scheduled to work.
Regularly scheduled work
means work that is scheduled in advance of an administrative workweek under an agency's procedures for establishing workweeks in accordance with § 610.111, excluding any such work to which availability pay under § 550.181 applies.
Sunday work
means nonovertime work performed by an employee during a regularly scheduled daily tour of duty when any part of that daily tour of duty is on a Sunday. For any such tour of duty, not more than 8 hours of work are Sunday work, unless the employee is on a compressed work schedule, in which case the entire regularly scheduled daily tour of duty constitutes Sunday work.
Tour of duty
means the hours of a day (a daily tour of duty) and the days of an administrative workweek (a weekly tour of duty) that constitute an employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 550.103, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Maximum Earnings Limitations
§ 550.105
Biweekly maximum earnings limitation.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an employee may receive premium pay under this subpart only to the extent that the payment does not cause the total of his or her basic pay and premium pay for any biweekly pay period to exceed the greater of—
(1) The maximum biweekly rate of basic pay payable for GS-15 (including any applicable locality-based comparability payment under section 5304 or similar provision of law and any applicable special rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5305 or similar provision of law); or
(2) The biweekly rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule.
(b) In applying the biweekly limitation under this section, premium pay of the types listed in § 550.107(a) must be paid before paying any other type of premium pay.
(c) This section does not apply to—
(1) Any pay period during which an employee is subject to an annual limitation as provided in § 550.106;
(2) An employee of the Federal Aviation Administration or the Department of Defense who receives premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5546a.
(d) The biweekly rates of pay for the GS-15 maximum rate and for level V of the Executive Schedule are computed as follows:
(1) Compute an hourly rate by dividing the applicable published annual rate of basic pay by 2,087 hours and rounding the result to the nearest cent.
(2) Compute the biweekly rate by multiplying the hourly rate from paragraph (d)(1) of this section by 80 hours.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, premium pay for protective services authorized by 18 U.S.C. 3056(a) is subject to the requirements in section 118 of the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act of 2001 (as enacted into law by section 1(3) of Public Law 106-554).
[67 FR 19320, Apr. 19, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 55942, Sept. 17, 2004]
§ 550.106
Annual maximum earnings limitation.
(a)(1) For any pay period in which the head of an agency (or designee), or the Office of Personnel Management on its own motion, determines that an emergency exists, the agency must pay an affected employee premium pay under the limitations described in paragraph (c) of this section and § 550.107 instead
of under the biweekly limitation described in § 550.105(a). An employee is affected if he or she has been determined by the head of the agency (or designee) to be performing work in connection with the emergency or its aftermath. (See definition of “emergency” in § 550.103.)
(2) The head of an agency (or designee) must make the determination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section as soon as practicable after the work in connection with the emergency or its aftermath begins. Entitlement to premium pay under this annual limitation becomes effective on the first day of the pay period in which such work began.
(b)(1) For any pay period in which the head of an agency (or designee), in his or her sole discretion, determines that an employee is needed to perform work that is critical to the mission of the agency, the agency may pay premium pay under the limitations described in paragraph (c) of this section and § 550.107 instead of under the biweekly limitation described in § 550.105(a).
(2) Entitlement to premium pay under this annual limitation becomes effective on the first day of the pay period designated by the head of the agency (or designee).
(c) In any calendar year during which an employee has been determined to be performing emergency or mission-critical work as provided in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, the employee may receive premium pay under this subpart (excluding the types of premium pay identified in § 550.107) only to the extent that the payment does not cause the total of his or her basic pay and premium pay for the calendar year to exceed the greater of—
(1) The maximum annual rate of basic pay payable for GS-15 (including any applicable locality-based comparability payment under section 5304 or similar provision of law and any applicable special rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5305 or similar provision of law) in effect on the last day of the calendar year; or
(2) The annual rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule in effect on the last day of the calendar year.
(d) The annual rates under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section must be computed as follows:
(1) Compute an hourly rate by dividing the published annual rate of basic pay by 2,087 hours and rounding the result to the nearest cent;
(2) Compute a biweekly rate by multiplying the hourly rate from paragraph (d)(1) of this section by 80 hours;
(3) Compute an annual rate of pay by multiplying the biweekly rate from paragraph (d)(2) of this section by the number of pay periods for which a salary payment is issued in the given calendar year under the agency's payroll cycle (
i.e.
, either 26 or 27 pay periods).
(e) An agency may defer payment of some or all of the additional premium pay owed an employee as a result of the annual limitation until the end of the calendar year.
(f) Any payment made in the current calendar year that corrects an underpayment of premium pay in a previous calendar year must be treated as being made in the previous calendar year for the purpose of applying the annual cap under this section.
(g) If an agency determines that the emergency or mission-critical work conditions are no longer in effect for an employee, it must resume application of the biweekly limitation. However, any premium pay the employee receives during the remainder of the calendar year is also subject to the annual limitation (as applied to any given pay period as described in paragraph (c) of this section).
[67 FR 19321, Apr. 19, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 55943, Sept. 17, 2004]
§ 550.107
Premium payments capped on a biweekly basis when an annual limitation otherwise applies.
(a) The following types of premium pay remain subject to a biweekly limitation when other premium payments are subject to an annual limitation under § 550.106:
(1) Standby duty pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1);
(2) Administratively uncontrollable overtime pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(2);
(3) Availability pay for criminal investigators under 5 U.S.C. 5545a;
(4) Overtime pay for hours in the regular tour of duty of a firefighter covered by 5 U.S.C. 5545b; and
(5) An overtime supplement for regularly scheduled overtime hours within a Border Patrol agent's regular tour of duty under 5 U.S.C. 5550.
(b) An employee must receive premium pay of the types identified in paragraph (a) of this section before receiving any other type of premium pay.
(c) In any pay period during which an employee is subject to an annual limitation under § 550.106, the employee may receive the types of premium pay identified in paragraph (a) of this section only to the extent that the payment does not cause the total of his or her basic pay and such premium pay for the pay period to exceed the greater of—
(1) The maximum biweekly rate of basic pay payable for GS-15 (including any applicable locality-based comparability payment under section 5304 or similar provision of law and any applicable special rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5305 or similar provision of law); or
(2) The biweekly rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule.
(d) The biweekly rates under paragraph (c) of this section are computed as provided in § 550.105(d).
(e) Premium pay paid, or projected to be paid, under this section is included in determining whether the sum of the employee's basic pay and premium pay would exceed the annual limitation under § 550.106.
[67 FR 19321, Apr. 19, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 55943, Sept. 17, 2004; 80 FR 58111, Sept. 25, 2015]

# Overtime Pay
§ 550.111
Authorization of overtime pay.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (f), and (g) of this section, overtime work means work in excess of 8 hours in a day or in excess of 40 hours in an administrative workweek that is—
(1) Officially ordered or approved; and
(2) Performed by an employee. Hours of work in excess of 8 in a day are not included in computing hours of work in excess of 40 hours in an administrative workweek.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a department shall pay for overtime work at the rates provided in § 550.113.
(c) Overtime work in excess of any included in a regularly scheduled administrative workweek may be ordered or approved only in writing by an officer or employee to whom this authority has been specifically delegated.
(d) For an employee for whom the first 40 hours of duty in an administrative workweek is his basic workweek under § 610.111(b) of this chapter, overtime work means work in excess of 40 hours in an administrative workweek that is:
(1) Officially ordered or approved, and
(2) Performed by an employee, when the employee's basic pay exceeds the minimum rate for GS-10 (including any applicable special rate of pay for law enforcement officers or special pay adjustment for law enforcement officers under section 403 or 404 of the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-509), respectively; a locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304; and any applicable special rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5305 or similar provision of law) or when the employee is engaged in professional or technical, engineering or scientific activities. For purposes of this section and section 5542(a) of title 5. United States Code, an employee is engaged in professional or technical engineering or scientfic activities when he or she is assigned to perform the duties of a profeesional or support technician position in the physical, mathematical, natural, medical, or social sciences or engineering or architecture.
(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section, when an employee's basic workweek includes a daily tour of duty of more than 8 hours and his hourly rate of basic pay exceeds the hourly rate of overtime pay provided by § 550.113, the department shall pay him at his basic rate of pay for each hour of his daily tour of duty within his basic workweek.
(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, for any criminal investigator receiving availability pay
under § 550.181, overtime work means actual work that is scheduled in advance of the administrative workweek—
(i) In excess of 10 hours on a day containing hours that are part of such investigator's basic 40-hour workweek; or
(ii) On a day not containing hours that are part of such investigator's basic 40-hour workweek.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1) of this section, all overtime work scheduled in advance of the administrative workweek on a day containing part of a criminal investigator's basic 40-hour workweek must be compensated under this section if both of the following conditions are met:
(i) The overtime work involves protective duties authorized by section 3056(a) of title 18, United States Code, or section 2709(a)(3) of title 22, United States Code; and
(ii) The investigator performs on that same day at least 2 consecutive hours of overtime work that are not scheduled in advance of the administrative workweek and are compensated by availability pay.
(3) Any work that would be overtime work under this section but for paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section will be compensated by availability pay under § 550.181.
(g) For firefighters compensated under subpart M of this part, overtime work means officially ordered or approved work in excess of 106 hours in a biweekly pay period, or, if the agency establishes a weekly basis for overtime pay computations, in excess of 53 hours in an administrative workweek.
(h) Availability hours, as described in § 550.182(c), are not hours of work for the purpose of determining overtime pay under this section.
(i) An employee is not entitled to overtime pay under this subpart for time spent in training, except as provided in § 410.402 of this chapter.
(j) For Border Patrol agents covered by 5 U.S.C. 5550 and subpart P of this part, overtime work means hours of work in excess of applicable thresholds, as specified in § 550.1623, excluding hours that are—
(1) Compensated by payment of an overtime supplement for regularly scheduled overtime within the agent's regular tour of duty under § 550.1621;
(2) Compensated by the earning of compensatory time off under § 550.1625; or
(3) Used in substitution or application under § 550.1626.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 34 FR 19495, Dec. 10, 1969; 48 FR 36805, Aug. 15, 1983; 56 FR 20341, May 3, 1991; 57 FR 2434, Jan. 22, 1992; 59 FR 66151, Dec. 23, 1994; 61 FR 3542, Feb. 1, 1996; 63 FR 64592, Nov. 23, 1998; 64 FR 4520, Jan. 29, 1999; 64 FR 69175, Dec. 10, 1999; 80 FR 58111, Sept. 25, 2015]
§ 550.112
Computation of overtime work.
The computation of the amount of overtime work of an employee is subject to the following conditions:
(a)
Time spent in principal activities.
Principal activities are the activities that an employee is employed to perform. They are the activities that an employee performs during his or her regularly scheduled administrative workweek (including regular overtime work) and activities performed by an employee during periods of irregular or occasional overtime work authorized under § 550.111. Overtime work in principal activities shall be credited as follows:
(1) An employee shall be compensated for every minute of regular overtime work.
(2) A quarter of an hour shall be the largest fraction of an hour used for crediting irregular or occasional overtime work under this subpart. When irregular or occasional overtime work is performed in other than the full fraction, odd minutes shall be rounded up or rounded down to the nearest full fraction of an hour used to credit overtime work.
(b)
Time spent in preshift or postshift activities.
A preshift activity is a preparatory activity that an employee performs prior to the commencement of his or her principal activities, and a postshift activity is a concluding activity that an employee performs after the completion of his or her principal activities. Such activities are not principal activities as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) (i) If the head of a department reasonably determines that a preshift or
postshift activity is closely related to an employee's principal activities, and is indispensable to the performance of the principal activities, and that the total time spent in that activity is more than 10 minutes per daily tour of duty, he or she shall credit all of the time spent in that activity, including the 10 minutes, as hours of work.
(ii) If the time spent in a preshift or postshift activity is compensable as hours of work, the head of the department shall schedule the time period for the employee to perform that activity. An employee shall be credited with the actual time spent in that activity during the time period scheduled by the head of the department. In no case shall the time credited for the performance of an activity exceed the time scheduled by the head of the department. If the time period scheduled by the head of the department for the performance of a pereshift or postshift activity is outside the employee's daily tour of duty, the employee shall be credited with the time spent performing that activity in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) A preshift or postshift activity that is not closely related to the performance of the principal activities is considered a preliminary or postliminary activity. Time spent in preliminary or postliminary activities is excluded from hours of work and is not compensable, even if it occurs between periods of activity that are compensable as hours of work.
(c)
Leave with pay.
An employee's absence from duty on authorized leave with pay under subchapter I of chapter 61 of title 5, United States Code, during the time when he would otherwise have been required to be on duty during a basic workweek (including authorized absence on a legal holiday, on a nonworkday established by Executive or administrative order, and on compensatory time off as provided in § 550.114) is deemed employment and does not reduce the amount of overtime pay to which the employee is entitled during an administrative workweek. Leave of absence with pay under subchapter I of chapter 61 of title 5, United States Code, is charged only for an absence that occurs during a basic workweek.
(d)
Leave without pay.
(1) For a period of leave without pay in an employee's basic workweek, an equal period of service performed outside the basic workweek, but in the same administrative workweek, shall be substituted and paid for at the rate applicable to his basic workweek before any remaining period of service may be paid for at the overtime rate on the basis of exceeding 40 hours in a workweek.
(2) For a period of leave without pay in an employee's daily tour of duty, an equal period of service performed outside the daily tour, but in the same workday, shall be substituted and paid for at the rate applicable to his daily tour of duty before any remaining period of service may be paid for at the overtime rate on the basis of exceeding 8 hours in a workday.
(e)
Absence during overtime periods.
Except as provided by paragraph (a) of this section, as expressly authorized by statute, or to the extent authorized while the employee is in a travel status, a period is counted as overtime work only when the employee actually performs work during the period or is taking compensatory time off as provided in § 550.114.
(f)
Night, Sunday, or holiday work.
Hours of night, Sunday, or holiday work are included in determining for overtime pay purposes the total number of hours of work in an administrative workweek.
(g)
Time in travel status.
Time in travel status away from the official duty-station of an employee is deemed employment only when:
(1) It is within his regularly scheduled administrative workweek, including regular overtime work; or
(2) The travel—
(i) Involves the performance of actual work while traveling;
(ii) Is incident to travel that involves the performance of work while traveling;
(iii) Is carried out under such arduous and unusual conditions that the travel is inseparable from work; or
(iv) Results from an event which could not be scheduled or controlled administratively, including travel by an employee to such an event and the return of the employee to his or her official-duty station.
(h)
Call-back overtime work.
Irregular or occasional overtime work performed by an employee on a day when work was not scheduled for him, or for which he is required to return to his place of employment, is deemed at least 2 hours in duration for the purpose of premium pay, either in money or compensatory time off.
(i) Periods of duty that are compensated by annual premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c) (1) or (2) shall not be credited for the purpose of determining hours of work in excess of 8 hours in a day.
(j)
Official duty station.
An agency may prescribe a mileage radius of not greater than 50 miles to determine whether an employee's travel is within or outside the limits of the employee's official duty station for determining entitlement to overtime pay for travel under paragraph (g) of this section except that—
(1) An agency's definition of an employee's official duty station for determining overtime pay for travel may not be smaller than the definition of “official station and post of duty” under the Federal Travel Regulation issued by the General Services Administration (41 CFR 300-3.1); and
(2) Travel from home to work and vice versa is not hours of work. When an employee travels directly from home to a temporary duty location outside the limits of his or her official duty station, the time the employee would have spent in normal home to work travel shall be deducted from hours of work.
(k)
Standby duty.
(1) An employee is on duty, and time spent on standby duty is hours of work if, for work-related reasons, the employee is restricted by official order to a designated post of duty and is assigned to be in a state of readiness to perform work with limitations on the employee's activities so substantial that the employee cannot use the time effectively for his or her own purposes. A finding that an employee's activities are substantially limited may not be based on the fact that an employee is subject to restrictions necessary to ensure that the employee will be able to perform his or her duties and responsibilities, such as restrictions on alcohol consumption or use of certain medications.
(2) An employee is not considered restricted for “work-related reasons” if, for example, the employee remains at the post of duty voluntarily, or if the restriction is a natural result of geographic isolation or the fact that the employee resides on the agency's premises. For example, in the case of an employee assigned to work in a remote wildland area or on a ship, the fact that the employee has limited mobility when relieved from duty would not be a basis for finding that the employee is restricted for work-related reasons.
(l)
On-call status.
An employee is off duty, and time spent in an on-call status is not hours of work if—
(1) The employee is allowed to leave a telephone number or carry an electronic device for the purpose of being contacted, even though the employee is required to remain within a reasonable call-back radius; or
(2) The employee is allowed to make arrangements for another person to perform any work that may arise during the on-call period.
(m)
Sleep and meal time.
(1) Bona fide sleep and meal periods may not be considered hours of work, except as provided in paragraphs (m)(2), (m)(3), and (m)(4) of this section. If a sleep or meal period is interrupted by a call to duty, the time spent on duty is hours of work.
(2) Sleep and meal periods during regularly scheduled tours of duty are hours of work for employees who receive annual premium pay for regularly scheduled standby duty under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1).
(3) When employees are assigned to work shifts of 24 hours or more during which they must remain within the confines of their duty station in a standby status, and for which they do not receive annual premium pay for regularly scheduled standby duty under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1), the amount of bona fide sleep and meal time excluded from hours of work may not exceed 8 hours in any 24-hour period. No sleep time may be excluded unless the employee had the opportunity to have an uninterrupted period of at least 5 hours of sleep during the applicable sleep period. For work shifts of less than 24
hours, agencies may not exclude on-duty sleep periods from hours of work, but must exclude bona fide meal periods during which the employee is completely relieved from duty.
(4) For firefighters compensated under 5 U.S.C. 5545b, on-duty sleep and meal time may not be excluded from hours of work.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 33 FR 18669, Dec. 18, 1968; 48 FR 3934, Jan. 28, 1983; 48 FR 36805, Aug. 15, 1983; 56 FR 20342, May 3, 1991; 57 FR 59279, Dec. 15, 1992; 59 FR 66632, Dec. 28, 1994; 64 FR 69175, Dec. 10, 1999; 72 FR 12035, Mar. 15, 2007]
§ 550.113
Computation of overtime pay.
(a) For each employee whose rate of basic pay does not exceed the minimum rate for GS-10 (including any applicable special rate of pay for law enforcement officers or special pay adjustment for law enforcement officers under section 403 or 404 of the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-509), respectively; a locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304; and any applicable special rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5305 or similar provision of law), the overtime hourly rate is 1
1/2
times his or her hourly rate of basic pay.
(b) For each employee whose rate of basic pay exceeds the minimum rate for GS-10 (as determined under paragraph (a) of this section), the overtime hourly rate is equal to the greater of—(i) one and one-half times the applicable minimum hourly rate of basic pay for GS-10 (as determined under paragraph (a) of this section); or (ii) the employee's hourly rate of basic pay, except as provided in 5 U.S.C. 5542(a)(3) and (5).
(c) An employee is paid for overtime work performed on a Sunday or a holiday at the same rate as for overtime work performed on another day.
(d) An employee whose rate of basic pay is fixed on an annual or monthly basis and adjusted from time to time in accordance with prevailing rates by a wage board or similar administrative authority serving the same purpose is entitled to overtime pay in accordance with the provisions of section 5544 of title 5, United States Code. The rate of pay for each hour of overtime work of such an employee is computed as follows:
(1) If the rate of basic pay of the employee is fixed on an annual basis, divide the rate of basic pay by 2,087 and multiply the quotient by one and one-half; and
(2) If the rate of basic pay of the employee is fixed on a monthly basis, multiply the rate of basic pay by 12 to derive an annual rate of basic pay, divide the annual rate of basic pay by 2,087, and multiply the quotient by one and one-half.
Rates are computed in full cents, counting a fraction of a cent as the next higher cent.
(e)(1) For firefighters compensated under subpart M of this part, the overtime hourly rate for all overtime hours is 1
1/2
times the firefighter's hourly rate of basic pay under § 550.1303(a) or (b)(2), as applicable, except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(2) For firefighters compensated under subpart M of this part who areexempt from the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and whose hourly rate of basic pay under § 550.1303(a) or (b)(2), as applicable, exceeds the applicable minimum hourly rate of basic pay for GS-10 (as computed under paragraph (a) of this section by dividing the annual rate of basic pay by 2087 hours), the overtime hourly rate is equal to the greater of—
(i) One and one-half times the applicable minimum hourly rate of basic pay for GS-10 (as computed under paragraph (a) of this section by dividing the annual rate of basic pay by 2087 hours); or
(ii) The individual's own firefighter hourly rate of basic pay under § 550.1303(a) and (b)(2), as applicable.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 56 FR 20342, May 3, 1991; 57 FR 2434, Jan. 22, 1992; 59 FR 11701, Mar. 14, 1994; 61 FR 3542, Feb. 1, 1996; 63 FR 64592, Nov. 23, 1998; 69 FR 26476, May 13, 2004]
§ 550.114
Compensatory time off.
(a) At the request of an employee, the head of an agency (or designee) may grant compensatory time off from an employee's tour of duty instead of payment under § 550.113 for an equal amount of irregular or occasional overtime work.
(b) At the request of an employee, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105, the head of an agency (or designee) may grant compensatory time off from an employee's basic work requirement under a flexible work schedule under 5 U.S.C. 6122 instead of payment under § 550.113 for an equal amount of overtime work, whether or not irregular or occasional in nature.
(c) The head of an agency may provide that an employee whose rate of basic pay exceeds the maximum rate for GS-10 (including any applicable special rate of pay for law enforcement officers or special pay adjustment for law enforcement officers under section 403 or 404 of the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-509), respectively; a locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304; and any applicable special rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5305 or similar provision of law) shall be compensated for irregular or occasional overtime work with an equivalent amount of compensatory time off from the employee's tour of duty instead of payment under § 550.113 of this part.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, an employee must use accrued compensatory time off to which he or she is entitled under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section by the end of the 26th pay period after the pay period during which it was earned. The head of an agency, at his or her sole and exclusive discretion, may provide that an employee who fails to take compensatory time off to which he or she is entitled within 26 pay periods after the pay period during which it was earned must—
(1) Receive payment for such unused compensatory time off at the dollar value prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section; or
(2) Forfeit the unused compensatory time off, unless the failure to take the compensatory time off is due to an exigency of the service beyond the employee's control, in which case the agency head must provide payment for the unused compensatory time off at the dollar value prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section.
(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, compensatory time off to an employee's credit as of May 14, 2007 must be used by the end of the pay period ending 3 years after May 14, 2007. The head of an agency, at his or her sole and exclusive discretion, may provide that an employee who fails to take compensatory time off to which he or she is entitled by the end of the pay period ending 3 years after May 14, 2007 must—
(1) Receive payment for such unused compensatory time off at the dollar value prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section; or
(2) Forfeit the unused compensatory time off, unless the failure to take the compensatory time off is due to an exigency of the service beyond the employee's control, in which case the agency head must provide payment for the unused compensatory time off at the dollar value prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section.
(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, an employee with unused compensatory time off under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section who transfers to another agency or separates from Federal service before the expiration of the time limit established under paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section may receive overtime pay or forfeit the unused compensatory time off, consistent with the employing agency's policy established under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(2) If an employee with unused compensatory time off under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section separates from Federal service or is placed in a leave without pay status under the following circumstances, the employee must be paid for unused compensatory time off at the dollar value prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section:
(i) The employee separates or is placed in a leave without pay status to perform service in the uniformed services (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 4303 and § 353.102); or
(ii) The employee separates or is placed in a leave without pay status because of an on-the-job injury with entitlement to injury compensation under 5 U.S.C. chapter 81.
(g) The dollar value of compensatory time off when it is liquidated, or for the purpose of applying pay limitations, is the amount of overtime pay
the employee otherwise would have received for the hours of the pay period during which compensatory time off was earned by performing overtime work.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 56 FR 20342, May 3, 1991; 57 FR 2434, Jan. 22, 1992; 61 FR 3542, Feb. 1, 1996; 62 FR 28307, May 23, 1997; 64 FR 69175, Dec. 10, 1999; 72 FR 12035, Mar. 15, 2007]

# Night Pay
§ 550.121
Authorization of night pay differential.
(a) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, nightwork is regularly scheduled work performed by an employee between the hours of 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. Subject to § 550.122, and except as otherwise provided in this subpart, an employee who performs nightwork is entitled to pay for that work at his or her rate of basic pay plus a night pay differential amounting to 10 percent of his or her rate of basic pay.
(b) The head of a department may designate a time after 6 p.m. and a time before 6 a.m. as the beginning and end, respectively, of nightwork for the purpose of paragraph (a) of this section, at a post outside the United States where the customary hours of business extend into the hours of nightwork provided by paragraph (a) of this section. Times so designated as the beginning or end of nightwork shall correspond reasonably with the end or beginning, respectively, of the customary hours of business in the locality.
(c) An employee is not entitled to night pay differential while engaged in training, except as provided in § 410.402 of this chapter.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 48 FR 3934, Jan. 28, 1983; 64 FR 69175, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.122
Computation of night pay differential.
(a)
Absence on holidays or in travel status.
An employee is entitled to a night pay differential for a period when he is excused from nightwork on a holiday or other nonworkday and for night hours of his tour of duty while he is in an official travel status, whether performing actual duty or not.
(b)
Absence on leave.
An employee is entitled to a night pay differential for a period of paid leave only when the total amount of that leave in a pay period, including both night and day hours, is less than 8 hours.
(c)
Relation to overtime, Sunday, and holiday pay.
Night pay differential is in addition to overtime, Sunday, or holiday pay payable under this subpart and it is not included in the rate of basic pay used to compute the overtime, Sunday, or holiday pay.
(d)
Temporary assignment to a different daily tour of duty.
An employee is entitled to a night pay differential when he or she is temporarily assigned during the administrative workweek to a daily tour of duty that includes nightwork. This temporary change in a daily tour of duty within the employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek is distinguished from a period of irregular or occasional overtime work in addition to the employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek.
(e)
Border Patrol agents.
For a Border Patrol agent covered by 5 U.S.C. 5550 and subpart P of this part, no night pay differential is payable for regularly scheduled overtime hours within the agent's regular tour of duty, as required by 5 U.S.C. 5550(b)(2)(C), (b)(3)(C), and (c)(1)(A). The overtime supplement payable for such scheduled overtime hours is not part of the agent's rate of basic pay used in computing the night pay differential for other hours that qualify for such a differential.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 48 FR 3934, Jan. 28, 1983; 80 FR 58111, Sept. 25, 2015]

# Pay for Holiday Work
§ 550.131
Authorization of pay for holiday work.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, an employee who performs holiday work is entitled to pay at his or her rate of basic pay plus premium pay at a rate equal to his or her rate of basic pay for that holiday work that is not in excess of 8 hours.
(b) An employee is entitled to pay for overtime work on a holiday at the same rate as for overtime work on other days.
(c) An employee who is assigned to duty on a holiday is entitled to pay for at least 2 hours of holiday work.
(d) An employee is not entitled to holiday premium pay while engaged in training, except as provided in § 410.402 of this chapter.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 48 FR 3934, Jan. 28, 1983; 64 FR 69175, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.132
Relation to overtime, night, and Sunday pay.
(a) Premium pay for holiday work is in addition to overtime pay or night pay differential, or premium pay for Sunday work payable under this subpart and is not included in the rate of basic pay used to compute the overtime pay or night pay differential or premium pay for Sunday work.
(b) Notwithstanding premium pay for holiday work, the number of hours of holiday work are included in determining for overtime pay purposes the total number of hours of work performed in the administrative workweek in which the holiday occurs.
(c) The number of regularly scheduled hours of duty on a holiday that fall within an employee's basic workweek on which the employee is excused from duty are part of the basic workweek for overtime pay computation purposes.
(d) For a Border Patrol agent covered by 5 U.S.C. 5550 and subpart P of this part, no holiday premium pay is payable for regularly scheduled overtime hours within the agent's regular tour of duty, as required by 5 U.S.C. 5550(b)(2)(C), (b)(3)(C), and (c)(1)(A). The overtime supplement payable for such scheduled overtime hours is not part of the agent's rate of basic pay used in computing the holiday premium pay for other hours that qualify for such premium pay.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 80 FR 58111, Sept. 25, 2015]

# Regularly Scheduled Standby Duty Pay
§ 550.141
Authorization of premium pay on an annual basis.
An agency may pay premium pay on an annual basis, instead of the premium pay prescribed in this subpart for regularly scheduled overtime, night, holiday, and Sunday work, to an employee in a position requiring him or her regularly to remain at, or within the confines of, his or her station during longer than ordinary periods of duty, a substantial part of which consists of remaining in a standby status rather than performing work. Premium pay under this section is determined as an appropriate percentage, not in excess of 25 percent, of that part of the employee's rate of basic pay which does not exceed the minimum rate of basic pay for GS-10 (including any applicable locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304 or special rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5305 or similar provision of law).
[56 FR 20342, May 3, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 3542, Feb. 1, 1996]
§ 550.142
General restrictions.
An agency may pay premium pay under § 550.141 only if that premium pay, over a period appropriate to reflect the full cycle of the employee's duties and the full range of conditions in his position, would be:
(a) More than the premium pay which would otherwise be payable under this subpart for the hours of actual work customarily required in his position, excluding standby time during which he performs no work; and
(b) Less than the premium pay which would otherwise be payable under this subpart for the hours of duty required in his position, including standby time during which he performs no work.
§ 550.143
Bases for determining positions for which premium pay under § 550.141 is authorized.
(a) The requirement for the type of position referred to in § 550.141 that an employee regularly remain at, or within the confines of, his station must meet all the following conditions:
(1) The requirement must be definite and the employee must be officially ordered to remain at his station. The employee's remaining at his station must not be merely voluntary, desirable, or a result of geographic isolation, or solely because the employee lives on the grounds.
(2) The hours during which the requirement is operative must be included in the employee's tour of duty. This tour of duty must be established on a regularly recurring basis over a substantial period of time, generally at least a few months. The requirement must not be occasional, irregular, or for a brief period.
(3) The requirement must be associated with the regularly assigned duties of the employee's job, either as a continuation of his regular work which includes standby time, or as a requirement to stand by at his post to perform his regularly assigned duties if the necessity arises.
(b) The words “at, or within the confines, of his station”, in § 550.141 mean one of the following:
(1) At an employee's regular duty station.
(2) In quarters provided by an agency, which are not the employee's ordinary living quarters, and which are specifically provided for use of personnel required to stand by in readiness to perform actual work when the need arises or when called.
(3) In an employee's living quarters, when designated by the agency as his duty station and when his whereabouts is narrowly limited and his activities are substantially restricted. This condition exists only during periods when an employee is required to remain at his quarters and is required to hold himself in a state of readiness to answer calls for his services. This limitation on an employee's whereabouts and activities is distinguished from the limitation placed on an employee who is subject to call outside his tour of duty but may leave his quarters provided he arranges for someone else to respond to calls or leaves a telephone number by which he can be reached should his services be required.
(c) The words “longer than ordinary periods of duty” in § 550.141 mean more than 40 hours a week.
(d) The words “a substantial part of which consists of remaining in a standby status rather than performing work” in § 550.141 refer to the entire tour of duty. This requirement is met:
(1) When a substantial part of the entire tour of duty, at least 25 percent, is spent in a standby status which occurs throughout the entire tour;
(2) If certain hours of the tour of duty are regularly devoted to actual work and others are spent in a standby status, that part of the tour of duty devoted to standing by is at least 25 percent of the entire tour of duty; or
(3) When an employee has a basic workweek requiring full-time performance of actual work and is required, in addition, to perform standby duty on certain nights, or to perform standby duty on certain days not included in his basic workweek.
(e) An employee is in a standby status, as referred to in § 550.141, only at times when he is not required to perform actual work and is free to eat, sleep, read, listen to the radio, or engage in other similar pursuits. An employee is performing actual work, rather than being in a standby status, when his full attention is devoted to his work, even though the nature of his work does not require constant activity (for example, a guard on duty at his post and a technician continuously observing instruments are engaged in the actual work of their positions). Actual work includes both work performed during regular work periods and work performed when called out during periods ordinarily spent in a standby status.
§ 550.144
Rates of premium pay payable under § 550.141.
(a) An agency may pay the premium pay on an annual basis referred to in § 550.141 to an employee who meets the requirements of that section, at one of the following percentages of that part of the employee's rate of basic pay which does not exceed the minimum rate of basic pay for GS-10 (including any applicable locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304 or special rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5305 or similar provision of law):
(1) A position with a tour of duty of the 24 hours on duty, 24 hours off duty type and with a schedule of: 60 hours a week—5 percent, unless 25 or more hours of actual work is customarily required, in which event—10 percent; 72 hours a week—15 percent, unless 24 or
more hours of actual work is customarily required, in which event—20 percent; 84 hours or more a week—25 percent.
(2) A position with a tour of duty requiring the employee to remain on duty during all daylight hours each day, or for 12 hours each day, or for 24 hours each day, with the employee living at his station during the period of his assignment to his tour, and with a schedule of: 5 days a week—5 percent, unless 25 or more hours of actual work is customarily required, in which event—10 percent; 6 days a week—15 percent, unless 30 or more hours of actual work is customarily required, in which event 20 percent; 7 days a week—25 percent.
(3) A position in which the employee has a basic workweek requiring fulltime performance of actual work, and is required, in addition, to remain on standby duty: 14 to 18 hours a week on regular workdays, or extending into a nonworkday in continuation of a period of duty within the basic workweek—15 percent; 19 to 27 hours a week on regular workdays, or extending into a nonworkday in continuation of a period of duty within the basic workweek—20 percent; 28 or more hours a week on regular workdays, or extending into a nonworkday in continuation of a period of duty within the basic workweek—25 percent; 7 to 9 hours on one or more of his regular weekly nonworkdays—15 percent; 10 to 13 hours on one or more of his regular weekly nonworkdays—20 percent; 14 or more hours on one or more of his regular weekly nonworkdays—25 percent.
(4) When an agency pays an employee one of the rates authorized by paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, the agency shall increase this rate by adding (i) 2
1/2
percent to the rate when the employee is required to perform Sunday work on an average of 20 to 40 Sundays over a year's period or (ii) 5 percent to the rate when the employee is required to perform Sunday work on an average of 41 or more Sundays over a year's period but the rate thus increased may not exceed 25 percent.
(b) If an employee is eligible for premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141, but none of the percentages in paragraph (a) of this section is applicable, or unusual conditions are present which seem to make the applicable rate unsuitable, the agency may propose a rate of premium pay on an annual basis for OPM approval. The proposal shall include full information bearing on the employee's tour of duty; the number of hours of actual work required; and how it is distributed over the tour of duty; the number of hours in a standby status required and the extent to which the employee's whereabouts and activities are restricted during standby periods; the extent to which the assignment is made more onerous by night, holiday, or Sunday duty or by hours of duty beyond 8 in a day or 40 in a week; and any other pertinent conditions.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 56 FR 20342, May 3, 1991; 61 FR 3543, Feb. 1, 1996]

# Administratively Uncontrollable Work
§ 550.151
Authorization of premium pay on an annual basis.
An agency may pay premium pay on an annual basis, instead of other premium pay prescribed in this subpart (except premium pay for regular overtime work, and work at night, on Sundays, and on holidays), to an employee in a position in which the hours of duty cannot be controlled administratively and which requires substantial amounts of irregular or occasional overtime work, with the employee generally being responsible for recognizing, without supervision, circumstances which require the employee to remain on duty. Premium pay under this section is determined as an appropriate percentage, not less than 10 percent nor more than 25 percent, of the employee's rate of basic pay (as defined in § 550.103).
[57 FR 2435, Jan. 22, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 3543, Feb. 1, 1996]
§ 550.152
[Reserved]
§ 550.153
Bases for determining positions for which premium pay under § 550.151 is authorized.
(a) The requirement in § 550.151 that a position be one in which the hours of duty cannot be controlled administratively is inherent in the nature of such
a position. A typical example of a position which meets this requirement is that of an investigator of criminal activities whose hours of duty are governed by what criminals do and when they do it. He is often required to perform such duties as shadowing suspects, working incognito among those under suspicion, searching for evidence, meeting informers, making arrests, and interviewing persons having knowledge of criminal or alleged criminal activities. His hours on duty and place of work depend on the behavior of the criminals or suspected criminals and cannot be controlled administratively. In such a situation, the hours of duty cannot be controlled by such administrative devices as hiring additional personnel; rescheduling the hours of duty (which can be done when, for example, a type of work occurs primarily at certain times of the day); or granting compensatory time off duty to offset overtime hours required.
(b) In order to satisfactorily discharge the duties of a position referred to in § 550.151, an employee is required to perform substantial amounts of irregular or occasional overtime work. In regard to this requirement:
(1) A substantial amount of irregular or occasional overtime work means an average of at least 3 hours a week of that overtime work.
(2) The irregular or occasional overtime work is a continual requirement, generally averaging more than once a week.
(3) There must be a definite basis for anticipating that the irregular or occasional overtime work will continue over an appropriate period with a duration and frequency sufficient to meet the minimum requirements under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) The words in § 550.151 that an employee is generally “responsible for recognizing, without supervision, circumstances which require him to remain on duty” mean that:
(1) The responsibility for an employee remaining on duty when required by circumstances must be a definite, official, and special requirement of his position.
(2) The employee must remain on duty not merely because it is desirable, but because of compelling reasons inherently related to continuance of his duties, and of such a nature that failure to carry on would constitute negligence.
(3) The requirement that the employee is responsible for recognizing circumstances does not include such clear-cut instances as, for example, when an employee must continue working because a relief fails to report as scheduled.
(d) The words “circumstances which require him to remain on duty” as used in § 550.151 mean that:
(1) The employee is required to continue on duty in continuation of a full daily tour of duty or that after the end of his regular workday, the employee resumes duty in accordance with a prearranged plan or an awaited event. Performance of only call-back overtime work referred to in § 550.112(h) does not meet this requirement.
(2) The employee has no choice as to when or where he may perform the work when he remains on duty in continuation of a full daily tour of duty. This differs from a situation in which an employee has the option of taking work home or doing it at the office; or doing it in continuation of his regular hours of duty or later in the evening. It also differs from a situation in which an employee has such latitude in his working hours, as when in a travel status, that he may decide to begin work later in the morning and continue working later at night to better accomplish a given objective.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 35 FR 6311, Apr. 18, 1970; 64 FR 69175, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.154
Rates of premium pay payable under § 550.151.
(a) An agency may pay the premium pay on an annual basis referred to in § 550.151 to an employee who meets the requirements of that section, at one of the following percentages of the employee's rate of basic pay (as defined in § 550.103):
(1) A position which requires an average of at least 3 but not more than 5 hours a week of irregular or occasional overtime work—10 percent;
(2) A position which requires an average of over five but not more than 7
hours a week of irregular or occasional overtime work—15 percent;
(3) A position which requires an average of over seven but not more than 9 hours a week or irregular or occasional overtime work—20 percent;
(4) A position which requires an average of over 9 hours a week of irregular or occasional overtime work—25 percent.
(b) If an agency proposes to pay an employee premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.151 but unusual conditions seem to make the applicable rate in paragraph (a) of this section unsuitable, the agency may propose a rate of premium pay on an annual basis for OPM approval. The proposal shall include full information bearing on the frequency and duration of the irregular or occasional overtime work required; the nature of the work which prevents hours of duty from being controlled administratively; the necessity for the employee being generally responsible for recognizing, without supervision, circumstances which require him to remain on duty; and any other pertinent conditions.
(c) The period of time during which an employee continues to receive premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.151 under the authority of paragraphs (c) or (g) of § 550.162 is not considered in computing the average hours of irregular and occasional overtime work under this section.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 35 FR 6311, Apr. 18, 1970; 55 FR 41178, Oct. 10, 1990; 57 FR 2435, Jan. 22, 1992; 61 FR 3543, Feb. 1, 1996; 67 FR 6641, Feb. 13, 2002]

# General Rules Governing Payments of Premium Pay on an Annual Basis
§ 550.161
Responsibilities of the agencies.
The head of each agency, or an official who has been delegated authority to act for the head of an agency in the matter concerned, is responsible for:
(a) Fixing tours of duty; ordering employees to remain at their stations in a standby status; and placing responsibility on employees for remaining on duty when required by circumstances.
(b) Determining, in accordance with section 5545(c) of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart, which employees shall receive premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141 or § 550.151. These determinations may not be retroactive.
(c) Determining the number of hours of actual work to be customarily required in positions involving longer than ordinary periods of duty, a substantial part of which consists of standby duty. This determination shall be based on consideration of the time required by regular, repetitive operations, available records of the time required in the past by other activities, and any other information bearing on the number of hours of actual work which may reasonably be expected to be required in the future.
(d) Determining the number of hours of irregular or occasional overtime work to be customarily required in positions which require substantial amounts of irregular or occasional overtime work with the employee generally being responsible for recognizing, without supervision, circumstances which require him to remain on duty. This determination shall be based on consideration of available records of the hours of irregular or occasional overtime work required in the past, and any other information bearing on the number of hours of duty which may reasonably be expected to be required in the future.
(e) Determining the rate of premium pay fixed by OPM under § 550.144 or § 550.154 which is applicable to each employee paid under § 550.141 or § 550.151; or, if no rate fixed under § 550.144 or § 550.154 is considered applicable, proposing a rate of premium pay on an annual basis to OPM.
(f) Reviewing determinations under paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this section at appropriate intervals, and discontinuing payments or revising rates of premium pay on an annual basis in each instance when that action is necessary to meet the requirements of section 5545(c) of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 35 FR 6311, Apr. 18, 1970]
§ 550.162
Payment provisions.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, an employee's premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141
or § 550.151 begins on the date that he enters on duty in the position concerned for purposes of basic pay, and ceases on the date that he ceases to be paid basic pay in the position.
(b) When an employee is in a position in which conditions warranting premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141 or § 550.151 exist only during a certain period of the year, such as during a given season, an agency may pay the employee premium pay on an annual basis only during the period he is subject to these conditions.
(c) An agency may continue to pay an employee premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141 or § 550.151:
(1) For a period of not more than 10 consecutive prescribed workdays on temporary assignment to other duties in which conditions do not warrant payment of premium pay on an annual basis, and for a total of not more than 30 workdays in a calendar year while on such a temporary assignment.
(2) For an aggregate period of not more than 60 prescribed workdays on temporary assignment to a formally approved program for advanced training duty directly related to duties for which premium pay on an annual basis is payable.
An agency may not continue to pay an employee premium pay on an annual basis under this paragraph for more than 60 workdays in a calendar year.
(d) When an employee is not entitled to premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141, he is entitled to be paid for overtime, night, holiday, and Sunday work in accordance with other sections of this subpart.
(e) An agency shall continue to pay an employee premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141 or § 550.151 while he is on leave with pay during a period in which premium pay on an annual basis is payable under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
(f) Unless an agency discontinues authorization of premium pay under § 550.141 or § 550.151 for all similar positions, it may not discontinue authorization of such premium pay for an individual employee's position—
(1) During a period of paid leave elected by the employee and approved by the agency in lieu of benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 8101
et seq.
), following a job-related injury;
(2) During a period of continuation of pay under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 8101
et seq.
);
(3) During a period of leave without pay, if the employee is in receipt of benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 8101
et seq.
). (Note: No premium pay is payable during leave without pay; however, the continued authorization may prevent a reduction in an employee's retirement benefits if the leave without pay period occurs during the employee's high-3 average salary period.)
(g) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an agency may continue to pay premium pay under § 550.151 to an employee during a temporary assignment that would not otherwise warrant the payment of AUO pay, if the temporary assignment is directly related to a national emergency declared by the President. An agency may continue to pay premium pay under § 550.151 for not more than 30 consecutive workdays for such a temporary assignment and for a total of not more than 90 workdays in a calendar year while on such a temporary assignment.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 35 FR 6312, Apr. 18, 1970; 64 FR 69175, Dec. 10, 1999; 67 FR 6641, Feb. 13, 2002; 68 FR 4681, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 550.163
Relationship to other payments.
(a) An employee receiving premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141 may not receive premium pay for regular overtime work or work at night or on a holiday or on Sunday under any other section of this subpart. An agency shall pay the employee in accordance with §§ 550.113 and 550.114 for irregular or occasional overtime work.
(b) An employee receiving premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.151 may not receive premium pay for irregular or occasional overtime work under any other section of this subpart. An agency shall pay the employee in accordance with other sections of this subpart for regular overtime work, and
work at night, on Sundays, and on holidays.
(c) Overtime, night, holiday, or Sunday work paid under any statute other than subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, is not a basis for payment of premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141 or § 550.151.
(d) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141 or § 550.151 is not base pay and is not included in the base used in computing foreign and nonforeign allowances and differentials, or any other benefits or deductions that are computed on base pay alone.
(2) Premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141 is base pay for the purpose of section 5595(c), section 8114(e), section 8331(3), and section 8704(c) of title 5, United States Code.
(e) Premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141 or § 550.151 may not be paid to a criminal investigator receiving availability pay under § 550.181.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 33 FR 19897, Dec. 28, 1968; 35 FR 6312, Apr. 18, 1970; 59 FR 66151, Dec. 23, 1994]
§ 550.164
Construction and computation of existing aggregate rates.
(a) Pursuant to section 208(b) of the act of September 1, 1954 (68 Stat. 1111), nothing in this subpart relating to the payment of premium pay on an annual basis may be construed to decrease the existing aggregate rate of pay of an employee on the rolls of an agency immediately before the date section 5545(c) of title 5, United States Code, is made applicable to him by administrative action.
(b) When it is necessary to determine an employee's existing aggregate rate of pay (referred to in this section as existing aggregate rate), an agency shall determine it on the basis of the earnings the employee would have received over an appropriate period (generally 1 year) if his tour of duty immediately before the date section 5545(c) of title 5, United States Code, is made applicable to him had remained the same. In making this determination, basic pay and premium pay for overtime, night, holiday, and Sunday work are included in the earnings the employee would have received. Premium pay for irregular or occasional overtime work may be included only if it was of a significant amount in the past and the conditions which required it are expected to continue.
(c) An agency shall recompute an employee's rate of pay based on premium pay on an annual basis when he received subsequent increases in his rate of basic pay in order to determine whether or not the employee should continue to receive an existing aggregate rate or be paid premium pay on an annual basis.
(d) Except as otherwise provided by statute, an agency may not use subsequent increases in an employee's rate of basic pay to redetermine or increase the employee's existing aggregate rate. However, these increases shall be used for other pay purposes, such as the computation of retirement deductions and annuities, payment of overseas allowances and post differentials, and determination of the highest previous rate under part 531 of this chapter.
(e) When an agency elects to pay an employee premium pay on an annual basis, he is entitled to continue to receive hourly premium pay properly payable under sections 5542, 5543, 5545 (a) and (b), and 5546 of title 5, United States Code, until his base pay plus premium pay on an annual basis equals or exceeds his existing aggregate rate. When this occurs, the agency shall pay the employee his base pay plus premium pay on an annual basis.
(f) Except when terminated under paragraph (e) of this section, an agency shall continue to pay an employee an existing aggregate rate so long as:
(1) He remains in a position to which § 550.141, § 550.151, or § 550.162(c) is applicable;
(2) His tour of duty does not decrease in length; and
(3) He continues to perform equivalent night, holiday, and irregular or occasional overtime work.
(g) If an employee who is entitled to an existing aggregate rate moves from one position to another in the same agency, both of which are within the scope of section 5545(c) of title 5, United States Code, he is entitled to be paid an existing aggregate rate in the new position such as he would have received had he occupied that position
when the agency elected to make section 5545(c) applicable to it.

# Pay for Sunday Work
§ 550.171
Authorization of pay for Sunday work.
(a) An employee is entitled to pay at his or her rate of basic pay plus premium pay at a rate equal to 25 percent of his or her rate of basic pay for each hour of Sunday work (as defined in § 550.103).
(b) An employee is not entitled to Sunday premium pay while engaged in training, except as provided in § 410.402 of this chapter.
[60 FR 33098, June 27, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 67287, Dec. 29, 1995; 64 FR 69175, Dec. 10, 1999; 72 FR 12036, Mar. 15, 2007; 76 FR 52539, Aug. 23, 2011]
§ 550.172
Relation to overtime, night, and holiday pay.
(a) Premium pay for Sunday work is in addition to premium pay for holiday work, overtime pay, or night pay differential payable under this subpart and is not included in the rate of basic pay used to compute the pay for holiday work, overtime pay, or night pay differential.
(b) For a Border Patrol agent covered by 5 U.S.C. 5550 and subpart P of this part, no Sunday premium pay is payable for regularly scheduled overtime hours within the agent's regular tour of duty, as required by 5 U.S.C. 5550(b)(2)(C), (b)(3)(C), and (c)(1)(A). The overtime supplement payable for such scheduled overtime hours is not part of the agent's rate of basic pay used in computing the Sunday premium pay for other hours that qualify for such premium pay.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 80 FR 58111, Sept. 25, 2015]

# Law Enforcement Availability Pay
§ 550.181
Coverage.
(a) Each employee meeting the definition of
criminal investigator
in § 550.103, and fulfilling the conditions and requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5545a and §§ 550.181 through 550.186, must receive availability pay to compensate the criminal investigator for unscheduled duty in excess of the 40-hour workweek based on the needs of the employing agency, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Any Office of Inspector General that employs fewer than five criminal investigators may elect not to cover such criminal investigators under the availability pay provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5545a.
[64 FR 4520, Jan. 29, 1999]
§ 550.182
Unscheduled duty.
(a)
Unscheduled Duty Hours.
For the purpose of availability pay, unscheduled duty hours are those hours during which a criminal investigator performs work, or (except for a special agent in the Diplomatic Security Service) is determined by the employing agency to be available for work, that are not—
(1) Part of the 40-hour basic workweek of the investigator; or
(2) Regularly scheduled overtime hours compensated under 5 U.S.C. 5542 and § 550.111.
(b)
Regularly Scheduled Overtime Hours.
For criminal investigators receiving availability pay, regularly scheduled overtime hours compensated under 5 U.S.C. 5542 and § 550.111 are those overtime hours scheduled in advance of the investigator's administrative workweek, excluding—
(1) The first 2 hours of overtime work on any day containing a part of the investigator's basic 40-hour workweek, as required by § 550.111(f)(1)); or
(2) The first 2 hours of overtime work performing protective duties authorized by section 3056(a) of title 18, United States Code, or section 2709(a)(3) of title 22, United States Code, on any day containing a part of the investigator's basic 40-hour workweek, unless the investigator performs 2 or more consecutive hours of unscheduled overtime work on that same day.
(c)
Actual work hours.
To be considered to be performing work under paragraph (a) of this section, a criminal investigator must be performing work as officially ordered or approved, including work performed without specific supervisory preapproval, if circumstances require the criminal investigator to perform the duty to meet the needs of the employing agency,
subject to agency policies and procedures (including any requirements for after-the-fact validation or approval).
(d)
Availability Hours.
To be considered available for work under paragraph (a) of this section, a criminal investigator must be determined by the employing agency to be generally and reasonably accessible to perform unscheduled duty based on the needs of the agency. Generally, the agency will place the investigator in availability status by directing the investigator to be available during designated periods to meet agency needs, as provided by agency policies and procedures. Placing the investigator in availability status is not considered scheduling the investigator for overtime hours compensated under 5 U.S.C. 5542 and § 550.111. Availability hours may include hours during which an investigator places himself or herself in availability status to meet the needs of the agency, subject to agency policies and procedures (including any requirements for after-the-fact validation or approval). A special agent in the Diplomatic Security Service may not be credited with availability hours and will be credited with only hours actually worked.
(e)
Ensuring availability.
Except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, an employing agency shall ensure that each criminal investigator's hours of unscheduled duty are sufficient to enable the investigator to meet the substantial hours requirement in § 550.183 and make the certification required under § 550.184.
(f)
Voluntary opt-out.
Notwithstanding paragraph (d) of this section, an employing agency may, at its discretion, approve a criminal investigator's voluntary request that the investigator generally be assigned no overtime work (including unscheduled duty) for a designated period of time because of a personal or family hardship situation. The investigator must sign a written statement documenting this request and his or her understanding that availability pay will not be payable during the designated period.
(g)
When availability pay is suspended.
The employing agency is not subject to the requirement of paragraph (d) of this section in the case of a criminal investigator for whom availability pay is suspended in accordance with § 550.184(d) due to denial or cancellation of the required certification based on—
(1) Failure to perform unscheduled duty as assigned or reported; or
(2) Inability to perform unscheduled duty for an extended period because of a physical or health condition.
[59 FR 66151, Dec. 23, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 4520, Jan. 29, 1999]
§ 550.183
Substantial hours requirement.
(a) A criminal investigator shall be eligible for availability pay only if the annual average number of hours of unscheduled duty per regular workday is 2 hours or more, as certified in accordance with § 550.184. This average is computed by dividing the total unscheduled duty hours for the annual period (numerator) by the number of regular workdays (denominator).
(b) For the purpose of this section,
regular workday
means each day in the criminal investigator's basic workweek during which the investigator works at least 4 hours, excluding—
(1) Overtime hours compensated under 5 U.S.C. 5542 and § 550.111;
(2) Unscheduled duty hours compensated by availability pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545a and this subpart; and
(3) Hours during which an investigator is engaged in agency-approved training, is traveling under official travel orders, is on approved leave, or is on excused absence with pay (including paid holidays).
(c) In computing average hours under paragraph (a) of this section, the total unscheduled duty hours in the numerator shall include—
(1) Any unscheduled duty hours on a regular workday; and
(2) Any unscheduled duty hours actually worked by an investigator on days that are not regular workdays.
[59 FR 66151, Dec. 23, 1994]
§ 550.184
Annual certification.
(a) Each newly hired criminal investigator who will receive availability pay and the appropriate supervisory officer (as designated by the head of the agency or authorized designee) shall
make an initial certification to the head of the agency attesting that the investigator is expected to meet the substantial hours requirement in § 550.183 during the upcoming 1-year period. A similar certification shall be made for a criminal investigator who will begin receiving availability pay after a period of nonreceipt (e.g., a designated voluntary opt-out period under § 550.182(e)).
(b) Each criminal investigator who is receiving availability pay and the appropriate supervisory officer (as designated by the head of the agency or authorized designee) shall make an annual certification to the head of the agency attesting that the investigator currently meets, and is expected to continue to meet during the upcoming 1-year period, the substantial hours requirement in § 550.183.
(c) A certification shall no longer apply when the employee separates from Federal service, is employed by another agency, moves to a position that does not qualify as a criminal investigator position, or begins a voluntary opt-out period under § 550.182(e).
(d) The employing agency shall ensure that criminal investigators receiving availability pay comply with the substantial hours requirement in § 550.183, as certified in accordance with this section. The employing agency may deny or cancel a certification based on a finding that an investigator has failed to perform unscheduled duty (availability or work) as assigned or reported, or is unable to perform unscheduled duty for an extended period due to physical or health reasons. If a certification is denied or canceled, the investigator's entitlement to availability pay shall be suspended for an appropriate period, consistent with agency policies. If the investigator's certification was valid when made, the suspension of availability pay shall be effected prospectively.
(e) An involuntary suspension of availability pay resulting from a denial or cancellation of certification under paragraph (d) of this section is a reduction in pay for the purpose of applying the adverse action procedures of 5 U.S.C. 7512 and part 752 of this chapter, except for special agents in the Foreign Service. For special agents in the Foreign Service, an involuntary suspension of availability pay resulting from a denial or cancellation of certification under paragraph (d) of this section will be administered under procedures established by regulations of the Department of State.
(f) The head of an agency (or authorized designee) may prescribe any additional regulations necessary to administer the certification requirement, including procedures for retroactive correction in cases in which a certification is issued belatedly or lapses due to administrative error.
[59 FR 66151, Dec. 23, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 4520, Jan. 29, 1999]
§ 550.185
Payment of availability pay.
(a) Availability pay is paid only for periods of time during which a criminal investigator receives basic pay. Availability pay is an amount equal to the lesser of—(1) 25 percent of a criminal investigator's rate of basic pay, as defined in § 550.103, including amounts designated as “salary” for special agents in the Diplomatic Security Service; or
(2) The maximum amount that may be paid to avoid exceeding the maximum earnings limitation on premium pay for law enforcement officers in 5 U.S.C. 5547(c).
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a criminal investigator who is eligible for availability pay shall continue to receive such pay during any period such investigator is attending agency-sanctioned training, on agency-ordered travel status, on agency-approved leave with pay, or on excused absence with pay for relocation purposes.
(c) Agencies may, at their discretion, provide availability pay to criminal investigators during training that is considered initial, basic training usually provided in the first year of service.
(d) Agencies may, at their discretion, provide for the continuation of availability pay when a criminal investigator is on excused absence with pay, except where payment is mandatory under paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) The amount of availability pay payable to a criminal investigator for a
pay period is not affected by the occurrence of a paid holiday during that period.
[59 FR 66151, Dec. 23, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 67287, Dec. 29, 1995; 64 FR 4521, Jan. 29, 1999]
§ 550.186
Relationship to other payments.
(a) Standby duty pay under § 550.141 and administratively uncontrollable overtime pay under § 550.151 may not be paid to a criminal investigator receiving availability pay. Receipt of availability pay does not affect an investigator's entitlement to other types of premium pay (including overtime pay under § 550.111) based on hours other than unscheduled duty hours. However, a criminal investigator receiving availability pay may not be paid any other premium pay based on unscheduled duty hours.
(b) Availability pay is treated as part of basic pay or basic salary only for the following purposes:
(1) 5 U.S.C. 5524a, pertaining to advances in pay;
(2) 5 U.S.C. 5595(c), pertaining to severance pay;
(3) 5 U.S.C. 8114(e), pertaining to workers' compensation;
(4) 5 U.S.C. 8331(3) and 5 U.S.C. 8401(4), pertaining to retirement benefits;
(5) Subchapter III of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, pertaining to the Thrift Savings Plan;
(6) 5 U.S.C. 8704(c), pertaining to life insurance;
(7) Sections 609(b)(1), 805, 806, and 856 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended (Pub. L. 96-465), pertaining to Foreign Service retirement benefits; and
(8) For any other purposes explicitly provided for by law or as the Office of Personnel Management or the Secretary of State (for matters exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Secretary) may prescribe by regulation.
(c) The minimum wage and the hours of work and overtime pay provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act do not apply to criminal investigators receiving availability pay.
[59 FR 66151, Dec. 23, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 4521, Jan. 29, 1999; 64 FR 36771, July 8, 1999]
§ 550.187
Transitional provisions.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, not later than the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after October 30, 1994, each criminal investigator qualified to receive availability pay and the appropriate supervisory officer (as designated by the agency head or authorized designee) shall make an initial certification to the head of the agency that the investigator is expected to meet the substantial hours requirement in § 550.183. The head of an agency may prescribe procedures necessary to administer this paragraph.
(b)(1) In the case of criminal investigators who are employed in offices of Inspectors General and who, immediately prior to September 30, 1994, were not receiving administratively uncontrollable overtime pay, or were receiving such pay at a rate of less than 25 percent, the employing office may delay implementation of availability pay; however, availability pay shall be implemented (in accordance with §§ 550.181 through 550.186) no later than—
(i) September 30, 1995, for investigators who are not receiving administratively uncontrollable overtime pay; or
(ii) The first day of the last pay period ending on or before September 30, 1995, for investigators who were receiving administratively uncontrollable overtime pay at a rate of less than 25 percent immediately prior to September 30, 1994.
(2) A criminal investigator who is employed in an Inspector General office and was receiving administratively uncontrollable overtime pay at a rate of less than 25 percent immediately prior to September 30, 1994, shall continue to receive at least that rate or a higher rate, if increased by the employing agency, until the availability pay provision is implemented for the position (no later than as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section).
(3) Implementation of availability pay for criminal investigators under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be in accordance with the requirements and conditions set forth in §§ 550.181 through 550.186. For qualified investigators, an initial certification shall
be made, consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.
[59 FR 66151, Dec. 23, 1994]

# Subpart B—Advances in Pay

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5524a, 5527, 5545a(h)(2)(B), 5550(d)(1)(B); E.O. 12748, 3 CFR, 1992 comp., p. 316.

# Source:
56 FR 12837, Mar. 28, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.201
Purpose.
This subpart provides regulations to implement 5 U.S.C. 5524a which provides that the head of each agency may make advance payments of basic pay, covering not more than 2 pay periods, to any individual who is newly appointed to a position in the agency.
§ 550.202
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
means an Executive agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.
Employee
means an individual employed in or under an agency who is appointed to a position with a scheduled tour of duty.
Head of agency
means the head of an agency or an official who has been delegated the authority to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Newly appointed
means—
(a) The first appointment, regardless of tenure, as an employee of the Federal Government;
(b) A new appointment following a break in service of at least 90 days; or
(c) A permanent appointment in the competitive service following termination of employment in an Internship Program (as described in 5 CFR part 362, subpart B), provided such employee—
(1) Was separated from the service, in a nonpay status, or a combination of both during the entire 90-day period immediately before the permanent appointment; and
(2) Has fully repaid any former advance in pay under § 550.205.
Offset
or
setoff
means repayment in installments of an advance in pay by payroll deductions or an administrative offset under subpart K of this part to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 from an indebted Government employee.
Pay period
means the pay period established by an agency for an employee under 5 U.S.C. 5504.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee, excluding additional pay of any kind except the following, as applicable:
(1) Any locality payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; special rate supplement under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; or similar payment or supplement under other legal authority;
(2) Annual premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c) or availability pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545a;
(3) Straight-time pay for regular overtime hours for firefighters under 5 U.S.C. 5545b (as provided in § 550.1305(b));
(4) Night differential for prevailing rate employees under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f); and
(5) An overtime supplement for regularly scheduled overtime within a Border Patrol agent's regular tour of duty under 5 U.S.C. 5550 (as allowed under 5 U.S.C. 5550(d)(1)(B)).
[56 FR 12837, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 2435, Jan. 22, 1992; 58 FR 41625, Aug. 5, 1993; 59 FR 66153, Dec. 23, 1994; 61 FR 3543, Feb. 1, 1996; 63 FR 64592, Nov. 23, 1998; 64 FR 69176, Dec. 10, 1999; 70 FR 31313, May 31, 2005; 73 FR 66156, Nov. 7, 2008; 77 FR 28223, May 11, 2012; 80 FR 58111, Sept. 25, 2015]
§ 550.203
Advances in pay.
(a) The head of an agency may provide for the advance payment of basic pay, in one or more installments covering not more than 2 pay periods, to an employee who is newly appointed to a position in the agency.
(b) The maximum amount of pay that may be advanced to an employee shall be based on the rate of basic pay to which the employee is entitled on the date of his or her new appointment with the agency, reduced by the amount of any allotments or deductions that would normally be deducted from the employee's first regular paycheck.
(c) An advance in pay may be made to an employee no earlier than the date of appointment with the agency and no
later than 60 days after the date of appointment.
(d) An advance in pay under this subpart may not be made to any employee when an agency expects to make an advance in pay to the same employee under 5 U.S.C. 5927 within 2 pay periods after the employee's appointment.
(e) An advance in pay may not be made to the head of an agency or to an employee appointed to a position in the expectation of receiving an appointment as the head of an agency.
[56 FR 12837, Mar. 28, 1991; 56 FR 40360, Aug. 14, 1991; 58 FR 41625, Aug. 5, 1993]
§ 550.204
Agency procedures.
(a) Each agency shall establish written procedures governing advance payments. These procedures shall include—
(1) Criteria to be considered before approval or denial of employee requests for advance payments;
(2) Criteria to be considered before waiving all or part of advance payments; and
(3) Processing and accounting procedures governing advance payments.
(b) Before making an advance payment, an agency shall require that the employee sign an agreement to repay to the Federal Government any amount for which repayment has not been waived by the agency head under § 550.206 of this part.
(c) Before making an advance payment, an agency shall provide the following information to the employee in writing:
(1) A statement indicating how the advance in pay will be recovered from the employee by the Federal Government, either in installments under agency procedures for payroll deductions or by salary offset procedures under subpart K of this part;
(2) The total amount of the advance in pay, the total number of pay periods for repayment of the advance in pay, and the amount that will be deducted from the pay of the employee by payroll deductions or salary offset for each pay period;
(3) A statement indicating that the employee may prepay all or part of the balance of the advance payment at any time before the money is due, including instructions as to where and how such prepayments may be made.
(4) A statement indicating that the amount of the advance in pay not yet repaid by an employee or waived by the agency head is due and must be repaid by the employee if the employee transfers to another agency or the individual's employment with the agency is terminated for any reason; and
(5) A statement indicating that any amount of the remaining balance of the advance in pay that has not been waived or repaid by the employee on transfer or termination for any reason must be recovered by salary offset under subpart K of this part and/or by such other method as is provided by law.
(d) The head of an agency may establish procedures under which an employee is permitted to make allotments out of an advance in pay for such purposes as the head of the agency considers appropriate.
[56 FR 12837, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 41625, Aug. 5, 1993]
§ 550.205
Recovery of advances in pay.
(a) Unless repayment is waived in whole or in part under § 550.206 of this part, an agency shall recover an advance in pay by installments under agency procedures for payroll deductions or by salary offset procedures established under subpart K of this part. An employee may prepay all or part of the remaining balance of an advance in pay at any time before payments are due.
(b) An agency shall establish a recovery period for each employee to repay an advance in pay, but no agency may establish a recovery period of longer than 14 pay periods beginning on the date the advance in pay is made to the employee under § 550.203 of this part. If a longer period for recovery is necessary to avoid exceeding the limitation on deductions described in § 550.1104(i) of this part, recovery may be accomplished under salary offset procedures established under subpart K of this part. Upon written request, an employee may elect a recovery period of less than 14 pay periods.
(c) If an employee transfers to another agency or employment with an agency is terminated for any reason,
the remaining balance of an advance in pay not yet repaid is due and must be repaid to the Federal Government unless repayment is waived in whole or in part under § 550.206 of this part.
(d) Any remaining balance of an advance in pay that has not been waived under § 550.206 of this part or repaid by an employee upon transfer or termination of employment must be recovered by an agency using procedures for salary offset under subpart K of this part and/or by such other method as is provided by law.
[56 FR 12837, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 41625, Aug. 5, 1993; 64 FR 69176, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.206
Waiver of repayment.
The head of an agency may waive in whole or in part a right of recovery of an advance payment under 5 U.S.C. 5524a and this subpart if he or she determines that recovery would be against equity and good conscience or against the public interest under criteria established by the agency.

# Subpart C—Allotments From Federal Employees

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5527, E.O. 10982, 3 CFR 1959-1963 Comp., p. 502.

# Source:
46 FR 2325, Jan. 9, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 550.301
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
means an Executive agency as defined by section 105 of Title 5, United States Code.
Allotment
means a recurring specified deduction for a legal purpose from pay authorized by an employee to be paid to an allottee.
Allottee
means the person or institution to whom an allotment is made payable.
Allotter
means the employee from whose pay an allotment is made.
Association of management officials and/or supervisors
means an association composed of either management officials and/or supervisors with which the agency has established official relationships.
Combined Federal Campaign
means an organization of voluntary health and welfare agencies authorized to solicit charitable contributions in a local area in accordance with arrangements prescribed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management under Executive Order 10927.
Continental United States
means the several States and the District of Columbia, but excluding Alaska and Hawaii.
Dues
means the regular periodic amount specified by an allotter to be withheld from his or her pay which is required to maintain the allotter as a member in good standing in a labor organization or association of management officials and/or supervisors or other organization.
Employee
means an employee of an agency who satisfies the definition of that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.
Foreign affairs agency
means the Department of State, the International Communications Agency, the Agency for International Development and its successor agency or agencies.
Labor organization
means a labor organization as defined by section 7103(a)(4) of title 5, United States Code, unless specified otherwise.
[46 FR 2325, Jan. 9, 1981, as amended at 65 FR 44644, July 19, 2000; 71 FR 66828, Nov. 17, 2006]

# General Provisions
§ 550.311
Authority of agency.
(a)
Mandatory allotments.
An agency must permit an employee to make—
(1) An allotment for dues to a labor organization under section 7115 of Title 5, United States Code;
(2) An allotment for dues to an association of management officials and/or supervisors under § 550.331;
(3) An allotment for charitable contributions to a Combined Federal Campaign under § 550.341;
(4) An allotment for income tax withholding under § 550.351;
(5) Two or more allotments to an employee's personal account(s) at a financial organization;
(6) An allotment for child support and/or alimony payments under § 550.361; and
(7) Any allotment effecting a salary reduction as part of a flexible benefits
plan established by the Office of Personnel Management in conformance with section 125 of title 26, United States Code.
(b)
Discretionary allotments.
In addition to those allotments provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, an agency may permit an employee to make an allotment for any legal purpose deemed appropriate by the head of the agency (or designee). This paragraph does not constitute an independent authority for an agency to permit pretax allotments in addition to those authorized by the Office of Personnel Management as described in paragraph (a)(7) of this section.
(c) The head of an agency may prescribe such additional regulations governing allotments as appropriate which are consistent with subchapter III of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart. Discretionary allotments under this subpart may be limited in number as determined appropriate by the head of the agency.
[46 FR 2325, Jan. 9, 1981, as amended at 64 FR 69176, Dec. 10, 1999; 65 FR 44644, July 19, 2000; 66 FR 49086, Sept. 26, 2001; 66 FR 67477, Dec. 31, 2001; 71 FR 66828, Nov. 17, 1006]
§ 550.312
General limitations.
(a) The allotter must specifically designate the allottee and the amount of the allotment.
(b) The total amount of allotments may not exceed the pay due the allotter for a particular period.
(c) The allotter must personally authorize a change or cancellation of an allotment.
(d) The agency has no liability in connection with any authorized allotment disbursed by the agency in accordance with the allotter's request.
(e) Any disputes regarding any authorized allotment are a matter between the allotter and the allottee.
(f) Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, an agency may make an allotment for an employee's share of Federal Employees Health Benefits premiums under § 550.311(a)(7) and part 892 of this chapter without specific authorization from the employee, unless the employee specifically waives such allotment. Agency procedures for processing employee waivers must be consistent with procedures established by the Office of Personnel Management. (See part 892 of this chapter.)
[46 FR 2325, Jan. 9, 1981, as amended at 64 FR 69176, Dec. 10, 1999; 65 FR 44644, July 19, 2000; 71 FR 66828, Nov. 17, 2006]

# Labor Organization
§ 550.321
Authority.
Section 7115, title 5, United States Code, authorizes an employee to make an allotment for dues to a labor organization as defined in subchapter 1 of chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code. Such an allotment shall be effected in accordance with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
§ 550.322
Saving provision.
An agency shall permit a supervisor who so desires, to continue an allotment of dues to a labor organization as defined by section 2(e) of Executive Order 11491, as amended, which was permissible when the supervisor was excluded from a formal or exclusive unit by reason of the requirements of former section 24(d) of this Order.

# Association of Management Officials and/or Supervisors
§ 550.331
Scope.
An agency shall permit an employee to make an allotment for dues to an association of management officials and/or supervisors when the employee is a supervisor or management official, and the employee is a member of an association of management officials and/or supervisors with which the agency has agreed in writing to deduct allotments for the payment of dues to the association.

# Combined Federal Campaign
§ 550.341
Scope.
An agency must permit an employee to make an allotment for charitable contributions to a Combined Federal Campaign in accordance with § 950.901 of this chapter.
[64 FR 69176, Dec. 10, 1999]

# Income Tax Withholding
§ 550.351
Scope.
When an employee has a legal obligation to pay, but the agency has no legal obligation to withhold, State, District of Columbia, or local income or employment taxes, an agency shall permit an employee to make an allotment for payment of the taxes.

# Alimony and/or Child Support
§ 550.361
Scope.
An agency shall permit an employee to make an allotment for alimony and/or child support when he or she voluntarily elects to do so. However, this provision does not apply to garnishment orders issued to enforce child support and/or alimony obligations which are codified at part 581 of this title.
[46 FR 2325, Jan. 9, 1981. Redesignated at 71 FR 66828, Nov. 17, 2006]

# Foreign Affairs Agency Organizations
§ 550.371
Scope.
If an agency permits an employee to make an allotment for dues to a foreign affairs agency organization, the agency must also provide, in accordance with section 15 of Executive Order 11636:
(a) that the employee be allowed to revoke the authorization at least every six months; and
(b) that the allotment terminates when the dues withholding agreement between a foreign affairs agency and the organization is terminated or ceases to be applicable to the employee.
[46 FR 2325, Jan. 9, 1981. Redesignated at 71 FR 66828, Nov. 17, 2006]

# Subpart D—Payments During Evacuation

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5527; E.O. 10982, 3 CFR 1959-1963, p. 502.

# Source:
59 FR 66632, Dec. 28, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.401
Purpose, applicability, authority, and administration.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart provides regulations to administer subchapter III (except sections 5524a and 5525) of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code. The regulations provide for Governmentwide uniformity in making payments during an evacuation to employees or their dependents, or both, who are evacuated in the United States because of natural disasters or for military or other reasons that create imminent danger to their lives.
(b)
Applicability.
This subpart applies to—
(1) Executive agencies, as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
(2) Employees of an agency who are U.S. citizens or who are U.S. nationals;
(3) Employees of an agency who are not citizens or nationals of the United States, but who were recruited with a transportation agreement that provides return transportation to the area from which recruited; and
(4) Alien employees of an agency hired within the United States.
(c)
Authority.
The head of an agency may make advance payments and evacuation payments and pay special allowances as provided by this subpart. If the head of an agency proposes to issue regulations that deviate from the provisions of this subpart, prior approval of the agency regulations, as required by section 4(b) of Executive Order 10982 of December 25, 1961, must be secured from the Office of Personnel Management.
(d)
Administration.
The head of an agency having employees subject to this subpart is responsible for the proper administration of this subpart. Payment of advance payments and evacuation payments and any required adjustments shall be made in accordance with procedures established by the agency.
[59 FR 66632, Dec. 28, 1994, as amended at 65 FR 41869, July 7, 2000]
§ 550.402
Definitions.
Agency
means an Executive agency, as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
Day
means a calendar day, except when otherwise specified by the head of an agency.
Dependent
means a family member of the employee residing with the employee and dependent on the employee for support.
Designated representative
means a person 16 years of age or over who is named by an employee for the purpose of caring for a dependent.
Domestic partner
means a person in a domestic partnership with an employee or annuitant of the same sex.
Domestic partnership
means a committed relationship between two adults of the same sex in which the partners—
(1) Are each other's sole domestic partner and intend to remain so indefinitely;
(2) Maintain a common residence, and intend to continue to do so (or would maintain a common residence but for an assignment abroad or other employment-related, financial, or similar obstacle);
(3) Are at least 18 years of age and mentally competent to consent to contract;
(4) Share responsibility for a significant measure of each other's financial obligations;
(5) Are not married or joined in a civil union to anyone else;
(6) Are not the domestic partner of anyone else;
(7) Are not related in a way that, if they were of opposite sex, would prohibit legal marriage in the U.S. jurisdiction in which the domestic partnership was formed;
(8) Are willing to certify, if required by the agency, that they understand that willful falsification of any documentation required to establish that an individual is in a domestic partnership may lead to disciplinary action and the recovery of the cost of benefits received related to such falsification, as well as constitute a criminal violation under 18 U.S.C. 1001, and that the method for securing such certification, if required, will be determined by the agency; and
(9) Are willing promptly to disclose, if required by the agency, any dissolution or material change in the status of the domestic partnership.
Evacuated employee
means an employee of an agency who has received an order to evacuate.
Family member
means an individual with any of the following relationships to the employee:
(1) Spouse, and parents thereof;
(2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof;
(3) Parents, and spouses thereof;
(4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof;
(5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof;
(6) Domestic partner, and children and parents thereof, including a domestic partner of any individual in paragraphs (2)-(5) of this definition; and
(7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.
Order to evacuate
means an oral or written order to evacuate an employee from an assigned area.
Safe haven
means a designated area to which an employee or dependent will be or has been evacuated.
United States
means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands, and any territory or possession of the United States.
[59 FR 66632, Dec. 28, 1994, as amended at 65 FR 41869, July 7, 2000; 77 FR 42904, July 20, 2012]
§ 550.403
Advance payments; evacuation payments; special allowances.
(a) An advance payment of pay, allowances, and differentials may be made to an employee who has received an order to evacuate, provided that, in the opinion of the agency head or designated official, payment in advance of the date on which an employee otherwise would be entitled to be paid is required to help the employee defray immediate expenses incidental to the evacuation.
(b) Evacuation payments of pay, allowances, and differentials may be made to an employee during an evacuation and shall be paid on the employee's regular pay days when feasible.
(c) Special allowances, including travel expenses and per diem, may be paid to evacuated employees to offset
any direct added expenses that are incurred by the employee as a result of his or her evacuation or the evacuation of his or her dependents.
(d) An advance payment or an evacuation payment may be paid to the employee, a dependent 16 years of age or over, or a designated representative. When payment is made to someone other than the employee, prior written authorization by the employee must have been provided to the authorizing agency official.
(e) Any agency may make payments in an evacuation situation to an employee of another Federal agency (or his or her dependent(s) or personal representative) who has received an order to evacuate. When a payment is made under this subpart by an agency other than the employee's agency, the agency making the payment shall immediately report the amount and date of the payment to the employee's agency in order that prompt reimbursement may be made.
§ 550.404
Computation of advance payments and evacuation payments; time periods.
(a) Payments shall be based on the rate of pay (including allowances, differentials, or other authorized payments) to which the employee was entitled immediately before the issuance of the order of evacuation. All deductions authorized by law, such as retirement or social security deductions, authorized allotments, Federal withholding taxes, and others, when applicable, shall be made before advance payments or evacuation payments are made.
(b)(1) The amount of advance payments shall cover a time period not to exceed 30 days or a lesser number of days, as determined by the authorizing agency official.
(2) Evacuation payments shall cover the period of time during which the order to evacuate remains in effect, unless terminated earlier, but shall not exceed 180 days. When feasible, evacuation payments shall be paid on the employee's regular pay days.
(c) When an advance payment has been made to or for the account of an employee, the amount of the advance payment shall not diminish the amount of the evacuation payments that would otherwise be due the employee.
(d)(1) For full-time and part-time employees, the amount of an advance payment or an evacuation payment shall be computed on the basis of the number of regularly scheduled workdays for the time period covered.
(2) For intermittent employees, the amount of an advance payment or evacuation payment shall be computed on the basis of the number of days on which the employee would be expected to work during the time period covered. The number of days shall be determined, whenever possible, by approximating the number of days per week normally worked by the employee during an average 6-week period, as determined by the agency.
[59 FR 66633, Dec. 28, 1994; 60 FR 3303, Jan. 13, 1995]
§ 550.405
Determination of special allowances.
In determining the direct added expenses that may be payable as special allowances, the following shall be considered:
(a) An agency must determine the travel expenses and per diem for an evacuated employee and the travel expenses for his or her dependents in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR) and any applicable implementing agency regulations, whether or not the employee or dependents are actually covered by or subject to the FTR. In addition, an agency may authorize per diem for dependents of an evacuated employee at a rate equal to the rate payable to the employee, as determined in accordance with the FTR (except that the rate for dependents under 12 years of age is one-half this rate), whether or not the employee or dependents are actually covered by or subject to the FTR. Per diem for an employee and his or her dependents is payable from the date of departure from the evacuated area through the date of arrival at the safe haven, including any period of delay en route that is beyond an evacuee's control or that may result from evacuation travel arrangements.
(b) Subsistence expenses for an evacuated employee or his or her dependents shall be determined at applicable per diem rates for the safe haven or for a station other than the safe haven that has been approved by appropriate authority. Such subsistence expenses shall begin to be paid on the date following arrival and may continue until terminated. The subsistence expenses shall be computed on a daily rate basis, as follows:
(1) An agency must compute the applicable maximum per diem rate by using the “lodgings-plus per diem system,” as defined in the FTR, for the employee and each dependent who is 12 years of age or over. For each dependent under 12 years of age, the per diem rate is one-half of the applicable maximum per diem rate for employees and dependents who are 12 years of age or over. An agency may pay these maximum rates for a period not to exceed the first 30 days of evacuation.
(2) If, after expiration of the 30-day period, the evacuation has not been terminated, the per diem rate shall be computed at 60 percent of the rates prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section until a determination is made by the agency that subsistence expenses are no longer authorized. This rate may be paid for a period not to exceed 180 days after the effective date of the order to evacuate.
(3) The daily rate of the subsistence expense allowance actually paid an employee shall be either a rate determined in accordance with paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section or a lower rate determined by the agency to be appropriate for necessary living expenses.
(c) Payment of subsistence expenses shall be decreased by the applicable per-person amount for any period during which the employee is authorized regular travel per diem in accordance with the FTR.
[59 FR 66632, Dec. 28, 1994, as amended at 65 FR 41869, July 7, 2000]
§ 550.406
Work assignments during evacuation; return to duty.
(a) Evacuated employees at safe havens may be assigned to perform any work considered necessary or required to be performed during the period of the evacuation without regard to the grades or titles of the employees. Failure or refusal to perform assigned work may be a basis for terminating further evacuation payments.
(b) When part-time employees are given assigned work at the safe haven, records of the number of hours worked shall be maintained so that payment may be made for any hours of work that are greater than the number of hours on which evacuation payments are computed.
(c) Not later than 180 days after the effective date of the order to evacuate, or when the emergency or evacuation situation is terminated, whichever is earlier, an employee must be returned to his or her regular duty station, or appropriate action must be taken to reassign him or her to another duty station.
§ 550.407
Termination of payments during evacuation.
Advance payments or evacuation payments terminate when the agency determines that—
(a) The employee is assigned to another duty station outside the evacuation area;
(b) The employee abandons or is otherwise separated from his or her position;
(c) The employee's employment is terminated by his or her transfer to retirement rolls or other type of annuity based on cessation of civilian employment;
(d) The employee resumes his or her duties at the duty station from which he or she was evacuated;
(e) The agency determines that payments are no longer warranted; or
(f) The date the employee is determined to be covered by the Missing Persons Act (50 App. U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
), unless payment is earlier terminated under these regulations.
§ 550.408
Review of accounts; service credit.
(a) The payroll office having jurisdiction over the employee's account shall review each employee's account for the purpose of making adjustments at the earliest possible date after the evacuation is terminated (or earlier if the
circumstances justify), after the employee returns to his or her assigned duty station, or when the employee is reassigned officially.
(b) The employee's pay shall be adjusted on the basis of the rates of pay, allowances, or differentials, if any, to which he or she would otherwise have been entitled under all applicable statutes other than section 5527 of title 5, United States Code. Any adjustments in the employee's account shall also reflect advance payments made to the employee under § 550.403(a) of this subpart.
(c)(1) After an employee's account is reviewed as required by paragraph (a) of this section, if it is found that the employee is indebted for any part of the advance payment made to him or her or his or her dependent(s) or designated representative, recovery of the indebtedness shall be effected by the payroll office having jurisdiction over the employee's account, unless a waiver of recovery has been approved. Repayment of the indebtedness may be made either in full or in partial payments, as determined by the head of the agency or designated official.
(2) Recovery of indebtedness for advance payment shall not be required when it is determined by the head of the agency or designated official that the recovery would be against equity or good conscience or against the public interest. Findings that formed the basis for waiver of recovery shall be filed in the employee's personnel folder on the permanent side.
(d) For the period or periods covered by any payments made under this subpart, the employee shall be considered as performing active Federal service in his or her position without a break in service.
§ 550.409
Evacuation payments during a pandemic health crisis.
(a) An agency may order one or more employees to evacuate from their worksite and perform work from their home (or an alternative location mutually agreeable to the agency and the employee) during a pandemic health crisis without regard to whether the agency and the employee have a telework agreement in place at the time the order to evacuate is issued. Under these circumstances, an agency may designate the employee's home (or an alternative location mutually agreeable to the agency and the employee) as a safe haven and provide evacuation payments to the employee. An agency must compute the evacuation payments and determine the time period during which such payments will be made in accordance with § 550.404. An evacuated employee at a safe haven may be assigned to perform any work considered necessary or required to be performed during the period of evacuation without regard to his or her grade, level, or title. The employee must have the necessary knowledge and skills to perform the assigned work. Failure or refusal to perform assigned work may be a basis for terminating evacuation payments, as well as disciplinary action.
(b) The head of an agency, in his or her sole and exclusive discretion, may grant special allowance payments, based upon a case-by-case analysis, to offset the direct added expenses incidental to performing work from home (or an alternative location mutually agreeable to the agency and the employee) during a pandemic health crisis.
(c) An agency may terminate evacuation payments under the conditions listed in § 550.407. An agency must make any necessary adjustments in pay consistent with § 550.408 after the evacuation is terminated.
[71 FR 47693, Aug. 17, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 33148, June 15, 2007]

# Subpart E—Pay From More Than One Position

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5533.
§ 550.501
Scope.
(a)
Applicability.
(1) This subpart and section 5533 of title 5, United States Code, apply in determining an employee's entitlement to receive pay from more than one position.
(2) This subpart and section 5533(a) of title 5, United States Code, apply only to an employee holding more than one position when the aggregate number of hours worked during a week exceeds 40.
(b)
Coverage.
This subpart and section 5533(a) of title 5, United States Code, apply to each department and agency (including each corporation owned or controlled by the Government of the United States and including nonappropriated fund instrumentalities under the jurisdiction of the armed forces) in the legislative (except as provided in section 5533(c) of that title), judicial, and executive branches of the Government of the United States and to the government of the District of Columbia.
§ 550.502
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Employee
means a person holding a position.
Pay
means pay paid for services in a position but excludes fees paid on other than a time basis.
Position
has the meaning given that term by section 5531 of title 5, United States Code.
Week
means the period of 7 calendar days from Sunday through Saturday.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 60 FR 67287, Dec. 29, 1995]
§ 550.503
Exceptions in emergencies.
Section 5533(a) of title 5, United States Code, does not apply to pay from a position for services performed under emergency conditions relating to health, safety, protection of life or property, or national emergency.
§ 550.504
Other exceptions.
(a) When a department, agency, or the government of the District of Columbia encounters difficulty in obtaining employees to perform required personal services because of section 5533(a) of title 5, United States Code, it may make an exception from that section upon determining that the required services cannot be readily obtained otherwise. The exception shall specify the position(s) to which it applies.
(b) The Office of Personnel Management will publish exceptions of general application.
(5 U.S.C. 1104; Pub. L. 95-454, sec. 3(5))
[44 FR 54694, Sept. 21, 1979, as amended at 66 FR 66711, Dec. 27, 2001]
§ 550.505
Report to OPM.
OPM may require a department, agency, or the government of the District of Columbia to submit a periodic report on its use of the exceptions from section 5533(a) of title 5, United States Code.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968. Redesignated at 37 FR 22717, Oct. 21, 1972]

# Subpart F—Computation of Pay for Biweekly Pay Periods

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5504; Public Law 108-136, 117 Stat. 1637.

# Source:
70 FR 24477, May 10, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.601
Purpose.
This subpart provides regulations to implement 5 U.S.C. 5504 to compute pay on a biweekly pay period basis for employees in an agency, as defined in § 550.603.
§ 550.602
Coverage.
(a) This subpart applies to—
(1) An employee in or under an agency, except an employee excluded by paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) The head of an agency;
(3) The head of a military department, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102;
(4) A Foreign Service officer;
(5) A member of the Senior Foreign Service;
(6) A member of the Senior Executive Service; or
(7) A member of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration Senior Executive Service.
(b) This subpart does not apply to—
(1) An employee on the Isthmus of Panama in the service of the Panama Canal Commission; or
(2) An employee or individual excluded from the definition of employee in 5 U.S.C. 5541(2), except employees excluded by 5 U.S.C. 5541(2)(ii), (iii), and (xiv) through (xvii) are covered by this subpart.
§ 550.603
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Agency
means an executive agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.
Employee
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.
§ 550.604
Biweekly pay periods and computation of pay.
Agencies must apply the biweekly pay period and computation of pay provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5504 for employees covered by § 550.602(a).
§ 550.605
Exceptions.
An agency head or designee may deem that an employee excluded from coverage under § 550.602(b)(2) is covered by 5 U.S.C. 5504 in situations where he or she determines that continuing to calculate the pay of such employees on a monthly or other basis would diminish the level of services provided to the public by the agency. An agency head or designee also may deem that otherwise excluded employees are covered by 5 U.S.C. 5504 when he or she determines that computing the pay of such employees under that provision of law would provide cost savings in agency operations.
§ 550.606
Reporting exceptions to OPM.
Each agency must notify OPM in writing of any exceptions made under § 550.605.

# Subpart G—Severance Pay

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5595; E.O. 11257, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 357.

# Source:
55 FR 6593, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.701
Introduction.
This subpart contains regulations of the Office of Personnel Management to implement the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5595. These regulations authorize severance pay for employees who are involuntarily separated from Federal service and who meet other conditions of eligibility.
§ 550.702
Coverage.
Except as provided in 5 U.S.C. 5595(a)(2) (i) through (viii), this subpart applies to each full-time or part-time employee; that is, an employee with a regularly scheduled tour of duty who is serving under a qualifying appointment, as defined in § 550.703.
§ 550.703
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
means an agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5595(a)(1), except the government of the District of Columbia.
Commuting area
means the geographic area surrounding a work site that encompasses the localities where people live and reasonably can be expected to travel back and forth daily to work, as established by the employing agency based on the generally held expectations of the local community. When an employee's residence is within the standard commuting area for a work site, the work site is within the employee's commuting area. When an employee's residence is outside the standard commuting area for a proposed new work site, the employee's commuting area is deemed to include the expanded area surrounding the employee's residence and including all destinations that can be reached via a commuting trip that is not significantly more burdensome than the current commuting trip. This excludes a commuting trip from a residence where the employee planned to stay only temporarily until he or she could find a more permanent residence closer to his or her work site. For this purpose, a commuting trip to a new work site is considered significantly more burdensome if it would compel the employee to change his or her place of residence in order to continue employment, taking into account commuting time and distance, availability of public transportation, cost, and any other relevant factors.
Comparison rate
has the meaning given that term in § 536.103 of this chapter, except paragraph (2) of that definition should be used for the purpose of comparing grades or levels of work for all situations not covered by paragraph (1) of that definition.
Employed by the Government of the United States
refers to employment by any part of the Government of the United States, including the United States Postal Service and similar independent entities, but excluding enlistment or activation in the armed forces (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2101).
Employee
(for the purpose of establishing initial entitlement to severance pay upon separation) means an employee as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5595(a)(2), excluding an individual employed by the government of the District of Columbia.

# Note to definition of “employee”:
The term “individual employed” in 5 U.S.C. 5595(a)(2)(A) refers to an “employee” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105.
Immediate annuity
means—
(a) A recurring benefit payable under a retirement system applicable to Federal civilian employees or members of the uniformed services that the individual is eligible to receive (disregarding any offset described in § 550.704(b)(5)) at the time of the involuntary separation from civilian service or that begins to accrue within 1 month after such separation, excluding any Social Security retirement benefit; or
(b) A benefit that meets the conditions in paragraph (a) of this definition, except that the benefit begins to accrue more than 1 month after separation solely because the employee elected a later commencing date (such as allowed under § 842.204 of this chapter).
Inefficiency
means unacceptable performance or conduct that leads to a separation under part 432 or 752 of this chapter or an equivalent procedure.
Involuntary separation
means a separation initiated by an agency against the employee's will and without his or her consent for reasons other than inefficiency, including a separation resulting from the expiration of a time-limited appointment effected within 3 calendar days after separation from a qualifying appointment. In addition, when an employee is separated because he or she declines to accept reassignment outside his or her commuting area, the separation is “involuntary” if the employee's position description or other written agreement does not provide for such a reassignment. However, an employee's separation is not “involuntary” if, after such a written mobility agreement is added, the employee accepts one reassignment outside his or her commuting area, but subsequently declines another such reassignment.
Nonqualifying appointment
means an appointment that does not convey eligibility for severance pay under this subpart, including—
(a) An appointment at a noncovered agency;
(b) An appointment in which the employee has an intermittent work schedule;
(c) A Presidential appointment;
(d) An emergency appointment;
(e) An excepted appointment under Schedule C; a noncareer appointment in the Senior Executive Service, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a); or an equivalent appointment made for similar purposes; and
(f) A time-limited appointment (except for a time-limited appointment that is qualifying because it is made effective within 3 calendar days after separation from a qualifying appointment), including—
(1) A term appointment;
(2) An overseas limited appointment with a time limitation;
(3) A limited term or limited emergency appointment in the Senior Executive Service, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a), or an equivalent appointment made for similar purposes;
(4) A Veterans Recruitment Appointment under part 307 of this chapter; and
(5) A Presidential Management Fellows Program appointment under § 213.3402(c) of this chapter.
Qualifying appointment
means—
(a) A career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service or the equivalent in the excepted service;
(b) A career appointment in the Senior Executive Service;
(c) An excepted appointment without time limitation, except under Schedule C or an equivalent appointment made for similar purposes;
(d) An overseas limited appointment without time limitation;
(e) A status quo appointment, including one that becomes indefinite when the employee is promoted, demoted, or reassigned;
(f) A time-limited appointment in the Foreign Service, when the employee
was assigned under a statutory authority that carried entitlement to reemployment in the same agency, but this right of reemployment has expired; and
(g) A time-limited appointment (including a series of time-limited appointments by the same agency without any intervening break in service) for full-time employment that takes effect within 3 calendar days after the end of one of the qualifying appointments listed in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this definition, provided the time-limited appointment is not nonqualifying on grounds other than the time-limited nature of the appointment.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee, excluding additional pay of any kind except the following, as applicable:
(1) Any locality payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; special rate supplement under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; or similar payment or supplement under other legal authority;
(2) Annual premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c) or availability pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545a;
(3) Straight-time pay for regular overtime hours for firefighters under 5 U.S.C. 5545b (as provided in § 550.1305(b));
(4) Night differential for prevailing rate employees under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f); and
(5) An overtime supplement for regularly scheduled overtime within a Border Patrol agent's regular tour of duty under 5 U.S.C. 5550 (as required by 5 U.S.C. 5550(d)(1)(A)).
Reasonable offer
means the offer of a position that meets all the following conditions:
(a) The offer is in writing;
(b) The employee meets established qualification requirements; and
(c) The offered position is—
(1) In the employee's agency, including an agency to which the employee is transferred with his or her function in a transfer of functions between agencies;
(2) Within the employee's commuting area, unless geographic mobility is a condition of employment;
(3) Of equal or greater tenure and with the same work schedule (part-time or full-time); and
(4) Not lower than two grade or pay levels below the employee's current grade or pay level, without consideration of grade or pay retention under part 536 of this chapter or other authority. In movements between pay schedules or pay systems, the comparison rate of the offered position must not be lower than the comparison rate of the grade or pay level that is two grades below the grade of the current position on the same pay schedule as the current position.
Severance pay fund
means the total severance pay to which an employee is entitled during a single entitlement under 5 U.S.C. 5595. It includes a basic severance pay allowance and, where applicable, an age adjustment allowance, as computed under § 550.707.
[55 FR 6593, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 20342, May 3, 1991; 56 FR 23736, May 23, 1991; 57 FR 59279, Dec. 15, 1992; 58 FR 58262, Nov. 1, 1993; 59 FR 66153, Dec. 23, 1994; 61 FR 3543, Feb. 1, 1996; 63 FR 64593, Nov. 23, 1998; 64 FR 69176, Dec. 10, 1999; 70 FR 31313, May 31, 2005; 70 FR 28783, May 19, 2005; 70 FR 72068, Dec. 1, 2005; 73 FR 66156, Nov. 7, 2008; 77 FR 28223, May 11, 2012; 80 FR 58112, Sept. 25, 2015]
§ 550.704
Eligibility for severance pay.
(a) To be eligible for severance pay, an employee must:
(1) Be serving under a qualifying appointment;
(2) Have completed at least 12 months of continuous service, as described in § 550.705; and
(3) Be removed from Federal service by involuntary separation.
(b) An employee is not eligible for severance pay if he or she:
(1) Is serving under a nonqualifying appointment;
(2) Declines a reasonable offer;
(3) Is serving under a qualifying appointment in an agency scheduled by law or Executive order to be terminated within 1 year after the date of the appointment, unless on the date of separation, the agency's termination has been postponed to a date more than 1 year after the date of the appointment, or the appointment is effected within 3 calendar days after separation from a qualifying appointment;
(4) Is receiving injury compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, unless the compensation is being received concurrently with pay or is the result of someone else's death; or
(5) Is eligible upon separation for an immediate annuity from a Federal civilian retirement system or from the uniformed services. Such an employee is ineligible even if all or part of the annuity is offset by payments from a non-Federal retirement system the employee elected instead of Federal civilian retirement benefits or disability benefits received from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
§ 550.705
Criteria for meeting the requirement for 12 months of continuous employment.
(a) The requirement for 12 months of continuous employment is met if, on the date of separation, an employee has held one or more civilian Federal positions over a period of 12 months without a single break in service of more than 3 calendar days. The positions held must have been under:
(1) One or more qualifying appointments;
(2) One or more nonqualifying temporary appointments that precede the current qualifying appointment; or
(3) An appointment to a position in a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard that precedes the current qualifying appointment in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively.
(b) When a break in service that is covered by severance pay interrupts otherwise continuous Federal employment, the entire period is considered continuous service.
(c) The period during which an employee receives continuation of pay or compensation for an injury on the job under chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, is considered continuous Federal service.
[55 FR 6593, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 12405, Apr. 10, 1992]
§ 550.706
Criteria for meeting the requirement for involuntary separation.
(a) An employee who resigns because he or she expects to be involuntarily separated is considered to have been involuntarily separated if the employee resigns after receiving—
(1) Specific written notice that he or she will be involuntarily separated by a particular action effective on a particular date; or
(2) A general written notice of reduction in force or transfer of functions which—
(i) Is issued by a properly authorized agency official;
(ii) Announces that the agency has decided to abolish, or transfer to another commuting area, all positions in the competitive area (as defined in § 351.402 of this chapter) by a particular date (no more than 1 year after the date of the notice); and
(iii) States that, for all employees in that competitive area, a resignation following receipt of the notice constitutes an involuntary separation for severance pay purposes.
(b) Except for resignations under the conditions described in paragraph (a) of this section, all resignations are voluntary separations and do not carry entitlement to severance pay.
(c) A resignation is not considered an involuntary separation if the specific or general written notice is canceled before the separation (based on that resignation) takes effect.
[55 FR 6593, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 69177, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.707
Computation of severance pay fund.
(a)
Basic severance pay allowance.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the basic severance pay allowance consists of the following:
(1) One week of pay at the rate of basic pay for the position held by the employee at the time of separation for each full year of creditable service through 10 years;
(2) Two weeks of pay at the rate of basic pay for the position held by the employee at the time of separation for each full year of creditable service beyond 10 years; and
(3) Twenty-five percent of the otherwise applicable amount for each full 3 months of creditable service beyond the final full year.
(b)
Basic severance pay allowance for employees with variable work schedules or rates of basic pay.
In the following circumstances, the weekly rate of basic pay used in computing the basic severance pay allowance must be determined based on the weekly average for the last position held by the employee during the 26 biweekly pay periods immediately preceding separation, as follows:
(1) For positions in which the number of hours in the employee's basic work schedule (excluding overtime hours) varies during the year because of part-time work requirements, compute the weekly average of those hours and multiply that average by the hourly rate of basic pay in effect at separation.
(2) For positions in which the rate of annual premium pay for standby duty regularly varies throughout the year, compute the average standby duty premium pay percentage and multiply that percentage by the weekly rate of basic pay (as defined in § 550.103) in effect at separation.
(3) For prevailing rate positions in which the amount of night shift differential pay under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f) varies from week to week under a regularly recurring cycle of work schedules, determine for each week in the averaging period the value of night shift differential pay expressed as a percentage of each week's scheduled rate of pay (as defined in § 532.401 of this chapter), compute the weekly average percentage, and multiply that percentage by the weekly scheduled rate of pay in effect at separation.
(4) For positions with seasonal work requirements, compute the weekly average of hours in a pay status (excluding overtime hours) and multiply that average by the hourly rate of basic pay in effect at separation.
(5) For positions held by firefighters compensated under subpart M of this part, where the firefighter has a recurring cycle of variable workweeks within his or her regular tour of duty (as defined in § 550.1302), compute the weekly average of hours in the regular tour of duty and determine the weekly rate of basic pay based on the average workweek and the rate of basic pay in effect at separation.
(c)
Age adjustment allowance.
The basic severance pay allowance is augmented by an age adjustment allowance consisting of 2.5 percent of the basic severance pay allowance for each full 3 months of age over 40 years.
(d)
Lifetime limitation.
The severance pay fund is limited to that amount which would provide 52 weeks of severance pay (taking into account weeks of severance pay previously received, as provided in § 550.712).
[55 FR 6593, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 63 FR 64593, Nov. 23, 1998; 64 FR 69177, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.708
Creditable service.
The following types of service are creditable for computing an employee's severance pay under § 550.707:
(a) Civilian service as an employee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105), excluding time during a period of nonpay status that is not creditable for annual leave accrual purposes under 5 U.S.C. 6303(a);
(b) Service performed with the United States Postal Service or the Postal Rate Commission;
(c) Military service, including active or inactive training with the National Guard, when performed by an employee who returns to civilian service through the exercise of a restoration right provided by law, Executive order, or regulation;
(d) Service performed by an employee of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c), who moves to a position within the civil service employment system of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, without a break in service of more than 3 days; and
(e) Service performed with the government of the District of Columbia by an individual first employed by that government before October 1, 1987, excluding service as a teacher or librarian of the public schools of the District of Columbia.
[55 FR 6593, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 12405, Apr. 10, 1992; 58 FR 33499, June 18, 1993; 64 FR 69177, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.709
Accrual and payment of severance pay.
(a) Severance pay accrues on a day-to-day basis following the recipient's separation from Federal employment. If severance pay begins in the middle of a pay period, 1 day of severance pay accrues for each workday or applicable holiday left in the pay period at the same rate at which basic pay would have accrued if the recipient were still employed. Thereafter, accrual is based on days from Monday through Friday, with each day worth one-fifth of 1 week's severance pay. Accrual ceases when the severance pay entitlement is suspended or terminated, as provided in §§ 550.710 and 550.711. If severance pay is suspended during a nonqualifying time-limited appointment as provided in § 550.710, accrual will resume following separation from that appointment.
(b) Severance payments must be made at the same pay period intervals that salary payments would be made if the recipient were still employed. The amount of the severance payment is computed using the recipient's rate of basic pay in effect immediately before separation, with credit for each day of severance pay accrual during the pay period corresponding to the payment date. A severance payment is subject to appropriate deductions for income and Social Security taxes. Severance payments are the responsibility of the agency employing the recipient at the time of the involuntary separation that triggered the current entitlement to severance pay.
(c) When an individual receives severance pay as the result of an involuntary separation from a qualifying time-limited appointment, the severance payment is based on the rate of basic pay received at the time of that separation. Severance payments are the responsibility of the agency that employed the individual under the qualifying time-limited appointment.
(d) When an individual is in a nonpay status immediately before separation, the amount of the severance payment is determined using the basic pay that he or she would have received if he or she had been in a pay status at the time of separation.
(e) When an individual's severance pay fund is computed under § 550.707(b) using an average rate of basic pay, that average rate is used to determine the amount of the severance payment. Exception: In the case of a seasonal employee, the agency may choose instead to use the employee's rate of basic pay at separation (as computed based on the employee's work schedule during the established seasonal work period) and then authorize severance payments only during that seasonal work period.
(f) In the case of individuals who become employed by a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard under the conditions described in 5 U.S.C. 5595(h)(4), payment of severance pay may be suspended consistent with the rules in 5 U.S.C. 5595(h) and any supplemental regulations issued by the Department of Defense.
(g) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, an agency may pay severance pay in a single lump sum if expressly authorized by law.
[64 FR 69177, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.710
Suspension of severance pay.
When an individual entitled to severance pay is employed by the Government of the United States or the government of the District of Columbia under a nonqualifying time-limited appointment, severance pay must be suspended during the life of the appointment. Severance pay resumes, without any recomputation, when the employee separates from the nonqualifying time-limited appointment. The resumed severance payments are the responsibility of the agency that originally triggered the individual's severance pay entitlement by separating the individual while he or she was serving under a qualifying appointment.
[64 FR 69178, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.711
Termination of severance pay entitlement.
Entitlement to severance pay ends when—
(a) The individual entitled to severance pay is employed by the Government of the United States or the government of the District of Columbia, unless employed under a nonqualifying
time-limited appointment as described in § 550.710; or
(b) The severance pay fund is exhausted.
[64 FR 69178, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.712
Reemployment; recredit of service.
(a) When a former employee is reemployed, the employing agency shall record on the appointment document the number of weeks of severance pay received (including partial weeks).
(b) If an employee again becomes entitled to severance pay, the agency in which entitlement arises shall recompute the severance pay allowance on the basis of all creditable service and current age and deduct from the number of weeks it would take to exhaust the allowance the number of weeks for which severance pay previously was received.
§ 550.713
Records.
Agencies shall maintain records, by fiscal year, of the number of employees who receive severance pay and the total amount of severance pay paid. The Office of Personnel Management may require agencies to report such information to the Office.
[55 FR 6593, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 69178, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.714
Panama Canal Commission employees.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart, an employee separated from employment with the Panama Canal Commission as a result of the implementation of any provision of the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977 and related agreements shall not be entitled to severance pay if he or she—
(1) Receives a written offer of reasonably comparable employment when such offer is made before separation from Commission employment;
(2) Accepts reasonably comparable employment within 30 days after separation from Commission employment; or
(3) Was hired by the Commission on or after December 18, 1997.
(b) The term
reasonably comparable employment
means a position that meets all the following conditions:
(1) The position is with the Panamanian public entity that assumes the functions of managing, operating, and maintaining the Panama Canal as a result of the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977;
(2) The rate of basic pay of the position is not more than 10 percent below the employee's rate of basic pay as a Panama Canal Commission employee;
(3) The position is within the employee's commuting area;
(4) The position carries no fixed time limitation as to length of appointment; and
(5) The work schedule (that is, part-time or full-time) of the position is the same as that of the position held by the employee at the Panama Canal Commission.
(c) A Panama Canal Commission employee who resigns prior to receiving an official written notice that he or she will not be offered reasonably comparable employment shall be considered to be voluntarily separated. Section 550.706(a) shall be applied, as appropriate, to any employee who resigns after receiving such notice.
(d) Except as otherwise provided by paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the provisions of this subpart remain applicable to Panama Canal Commission employees.
[62 FR 49127, Sept. 19, 1997]

# Subpart H—Back Pay

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5596(c); Pub. L. 100-202, 101 Stat. 1329.
§ 550.801
Applicability.
(a) This subpart contains regulations of the Office of Personnel Management to carry out section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, which authorizes the payment of back pay, interest, and reasonable attorney fees for the purpose of making an employee financially whole (to the extent possible) when, on the basis of a timely appeal or an administrative determination (including a decision relating to an unfair labor practice or a grievance), the employee is found by an appropriate authority to have been affected by an unjustified or unwarranted personnel action that resulted in the withdrawal,
reduction, or denial of all or part of the pay, allowances, and differentials otherwise due to the employee. This subpart should be read together with this section of law.
(b) This subpart does not apply to any reclassification action.
[46 FR 58275, Dec. 1, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 18072, May 20, 1988]
§ 550.802
Coverage.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart applies to employees, as defined in § 550.803 of this subpart.
(b) This subpart does not apply to—
(1) Employees of the government of the District of Columbia; and
(2) Employees of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
[46 FR 58275, Dec. 1, 1981]
§ 550.803
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
has the meaning given that term in section 5596(a) of title 5, United States Code.
Appropriate authority
means an entity having authority in the case at hand to correct or direct the correction of an unjustified or unwarranted personnel action, including (a) a court, (b) the Comptroller General of the United States, (c) the Office of Personnel Management, (d) the Merit Systems Protection Board, (e) the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, (f) the Federal Labor Relations Authority and its General Counsel, (g) the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board, (h) the Foreign Service Grievance Board, (i) an arbitrator in a binding arbitration case, and (j) the head of the employing agency or another official of the employing agency to whom such authority is delegated.
Collective bargaining agreement
has the meaning given that term in section 7103(a)(8) of title 5, United States Code, and (with respect to members of the Foreign Service) in section 1002 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4102(4)).
Employee
means an employee of an agency. When the term
employee
is used to describe an individual who is making a back pay claim, it also may mean a former employee.
Grievance
has the meaning given that term in section 7103(a)(9) of title 5, United States Code, and (with respect to members of the Foreign Service) in section 1101 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4131). Such a grievance includes a grievance processed under an agency administrative grievance system, if applicable.
Pay, allowances, and differentials
means pay, leave, and other monetary employment benefits to which an employee is entitled by statute or regulation and which are payable by the employing agency to an employee during periods of Federal employment. Agency and employee contributions to a retirement investment fund, such as the Thrift Savings Plan, are not covered. Monetary benefits payable to separated or retired employees based upon a separation from service, such as retirement benefits, severance payments, and lump-sum payments for annual leave, are not covered.
Unfair labor practice
means an unfair labor practice described in section 7116 of title 5, United States Code, and (with respect to members of the Foreign Service) in section 1015 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4115).
Unjustified or unwarranted personnel action
means an act of commission or an act of omission (
i.e.,
failure to take an action or confer a benefit) that an appropriate authority subsequently determines, on the basis of substantive or procedural defects, to have been unjustified or unwarranted under applicable law, Executive order, rule, regulation, or mandatory personnel policy established by an agency or through a collective bargaining agreement. Such actions include personnel actions and pay actions (alone or in combination).
[46 FR 58275, Dec. 1, 1981, as amended at 60 FR 47040, Sept. 11, 1995; 64 FR 69178, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.804
Determining entitlement to back pay.
(a) When an appropriate authority has determined that an employee was affected by an unjustified or unwarranted personnel action, the employee shall be entitled to back pay under section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart only if the appropriate authority finds that the unjustified or
unwarranted personnel action resulted in the withdrawal, reduction, or denial of all or part of the pay, allowances, and differentials otherwise due the employee.
(b) The requirement for a “timely appeal” is met when—
(1) An employee or an employee's personal representative initiates an appeal or grievance under an appeal or grievance system, including appeal or grievance procedures included in a collective bargaining agreement; a claim against the Government of the United States; a discrimination complaint; or an unfair labor practice charge; and
(2) An appropriate authority accepts that appeal, grievance, claim, complaint, or charge as timely filed.
(c) The requirement for an “administrative determination” is met when an appropriate authority determines, in writing, that an employee has been affected by an unjustified or unwarranted personnel action that resulted in the withdrawal, reduction, or denial of all or part of the pay, allowances, and differentials otherwise due the employee.
(d) The requirement for “correction of the personnel action” is met when an appropriate authority, consistent with law, Executive order, rule, regulation, or mandatory personnel policy established by an agency or through a collective bargaining agreement, after a review, corrects or directs the correction of an unjustified or unwarranted personnel action that resulted in the withdrawal, reduction, or denial of all or part of the pay, allowances, and differentials otherwise due the employee.
(e)(1) The pay, allowances, and differentials paid as back pay under this subpart (including payments made under any grievance or arbitration decision or any settlement agreement) may not exceed that authorized by any applicable law, rule, regulation, or collective bargaining agreement, including any applicable statute of limitations.
(2) An agency may not authorize pay, allowances, and differentials under this subpart in any case for a period beginning more than 6 years before the date of the filing of a timely appeal, or, absent such filing, the date of the administrative determination that the employee is entitled to back pay, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 3702(b). (See also § 178.104 of this chapter.)
(3) For back pay claims dealing with payments under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (29 U.S.C. 207,
et seq.
), an agency must apply the 2-year statute of limitations (3 years for willful violations) in 29 U.S.C. 255a. (See also § 551.702 of this chapter.)
[46 FR 58275, Dec. 1, 1981, as amended at 64 FR 72458, Dec. 28, 1999]
§ 550.805
Back pay computations.
(a) When an appropriate authority corrects or directs the correction of an unjustified or unwarranted personnel action that resulted in the withdrawal, reduction, or denial of all or part of the pay, allowances, and differentials otherwise due an employee—
(1) The employee shall be deemed to have performed service for the agency during the period covered by the corrective action; and
(2) The agency shall compute for the period covered by the corrective action the pay, allowances, and differentials the employee would have received if the unjustified or unwarranted personnel action had not occurred.
(b) No employee shall be granted more pay, allowances, and differentials under section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart than he or she would have been entitled to receive if the unjustified or unwarranted personnel action had not occurred.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, in computing the amount of back pay under section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart, an agency may not include—
(1) Any period during which an employee was not ready, willing, and able to perform his or her duties because of an incapacitating illness or injury; or
(2) Any period during which an employee was unavailable for the performance of his or her duties for reasons other than those related to, or caused by, the unjustified or unwarranted personnel action.
(d) In computing the amount of back pay under section 5596 of title 5, United
States Code, and this subpart, an agency shall grant, upon request of an employee, any sick or annual leave available to the employee for a period of incapacitation if the employee can establish that the period of incapacitation was the result of illness or injury.
(e) In computing the net amount of back pay payable under section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart, an agency must make the following offsets and deductions (in the order shown) from the gross back pay award:
(1) Any outside earnings (gross earnings less any associated business losses and ordinary and necessary business expenses) received by an employee for other employment (including a business enterprise) undertaken to replace the employment from which the employee was separated by the unjustified or unwarranted personnel action during the interim period covered by the corrective action. Do not count earnings from additional or “moonlight” employment the employee may have engaged in while Federally employed (before separation) and while erroneously separated.
(2) Any erroneous payments received from the Government as a result of the unjustified or unwarranted personnel action, which, in the case of erroneous payments received from a Federal employee retirement system, must be returned to the appropriate system. Such payments must be recovered from the back pay award in the following order:
(i) Retirement annuity payments (
i.e.,
gross annuity less deductions for life insurance and health benefits premiums, if those premiums can be recovered by the affected retirement system from the insurance carrier);
(ii) Refunds of retirement contributions (
i.e.,
gross refund before any deductions);
(iii) Severance pay (
i.e.,
gross payments before any deductions); and
(iv) A lump-sum payment for annual leave (
i.e.,
gross payment before any deductions).
(3) Authorized deductions of the type that would have been made from the employee's pay (if paid when properly due) in accordance with the normal order of precedence for deductions from pay established by the agency, subject to any applicable law or regulation, including, but not limited to, the following types of deductions, as applicable:
(i) Mandatory employee retirement contributions toward a defined benefit plan, such as the Civil Service Retirement System or the defined benefit component of the Federal Employees Retirement System;
(ii) Social Security taxes and Medicare taxes;
(iii) Health benefits premiums, if coverage continued during a period of erroneous retirement (with paid premiums recoverable by the retirement system) or is retroactively reinstated at the employee's election under 5 U.S.C. 8908(a);
(iv) Life insurance premiums if—
(A) Coverage continued during a period of erroneous retirement;
(B) Coverage was stopped during an erroneous suspension or separation and the employee suffered death or accidental dismemberment during that period (consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8706(d)); or
(C) Additional premiums are owed because of a retroactive increase in basic pay; and
(v) Federal income tax withholdings.

# Note to paragraph (
e

# )(3):
See appendix A to this subpart for additional information on computing certain deductions.
(4) Administrative offsets under 31 U.S.C. 3716 to recover any other outstanding debt(s) owed to the Federal Government by the employee, as appropriate.
(f) For the purpose of computing the amount of back pay under paragraph (e) of this section, interest shall be included in the amount from which deductions for erroneous payments are made, as required by § 550.805(e)(2) of this part.
(g) An agency shall credit annual leave restored to an employee as a result of the correction of an unjustified or unwarranted personnel action in excess of the maximum leave accumulation authorized by law to a separate leave account for use by the employee. The employee shall schedule and use annual leave in such a separate leave account as follows:
(1) A full-time employee shall schedule and use excess annual leave of 416
hours or less by the end of the leave year in progress 2 years after the date on which the annual leave is credited to the separate account. The agency shall extend this period by 1 leave year for each additional 208 hours of excess annual leave or any portion thereof.
(2) A part-time employee shall schedule and use excess annual leave in an amount equal to or less than 20 percent of the employee's scheduled tour of duty over a period of 52 calendar weeks by the end of the leave year in progress 2 years after the date on which the annual leave is credited to the separate account. The agency shall extend this period by 1 leave year for each additional number of hours of excess annual leave, or any portion thereof, equal to 10 percent of the employee's scheduled tour of duty over a period of 52 calendar weeks.
(h) Agencies must correct errors that affect an employee's Thrift Savings Plan account consistent with regulations prescribed by the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board. (See parts 1605 and 1606 of this title.)
[46 FR 58275, Dec. 1, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 18072, May 20, 1988, and 53 FR 45886, Nov. 15, 1988; 59 FR 66634, Dec. 28, 1994; 64 FR 69178, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.806
Interest computations.
(a)(1) Interest begins to accrue on the date or dates (usually one or more pay dates) on which the employee would have received the pay, allowances, and differentials if the unjustified or unwarranted personnel action had not occurred.
(2) Interest accrual ends at a time selected by the agency that is no more than 30 days before the date of the back pay interest payment. No interest is payable if a complete back pay payment is made within 30 days after any erroneous withdrawal, reduction, or denial of a payment, and the interest accrual ending date is set to coincide with the interest accrual starting date.
(b) In computing the amount of interest due under section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, the agency shall reduce the amount of pay, allowances, and differentials due for each date described in paragraph (a) of this section by an amount determined as follows:
(1) Divide the employee's earnings from other employment during the period covered by the corrective action, as described in § 550.805(e)(1) of this part, by the total amount of back pay prior to any deductions;
(2) Multiply the ratio obtained in paragraph (b)(1) of this section by the amount of pay, allowances, and differentials due for each date described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The agency shall compute interest on the amount of back pay computed under section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart before making deductions for erroneous payments, as required by § 550.805(e)(2) of this part.
(d) The rate or rates used to compute the interest payment shall be the annual percentage rate or rates established by the Secretary of the Treasury as the overpayment rate under section 6621(a)(1) of title 26, United States Code (or its predecessor statute), for the period or periods of time for which interest is payable.
(e) On each day for which interest accrues, the agency shall compound interest by dividing the applicable interest rate (expressed as a decimal) by 365 (366 in a leap year).
(f) The agency shall compute the amount of interest due, and shall issue the interest payment within 30 days of the date on which accrual of interest ends.
(g) To the extent administratively feasible, the agency shall issue payments of back pay and interest simultaneously. If all or part of the payment of back pay is issued on or before the date on which accrual of interest ends and the interest payment is issued after the payment of back pay is issued, the amount of the payment of back pay shall be subtracted from the accrued amount of back pay and interest, effective with the date the payment of back pay was issued. Interest shall continue to accrue on the remaining unpaid amount of back pay (if any) and interest until the date on which accrual of interest ends.
[53 FR 18072, May 20, 1988, and 53 FR 45886, Nov. 15, 1988; 64 FR 69179, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.807
Payment of reasonable attorney fees.
(a) An employee or an employee's personal representative may request payment of reasonable attorney fees related to an unjustified or unwarranted personnel action that resulted in the withdrawal, reduction, or denial of all or part of the pay, allowances, and differentials otherwise due the employee. Such a request may be presented only to the appropriate authority that corrected or directed the correction of the unjustified or unwarranted personnel action. However, if the finding that provides the basis for a request for payment of reasonable attorney fees is made on appeal from a decision by an appropriate authority other than the employing agency, the employee or the employee's personal representative shall present the request to the appropriate authority from which the appeal was taken.
(b) The appropriate authority to which such a request is presented shall provide an opportunity for the employing agency to respond to a request for payment of reasonable attorney fees.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, when an appropriate authority corrects or directs the correction of an unjustified or unwarranted personnel action that resulted in the withdrawal, reduction, or denial of all or part of the pay, allowances, and differentials otherwise due an employee, the payment of reasonable attorney fees shall be deemed to be warranted only if—
(1) Such payment is in the interest of justice, as determined by the appropriate authority in accordance with standards established by the Merit Systems Protection Board under section 7701(g) of title 5, United States Code; and
(2) There is a specific finding by the appropriate authority setting forth the reasons such payment is in the interest of justice.
(d) When an appropriate authority determines that such payment is warranted, it shall require payment of attorney fees in an amount determined to be reasonable by the appropriate authority. When an appropriate authority determines that such payment is not warranted, no such payment shall be required.
(e) When a determination by an appropriate authority that an employee has been affected by an unjustified or unwarranted personnel action that resulted in the withdrawal, reduction, or denial of all or part of the pay, allowances, and differentials otherwise due the employee is based on a finding of discrimination prohibited under section 2302(b)(1) of title 5, United States Code, the payment of attorney fees shall be in accordance with the standards prescribed under section 706(k) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000e-5(k)).
(f) The payment of reasonable attorney fees shall be allowed only for the services of members of the Bar and for the services of law clerks, paralegals, or law students, when assisting members of the Bar. However, no payment may be allowed under section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart for the services of any employee of the Federal Government, except as provided in section 205 of title 18, United States Code, relating to the activities of officers and employees in matters affecting the Government.
(g) A determination concerning whether the payment of reasonable attorney fees is in the interest of justice and concerning the amount of any such payment shall be subject to review or appeal only if provided for by statute or regulation.
(h) This section does not apply to any administrative proceeding that was pending on January 11, 1979.
[46 FR 58275, Dec. 1, 1981. Redesignated at 53 FR 18072, May 20, 1988, and 53 FR 45886, Nov. 15, 1988]
§ 550.808
Prohibition against setting aside proper promotions.
Nothing in section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, or this subpart shall be construed as authorizing the setting aside of an otherwise proper promotion by a selecting official from a group of properly ranked and certified candidates.
[46 FR 58275, Dec. 1, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 18072, May 20, 1988, and 53 FR 45886, Nov. 15, 1988]
Pt. 550, Subpt. H, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart H of Part 550—Information on Computing Certain Common Deductions From Back Pay Awards
To determine the net back payment owed an employee, an agency must make certain required deductions. (See § 550.805(e)(3).) To compute these deductions, an agency must determine the appropriate base or follow other rules, consistent with applicable law. Some deductions, such as tax deductions, are not subject to OPM regulation. To assist agencies, this appendix summarizes the rules for certain common deductions. For further information on Federal tax deductions from back pay awards, please contact the Internal Revenue Service directly or review relevant IRS publications.
Type of deduction
How to Compute the deduction
(a) Mandatory employee retirement contributions
Compute the deduction based on the basic pay portion of gross back pay before adding interest or applying any offset or deduction.
(b) Life insurance premiums
Compute the deduction based on the basic pay portion of gross back pay before adding interest or applying any offset or deduction.
(c) Social Security (OASDI) and Medicare taxes
Compute the deduction based on adjusted gross back pay (gross back pay less the offset for outside earnings under § 550.805(e)(1), but before adding interest). The deduction may be reduced dollar-for-dollar by the amount of any Social Security or Medicare taxes that were withheld from erroneous payments made in the same calendar year as the back pay award, but only if—
(1) Those erroneous payments were actually recovered by the Government by offsetting the back pay award as provided in § 550.805(e)(2); and
(2) Those withheld taxes have not already been repaid to the employee.
Note: Social Security taxes are subject to the applicable Social Security tax wage base limit. In addition, see IRS guidance regarding possible correction and refunding of Social Security and Medicare taxes withheld from erroneous payments in a prior calendar year.
(d) Federal income tax withholdings
Compute the deduction based on adjusted gross back pay (gross back pay less the offset for outside earnings under § 550.805(e)(1), but before adding interest) less any part of back pay not subject to income tax deductions, such as nonforeign area cost-of-living allowances and contributions to the Thrift Savings Plan that are deducted from the pay of the employee. The deduction may be reduced dollar-for-dollar by the amount of any Federal income taxes withheld from erroneous payments made in the same calendar year as the back pay award, but only if—
(1) Those erroneous payments were actually recovered by the Government by offsetting the back pay award as provided in § 550.805(e)(2); and
(2) Those withheld taxes have not already been repaid to the employee.
Note: Additional Federal income tax withholdings from the interest portion of the back pay award may be required by the Internal Revenue Service in certain specific circumstances.
[64 FR 69179, Dec. 10, 1999]

# Subpart I—Pay for Duty Involving Physical Hardship or Hazard

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5545(d), 5548(b).
§ 550.901
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes the regulations required by sections 5545(d) and 5548(b) of title 5, United States Code, for the payment of differentials for duty involving unusual physical hardship or hazard to employees.
[56 FR 20344, May 3, 1991]
§ 550.902
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 5102(a)(1).
Duty involving physical hardship
means duty that may not in itself be hazardous, but causes extreme physical
discomfort or distress and is not adequately alleviated by protective or mechanical devices, such as duty involving exposure to extreme temperatures for a long period of time, arduous physical exertion, or exposure to fumes, dust, or noise that causes nausea, skin, eye, ear, or nose irritation.
Employee
means an employee covered by the General Schedule (
i.e.,
covered by chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code).
Hazardous duty
means duty performed under circumstances in which an accident could result in serious injury or death, such as duty performed on a high structure where protective facilities are not used or on an open structure where adverse conditions such as darkness, lightning, steady rain, or high wind velocity exist.
Hazard pay differential
means additional pay for the performance of hazardous duty or duty involving physical hardship.
Head of an agency
means the head of an agency or an official who has been delegated the authority to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
[56 FR 20344, May 3, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 33416, June 29, 1994; 64 FR 69179, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.903
Establishment of hazard pay differentials.
(a) A schedule of hazard pay differentials, the hazardous duties or duties involving physical hardship for which they are payable, and the period during which they are payable is set out as appendix A to this subpart and incorporated in and made a part of this section.
(b) Amendments to appendix A of this subpart may be made by OPM on its own motion or at the request of the head of an agency (or authorized designee). The head of an agency (or authorized designee) may recommend the rate of hazard pay differential to be established and must submit, with its request for an amendment, information about the hazardous duty or duty involving physical hardship showing—
(1) The nature of the duty;
(2) The degree to which the employee is exposed to hazard or physical hardship;
(3) The length of time during which the duty will continue to exist;
(4) The degree to which control may be exercised over the physical hardship or hazard; and
(5) The estimated annual cost to the agency if the request is approved.
[56 FR 20344, May 3, 1991, as amended at 64 FR 69179, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.904
Authorization of hazard pay differential.
(a) An agency shall pay the hazard pay differential listed in appendix A of this subpart to an employee who is assigned to and performs any duty specified in appendix A of this subpart. However, hazard pay differential may not be paid to an employee when the hazardous duty or physical hardship has been taken into account in the classification of his or her position, without regard to whether the hazardous duty or physical hardship is grade controlling, unless payment of a differential has been approved under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The head of an agency may approve payment of a hazard pay differential when—
(1) The actual circumstances of the specific hazard or physical hardship have changed from that taken into account and described in the position description; and
(2) Using the knowledge, skills, and abilities that are described in the position description, the employee cannot control the hazard or physical hardship; thus, the risk is not reduced to a less than significant level.
(c) For the purpose of this section, the phrase “has been taken into account in the classification of his or her position” means that the duty constitutes an element considered in establishing the grade of the position—
i.e.
, the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform that duty are considered in the classification of the position.
(d) The head of the agency shall maintain records on the use of the authority described in paragraph (b) of this section, including the specific hazardous duty or duty involving physical
hardship; the authorized position description(s); the number of employees paid the differential; documentation of the conditions described in paragraph (b) of this section; and the annual cost to the agency.
(e) So that OPM can evaluate agencies' use of this authority and provide the Congress and others with information regarding its use, each agency shall maintain such other records and submit to OPM such other reports and data as OPM shall require.
[59 FR 33416, June 29, 1994]
§ 550.905
Payment of hazard pay differential.
(a) When an employee performs duty for which a hazard pay differential is authorized, the agency must pay the hazard pay differential for the hours in a pay status on the day (a calendar day or a 24-hour period, when designated by the agency) on which the duty is performed, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. Hours in a pay status for work performed during a continuous period extending over 2 days must be considered to have been performed on the day on which the work began, and the allowable differential must be charged to that day.
(b) Employees may not be paid a hazardous duty differential for hours for which they receive annual premium pay for regularly scheduled standby duty under § 550.141, annual premium pay for administratively uncontrollable overtime work under § 550.151, or availability pay for criminal investigators under § 550.181.
[64 FR 69180, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 550.906
Termination of hazard pay differential.
An agency shall discontinue payment of hazard pay differential to an employee when—
(a) One or more of the conditions requisite for such payment ceases to exist;
(b) Safety precautions have reduced the element of hazard to a less than significant level of risk, consistent with generally accepted standards that may be applicable, such as those published by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor; or
(c) Protective or mechanical devices have adequately alleviated physical discomfort or distress.
[56 FR 20345, May 3, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 33417, June 29, 1994]
§ 550.907
Relationship to additional pay payable under other statutes.
Hazard pay differential is in addition to any additional pay or allowances payable under other statutes. It shall not be considered part of the employee's rate of basic pay in computing additional pay or allowances payable under other statutes.
[56 FR 20345, May 3, 1991]
Pt. 550, Subpt. I, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 550—Schedule of Pay Differentials Authorized for Hazardous Duty Under Subpart I
hazard pay differential, of part 550 pay administration (general)
Duty
Rate of hazard pay differential (percent)
Effective date
Exposure to Hazardous Weather or Terrain:
(1)
Work in rough and remote terrain.
When working on cliffs, narrow ledges, or near vertical mountainous slopes where a loss of footing would result in serious injury or death, or when working in areas where there is danger of rock falls or avalanches
25
First pay period beginning after July 1, 1969.
(2)
Traveling under hazardous conditions.
(a) When travel over secondary or unimproved roads to isolated mountain top installations is required at night, or under adverse weather conditions (such as snow, rain, or fog) which limits visibility to less than 30 meters (100 feet), when there is danger of rock, mud, or snow slides
25
Do.
(b) When travel in the wintertime, either on foot or by means of vehicle, over secondary or unimproved roads or snow trails, in sparsely settled or isolated areas to isolated installations is required when there is danger of avalanches, or during “whiteout” phenomenon which limits visibility to less than 3 meters (10 feet)
25
Do.
(c) When work or travel in sparsely settled or isolated areas results in exposure to temperatures and/or wind velocity shown to be of considerable danger, or very great danger, on the windchill chart (appendix A-1), and shelter (other than temporary shelter) or assistance is not readily available
25
Do.
(3)
Snow or ice removal operations.
When participating in snowplowing or snow or ice removal operations, regardless of whether on primary, secondary or other class of roads, when (a) there is danger of avalanche, or (b) there is danger of missing the road and falling down steep mountainous slopes because of lack of snow stakes, “white-out” conditions, or sloping ice-pack covering the snow
25
Do.
(4)
Water search and rescue operations.
Participating as a member of a water search and rescue team in adverse weather conditions when winds are blowing at 56 km/h (35 m.p.h.) (classified as gale winds) or in water search and rescue operations conducted at night
25
Do.
(5)
Travel on Lake Pontchartrain.
(a) When embarking, disembarking or traveling in small craft (boat) on Lake Pontchartrain when wind direction is from north, northeast, or northwest, and wind velocity is over 7.7 meters per second (15 knots); or
25
Do.
(b) When travelling in small crafts, where craft is not radar equipped, on Lake Pontchartrain is necessary due to emergency or unavoidable conditions and the trip is made in a dense fog under fog run procedures
25
Do.
(6)
Hazardous boarding or leaving of vessels.
When duties (a), (b), or (c) are performed under adverse conditions of foul weather, ice, or night and when the sea state is high (0.9 meter (3 feet) and above):
(a) Boarding or leaving vessels at sea or standing offshore during lightering or personnel transfer operations
25
First pay period beginning after May 7, 1970.
(b) Boarding, leaving, or transferring equipment between small boats or rafts and steep, rocky, or coral surrounded shorelines.
(c) Transferring equipment between a small boat and rudimentary dock by improvised or temporary facility such as an unfastened plank leading from boat to dock.
(7)
Small craft tests under unsafe sea conditions.
Conducting craft tests to determine the seakeeping characteristics of small craft in a seaway when U.S. storm warnings normally indicate unsafe seas for a particular size craft
25
First pay period beginning on or after Sept. 28, 1972.
(8)
Working on a drifting sea ice floe.
When the job requires that the work be performed out on sea ice, e.g., installing scientific instruments and making observations for research purposes
25
First pay period beginning after March 16, 1973.
Exposure to Physiological Hazards:
(1)
Pressurechamber subject.
(a) Participating as a subject in diving research tests which seek to establish limits for safe pressure profiles by working in a pressure chamber simulating diving or, as an observer to the test or as a technician assembling underwater mock-up components for the test, when the observer or technician is exposed to high pressure gas piping systems, gas cylinders, and pumping devices which are susceptible to explosive ruptures
25
Do.
(b)
Working in pressurized sonar domes.
Performing checkout of sonar system after sonar dome has been pressurized. This may include such duties as changing transducer elements, setting of transducer turntables, checking of cables, piping, valves, circuits, underwater telephone, and pressurization plugs
8
First pay period beginning after Feb. 16, 1975.
(c) Working in nonpressurized sonar domes that are a part of an underwater system. Performing certification pretrial inspections, involving such duties as calibrating, adjusting, and photographing equipment, in limited space and with limited egress
4
First pay period beginning after Feb. 16, 1975.
(2)
Simulated altitude chamber subjects. Observers.
Participating in simulated altitude studies ranging from 5500 to 45,700 meters (18,000 to 150,000 feet) either as subject or as observer exposed to the same conditions as the subject
25
Do.
(3)
Centrifuge subjects.
Participating as subject in centrifuge studies involving elevated G forces above the level of 49 meters per second
2
(5 G's) whether or not at reduced atmospheric pressure
25
Do.
(4)
Rotational flight simulator subject.
Participating as a subject in a Rotational Flight Simulator in studies involving continuous rotation in one axis through 360° or in a combination of any axes through 360° at rotation rates greater than 15 r.p.m. for periods exceeding three minutes
25
First pay period beginning after July 1, 1969.
Hot Work—Working in confined spaces wherein the employee is subject to temperatures in excess of 43 °C (110 °F)
4
First pay period beginning after Feb. 16, 1975.
(5)
Environmental thermal-chamber tests:
Subjects and observers exposed to the hazards and physical hardships of an environmental chamber-thermal test which simulates adverse weather or sea conditions such as the exposure to subzero temperatures; high heat and humidiity; and cold water, spray, wind, and wave action
25
May 4, 1988.
(6)
Working at high altitudes.
Performing work at a land-based worksite more than 3900 meters (12,795 feet) in altitude, provided the employee is required to commute to the worksite on the same day from a substantially lower altitude under circumstances in which the rapid change in altitude may result in acclimation problems.
8
January 11, 1999.
Exposure to Hazardous Agents, work with or in close proximity to:
(1)
Explosive or incendiary materials.
Explosive or incendiary materials which are unstable and highly sensitive
25
First pay period beginning after July 1, 1969.
(2)
At-sea shock and vibration tests.
Arming explosive charges and/or working with, or in close proximity to, explosive armed charges in connection with at-sea shock and vibration tests of naval vessels, machinery, equipment and supplies
25
Do.
(3)
Toxic chemical materials.
Toxic chemical materials when there is a possibility of leakage or spillage
25
Do.
(4)
Fire retardant materials tests.
Conducting tests on fire retardant materials when the tests are performed in ventilation restricted rooms where the atmosphere is continuously contaminated by obnoxious odors and smoke which causes irritation to the eyes and respiratory tract
25
Do.
(5)
Virulent biologicals.
Materials of micro-organic nature which when introduced into the body are likely to cause serious disease or fatality and for which protective devices do not afford complete protection
25
Do.
(6) Asbestos. Significant risk of exposure to airborne concentrations of asbestos fibers in excess of the permissible exposure limits (PELS) in the standard for asbestos provided in title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, §§ 1910.1001 or 1926.58, when the risk of exposure is directly connected with the performance of assigned duties. Regulatory changes in § 1910.1001 or 1926.58 are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this category, effective on the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after the effective date of the changes
8
June 8, 1993
Participating in Liquid Missile Propulsion Tests and Certain Solid Propulsion Operations:
(1)
Tanking and detanking.
Tanking or detanking operations of a missile or the test stand “run” bottles with liquid propellants
25
First pay period beginning after July 1, 1969.
(2)
Hoisting a tanked missile.
Hoisting a tanked missile or a solid propellant propulsion system into and/or over the test stand
25
Do.
(3)
Pressure tests.
Pressure tests on loaded missiles, missile tanks, or run bottles during prefire preparations
25
Do.
(4)
Test stand tests.
Test stand operations on loaded missiles under environmental conditions where the high or low temperatures could cause a failure of a critical component
25
Do.
(5)
Disassembly and breakdown.
Disassembly and breakdown of a contaminated missile system or test stand plumbing after test
25
Do.
(6)
“Go” condition test stand work.
Working on any test stand above the 15-meter (50-foot) level or any stand work while the system is in a “go” condition
25
Do.
(7)
Arming and dearming propulsion systems.
Arming, dearming or the installation and/or removal of any squib, explosive device, or a component thereof connected to, or part of, any live or potentially expended liquid or solid propulsion system
25
Do.
(8)
Demolition and destruct tests.
Demolition, hazards classification, or destruct type tests where the specimen is nonstandard and/or unproven and the test techniques do not conform to standard or proven procedures
25
Do.
Work in Fuel Storage Tanks:
When inspecting, cleaning or repairing fuel storage tanks where there is no ready access to an exit, under conditions requiring a breathing apparatus because all or part of the oxygen in the atmosphere has been displaced by toxic vapors or gas, and failure of the breathing apparatus would result in serious injury or death within the time required to leave the tank
25
Do.
Firefighting:
(1)
Forest and range fires.
Participating as a member of a firefighting crew in fighting forest and range fires on the fireline
25
Do.
(2)
Equipment, installation, or building fires.
Participating as an emergency member of a firefighting crew in fighting fires of equipment, installations, or buildings
25
Do.
(3)
In-water under-pier firefighting operations.
Participating in in-water under-pier firefighting operations (involving hazards beyond those normally encountered in firefighting on land, e.g., strong currents, cold water temperature, etc.)
25
Do.
Work in Open Trenches:
Work in an open trench 4.6 meters (15 feet) or more deep until proper shoring has been installed
25
Do.
Underground Work:
Work underground performed in the construction of tunnels and shafts, and the inspection of such underground construction, until the necessary lining of the shaft or tunnel has eliminated the hazard
25
Do.
Underwater Duty:
(1)
Submerged submarine or deep research vehicle.
Duty aboard a submarine or deep research vehicle when it submerges
25
Do.
(2)
Diving.
Diving, including SCUBA (self-contained underwater breathing apparatus) diving, required in scientific and engineering pursuits, or search and rescue operations, when:
25
Do.
(a) at a depth of 6 meters (20 feet) or more below the surface; or,
(b) visibility is restricted; or,
(c) in rapidly flowing or cold water; or,
(d) vertical access to the surface is restricted by ice, rock, or other structure; or,
(e) testing or working with hardware which presents special hazards (such as work with high voltage equipment or work with underwater mockup components in an underwater space simulation study).
Sea Duty Aboard Deep Research Vessels:
Participating in sea duty wherein the team member is engaged in handling equipment on or over the side of the vessel when the sea-state is high (6.2 meter-per-second winds (12-knot winds) and 0.9-meter waves (3-foot waves) and the work is done on deck in relatively unprotected areas
25
Do.
Collection of Aircraft Approach and Landing Environmental Data:
When operating or monitoring camera equipment adjacent to flight deck in the area of maximum hazard during landing sequence while conducting photographic surveys aboard aircraft carriers during periods of heavy aircraft operations
25
First pay period beginning after July 1, 1969.
Experimental Landing/Recovery Equipment Tests:
Participating in tests of experimental or prototype landing and recovery equipment where personnel are required to serve as test subjects in spacecraft being dropped into the sea or laboratory tanks
25
Do.
Land Impact or Pad Abort of Space Vehicle:
Actual participating in dearming and safing explosive ordinance, toxic propellant and high pressure vessels on vehicles that have land impacted or on vehicles on the launch pad that have reached a point in the countdown where no remote means are available for returning the vehicle to a safe condition
25
Do.
Height Work:
Working on any structure of at least 15 meters (50 feet) above the base level, ground, deck, floor, roof, etc., under open conditions, if the structure is unstable or if scaffolding guards or other suitable protective facilities are not used, or if performed under adverse conditions such as snow, sleet, ice on walking surfaces, darkness, lightning, steady rain, or high wind velocity
25
Do.
Flying, participating in:
(1)
Pilot proficiency training.
Flights for pilot proficiency training in aircraft new to the pilot under simulated emergency conditions which parallel conditions encountered in performing flight tests
25
Do.
(2)
Delivery of new aircraft for flight testing.
Flights to deliver aircraft which has been prepared for one-time flight without being test flown prior to delivery flight
25
Do.
(3)
Test flights of new modified, or repaired aircraft.
Test flights of a new or repaired aircraft or modified aircraft when the modification may affect the flight characteristics of the aircraft
25
Do.
(4)
Reduced gravity—parabolic arc flights—subjects/observers.
Reduced gravity flight testing in an aircraft flying a parabolic flight path and providing a testing environment ranging from weightlessness up through + 20 meters per second
2
(+ 2 gravity conditions)
25
Do.
(5)
Launch and recovery.
Test flights involving launch and recovery aboard an aircraft carrier
25
Do.
(6)
Limited control flights.
Flights undertaken under unusual and adverse conditions (such as extreme weather, maximum load or overload, limited visibility, extreme turbulence, or low level flights involving fixed or tactical patterns) which threaten or severely limit control of the aircraft
25
Do.
(7)
Flight tests of expandable aircraft tires.
Landing to test aircraft tires designed to deflate upon retraction, undertaken to appraise the normal deflate-reinflate cycle and also to evaluate the capability to make a satisfactory landing with the tires deflated
25
Do.
(8)
Landing and taking-off in polar areas.
Landing in polar areas on unprepared snow or ice surfaces and/or taking-off under the same conditions
25
Do.
Experimental Parachute Jumps:
Participating as a jumper in field exercises to test and evaluate new types of jumping equipment and/or jumping techniques
25
Do.
Ground Work Beneath Hovering Helicopter:
Participating in ground operations to attach external load to helicopter hovering just overhead
25
Do.
Sling-suspended transfers.
When performance of duties requires transfer from a helicopter to a ship via a sling on the end of a steel cable or from a ship to another ship via a chair harness hanging from a highline between the ships when both vessels are underway
25
First pay period beginning after Oct. 11, 1969.
Carrier suitability trials aboard aircraft carriers.
Participating in carrier suitability trials aboard aircraft carriers when work is performed on the flight deck during launch, recovery, and refueling operations
25
Do.
Cargo handling during lightering operations.
Off-loading of cargo and supplies from surface ships to Landing Craft—Medium (LCM) boats involving exposure not only to falling cargo but such other hazards as shifting cargo within the LCM, swinging cargo hooks, and possibility of falling between the LCM and cargo vessel
25
Do.
Work in unsafe structures: Working within or immediately adjacent to a building or structure which has been severely damaged by earthquake, fire, tornado, flood, or similar cause, when the structure has been declared unsafe by competent technical authority, and when such work is considered necessary for the safety of personnel or recovery of valuable materials or equipment, and the work is authorized by competent authority
25
First pay period beginning on or after Apr. 11, 1976.
Tropical Jungle Duty: Work outdoors in undeveloped jungle regions outside the continental United States. Work must involve both of the following:
(1) An unusual degree of physical hardship caused by high heat, humidity, or other inclement conditions; and
(2) An unusual danger of serious injury or illness due to:
(a) Travel on unimproved roads or rudimentary trails in rugged terrain (e.g., walking on narrow trails in steep mountainous areas, fording deep, fast-moving rivers, and crossing deep crevasses via log or other unsafe means);
(b) Immediate presence of dangerous wildlife (e.g., venomous snakes, poisonous insects, and large carnivores); or
(c) Known exposure to serious disease for which adequate protection cannot be provided.
25
June 14, 1989.
(5 U.S.C. 5595; E.O. 11257, 3 CFR 1964-1965 Comp., p. 357)
[34 FR 11083, July 1, 1969; 34 FR 12623, Aug. 2, 1969, as amended at 34 FR 15747, Oct. 11, 1969; 35 FR 7172, May 7, 1970; 37 FR 20248, Sept. 28, 1972; 39 FR 7115, Mar. 16, 1973; 40 FR 7437, Feb. 20, 1975; 41 FR 12635, Mar. 26, 1976; 41 FR 14165, Apr. 2, 1976; 53 FR 36557, Sept. 21, 1988; 54 FR 8267, Feb. 28, 1989; 54 FR 25224, June 14, 1989 and 55 FR 1354, Jan. 14, 1990; 56 FR 20345, May 3, 1991; 58 FR 32050, June 8, 1993; 58 FR 32276, June 9, 1993; 64 FR 1502, Jan. 11, 1999]
Pt. 550, Subpt. I, App. A-1

# Appendix A-1 to Subpart I of Part 550—Windchill Chart
EC01SE91.002
windchill chart in non-metric units
EC01SE91.003
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 58 FR 32277, June 9, 1993]

# Subpart J—Compensatory Time Off for Religious Observances

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5550a.

# Source:
84 FR 17939, Apr. 29, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.1001
Purpose.
This subpart implements 5 U.S.C. 5550a, which permits an employee whose personal religious beliefs require the abstention from work during certain periods of time to elect to engage in overtime work and earn a special form of compensatory time off to make up for the time lost in meeting those personal religious requirements. Religious compensatory time off differs from other forms of compensatory time off in that the sole purpose is to adjust an employee's work schedule to accommodate a religious observance. The employee earns religious compensatory time off by spending an equal amount of time in overtime work before and/or after taking time from the employee's scheduled tour of duty to meet personal religious requirements. Hours worked to earn religious compensatory time off provide a time off credit in lieu of any pay that would otherwise be payable for that work.
§ 550.1002
Coverage.
This subpart applies to each employee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105) in or under an Executive agency (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105) who has a scheduled tour of duty. The definition of “employee” in section 5541(2) does not apply to this subpart.
§ 550.1003
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Overtime work
means work performed by an employee outside his or her scheduled tour of duty for the purpose
of making up time lost for meeting personal religious requirements, as such term is explained in the definition of “religious compensatory time off” in this section. It is also deemed to include work performed by a part-time employee outside of his or her scheduled tour of duty, even if that work is below applicable overtime thresholds (e.g., below 40 hours in a week), and work an employee performs during holiday hours (within the employee's scheduled tour of duty) during which the employee would otherwise be excused from duty.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee, including any special rate under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; locality rate under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; retained rate under 5 CFR part 536; or similar rate under other legal authority, before any deductions and excluding additional pay of any other kind. For example, a
rate of basic pay
does not include additional pay such as night shift differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f) or environmental differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(c)(4).
Religious compensatory time off
means compensatory time off, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5550a, under which an employee whose personal religious beliefs require the abstention from work during certain periods of time may elect to perform overtime work in order to make up for time the employee takes off to meet those personal religious requirements. Those requirements need not be officially mandated by a religious organization to which the employee belongs. It is sufficient that the employee's personal religious beliefs cause the employee to feel an obligation that he or she should be absent from work for a religious purpose. An employee approved to perform overtime work under this subpart will be granted an equal amount of compensatory time off from his or her scheduled tour of duty (in lieu of overtime pay or other pay otherwise payable) to meet his or her personal religious obligations.
Scheduled tour of duty
means the regular work hours in an established full-time or part-time work schedule during which the employee is charged leave or time off when absent.
§ 550.1004
Employee responsibilities.
(a) An employee is required to provide his or her supervisor with a request for religious compensatory time off in advance of the religious observance by following the agency's procedures established in accordance with §§ 550.1005 and 550.1006.
(b) At the time the religious compensatory time off is requested, the employee must provide the agency with the following information:
(1) The name and/or description of the religious observance that is the basis of the employee's request to be absent from work in order to meet the employee's personal religious requirements;
(2) The date(s) and time(s) the employee plans to be absent to participate in the religious observances identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(3) The date(s) and time(s) the employee plans to perform overtime work to earn religious compensatory time off to make up for the absence.
(c) An employee must comply with the agency's procedures for requesting religious compensatory time off, including any time limitations prescribed under § 550.1006.
(d) In the event that an adjustment to the dates and times of planned overtime work is required due to unforeseen circumstances, the employee must submit for approval a revised schedule to reflect those changes.
§ 550.1005
Agency responsibilities.
(a) An agency may require an employee to submit his or her request to use religious compensatory time off with all the information specified in § 550.1004(b) in a manner that is administratively acceptable to the agency. To the maximum extent practicable, the agency must require that the request be in writing (including electronic communications). If the agency accepts an oral request, the agency must document all the information specified in § 550.1004(b) and must require the employee to submit a written document containing all the information as soon as practicable. An agency may require an employee to submit a
request to use religious compensatory time off sufficiently in advance to accommodate necessary scheduling changes without interfering with the agency's ability to efficiently carry out its mission.
(b) An agency must approve an employee's request to use religious compensatory time off unless the agency determines that approving the request would interfere with the agency's ability to efficiently carry out its mission. If the employee's request to use religious compensatory time off is denied, the agency must provide a written explanation as to the reason the request has been denied, regardless of whether the employee's request was written or oral.
(c) The agency must provide the employee with an opportunity to earn religious compensatory time off before the deadline established in § 550.1006(c), although the specific timing of when an employee will be allowed to earn religious compensatory time off by performing overtime work is a matter of agency discretion based on the needs of the agency.
§ 550.1006
Scheduling time to earn and use religious compensatory time off.
(a) The scheduling of time to earn and use religious compensatory time off by an employee is subject to the agency's approval as provided in § 550.1005.
(b) For an employee who earns religious compensatory time off prior to using it, religious compensatory time off may be earned up to 13 pay periods in advance of the pay period in which the targeted religious observance commences and must be linked to specific dates and times for future use, as compatible with agency mission requirements.
(c)(1) An employee who uses religious compensatory time off prior to earning it must fulfill his or her obligation to perform overtime work in exchange for the advanced religious compensatory time off within 13 pay periods after the pay period in which he or she used religious compensatory time off, or the agency must take action as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(2) The 13 pay periods described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are calculated beginning with the first pay period beginning after the date on which the religious compensatory time off was used.
(3) If the employee fails to earn religious compensatory time off within 13 pay periods after taking religious compensatory time off, the agency may take corrective action to eliminate or reduce the negative balance by making a corresponding reduction in the employee's balance of annual leave, credit hours, compensatory time off in lieu of regular overtime pay, compensatory time off for travel, or time-off awards. An agency may determine the order of precedence for applying the various types of paid time off to offset the negative balance. Any negative balance of religious compensatory time off remaining after any charging of these types of paid time off must be resolved by charging the employee leave without pay, which would result in an indebtedness that is subject to the agency's internal debt collection procedures.
§ 550.1007
Accumulation and documentation.
(a) Agencies must keep records of the name and/or description of the religious observance, and the dates, times, and amount of religious compensatory time off each employee earns and uses. An agency must credit religious compensatory time off for work performed on a time-for-time basis, under its time and attendance procedures.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an employee may accumulate only the amount of religious compensatory time off needed to cover an approved absence for a religious observance that has already occurred or to cover an approved absence for a future religious observance. An employee may only accumulate the amount of religious compensatory time off needed to cover the specific dates and times for which the employee has submitted a request for religious compensatory time off under § 550.1004.
(c) If the employee does not use his or her earned religious compensatory time off as planned—
(1) The positive balance of unused compensatory time off may be redirected toward a future religious observance that has been approved, even if that future observance is more than 13 pay periods after the compensatory time off was originally earned (notwithstanding § 550.1006(b)); and
(2) The employee may not earn any additional religious compensatory time off until the retained amount of religious compensatory time off has been used or the need to earn additional religious compensatory time off has been properly established and documented.
(d) Accumulated religious compensatory time off that is not used as planned is not subject to time limits for usage. Unused religious compensatory time off hours remain to the employee's credit until used (subject to the agency's approval under § 550.1005), or the employee's separation or transfer (subject to § 550.1008), as applicable.
§ 550.1008
Employee separation or transfer.
(a) Upon an employee's separation from Federal service or transfer to another Federal agency, the losing agency must compensate the employee for any positive balance of earned religious compensatory time off to his or her credit. The agency must pay the employee for hours of earned religious compensatory time off at the hourly rate of basic pay in effect at the time religious compensatory time off was earned.
(b) For an employee who has a negative balance of religious compensatory time off upon an employee's separation from Federal service or transfer to another Federal agency, the losing agency may take corrective action to eliminate or reduce the negative balance by making a corresponding reduction in the employee's balance of annual leave, earned credit hours, compensatory time off in lieu of regular overtime pay, compensatory time off for travel, or time-off awards. An agency may determine the order of precedence for applying the various types of paid time off to offset the negative balance. Any negative balance of religious compensatory time off remaining after any charging of these types of paid time off must be resolved by charging the employee leave without pay, which would result in an indebtedness that is subject to the agency's internal debt collection procedures.
(c) For purposes of applying paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, an hourly rate of basic pay is computed by dividing the annual rate of basic pay by 2,087 hours (or 2,756 hours for firefighter hours subject to that divisor under subpart F of this part).
§ 550.1009
Relationship to premium pay and overtime work.
The premium pay provisions for overtime work in subpart A of this part and section 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (FLSA), do not apply to overtime work performed by an employee that is used to earn religious compensatory time off under this subpart. The overtime hours worked to earn religious compensatory time off under this subpart do not create an entitlement to premium pay (including overtime pay) under subpart A of this part or FLSA overtime pay under 5 CFR part 551. Religious compensatory time off is not considered in applying the premium pay limitations described in §§ 550.105, 550.106, and 550.107.
§ 550.1010
Transitional provisions.
(a) This section applies only with respect to employees who as of May 29, 2019 had a positive balance of earned but unused religious compensatory time off hours or a negative balance (
i.e.,
a debt) of used religious compensatory time off hours not yet repaid by earned hours.
(b) If an employee described in paragraph (a) of this section has a negative balance (
i.e.,
a debt) of used but not-yet-earned religious compensatory time off hours as of the date specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the 13 pay period limitation in § 550.1006(c) is applied as if such date were the date on which the hours of religious compensatory time off were used.
(c) If an employee described in paragraph (a) of this section has a positive balance of earned but unused religious compensatory time off hours as of the date specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the agency must confirm and document that the hours are connected
to one or more specific religious observances requiring the employee's absence from work in order to meet the employee's personal religious requirements. The agency must give the employee an opportunity to direct all unused hours to such a future religious observance. If the employee does not so direct all of those unused hours, the employee may not earn any additional religious compensatory time off hours until the employee establishes a need to earn such time off hours.

# Subpart K—Collection by Offset From Indebted Government Employees

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5514; sec. 8(1) of E.O. 11609; redesignated in sec. 2-1 of E.O. 12107.

# Source:
49 FR 27472, July 3, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.1101
Purpose.
This subpart provides the standards to be used by Federal agencies to prepare regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5514 and by OPM to review and approve such agency regulations, and establishes procedural guidelines to recover debts from the current pay account of an employee when the employee's creditor and paying agencies are not the same.
§ 550.1102
Scope.
(a)
Coverage.
This subpart applies to agencies and employees defined by § 550.1103.
(b)
Applicability.
This subpart and 5 U.S.C. 5514 apply in recovering certain debts by administrative offset, except where the employee consents to the recovery, from the current pay account of the employee. Because salary offset is a type of administrative offset, debt collection procedures for salary offset which are not specified in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and these regulations should be consistent with the provisions of the Federal Claims Collections Standards (FCCS) (dealing with administrative offset generally) and 31 CFR part 285 (dealing with centralized administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716). Section 550.1108 addresses the use of centralized administrative offset procedures to effect salary offset. Generally, the procedures under § 550.1109 should apply only when centralized administrative offset cannot be accomplished.
(1)
Excluded debts.
The procedures contained in this subpart do not apply to—
(i) Debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
);
(ii) Debts arising under the tariff laws of the United States;
(iii) Any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (e.g., travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108); or
(iv) Any other debt excluded by the FCCS or 31 CFR part 285.
(2)
Waiver requests.
This subpart does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of an erroneous payment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716, or in any way questioning the amount or validity of a debt, in the manner prescribed by the head of the responsible agency. Similarly, this subpart does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of the collection of a debt under any other applicable statutory authority.
(3)
Compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions.
This subpart does not preclude the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions, where appropriate, as provided in the FCCS (31 CFR 900.4) or the use of alternative dispute resolution methods if they are not inconsistent with agency-specific laws and regulations.
[49 FR 27472, July 3, 1984, as amended at 63 FR 72099, Dec. 31, 1998; 79 FR 530, Jan. 6, 2014]
§ 550.1103
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart—
Agency
means an executive department or agency; a military department; the United States Postal Service; the Postal Regulatory Commission; any nonappropriated fund instrumentality described in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c); the United States Senate; the United States House of Representatives; any court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the judicial or legislative branches of the Government; or a Government corporation. If an
agency under this definition is a component of an agency, the broader definition of
agency
may be used in applying the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514(b) (concerning the authority to prescribe regulations).
Creditor Agency
means the agency to which the debt is owed, including a debt collection center when acting in behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt (as provided in § 550.1110).
Debt
means an amount owed to the United States from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and all other similar sources.
Debt collection center
means the Department of the Treasury or other Government agency or division designated by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to collect debts on behalf of creditor agencies in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g).
Disposable pay
means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld (other than deductions to execute garnishment orders in accordance with parts 581 and 582 of this chapter). Among the legally required deductions that must be applied first to determine disposable pay are levies pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code (title 26, United States Code) and deductions described in § 581.105(b) through (f) of this chapter.
Employee
means a current employee of an agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces (Reserves).
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collections Standards published in 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.
Paying agency
means the agency employing the individual and authorizing the payment of his or her current pay.
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his or her consent.
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716, 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), or any other law.
[49 FR 27472, July 3, 1984, as amended at 51 FR 16670, May 6, 1986; 63 FR 72100, Dec. 31, 1998; 74 FR 23938, May 22, 2009; 79 FR 530, Jan. 6, 2014]
§ 550.1104
Agency regulations.
Under this subpart and 5 U.S.C. 5514, each creditor agency must issue regulations, subject to approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), governing the collection of a debt by salary offset. Each agency is responsible for assuring that the regulations governing collection of internal debts are uniformly and consistently applied to all its employees. Agency regulations issued under authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514 must contain the following minimum provisions:
(a)
Applicability or scope.
Indicate whether regulations cover internal or Government-wide collections under 5 U.S.C. 5514, or both.
(b)
Entitlement to notice, hearing, written responses and decisions.
Identify when the employee is entitled to notice, when hearings will be offered, when the employee is entitled to a response or decision after exercising his or her rights under § 5514 and this subpart, and if the hearing official's decision is not in the employee's favor or the employee chooses not to request a hearing, what other rights and remedies are available under the statutes or regulations governing the program that requires the collection to be made. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, each employee from whom the creditor agency proposes to collect a debt under this subpart is entitled to receive from the creditor agency—
(1) A written notice as described in paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) The opportunity to petition for a hearing and, if a hearing is given, to receive a written decision from the official holding the hearing on the following issues:
(i) The determination of the creditor agency concerning the existence or amount of the debt; and
(ii) The repayment schedule, if it was not established by written agreement between the employee and the creditor agency.
(c)
Exception to entitlement to notice, hearing, written responses, and final decisions.
In regulations covering internal collections, an agency must except from the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section—
(1) Any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over 4 pay periods or less;
(2) A routine intra-agency adjustment of pay that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the 4 pay periods preceding the adjustment and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and point of contact for contesting such adjustment; or
(3) Any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less, if, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment.
(d)
Notification before deductions begin.
Provide for notification before deductions begin. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, deductions under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514 must not be made unless the head of the creditor agency (or authorized designee) provides the employee a written notice at least 30 days before any deduction begins. (For debts outstanding more than 10 years on or before June 11, 2009, see also 31 CFR 285.7(d) for additional notification requirements.) The written notice must state at a minimum:
(1) The creditor agency's determination that a debt is owed, including the origin, nature, and amount of that debt;
(2) The creditor agency's intention to collect the debt by means of deduction from the employee's current disposable pay account;
(3) The frequency and amount of the intended deduction (stated as a fixed dollar amount or as a percentage of pay, not to exceed 15 percent of disposable pay except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section) and the intention to continue the deductions until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved;
(4) An explanation of the creditor agency's policy concerning interest, penalties, and administrative costs, including a statement that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with the FCCS as defined in § 550.1103;
(5) The employee's right to inspect and copy Government records relating to the debt or, if employee or his or her representative cannot personally inspect the records, to request and receive a copy of such records;
(6) If not previously provided, the opportunity (under terms agreeable to the creditor agency) to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt or to enter into a written agreement to establish a schedule for repayment of the debt in lieu of offset. The agreement must be in writing, signed by both the employee and the creditor agency; and documented in the creditor agency's files (see the FCCS);
(7) The employee's right to a hearing conducted by an official arranged by the creditor agency (an administrative law judge, or alternatively, a hearing official not under the control of the head of the agency) if a petition is filed as prescribed by the creditor agency;
(8) The method and time period for petitioning for a hearing;
(9) That the timely filing of a petition for hearing will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(10) That a final decision on the hearing (if one is requested) will be issued at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the
petition requesting the hearing unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(11) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to:
(i) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under chapter 75 of title 5, United States Code, part 752 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or any other applicable statutes or regulations;
(ii) Penalties under the False Claims Act, §§ 3729-3731 of title 31, United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority; or
(iii) Criminal penalties under §§ 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 of title 18, United States Code or any other applicable statutory authority.
(12) Any other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made; and
(13) Unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, that amounts paid on or deducted for the debt which are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee.
(e)
Petitions for hearing.
(1) Prescribe the method and time period for petitioning for a hearing. Ordinarily, a hearing may be requested by filing a written petition addressed to the appropriate creditor agency official stating why the employee believes the determination of the creditor agency concerning the existence or amount of the debt is in error.
(2) The employee's petition or statement must be signed by the employee and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence and witnesses, if any, which the employee believes support his or her position.
(f)
Petitions for hearing made after time expires.
Prescribe the action to be taken on a petition for hearing made after the expiration of the period provided in the notice described in paragraph (d) of this section. Ordinarily a creditor agency should accept requests if the employee can show that the delay was because of circumstances beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice of the time limit (unless otherwise aware of it).
(g)
Form of hearings, written responses, and final decisions.
(1) Define the form and content of hearings, written responses, and written decisions to be provided when the employee exercises his or her rights under § 5514 and this subpart.
(2) The form and content of hearings granted under this subpart will depend on the nature of the transactions giving rise to the debts included within each debt collection program. Agencies should refer to the FCCS for information on hearing form and content.
(3) Written decisions provided after a request for hearing must, at a minimum, state the facts purported to evidence the nature and origin of the alleged debt; the hearing official's analysis, findings and conclusions, in light of the hearing, as to the employee's and/or creditor agency's grounds, the amount and validity of the alleged debt and, where applicable, the repayment schedule.
(h)
Method and source of deductions.
Identify the method and source of deductions. At a minimum, agency regulations must identify the method of collection as salary offset and the source of deductions as current disposable pay, except as provided in paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section.
(i)
Limitation on amount of deductions.
Prescribe the limitations on the amount of the deduction. Ordinarily, the size of installment deductions must bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay (see the FCCS at 31 CFR 901.8). However, the amount deducted for any period under this subpart may not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount or a higher deduction has been ordered by a court under section 124 of Public Law 97-276 (96 Stat.1195).
(j)
Duration of deductions.
Prescribe the duration of deductions under this subpart. Ordinarily, debts must be collected in one lump sum where possible. However, if the employee is financially unable to pay in one lump sum or the amount of the debt exceeds 15 percent
of disposable pay (or other applicable limitation as provided in paragraph (i) of this section) for an officially established pay interval, collection must be made in installments. Such installment deductions must be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of active duty or employment, as the case may be, except as provided in paragraphs (1) and (m) of this section.
(k)
When deductions may begin.
Prescribe when deductions will be scheduled to begin in internal agency collections.
(l)
Liquidation from final check.
Provide for offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, if the employee retires or resigns or if his or her employment or period of active duty ends before collection of the debt is completed, from subsequent payments of any nature (e.g., final salary payment, lump-sum leave, etc.) due the employee from the paying agency as of the date of separation to the extent necessary to liquidate the debt.
(m)
Recovery from other payments due a separated employee
Provide for offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 from later payments of any kind due the former employee from the United States, where appropriate, if the debt cannot be liquidated by offset from any final payment due the former employee as of the date of separation. (See the FCCS.)
(n)
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Provide for the assessment of interest, penalties, and administrative costs on debts being collected under this subpart. These charges and the waiving of them must be prescribed in accordance with the FCCS.
(o)
Non-waiver of rights by payments.
Provide that an employee's involuntary payment, of all or any portion of a debt being collected under 5 U.S.C. 5514 must not be construed as a waiver of any rights which the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of contract or law, unless there are statutory or contractual provisions to the contrary.
(p)
Refunds.
(1) Provide for promptly refunding to the appropriate party, amounts paid or deducted under this subpart when—
(i) A debt is waived or otherwise found not owing to the United States (unless expressly prohibited by statute or regulation); or
(ii) The employee's paying agency is directed by an administrative or judicial order to refund amounts deducted from his or her current pay.
(2) Refunds do not bear interest unless required or permitted by law or contract.
[33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 63 FR 72100, Dec. 31, 1998; 64 FR 69180, Dec. 10, 1999; 79 FR 530, Jan. 6, 2014]
§ 550.1105
Review and approval of agency regulations.
(a)
Initial OPM review of agency regulations.
(1) Creditor agencies must submit regulations to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this subpart prior to publication of final regulations or prior to implementation, if intragency collection procedures are not published. Submissions must be for agency-wide and/or Government-wide collections.
(2) Creditor agency regulations must contain all provisions specified in § 550.1104. If agency regulations are incomplete, OPM will return them with information as to what must be done to obtain approval.
(b)
Proposed changes in salary offset regulations.
If a creditor agency proposes significant changes in the regulations covering provisions specified in § 550.1104, the proposed revisions must be submitted to OPM for review and approval prior to implementation.
(c)
Supplemental regulations.
When a creditor agency has issued approved regulations covering the provisions specified in § 550.1104, the agency may issue any supplemental regulations or instructions, consistent with its approved regulations, which are necessary for solely internal operations, without prior OPM approval.
§ 550.1106
Time limit on collection of debts.
Agencies may initiate salary offset to collect a debt without time limitations on any debt outstanding after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued. (See § 550.1108 for requirement when debts are delinquent over 180 days.)
[79 FR 530, Jan. 6, 2014]
§ 550.1107
Obtaining the services of a hearing official.
(a) When the debtor does not work for the creditor agency and the creditor agency cannot provide a prompt and appropriate hearing before an administrative law judge or before a hearing official furnished pursuant to another lawful arrangement, the creditor agency may contact an agent of the paying agency designated in appendix A of part 581 of this chapter to arrange for a hearing official, and the paying agency must then cooperate as provided by the FCCS as defined in § 550.1103 and provide a hearing official.
(b) When the debtor works for the creditor agency, the creditor agency may contact any agent (of another agency) designated in appendix A of part 581 of this chapter to arrange for a hearing official. Agencies must then cooperate as required by the FCCS and provide a hearing official.
(c) The determination of a hearing official designated under this section is considered to be an official certification regarding the existence and amount of the debt for purposes of executing salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514. A creditor agency may make a certification to the Secretary of the Treasury under § 550.1108 or a paying agency under § 550.1109 regarding the existence and amount of the debt based on the certification of a hearing official. If a hearing official determines that a debt may not be collected via salary offset, but the creditor agency finds that the debt is still valid, the creditor agency may still seek collection of the debt through other means, such as offset of other Federal payments, litigation, etc.
[51 FR 16670, May 6, 1986, as amended at 63 FR 72100, Dec. 31, 1998]
§ 550.1108
Requesting recovery through centralized administrative offset.
Under 31 U.S.C. 3716, creditor agencies must notify the Secretary of the Treasury of all debts that are delinquent as defined in the FCCS (over 180 days) so that recovery may be made by centralized administrative offset. This includes those debts the agency seeks to recover from the pay account of an employee of another agency via salary offset. The Secretary of the Treasury and other Federal disbursing officials will match payments, including Federal salary payments, against these debts. Where a match occurs, and all the requirements for offset have been met, the payments will be offset to collect the debt. Prior to offset of the pay account of an employee, an agency must comply with the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514, this subpart, and agency regulations issued thereunder. Specific procedures for notifying the Secretary of the Treasury of a debt for purposes of collection by centralized administrative offset are contained in 31 CFR part 285 and the FCCS. At its discretion, a creditor agency may notify the Secretary of the Treasury of debts that have been delinquent for 180 days or less, including debts the agency seeks to recover from the pay account of an employee via salary offset.
[63 FR 72101, Dec. 31, 1998]
§ 550.1109
Requesting recovery when the current paying agency is not the creditor agency.
When possible, salary offset through the centralized administrative offset procedures in § 550.1108 should be attempted before applying the procedures in this section.
(a)
Responsibilities of creditor agency.
Upon completion of the procedures established by the creditor agency under 5 U.S.C. 5514, the creditor agency must do the following:
(1) The creditor agency must certify, in writing, that the employee owes the debt, the amount and basis of the debt, the date on which payment(s) is due, the date the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, and that the creditor agency's regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5514 have been approved by OPM.
(2) If the collection must be made in installments, the creditor agency also must advise the paying agency of the amount or percentage of disposable pay to be collected in each installment, and if the creditor agency wishes, the number and the commencing date of the installments (if a date other than the next officially established pay period is required).
(3) Unless the employee has consented to the salary offset in writing or
signed a statement acknowledging receipt of the required procedures and the written consent or statement is forwarded to the paying agency, the creditor agency also must advise the paying agency of the action(s) taken under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and give the date(s) the action(s) was taken.
(4) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the creditor agency must submit a debt claim containing the information specified in paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section and an installment agreement (or other instruction on the payment schedule), if applicable, to the employee's paying agency.
(5) If the employee is in the process of separating, the creditor agency must submit its debt claim to the employee's paying agency for collection as provided in § 550.1104(1). The paying agency must certify the total amount of its collection and notify the creditor agency and the employee as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the paying agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, it must provide written notification to the agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount) and that the provisions of this section have been fully complied with. However, the creditor agency must submit a properly certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before the collection can be made.
(6) If the employee is already separated and all payments due from his or her former paying agency have been paid, the creditor agency may request, unless otherwise prohibited, that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (5 CFR 831.1801
et seq.
), or other similar funds, be administratively offset to collect the debt. (See 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the FCCS.)
(b)
Responsibilities of paying agency
—(1)
Complete claim.
When the paying agency receives a properly certified debt claim from a creditor agency, deductions should be scheduled to begin prospectively at the next officially established pay interval. The employee must receive written notice that the paying agency has received a certified debt claim from the creditor agency (including the amount) and written notice of the date deductions from salary will commence and of the amount of such deductions.
(2)
Incomplete claim.
When the paying agency receives an incomplete debt claim from a creditor agency, the paying agency must return the debt claim with a notice that procedures under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this subpart must be provided and a properly certified debt claim received before action will be taken to collect from the employee's current pay account.
(3)
Review.
The paying agency is not required or authorized to review the merits of the determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.
(c)
Employees who transfer from one paying agency to another.
(1) If, after the creditor agency has submitted the debt claim to the employee's paying agency, the employee transfers to a position served by a different paying agency before the debt is collected in full, the paying agency from which the employee separates must certify the total amount of the collection made on the debt. One copy of the certification must be furnished to the employee, another to the creditor agency along with notice of the employee's transfer. However, the creditor agency must submit a properly certified claim to the new paying agency before collection can be resumed.
(2) When an employee transfers to another paying agency, the creditor agency need not repeat the due process procedures described by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this subpart to resume the collection. However, the creditor agency is responsible for reviewing the debt upon receiving the former paying agency's notice of the employee's transfer to make sure the collection is resumed by the new paying agency.
[51 FR 21325, June 12, 1986. Redesignated and amended at 63 FR 72100, Dec. 31, 1998]
§ 550.1110
Debt collection centers.
A debt collection center may act in behalf of a creditor agency to collect claims via salary offset consistent with this section, subject to any limitations
on its authority established by the creditor agency it represents or by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(a) A debt collection center may be authorized to enter into a written agreement with the indebted employee regarding the repayment schedule or, in the absence of such agreement, to establish the terms of the repayment schedule.
(b) A debt collection center may make certifications to the Secretary of the Treasury under § 550.1108 or to a paying agency under § 550.1109 based on the certifications it has received from the creditor agency or a hearing official.
(c) A debt collection center responsible for collecting a particular debt may not act in behalf of a creditor agency for the purpose of making determinations regarding the existence or amount of that debt.
(d) A debt collection center responsible for collecting a particular debt may arrange for a hearing on the existence or amount of the debt or the repayment schedule by an administrative law judge or, alternatively, another hearing official not under the supervision or control of the head of the creditor agency or the debt collection center.
[63 FR 72101, Dec. 31, 1998]

# Subpart L—Lump-Sum Payment for Accumulated and Accrued Annual Leave

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5553, 6306, and 6311.

# Source:
64 FR 36771, July 8, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.1201
Purpose, applicability, and administration.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart provides regulations to implement sections 5551, 5552, and 6306 of title 5, United States Code, and must be read together with those sections. Sections 5551 and 5552 provide for the payment of a lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave when an employee:
(1) Separates from Federal service; or
(2) Enters on active duty in the armed forces and elects to receive a lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave. Section 6306 requires that when an employee is reemployed in the Federal service prior to the expiration of the lump-sum period, he or she must refund an amount equal to the pay covering the period between the date of reemployment and the expiration of the period of annual leave (
i.e.,
the lump-sum leave period).
(b)
Applicability.
This subpart applies to—
(1) Any employee who separates, dies, or transfers under the conditions prescribed in § 550.1203; and
(2) Any employee or individual employed by a territory or possession of the United States who enters on active duty in the armed forces and who elects to receive a lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave.
(c)
Administration.
The head of an agency having employees subject to this subpart is responsible for the proper administration of this subpart.
§ 550.1202
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Accumulated and accrued annual leave
means any annual leave accumulated and accrued, as these terms are defined in § 630.201 of this chapter, plus any annual leave credited to an employee under 5 U.S.C. 6304(c) and § 630.301(d) of this chapter and any annual leave restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d). Accumulated and accrued annual leave does not include annual leave received by a leave recipient under the voluntary leave transfer or leave bank programs established under subchapters III and IV of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, or annual leave advanced to an employee under 5 U.S.C. 6302(d).
Administrative workweek
has the meaning given that term in § 610.102 of this chapter.
Agency
means—(1) An executive agency and a military department as defined in sections 105 and 102 of title 5, United States Code, respectively; and
(2) A legislative or judicial agency or a unit of the legislative or judicial branch of the Federal Government that has positions in the competitive service.
Employee
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.
Lump-sum payment
means a final payment to an employee for accumulated and accrued annual leave.
Mixed tour of duty
means a condition of employment for positions in which a fluctuating workload requires an employee to work full-time or part-time for a limited portion of the year and on an intermittent basis for the remainder of the year.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee, including any applicable locality payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; special rate supplement under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; or similar payment or supplement under other legal authority, before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any other kind.
Transfer
means the movement of an employee to another position without a break in service of 1 workday or more.
[64 FR 36771, July 8, 1999, as amended at 70 FR 31314, May 31, 2005]
§ 550.1203
Eligibility.
(a) An agency must make a lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave when an employee—(1) Separates or retires from the Federal service;
(2) Dies; or
(3) Transfers to a position that is not covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, and his or her accumulated and accrued annual leave cannot be transferred, except as provided in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
(b) The Department of Defense (DOD) must make a lump-sum payment to an employee who has unused annual leave that was restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d)(3) when he or she transfers from a DOD installation undergoing closure or realignment to a position in any other department or agency of the Federal Government or moves to a position within DOD not located at an installation undergoing closure or realignment.
(c) An employee who enters on active duty in the armed forces may elect to receive a lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave or may request to have the annual leave remain to his or her credit until return from active duty. However, an agency must make a lump-sum payment for any annual leave previously restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d) when the employee enters active duty. The agency may not recredit the restored leave when the employee returns to Federal service.
(d) An employee who transfers to a position in a public international organization under 5 U.S.C. 3582 may elect to retain accumulated and accrued annual leave to his or her credit at the time of transfer or receive a lump-sum payment for such annual leave under 5 U.S.C. 3582(a)(4). However, the agency must make a lump-sum payment for any annual leave previously restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d) when the employee transfers to the public international organization. The agency may not recredit the leave under these circumstances.
(e) An agency must make a lump-sum payment to an employee who transfers to a position excepted from subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, by 5 U.S.C. 6301(2)(x)-(xiii) for any annual leave restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d) upon transfer to an excepted position. However, the agency may not make a lump-sum payment for any annual leave in the employee's regular leave account upon transfer to the excepted position. The agency must hold such annual leave in abeyance for recredit if the employee is subsequently reemployed without a break in service in a position to which his or her accumulated and accrued annual leave may be transferred. If the employee later becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under the conditions specified in this section, the current employing agency must make a lump-sum payment for the annual leave held in abeyance. The agency must compute the lump-sum payment under § 550.1205(b) based on the pay the employee was receiving immediately before the date of the transfer to the position excepted by 5 U.S.C. 6301(2)(x)-(xiii). An employee who elects to retain his or her leave benefits upon accepting a Presidential appointment, as permitted by 5 U.S.C. 3392(c), is not entitled to receive a lump-sum payment.
(f) In the case of an employee who transfers to a position that is not covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, and to which only a portion of his or her accumulated and accrued annual leave may be transferred, the agency must make a lump-sum payment for any remaining annual leave that cannot be transferred. The agency must compute the lump-sum payment under § 550.1205(b) based on the pay the employee was receiving immediately before the date of the transfer to the position not covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code. This does not apply to an employee transferring to an excepted position covered by paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) An agency must make a lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave to an employee in a missing status (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5561(5)) on or after January 1, 1965, or the employee may elect to have such leave restored in a separate leave account under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d)(2) upon his or her return to Federal service. The agency must compute the lump sum payment under § 550.1205(b) based on the rate of pay in effect at the time the annual leave became subject to forfeiture under 5 U.S.C. 6304(a), (b), or (c).
(h) An agency may not make a lump-sum payment for accumulated or accrued annual leave to—(1) An employee who transfers between positions covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code;
(2) An employee who transfers to a position not covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, but to which all of his or her accumulated and accrued annual leave may be transferred;
(3) An employee who transfers to the government of the District of Columbia or the U.S. Postal Service;
(4) A nonappropriated fund employee of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard who moves without a break in service of more than 3 days to an appropriated fund position within the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, under 5 U.S.C. 6308(b); or
(5) An employee who is concurrently employed in more than one part-time position and who separates from one of the part-time positions. Instead, the former employing agency must transfer the employee's accumulated and accrued annual leave to the current agency (if the part-time positions are in different agencies) or credit the employee's annual leave account in the current position (if the part-time positions are in the same agency).
(6) An employee who elects to retain his or her leave benefits upon accepting a Presidential appointment, as permitted by 5 U.S.C. 3392(c).
(i) An agency must establish a policy for determining when an employee in a continuing employment program with a mixed tour of duty will receive a lump-sum payment for annual leave. The agency may choose to pay an employee a lump-sum payment when he or she is assigned intermittent duty or hold the employee's annual leave in abeyance during intermittent duty and recredit it when the employee returns without a break in service to full-time or part-time employment. If the agency decides to hold the employee's annual leave in abeyance, it must also hold in abeyance the credit for any fractional pay period earned and recredit the annual leave on a pro rata basis, as provided in § 630.204 of this chapter, when the employee returns to full-time or part-time employment. In developing its policy, each agency must consider the likelihood that the employee will return to work, as well as the agency's mission requirements and staffing needs. The agency's policy must ensure that employees are treated in a fair and equitable manner.
§ 550.1204
Projecting the lump-sum leave period.
(a) A lump-sum payment must equal the pay an employee would have received had he or she remained in the Federal service until the expiration of the accumulated and accrued annual leave to the employee's credit. The agency must project the lump-sum period leave beginning on the first workday (counting any holiday) occurring after the date the employee becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203 and counting all subsequent workdays and holidays until the expiration of the period of annual leave. The period of leave used for calculating
the lump-sum payment must not be extended by any holidays under 5 U.S.C. 6103 (or applicable Executive or administrative order) which occur immediately after the date the employee becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203; annual leave donated to an employee under the leave transfer or leave bank programs under subparts I and J of part 630 of this chapter; unused compensatory time off earned under 5 U.S.C. 5543 and § 550.114(d) or § 551.531(d) or under 5 U.S.C. 5542(g) and § 550.1625; or credit hours accumulated under an alternative work schedule established under 5 U.S.C. 6126.
(b) For employees whose annual leave was held in abeyance immediately prior to becoming eligible for a lump-sum payment, the agency must project the lump-sum payment beginning on the first workday occurring immediately after the date the employee becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203, consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.
[64 FR 36771, July 8, 1999, as amended at 80 FR 58112, Sept. 25, 2015]
§ 550.1205
Calculating a lump-sum payment.
(a) An agency must compute a lump-sum payment based on the types of pay listed in paragraph (b) of this section, as in effect at the time the affected employee becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203 and any adjustments in pay included in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section. The agency must calculate a lump-sum payment by multiplying the number of hours of accumulated and accrued annual leave by the applicable hourly rate of pay, including other applicable types of pay listed in paragraph (b) of this section, or by using a mathematically equivalent method, such as multiplying weeks of annual leave by the applicable weekly rate of pay. If the agency calculates a lump-sum payment using weekly rates, the number of weeks of annual leave must be rounded to the fourth decimal place (e.g., 0.4444). The agency must convert an annual rate of pay to an hourly rate of pay by dividing the annual rate of pay by 2,087 (or 2,756 for firefighters, if applicable) and rounding it to the nearest cent, counting one-half cent and over as the next higher cent.
(b) The agency must compute a lump-sum payment using the following types of pay and pay adjustments, as applicable:
(1) An employee's rate of basic pay (as defined in § 550.1202);
(2) Any statutory adjustments in pay or any general system-wide increases in pay, such as adjustments under sections 5303, 5304, 5305, 5318, 5362, 5363, 5372, 5372a, 5376, 5382, or 5392 of title 5, United States Code, that become effective during the lump-sum leave period. The agency must adjust the lump-sum payment to reflect the increased rate on and after the effective date of the pay adjustment.
(3) In the case of a prevailing rate employee, the agency must include in the lump-sum payment the scheduled rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5343, 5348, or 5349 and any applicable adjustments in rates that are determined under 5 U.S.C. 5343, 5348, or 5349 that become effective during the lump-sum leave period. The agency must adjust the lump-sum payment to reflect the increased prevailing rate on and after the effective date of the rate adjustment.
(4) A within-grade increase under 5 U.S.C. 5335 or 5343(e)(2) if the employee has met the requirements of § 531.404 or § 532.417 of this chapter prior to the date the employee becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203.
(5) The following types of premium pay (to the extent such premium pay was actually payable to the employee):
(i) Night differential under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f) at the applicable percentage rate received by a prevailing rate employee for all regularly scheduled periods of night shift duty covered by the unused annual leave as if the employee had continued to work beyond the effective date of separation, death, or transfer. In the case of an employee who is assigned to a regular rotating schedule involving work on both day and night shifts, the night differential is payable for that portion of the lump-sum period that would have occurred when the employee was scheduled to work night shifts.
(ii) Premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c) or 5545a if the employee was receiving premium pay for the pay period
immediately prior to the date the employee became eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203. The agency must base the lump-sum payment on the percentage rate received by the employee for the pay period immediately prior to the date the employee became eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203. In cases where the amount of premium pay actually payable in the final pay period was limited by a statutory cap, the agency must base the lump-sum payment on a reduced percentage rate that reflects the actual amount of premium pay the employee received in that pay period.
(iii) Overtime pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545b and § 550.1304 of this chapter for overtime hours in an employee's uncommon tour of duty (as defined in § 630.201 of this chapter), established in accordance with § 630.210 of this chapter. The uncommon tour of duty must be applicable to the employee for the pay period immediately prior to the date the employee became eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203. The agency must calculate overtime pay using the same methodology it used to calculate the employee's entitlement to overtime pay as provided in § 550.1304 of this chapter in the pay period immediately prior to the date the employee became eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203. An agency may not change an employee's work schedule for the sole purpose of avoiding or providing payment of premium pay under § 550.1205(b)(5)(i)-(iv) in a lump-sum payment.
(iv) An overtime supplement for regularly scheduled overtime within a Border Patrol agent's regular tour of duty under 5 U.S.C. 5550, as in effect immediately prior to the date the agent became eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203. The agency must base the lump-sum payment on the agent's assigned overtime supplement percentage. The assigned percentage will be considered fixed for the duration of the lump-sum annual leave projection period described in § 550.1204, even if an annual period for elections under 5 U.S.C. 5550 begins during that projection period. In cases where the amount of the overtime supplement actually payable in a pay period was limited by a statutory cap, the agency must base the lump-sum payment on a reduced percentage rate that reflects the actual amount of the overtime supplement the agent could receive in a pay period.
(6) Overtime pay under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (FLSA), for overtime work that is regularly scheduled during an employee's established uncommon tour of duty, as defined in § 630.201(b)(1) of this chapter and established under § 630.210(a) of this chapter, for which the employee receives standby duty pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1). The agency must include FLSA overtime pay in a lump-sum payment if an uncommon tour of duty was applicable to the employee for the pay period immediately prior to the date the employee became eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203. The agency must calculate FLSA overtime pay using the same methodology it used to calculate the employee's entitlement to FLSA overtime pay for the pay period immediately prior to the date the employee became eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203. An agency may not change an employee's work schedule for the sole purpose of avoiding or providing payment of FLSA overtime pay in a lump-sum payment.
(7) A supervisory differential under 5 U.S.C. 5755 based on the percentage rate (or dollar amount) received by the employee for the pay period immediately prior to the date the employee became eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203.
(8) A cost-of-living allowance and/or post differential in a nonforeign area under 5 U.S.C. 5941 if the employee's official duty station is in the nonforeign area when he or she becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203.
(9) A post allowance in a foreign area under 5 U.S.C. 5924(1) and the
Standardized Regulations
(Government Civilians, Foreign Areas) if the employee's official duty station is in the foreign area when he or she becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203.
(c) The head of an agency must prescribe regulations or standards for the inclusion of any other kinds of pay authorized in statutes other than title 5, United States Code, in a lump-sum
payment. Such regulations or standards must be consistent with 5 U.S.C. 5551, 5552, 6306, and other applicable provisions of law.
(d) A lump-sum payment may not include any other pay not specifically listed in paragraph (b) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) An employee may not earn leave for the period covered by a lump-sum payment.
(f) A lump-sum payment is not subject to deductions for retirement under the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees' Retirement System established by chapters 83 and 84 of title 5, United States Code, respectively; health benefits under the Federal Employees Health Benefits program established by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code; life insurance under the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance program established by chapter 87 of title 5, United States Code; and savings under the Thrift Savings Plan established by subchapter III of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
(g) For a reemployed annuitant who becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203, the agency must compute the lump-sum payment using the annuitant's pay before any reductions required under § 837.303 of this chapter.
(h) A lump-sum payment is subject to garnishment under parts 581 and 582 of this chapter and to administrative offset (for recovery of debts to the Federal Government) under 31 U.S.C. chapter 37.
[64 FR 36771, July 8, 1999, as amended at 70 FR 31314, May 31, 2005; 72 FR 12036, Mar. 15, 2007; 80 FR 58112, Sept. 25, 2015]
§ 550.1206
Refunding a lump-sum payment.
(a) When an employee who received a lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave under 5 U.S.C. 5551 is reemployed in the Federal service prior to the end of the period covered by the lump-sum payment, the employee must refund to the employing agency an amount equal to the pay included in the lump-sum payment under § 550.1205(b) that covers the period between the date of reemployment and the expiration of the lump-sum leave period, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The agency must compute the refund based on the pay used to compute the lump-sum payment under § 550.1205(b). However, annual leave restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d) that was included in a lump-sum payment is not subject to refund if an agency reemploys the employee prior to the expiration of the lump-sum leave period. The agency must subtract such restored annual leave from the lump-sum leave period before calculating the refund. An agency may permit an employee to refund the lump-sum payment for annual leave in installments, but may not waive collection. If an agency permits the lump-sum refund to be paid in installments, the employee must refund the lump-sum payment in full within 1 year after the date of reemployment.
(b) An employee who is reemployed in a position listed in 5 U.S.C. 6301(2)(ii), (iii), (vi), or (vii) is not required to refund a lump-sum payment under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) An employee who is reemployed in a position that has no leave system to which annual leave can be recredited is not required to refund a lump-sum payment under paragraph (a) of this section, except that individuals reemployed as Presidential appointees must refund a lump-sum payment and the annual leave will be held in abeyance, as provided in § 550.1207(e).
(d) An individual first hired by the District of Columbia government on or after October 1, 1987, who received a lump-sum payment upon separation from the District of Columbia government and who is employed by the Federal Government prior to the expiration of the lump-sum leave period must refund the lump-sum payment, and the agency must recredit the annual leave under § 550.1207.
(e) An employee who retired from the Federal Government and received a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203 of this chapter, and who is reemployed under a temporary appointment of less than 90 days prior to the expiration of the lump-sum leave period, is required to refund the lump-sum payment, and the agency must recredit the annual leave under § 550.1207. The employee
may use the recredited annual leave during the temporary appointment.
§ 550.1207
Recrediting annual leave.
(a) When an employee pays a full refund to an agency under § 550.1206(a), the agency must recredit to the employee an amount of annual leave equal to the days or hours of work (including holidays) remaining between the date of reemployment and the expiration of the lump-sum period. The recredited annual leave is available for use by the employee on and after the date the annual leave is recredited. The agency must recredit annual leave as follows:
(1) When an employee is reemployed in the Federal service in a position covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, the employing agency must recredit an amount of annual leave equal to the days or hours of work (including holidays) remaining between the date of reemployment and the expiration of the lump-sum period.
(2) When an employee is reemployed in the Federal service in a position that is not covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, but is covered by a different leave system, the employing agency must recredit to the employee an amount of annual leave representing the days or hours of work (including holidays) remaining between the date of reemployment and the expiration of the lump-sum period, as determined under § 630.501(b) of this chapter. If the unexpired period of leave covers a larger amount of leave than can be recredited under the different leave system, the employee must refund only the amount that represents the leave that can be recredited.
(3) When an employee is reemployed prior to the expiration of the lump-sum leave period, the agency may not recredit to the employee the annual leave restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d) that was included in a lump-sum payment. The agency must subtract such restored annual leave from the lump-sum leave period before it determines the amount of annual leave to recredit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Any annual leave the agency recredits to the employee under paragraph (a) of this section is subject at the beginning of the next leave year to the maximum annual leave limitation established by 5 U.S.C. 6304(a), (b), (c), or (f), as appropriate, for the position in which the employee is reemployed, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(c) If the amount of annual leave to be recredited under paragraph (a) of this section is more than the maximum annual leave limitation for the position in which reemployed, and the employee's former maximum annual leave limitation was established under 5 U.S.C. 6304(a), (b), (c), or (f), as appropriate, the agency must establish the employee's new maximum annual leave limitation on the date of reemployment as a personal leave ceiling equal to the amount of annual leave to be recredited under paragraph (a) of this section. The new maximum annual leave limitation is subject to reduction in the same manner as provided in 5 U.S.C. 6304(c) until the employee's accumulated annual leave is equal to or less than the maximum annual leave limitation for the position in which reemployed.
(d) If the amount of annual leave to be recredited under paragraph (a) of this section is more than the maximum annual leave limitation for the position in which the employee is reemployed, and the employee's former maximum annual leave limitation was established under an authority other than 5 U.S.C. 6304(a), (b), (c), or (f), as appropriate, the agency must establish the employee's new maximum annual leave limitation on the date of reemployment as a personal leave ceiling equal to the employee's former maximum annual leave limitation. The new maximum annual leave limitation is subject to reduction in the same manner as provided in 5 U.S.C. 6304(c) until the employee's accumulated annual leave is equal to or less than the maximum annual leave limitation for the position in which reemployed.
(e) When an employee is reemployed in a position listed in 5 U.S.C. 6301(2)(x)-(xiii), the agency must recredit and hold in abeyance the amount of annual leave that would have been recredited under paragraph (a) of this section. The agency must include unused annual leave in a lump-
sum payment when the employee becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203. If the employee transfers from a position listed in 5 U.S.C. 6301(2)(x)-(xiii) to a position covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, or to a position under a different formal leave system to which his or her annual leave can be recredited, the employing agency must recredit the annual leave to the employee's credit as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(f) An agency must document the calculation of an employee's lump-sum payment as provided in § 550.1205(b) so as to permit the subsequent calculation of any refund required under § 550.1206(a) and any recredit of annual leave required under this section.

# Subpart M—Firefighter Pay

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5545b, 5548, and 5553.

# Source:
63 FR 64593, Nov. 23, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.1301
Purpose, applicability, and administration.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart provides regulations governing the pay of covered Federal firefighters. It implements sections 5542(f) and 5545b of title 5, United States Code, as added by section 628 of section 101(h) of Pub. L. 105-277, and must be read together with those sections of law.
(b)
Applicability.
This subpart applies to any firefighter as defined in § 550.1302.
(c)
Administration.
The head of an agency having employees subject to this subpart is responsible for the proper administration of this subpart.
§ 550.1302
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Annual rate of basic pay
(except as otherwise provided in §§ 550.1305 and 550.1308) means the annual rate fixed under the rate schedule applicable to the position held by the firefighter, including a locality rate schedule established under 5 U.S.C. 5304 or a special rate schedule established under 5 U.S.C. 5305, before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any other kind.
Basic 40-hour workweek
means—
(1) A standard 40-hour workweek consisting of five 8-hour workdays that is part of the firefighter's regular tour of duty; or
(2) A designated block of hours within a firefighter's regular tour of duty that, on a fixed and recurring basis, consists of 40 hours of actual work during each administrative week (or 80 hours of actual work in each biweekly pay period), excluding sleep and standby duty hours, provided the regular tour of duty does not consist primarily of 24-hour shifts.
Firefighter
means an employee—
(1) Whose regular tour of duty, as in effect throughout the year, averages at least 106 hours per biweekly pay period; and
(2) Who is in a position—
(i) Covered by the General Schedule and classified in the Fire Protection and Prevention Series, GS-0081, consistent with standards published by the Office of Personnel Management;
(ii) In a demonstration project established under chapter 47 of title 5, United States Code, or an alternative personnel system under a similar authority, which otherwise would be covered by the General Schedule, and which is classified in the Fire Protection and Prevention Series, GS-0081, consistent with standards published by the Office of Personnel Management, but only if application of 5 U.S.C. 5545b has not been waived; or
(iii) Covered by the General Schedule and classified in the GS-0099, General Student Trainee Series (as required by § 362.203(f) of this chapter), if the position otherwise would be classified in the GS-0081 series.
Firefighter hourly rate of basic pay
means an hourly rate computed by dividing the applicable annual rate of basic pay by 2756 hours, as described in § 550.1303.
Irregular hours
means hours of work that are outside a firefighter's regular tour of duty.
Overtime hours
means hours of work in excess of 106 hours in a biweekly pay period, or, if the agency establishes a weekly basis for overtime pay computations, hours of work in excess of 53 hours in an administrative workweek.
Overtime pay
means pay for overtime hours.
Regular tour of duty
means a firefighter's official work schedule, as established by the employing agency on a regular and recurring basis (or on a temporary basis in cases where a temporary change in schedules results in a reduction in regular work hours or a change in the pay computation method used under § 550.1303). The tour of duty may consist of a fixed number of hours each week or a fixed recurring cycle of work schedules in which the number of hours per week varies in a repeating pattern. The regular tour of duty includes only those overtime hours that are part of the fixed recurring work schedule. However, irregular hours are deemed to be included in a firefighter's regular tour of duty if those hours are substituted for hours in the regular tour of duty for which leave without pay is taken, as provided in § 550.1303(d).
[63 FR 64593, Nov. 23, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 15466, Apr. 2, 2002; 77 FR 28223, May 11, 2012; 84 FR 17941, Apr. 29, 2019]
§ 550.1303
Hourly rates of basic pay.
(a) For firefighters with a regular tour of duty that does not include a basic 40-hour workweek (e.g., firefighters whose schedules generally consist of 24-hour shifts with a significant amount of designated standby and sleep time), the hourly rate of basic pay is computed by dividing the applicable annual rate of basic pay by 2756 hours. The resulting firefighter hourly rate of basic pay is multiplied by all nonovertime hours to determine the pay for those hours.
(b) For firefighters with a regular tour of duty that includes a basic 40-hour workweek, the hourly rate of basic pay is computed by dividing the applicable annual rate of basic pay by—
(1) 2087 hours, for hours within the basic 40-hour workweek (or 80-hour biweekly pay period); and
(2) 2756 hours, for any additional nonovertime hours.
(c) A firefighter's daily, weekly, or biweekly rate of basic pay must be computed using the applicable rates, as derived under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d) If a firefighter takes leave without pay during his or her regular tour of duty, the agency shall substitute any irregular hours worked in the same biweekly pay period for those hours of leave without pay. (If a firefighter's overtime pay is computed on a weekly basis, the irregular hours must be worked in the same administrative workweek.) For firefighters whose regular tour of duty includes a basic 40-hour workweek, the agency shall first substitute irregular hours for hours of leave without pay in the basic 40-hour workweek, which are paid at an hourly rate based on the 2087 divisor. All other substituted hours are paid at an hourly rate based on the 2756 divisor, using the applicable overtime rate for overtime hours. The annual rate used to compute any such hourly rate is the annual rate in effect at the time the hour was actually worked.
[63 FR 64593, Nov. 23, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 15467, Apr. 2, 2002]
§ 550.1304
Overtime hourly rates of pay.
(a) For a firefighter who is covered by (
i.e.,
nonexempt from) the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), the overtime hourly rate of pay equals 1
1/2
times the firefighter hourly rate of basic pay for that firefighter, as established under § 550.1303(a) and (b)(2).
(b) For a firefighter who is exempt from the FLSA, the overtime hourly rate is computed as provided in § 550.113(e).
(c) For any firefighter, overtime pay for any pay period is derived by multiplying the applicable overtime hourly rate by all overtime hours within that period.
§ 550.1305
Treatment as basic pay.
(a) The sum of pay for nonovertime hours that are part of a firefighter's regular tour of duty (as computed under § 550.1303) and the straight-time portion of overtime pay for hours in a firefighter's regular tour of duty is treated as basic pay only for the following purposes:
(1) Retirement deductions and benefits under chapters 83 and 84 of title 5, United States Code;
(2) Life insurance premiums and benefits under chapter 87 of title 5, United States Code;
(3) Severance pay under section 5595 of title 5, United States Code;
(4) Cost-of-living allowances and post differentials under section 5941 of title 5, United States Code; and
(5) Advances in pay under section 5524a of title 5, United States Code.
(b) The straight-time portion of overtime pay for hours in a firefighter's regular tour of duty is derived by multiplying the applicable firefighter hourly rate of basic pay computed under § 550.1303(a) and (b)(2) by the number of overtime hours in the firefighter's regular tour of duty.
(c) Pay for any nonovertime hours outside a firefighter's regular tour of duty is computed using the firefighter hourly rate of basic pay as provided in § 550.1303(a) and (b)(2), but that pay is not considered basic pay for any purpose, except in applying §§ 550.105 and 550.106.
(d) For firefighters compensated under § 550.1303(b), pay for nonovertime hours within the regular tour of duty, but outside the basic 40-hour workweek, is basic pay only for the purposes listed in paragraph (a) of this section and for the purpose of applying § 410.402(b)(6) of this chapter and §§ 550.105 and 550.106.
(e) Locality pay under 5 U.S.C. 5304 is basic pay for firefighters only to the extent provided in this subpart, § 531.610 of this chapter, or other specific provision of law.
[63 FR 64593, Nov. 23, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 15467, Apr. 2, 2002; 70 FR 31314, May 31, 2005]
§ 550.1306
Relationship to other entitlements.
(a) A firefighter who is compensated under this subpart is entitled to overtime pay as provided under this subpart, but may not receive additional premium pay under any other provision of subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, including night pay, Sunday pay, holiday pay, and hazardous duty pay. A firefighter is not entitled to receive paid holiday time off when not working on a holiday, but may be allowed to use annual or sick leave, as appropriate, or may be granted excused absence at the agency's discretion.
(b) A firefighter who is subject to section 7(k) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and who is subject to this subpart is deemed to be appropriately compensated under section 7(k) of the FLSA if the requirements of § 550.1304(a) are satisfied.
(c) In computing a lump-sum payment for accumulated annual leave under 5 U.S.C. 5551 and 5552 for firefighters with an uncommon tour of duty established under § 630.210 of this chapter for leave purposes, an agency must use the rates of pay for the position held by the firefighter that apply to hours in that uncommon tour of duty, including regular overtime pay for such hours.
(d) A firefighter compensated under this subpart shall receive basic pay and overtime pay for his or her regular tour of duty in any week in which attendance at agency-sanctioned training reduces the hours in the firefighter's regular tour of duty, as provided in § 410.402(b)(6) of this chapter.
(e) In applying the compensatory time off provision in § 550.114(c), compare the firefighter's annual rate of basic pay to the annual rate of basic pay for GS-10, step 10.
[63 FR 64593, Nov. 23, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 15467, Apr. 2, 2002]
§ 550.1307
Authority to regularize paychecks.
Upon a written request from the head of an agency (or designee), the Office of Personnel Management may approve an agency's plan to reduce or eliminate variation in the amount of firefighters' biweekly paychecks caused by work scheduling cycles that result in varying hours in the firefighters' tours of duty from pay period to pay period. Such a plan must provide that the total pay any firefighter would otherwise receive for regular tours of duty over the firefighter's entire work scheduling cycle must, to the extent practicable, remain the same.

# Subpart N—Compensatory Time Off for Travel

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5548(a).

# Source:
70 FR 3856, Jan. 27, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.1401
Purpose.
This subpart contains OPM regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5550b, which establishes a separate type of compensatory time off. Subject to the conditions specified in this subpart, an employee is entitled to earn, on an hour-for-hour basis, compensatory time off for time in a travel status away from the employee's official duty station when the travel time is not otherwise compensable.
[70 FR 3856, Jan. 27, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 19098, Apr. 17, 2007]
§ 550.1402
Coverage.
This subpart applies to an employee as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5541(2) who is employed by an agency. In accordance with section 1111 of Public Law 110-181, an employee whose pay is fixed and adjusted from time to time in accordance with prevailing rates under subchapter IV of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, or by a wage board or similar administrative authority serving the same purpose, is covered by this subpart effective April 27, 2008.
[73 FR 30455, May 28, 2008]
§ 550.1403
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Accrued compensatory time off
means the compensatory time off earned by an employee that has not been used or forfeited.
Agency
means an Executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.
Authorized agency official
means the head of the agency or an official who is authorized to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Compensable
refers to periods of time that are creditable as hours of work for the purpose of determining a specific pay entitlement, even when that work time may not actually generate additional compensation because of applicable pay limitations.
Compensatory time off
means compensatory time off for travel that is credited under the authority of this subpart.
Official duty station
means the geographic area surrounding an employee's regular work site that is the same as the area designated by the employing agency for the purpose of determining whether travel time is compensable for the purpose of determining overtime pay, consistent with the regulations in 5 CFR 550.112(j) and 551.422(d).
Regular working hours
means the days and hours of an employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek established under 5 CFR part 610.
Scheduled tour of duty for leave purposes
means an employee's regular hours for which he or she may be charged leave under 5 CFR part 630 when absent. For full-time employees, it is the 40-hour basic workweek as defined in 5 CFR 610.102. For employees with an uncommon tour of duty as defined in 5 CFR 630.201, it is the uncommon tour of duty.
Travel
means officially authorized travel—
i.e.
, travel for work purposes that is approved by an authorized agency official or otherwise authorized under established agency policies. Time spent traveling in connection with union activities is excluded.
Travel status
means travel time as described in § 550.1404 that is creditable in accruing compensatory time off for travel under this subpart, excluding travel time that is otherwise compensable under other legal authority.
[70 FR 3856, Jan. 27, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 19098, Apr. 17, 2007]
§ 550.1404
Creditable travel time.
(a)
General.
Subject to the conditions specified in this subpart, an agency must credit an employee with compensatory time off for time in a travel status if—
(1) The employee is required to travel away from the official duty station; and
(2) The travel time is not otherwise compensable hours of work under other legal authority.
(b)(1)
Travel status.
Time in a travel status includes the time an employee actually spends traveling between the official duty station and a temporary duty station, or between two temporary duty stations, and the usual waiting time that precedes or interrupts such travel, subject to the exclusion specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this
section and the requirements in paragraph (c), (d) and (e) of this section. Time spent at a temporary duty station between arrival and departure is not time in a travel status. Time in a travel status ends when the employee arrives at the temporary duty worksite or his or her lodging in the temporary duty station, wherever the employee arrives first. Time in a travel status resumes when an employee departs from the temporary duty worksite or his or her lodging in the temporary duty station, from whichever the employee departs last. Travel time in connection with an employee's permanent change of station is not time in a travel status. Determinations regarding what is creditable as “usual waiting time” are within the sole and exclusive discretion of the employing agency.
(2) If an employee experiences an extended (
i.e.,
not usual) waiting time between actual periods of travel during which the employee is free to rest, sleep, or otherwise use the time for his or her own purposes, the extended waiting time is not creditable as time in a travel status.
(c)
Travel between home and a temporary duty station.
(1) If an employee is required to travel directly between his or her home and a temporary duty station outside the limits of the employee's official duty station, the travel time is creditable as time in a travel status if otherwise qualifying under this subpart. However, the agency must deduct from such travel hours the time the employee would have spent in normal home-to-work or work-to-home commuting.
(2) In the case of an employee who is offered one mode of transportation and who is permitted to use an alternative mode of transportation, or who travels at a time or by a route other than that selected by the agency, the agency must determine the estimated amount of time in a travel status the employee would have had if the employee had used the mode of transportation offered by the agency or traveled at the time or by the route selected by the agency. In determining time in a travel status under this subpart, the agency must credit the employee with the lesser of the estimated time in a travel status or the actual time in a travel status.
(3) In the case of an employee who is on a multiple-day travel assignment and who chooses, for personal reasons, not to use temporary lodgings at the temporary duty station, but to return home at night or on a weekend, only travel from home to the temporary duty station on the 1st day and travel from the temporary duty station to home on the last day that is otherwise qualifying as time in a travel status under this subpart is mandatorily creditable (subject to the deduction of normal commuting time). Travel to and from home on other days is not creditable travel time unless the agency, at its discretion, determines that credit should be given based on the net savings to the Government from reduced lodging costs, considering the value of lost labor time attributable to compensatory time off. The dollar value of an hour of compensatory time off for this purpose is equal to the employee's hourly rate of basic pay as defined in § 550.103.
(d)
Time spent traveling to or from a transportation terminal as part of travel away from the official duty station.
If an employee is required to travel between home and a transportation terminal (e.g., airport or train station) within the limits of his or her official duty station as part of travel away from that duty station, the travel time outside regular working hours to or from the terminal is considered to be equivalent to commuting time and is not creditable time in a travel status. If the transportation terminal is outside the limits of the employee's official duty station, the travel time to or from the terminal outside regular working hours is creditable as time in a travel status, but is subject to an offset for the time the employee would have spent in normal home-to-work or work-to-home commuting. If the employee travels between a worksite and a transportation terminal, the travel time outside regular working hours is creditable as time in a travel status, and no commuting time offset applies.
(e)
Travel involving two or more time zones.
When an employee's travel involves two or more time zones, the time zone from the point of first departure must be used to determine how many hours the employee actually
spent in a travel status for the purpose of accruing compensatory time off.
[70 FR 3856, Jan. 27, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 19098, Apr. 17, 2007]
§ 550.1405
Crediting compensatory time off.
(a) Upon a request filed in accordance with the procedures established under paragraph (b) of this section, an employee is entitled to credit for compensatory time off for travel under the conditions specified in this subpart. The employing agency must credit an employee with compensatory time off for creditable time in a travel status as provided in § 550.1404. The agency may authorize credit in increments of one-tenth of an hour (6 minutes) or one-quarter of an hour (15 minutes). Agencies must track and manage compensatory time off granted under this subpart separately from other forms of compensatory time off.
(b) An employee must comply with his or her agency's procedures for requesting credit of compensatory time off under this section. Employees must file such requests within the time period required by the agency. An employee's request for credit of compensatory time off for travel may be denied if the request is not filed within the time period required by the agency.
[70 FR 3856, Jan. 27, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 19098, Apr. 17, 2007]
§ 550.1406
Use of accrued compensatory time off.
(a) An employee must request permission from his or her supervisor to schedule the use of his or her accrued compensatory time off in accordance with agency-established policies and procedures.
(b) Compensatory time off may be used when the employee is granted time off from his or her scheduled tour of duty established for leave purposes. An employee must use earned compensatory time off under this subpart in increments of one-tenth of an hour (6 minutes) or one-quarter of an hour (15 minutes). Agencies must charge compensatory time off in the chronological order in which it was earned, with compensatory time off earned first being charged first.
[70 FR 3856, Jan. 27, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 19098, Apr. 17, 2007]
§ 550.1407
Forfeiture of unused compensatory time off.
(a)
After 26 pay periods.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (e) of this section, an employee must use accrued compensatory time off by the end of the 26th pay period after the pay period during which it was earned. If an employee fails to use the compensatory time off within 26 pay periods after it was earned, he or she must forfeit such compensatory time off.
(2) If an employee with unused compensatory time off separates from Federal service or is placed in a leave without pay status in the following circumstances and later returns to service with the same (or successor) agency, the employee must use all of the compensatory time off by the end of the 26th pay period following the pay period in which the employee returns to duty, or such compensatory time off will be forfeited:
(i) The employee separates or is placed in a leave without pay status to perform service in the uniformed services (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 4303 and 5 CFR 353.102) and later returns to service through the exercise of a reemployment right provided by law, Executive order, or regulation; or
(ii) The employee separates or is placed in a leave without pay status because of an on-the-job injury with entitlement to injury compensation under 5 U.S.C. chapter 81 and later recovers sufficiently to return to work.
(b)
Upon transfer to another agency.
When an employee voluntarily transfers to another agency (including a promotion or change to lower grade action), he or she must forfeit his or her unused compensatory time off.
(c)
Upon separation.
(1) When an employee separates from Federal service, any unused compensatory time off is forfeited, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) Unused compensatory time off will not be forfeited but will be held in abeyance in the case of an employee who separates from Federal service and later returns to service with the same
(or successor) agency under the circumstances described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(d)
Upon movement to a noncovered position.
When an employee moves to a Federal position not covered by this subpart, he or she forfeits any unused compensatory time off. This requirement does not prevent an agency from using another legal authority to give the employee credit for compensatory time off equal to the forfeited amount.
(e)
Exception due to an exigency.
If an employee fails to use his or her compensatory time earned under § 550.1404(a) by the end of the 26th pay period after the pay period during which it was earned due to an exigency of the service beyond the employee's control, an authorized agency official, at his or her sole and exclusive discretion, may extend the time limit for using such compensatory time off for travel for up to an additional 26 pay periods.
[70 FR 3856, Jan. 27, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 19098, Apr. 17, 2007]
§ 550.1408
Prohibition against payment for unused compensatory time off.
As provided by 5 U.S.C. 5550b(b), an individual may not receive payment under any circumstances for any unused compensatory time off he or she earned under this subpart. This prohibition against payment applies to surviving beneficiaries in the event of the individual's death.
§ 550.1409
Inapplicability of premium pay and aggregate pay caps.
Accrued compensatory time off under this subpart is not considered in applying the premium pay limitations established under 5 U.S.C. 5547 and 5 CFR 550.105 through 550.107 or the aggregate limitation on pay established under 5 U.S.C. 5307 and 5 CFR part 530, subpart B.

# Subpart O—Flag Recognition Benefit for Fallen Federal Civilian Employees

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5570 note; also issued under Sec. 2 of Pub. L. 112-73, 125 Stat.784-785.

# Source:
79 FR 53602, Sept. 10, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.1501
General.
(a)
Statutory authority.
This subpart implements the Civilian Service Recognition Act of 2011 (Public Law 112-73; December 20, 2011), reprinted as a note to 5 U.S.C.A. 5570, which authorizes agencies to give a flag of the United States to a beneficiary of a Federal civilian employee who dies of injuries incurred in connection with his or her employment with the Federal Government, under specific circumstances.
(b)
Eligibility.
Agencies may furnish a flag to the beneficiary (as defined in § 550.1503) of an eligible employee (as specified in § 550.1504) who died on or after December 20, 2011.
§ 550.1502
Coverage.
This subpart applies to—
(a) Executive agencies as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, the United States Postal Service, and the Postal Regulatory Commission; and
(b) Employees as defined in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code; an officer or employee of the United States Postal Service; and an officer or employee of the Postal Regulatory Commission.
§ 550.1503
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Agency
means an Executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, the United States Postal Service, or the Postal Regulatory Commission.
Authorized agency official
means the head of an agency or an official who is authorized to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Beneficiary
means the eligible person who may request the flag following the order of precedence specified in § 550.1505.
Employee
means an employee as defined in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code; an officer or employee of the United States Postal Service; and an officer or employee of the Postal Regulatory Commission.
Flag
means a standard United States flag that is at least 3 feet by 5 feet.
§ 550.1504
Eligibility.
(a) An authorized agency official may, upon the request of a beneficiary, furnish one United States flag for an individual who—
(1) Was an employee of the agency at the time of death; and
(2) Died of injuries incurred in connection with such individual's employment with the Federal Government suffered as a result of—
(i) A criminal act;
(ii) An act of terrorism;
(iii) A natural disaster; or
(iv) Other circumstances, as determined by the President.
(b) An authorized agency official may not furnish a flag when the death is the result of—
(1) Unlawful or negligent action of the employee;
(2) Willful misconduct of the employee; or
(3) Activities unrelated to the employee's status as a Federal employee.
(c) The decision whether to furnish a flag to the beneficiary of an eligible employee is at the discretion of the agency. When an authorized agency official determines the agency will furnish a flag for a deceased eligible employee, the official must follow the order of precedence specified in § 550.1505.
§ 550.1505
Order of precedence.
If the authorized agency official determines the agency will furnish a flag, it must be issued to one beneficiary pursuant to the following order of precedence—
(a) The widow or widower;
(b) If none, to a child (including step, foster, or adopted child), according to age (
i.e.
, oldest to youngest);
(c) If none, to a parent (including step, foster, or adoptive parent);
(d) If none, to a sibling (including step, half, or adopted sibling), according to age; (
i.e.
, oldest to youngest);
If none, to any individual related by blood or close family affiliation.
§ 550.1506
Beneficiary receipt of a flag.
One eligible beneficiary, following the order of precedence in § 550.1505, may be provided a flag by the agency once the agency has—
(a) Documented the date and nature of death of the employee and certified that it conforms to the eligibility criteria in § 550.1504;
(b) Received a request from a beneficiary; and
(c) Established the beneficiary's relationship to the deceased employee and determined whether the beneficiary may receive the flag, consistent with the order of precedence under 550.1505.
§ 550.1507
Agency responsibilities.
To efficiently and effectively implement the provisions of the law and these regulations, an agency that wishes to furnish a flag pursuant to this part must —
(a) Establish procedures for procuring and furnishing a flag, including reaching out to survivors of known eligible employees to provide information and offer assistance on obtaining a flag;
(b) Notify its employees of the flag benefit annually; and
(c) Disclose information necessary to prove that a deceased individual is an eligible employee as described in § 550.1504 to the extent that such information is not classified and to the extent that such disclosure does not endanger the national security of the United States.

# Subpart P—Overtime Pay for Border Patrol Agents

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5548 and 5550(b)(1)(B) and (d)(1)(B); section 2(h), Pub. L. 113-277, 128 Stat. 3005.

# Source:
80 FR 58112, Sept. 25, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 550.1601
Purpose and authority.
This subpart contains OPM regulations to implement section 2 of the Border Patrol Agent Pay Reform Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-277), which added section 5550 in title 5, United States Code, and made related statutory amendments. The Act created a special overtime pay program for Border Patrol agents in the U.S. Customs and Border Protection component within the Department of Homeland Security. OPM has authority under 5 U.S.C.
5548(a) to regulate subchapter V (Premium Pay) of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, including section 5550 and the Act's amendments to sections 5542 and 5547. OPM was also granted broad authority to promulgate necessary regulations to carry out the Act and the amendments made by the Act under section 2(h) of the Act.
§ 550.1602
Coverage.
This subpart applies to an employee of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection component of the Department of Homeland Security (or any successor organization) who holds a position assigned to the Border Patrol Enforcement classification series 1896 or any successor series, consistent with classification standards established by OPM. Such an employee is referred to as a “Border Patrol agent” or “agent” in this subpart.
§ 550.1603
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart—
Advanced training
means all training, other than initial training, provided on a whole-workday basis. Advanced training excludes training that covers only part of an 8-hour basic workday.
Agent
means a Border Patrol agent.
Annual period
means a 1-year period that begins on the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after January 1 of a given year and ends on the day before the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after January 1 of the next year. The term “year” in 5 U.S.C. 5550(b)(1)(A) and (C) and the term “leave year” in 5 U.S.C. 5542(g)(5)(A) are interpreted to be an annual period as defined here.
Basic regular tour of duty
means an officially established weekly regular tour of duty consisting of five 8-hour workdays (including no overtime hours) for which no overtime supplement is payable.
Basic workday
means the 8 nonovertime hours on a day within an agent's basic workweek.
Basic workweek,
for full-time employees, means the 40-hour workweek established in accordance with 5 CFR 610.111.
Border Patrol agent
means an employee to whom this subpart applies, as provided in § 550.1602.
CBP
means the component of the Department of Homeland Security known as U.S. Customs and Border Protection (or any successor organization). When this term is used in the context of CBP making determinations or taking actions, it means management officials of CBP who are authorized to make the given determination or take the given action.
Hybrid pay period
means a biweekly pay period within which—
(1) An agent has one type of established regular tour of duty for one part of the pay period and another type of regular tour of duty for a different part of the pay period; or
(2) An individual is employed as an agent for only a portion of the pay period.
Initial training
means training for newly hired agents—including initial orientation sessions, basic training, and other preparatory activities—provided prior to the agent's first regular work assignment in which he or she will be authorized to make arrests and carry a firearm.
Irregular overtime work
means officially ordered or approved overtime work that is not regularly scheduled overtime work—
i.e.,
overtime work that is not part of the agent's regularly scheduled administrative workweek.
Leave without pay
means a period of time within an agent's basic workweek during which the agent is in nonpay status, including periods of unpaid voluntary absence with approval, absence without approval (AWOL), suspension, or furlough.
Level 1 regular tour of duty
means an officially established weekly regular tour of duty generally consisting of five 10-hour workdays (including 2 overtime hours each workday) that provides entitlement to a 25 percent overtime supplement.
Level 2 regular tour of duty
means an officially established weekly regular tour of duty generally consisting of five 9-hour workdays (including 1 overtime hour each workday) that provides entitlement to a 12.5 percent overtime supplement.
Obligated overtime hours
means regularly scheduled overtime hours that an agent with a Level 1 or Level 2 regular tour of duty is obligated to work as
part of the agent's regular tour of duty, if the agent performs any amount of work during regular time on same day, and that are converted into an overtime hours debt when the agent fails to work the hours.
Overtime hours debt
means the balance of obligated overtime hours not worked for which the agent has not satisfied the hours obligation by applying compensatory time off hours or other overtime hours of work outside the agent's regular tour of duty.
Overtime supplement
means a payment received (in addition to the regular amount of basic pay for nonovertime work) in exchange for regularly scheduled overtime work within an agent's Level 1 or Level 2 regular tour of duty. For an agent who is assigned a 10-hour workday as part of the agent's Level 1 regular tour of duty, the overtime supplement is 25 percent. For an agent who is assigned a 9-hour workday as part of the agent's Level 2 regular tour of duty, the overtime supplement is 12.5 percent. The overtime supplement is computed as provided in § 550.1621(a)(4) and (b)(4). For an agent with a Basic regular tour of duty, the overtime supplement is 0 percent.
Pay period
means a 14-day biweekly pay period.
Rate of basic pay
means the regular nonovertime rate of pay payable to an agent, excluding any overtime supplement, but including any applicable locality payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; special rate supplement under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; or similar payment or supplement under other legal authority, before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any other kind. An overtime supplement is included as part of an agent's rate of basic pay for purposes outside this subpart, as provided in § 550.1633.
Regularly scheduled administrative workweek,
for a full-time employee, means the period within an administrative workweek, established in accordance with 5 CFR 610.111, within which the employee is regularly scheduled to work.
Regularly scheduled work
means work (including overtime work) that is scheduled in advance of an administrative workweek under an agency's procedures for establishing workweeks in accordance with 5 CFR 610.111.
Regular time
means the regular basic (nonovertime) hours within an agent's 8-hour basic workday within the 40-hour basic workweek.
Regular tour of duty
means the basic 40-hour workweek plus any regularly scheduled overtime work hours that the agent is assigned to work as part of an officially established 5-day weekly work schedule generally consisting of—
(1) 10-hour workdays (including 2 overtime hours each workday) in exchange for a 25 percent overtime supplement (Level 1); or
(2) 9-hour workdays (including 1 overtime hour each workday) in exchange for a 12.5 percent overtime supplement (Level 2).
§ 550.1604
Authority of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
Authorized management officials of U.S. Customs and Border Protection are responsible for determining the mission requirements and operational needs of the organization and have the right to assign scheduled and unscheduled work as necessary to meet those requirements and needs, regardless of an agent's officially established regular tour of duty. (See subsections (a) and (f)(1) of section 2 of Pub. L. 113-277 and 5 U.S.C. 5550(g).)
§ 550.1605
Interpretation instruction.
As required by section 2(f) of the Border Patrol Agent Pay Reform Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-277), nothing in section 2 of the Act or this subpart may be construed to require compensation of an agent other than for hours during which the agent is actually performing work or using approved paid leave or other paid time off. This section does not prevent CBP from granting paid excused absence from an agent's basic workweek under other authority.

# Assignment of Regular Tour of Duty and Overtime Supplement
§ 550.1611
Assignments for an annual period.
(a)
Annual period.
The assignment of a regular tour of duty and overtime supplement to an agent is in effect for
a full annual period (or the portion of such period during which the individual is employed as an agent), except as otherwise provided in this subpart. The annual period is a 1-year period that begins on the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after January 1 of a given year and ends on the day before the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after January 1 of the next year.
(b)
Information regarding annual election opportunity.
No later than November 1 of each year, CBP must provide each currently employed agent with information regarding the opportunity to elect a regular tour of duty and corresponding overtime supplement for the next annual period. The information must include an explanation of election options and procedures. For an agent who will be in initial training status on the first day of the annual period, this paragraph is not applicable, and § 550.1612(a) and (b) will apply instead.
(c)
Annual election opportunity.
No later than December 1 of each year, an agent to whom paragraph (b) of this section is applicable may make an election among three options for the regular tour of duty and corresponding overtime supplement (as described in § 550.1621) that the agent wishes to be applicable to him or her during the next annual period.
(d)
Failure to make an election.
If an agent fails to make a timely election under paragraph (c) of this section, CBP must assign the agent a Level 1 regular tour of duty for the annual period (
i.e.,
deemed election) with a 25 percent overtime supplement, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (f) of this section or § 550.1622.
(e)
Effect of agent election.
CBP must assign an agent the regular tour of duty elected by the agent under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section unless CBP informs the agent of an alternative assignment, as provided under paragraph (f) of this section or § 550.1622. CBP may change the assignment during the annual period, as provided under § 550.1612(d). An annual election under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section that is superseded as provided under paragraph (f) of this section or § 550.1622 remains as the default election in the event that the superseding circumstances cease to be applicable, subject to § 550.1612(d).
(f)
Management assignment to tour.
CBP may assign a different regular tour of duty than that elected by the agent under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section for an upcoming annual period under the following circumstances:
(1) An agent who is assigned canine care duties must be assigned a Level 1 regular tour of duty, subject to § 550.1622(c);
(2) An agent who is unable to perform overtime on a daily basis, as determined by CBP, must be assigned a Basic regular tour of duty with no overtime supplement until such time as CBP determines the agent is able to perform the required overtime on a daily basis, subject to the rules in § 550.1612(e);
(3) An agent who holds a position at CBP headquarters, as a training instructor at a CBP training facility, or as a fitness instructor—or who holds another type of position that CBP has determined to be an administrative position— must be assigned a Basic regular tour of duty unless CBP determines a Level 1 or Level 2 regular tour of duty may be assigned to the agent based on a comprehensive staffing analysis conducted for the agent's duty station as required by section 2(e) of the Border Patrol Agent Pay Reform Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-277);
(4) CBP determines that an agent must be assigned to a Level 1 regular tour of duty to ensure that not more than 10 percent (or higher percentage established under § 550.1614(b)) of agents stationed at a location are assigned to a Level 2 regular tour of duty or a Basic regular tour of duty, as required by 5 U.S.C. 5550(b)(1)(E) and § 550.1614; or
(5) CBP determines that assignment of a different regular tour of duty is necessary to comply with the pay assignment continuity provisions in 5 U.S.C. 5550(b)(1)(G) and § 550.1615, notwithstanding any other provision of law or this subpart (including paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section).
(g)
Temporary detail.
If an agent is serving in a position under a temporary detail, that position may not be
considered, for the purpose of applying paragraph (f)(3) of this section, to be the position held by the agent during the first 90 days of the detail. After completing 90 days under a temporary detail, an agent will be considered, for the purpose of applying paragraph (f)(3) of this section, to hold the position to which temporarily detailed for the remainder of the detail, notwithstanding the agent's official position of record.
§ 550.1612
Assignments made at other times.
(a)
Initial training period.
An individual who is newly hired as an agent must be assigned a Basic regular tour of duty during any period of initial training. After completing any period of initial training, an agent must be assigned a Level 1 regular tour of duty for any portion of the annual period remaining at that point, except under applicable circumstances described in paragraph (f) of § 550.1611 or paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Election by new agent.
An agent who would otherwise be assigned a regular tour of duty under paragraph (a) of this section may submit an election of a different regular tour of duty to be effective on a prospective basis for the remaining portion of the annual period. CBP must provide the agent with election information no later than the date the agent begins a regular work assignment (
i.e.,
after completing any period of initial training). CBP must assign an agent the regular tour of duty elected by the agent under this section unless CBP informs the agent of an alternative assignment based on the circumstances described in paragraph (f) of § 550.1611. Such election must be submitted to CBP no later than 30 days after the agent begins a regular work assignment and, if approved by CBP, is effective on the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after the later of—
(1) The date the election was submitted; or
(2) The date the agent completed initial training.
(c)
Belated election for new agent's first annual period.
An individual who is newly hired as an agent during the period beginning on November 2 and ending on the day before the first day of the next annual period may make an election to take effect at the beginning of the next annual period notwithstanding the normally applicable December 1 election deadline, if the agent will not be in initial training status on the first day of the annual period. Such election must be submitted no later than 30 days after receiving election information, but before the first day of the annual period. Such an election is subject to the same requirements and conditions that apply to an election for an annual period under paragraphs (e) and (f) of § 550.1611. If such election is not made, CBP must assign the agent a Level 1 regular tour of duty with a 25 percent overtime supplement for the next annual period, except under applicable circumstances described in paragraph (f) of § 550.1611.
(d)
Change in tour during annual period.
CBP may change an agent's assigned regular tour of duty during an annual period based on a change in the circumstances described in § 550.1611(f) or in § 550.1622. For example, an agent's regular tour of duty may be changed one or more times during an annual period as necessary to comply with the pay assignment continuity provision described in § 550.1611(f)(5). As provided in § 550.1611(e), an annual election under § 550.1611(c) or (d) that is superseded by operation of § 550.1611(f) or § 550.1622 remains as the default election and becomes effective in the event that § 550.1611(f) or § 550.1622 ceases to be applicable. A tour change under this paragraph is effective with the change in circumstances, as determined by CBP, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section and § 550.1622(c)(2).
(e)
Inability determination and effective date of tour change.
The action to assign a Basic regular tour of duty based on a determination that an agent is unable to perform overtime on a daily basis under § 550.1611(f)(2) is subject to the following rules:
(1) The inability determination may be made—
(i) When an agent's law enforcement authority is revoked (e.g., in connection with an investigation, loss of security clearance, or a suspension);
(ii) When an agent is unable to perform overtime duties for an extended
period due to physical or health reasons; or
(iii) For any other appropriate reason, as determined by CBP, but excluding inability based on lack of work (as opposed to inability based on the employee's availability).
(2) The change to a Basic regular tour of duty is effective on the next workday following a CBP inability determination, except that—
(i) CBP may delay the effective date to coincide with the beginning of a week or a biweekly pay period;
(ii) CBP may delay the effective date as necessary to allow an agent who is able to work during regular time to exhaust a positive balance of unused compensatory time off (by applying that balance against the newly accruing overtime hours debt resulting from work during regular time);
(iii) CBP may delay the effective date as necessary to allow an agent to use accrued paid leave or other paid time off if the agent will be performing no work during regular time for a continuous period;
(iv) CBP may delay the effective date during a continuous period of leave without pay granted under 5 U.S.C. chapter 63, subchapter V (dealing with family and medical leave); and
(v) CBP must delay the effective date during any period of paid leave, continuation of pay, or leave without pay granted in connection with application of 5 U.S.C. chapter 81 (dealing with workers' compensation due to a job-related injury).
§ 550.1613
Selection of agents for assignment.
If application of paragraphs (f)(3) and (4) of § 550.1611 (or application of those paragraphs through § 550.1612) requires CBP to select agents for assignment to a particular regular tour of duty out of a pool of agents who prefer a different assignment, CBP must make any such selection consistent with an established written plan that includes the criteria that will be considered and the priority of those criteria. Such plan must be consistent with the requirements of this subpart.
§ 550.1614
Limit on percentage of agents who do not have a Level 1 regular tour of duty.
(a) CBP must take such action as is necessary, including unilateral assignment of agents to a Level 1 regular tour of duty, to ensure that not more than 10 percent of agents stationed at a location are assigned to a Level 2 regular tour of duty or a Basic regular tour of duty, as required by 5 U.S.C. 5550(b)(1)(E), notwithstanding any other provision of law or this subpart, except as provided by paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. For the purpose of this paragraph, the term “location” means a Border Patrol sector, which includes all subordinate organizational structures and related geographic areas within the sector (e.g., stations).
(b) CBP may waive the 10 percent limit in paragraph (a) of this section and apply a higher percentage limit if CBP determines it is able to adequately fulfill its operational requirements under that higher limit based on a comprehensive staffing analysis conducted for the agent's duty station under section 2(e) of the Border Patrol Agent Pay Reform Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-277).
(c) The 10 percent limit in paragraph (a) does not apply to agents working at CBP headquarters or at a CBP training location.
(d) Regardless of the percentage limits set under this section, assignments of regular tours of duty to individual agents must be made consistent with the requirement to ensure pay assignment continuity under § 550.1615.
§ 550.1615
Pay assignment continuity.
(a)
Plan.
(1) In consultation with OPM, CBP must develop and implement a plan to ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that the assignment of a regular tour of duty to an agent during all consecutive 3-year periods within the control period specified in paragraph (b) of this section produces an average overtime supplement percentage (during each 3-year period) that is consistent with the agent's average overtime supplement percentage during the course of the agent's career prior to the beginning of
that control period, subject to paragraph (c) of this section. The purpose of this plan is to protect the retirement fund and ensure that agents are not able to artificially enhance their retirement annuities during the period when the high-3 average pay may be determined (in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8331(4) or 5 U.S.C. 8401(3)).
(2) In applying paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the career average overtime supplement percentage for an agent is the greater of—
(i) The average of overtime supplement percentages (25 percent, 12.5 percent, or 0 percent) assigned during service as an agent on or after January 10, 2016, that is prior to the beginning of the agent's control period (as specified in paragraph (b) of this section); or
(ii) The average of the overtime supplement percentages during all service as an agent that is prior to the beginning of the agent's control period (as specified in paragraph (b) of this section), with assigned overtime supplement percentages (25, 12.5, or 0 percent) assigned during service on or after January 10, 2016, and with assigned percentages of administratively uncontrollable overtime under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(2) treated as overtime supplement percentages for any period of service prior to January 10, 2016.
(3) In applying paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the assigned overtime supplement percentage is used regardless of whether or not the payable amount of the overtime supplement is limited by a premium pay cap.
(4) In applying paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if an agent's control period begins on January 10, 2016, as provided in paragraph (b), the agent's initially assigned overtime supplement percentage must be considered the agent's career average under paragraph (a)(2)(i).
(b)
Control period.
The period of time during which CBP must control an agent's assignment to a regular tour of duty (
i.e.,
the control period) begins on the date 3 years before the agent meets age and service requirements for an immediate retirement and remains in effect during all subsequent service in a Border Patrol agent position. If, as of January 10, 2016, the date that is 3 years before the agent first met age and service requirements for an immediate retirement has already passed, then the agent's control period is considered to have begun on January 10, 2016.
(c)
Consistency requirement.
(1) The consistency requirement in paragraph (a) of this section is considered to be met when the agent's average overtime supplement percentage during all consecutive 3-year periods within the control period specified in paragraph (b) of this section is within 2.5 percentage points of the agent's average overtime supplement percentage during the course of the agent's career prior to the beginning of that control period, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) Notwithstanding the consistency requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, the CBP plan may allow an agent to be assigned a regular tour of duty that provides an overtime supplement percentage that is less than that necessary to produce an average percentage (during all consecutive 3-year periods within the control period specified in paragraph (b)) that is consistent with the agent's career average percentage if—
(i) The agent's overtime supplement is limited by the premium pay cap under §§ 550.105 and 550.107 and the agent voluntarily elects a regular tour of duty providing such a lesser overtime supplement percentage that is approved by CBP; or
(ii) CBP determines an agent is unable to perform overtime on a daily basis due to a physical or medical condition affecting the agent and assigns the agent a Basic regular tour of duty, as described in § 550.1611(f)(2), (but only if such assignment makes it impossible to satisfy the consistency requirement during any given consecutive 3-year period).
(d)
CBP authority.
(1) CBP may take such action as is necessary, including the unilateral assignment of a regular tour of duty to implement the plan described in paragraph (a) of this section, notwithstanding any other provision of law or this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) Notwithstanding the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5550(b)(1)(G) and this section, CBP is authorized to assign
agents to regular tours of duty as necessary to meet operational requirements. Before exercising the authority to allow assignment of a regular tour of duty that does not comply with the plan described in paragraph (a) of this section, CBP must first determine that it cannot adequately address the specific operational requirements in question by other means, such as the assignment of overtime work outside the regular tour of duty to the affected agent or other agents. If this authority is exercised, CBP must return an affected agent to a regular tour of duty that complies with the plan described in paragraph (a) of this section as soon as possible.
(e)
Reporting requirements
—(1)
Annual data reporting for agents within their control period.
For each agent within the control period specified in paragraph (b) of this section, CBP must provide to OPM no later than March 30th of each year the following information (in a format specified by OPM) based on data compiled through the end of the most recent annual period:
(i) The date the agent became subject to controls on the assignment to a regular tour of duty;
(ii) The date the agent will become subject to mandatory separation under 5 U.S.C. 8335(b) or 5 U.S.C. 8425(b);
(iii) The service computation date based on eligibility under 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or 5 U.S.C. 8412(d);
(iv) The average overtime supplement percentage during the course of the agent's career prior to the beginning of the control period specified in paragraph (b);
(v) The average overtime supplement percentage for the time period beginning with the date the agent became subject to controls on the assignment to a regular tour of duty and ending on the last day of the most recent annual period;
(vi) The average overtime supplement percentage for the last three annual periods (excluding any time that was not within a control period specified in paragraph (b) of this section);
(vii) The average overtime supplement percentage for the most recent annual period (excluding any time that was not within a control period specified in paragraph (b) of this section), and;
(viii) Any other information requested by OPM.
(2)
Annual data reporting for all agents.
No later than March 30th of each year, CBP must provide to OPM the following information (in a format specified by OPM) for each agent compiled for the preceding calendar year based on salary payments made during that year:
(i) The amount of earnings subject to retirement deductions, including overtime supplement payments, received during the most recent calendar year;
(ii) The amount of earnings subject to retirement deductions during the most recent calendar year minus the total amount of the overtime supplement payments during that year;
(iii) The service computation date computed as though law enforcement officer service is regular employee service (
i.e.,
the “regular” SCD);
(iv) The service computation date computed with credit for law enforcement officer service, and any other service creditable for eligibility under 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) (
i.e.,
the “LEO” SCD);
(v) Date of birth;
(vi) Gender;
(vii) Retirement system (e.g., CSRS, FERS, FERS-RAE, FERS-FRAE); and
(viii) Any other information requested by OPM.
(3)
Additional data.
CBP must provide additional data as requested by OPM at any time, including data on the percentage rate of administratively uncontrollable overtime under § 550.154 during the period before the annual period that begins in January 2016.
(f)
Corrective actions.
If it is determined that the consistency requirement described in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section is not being met for a particular agent, CBP must document why the differential occurred and establish any necessary actions, including the modification of the plan described in paragraph (a) of this section, to ensure that the goal of pay assignment continuity is achieved going forward. Consistent with § 550.1616(b), CBP is not required to retroactively correct an agent's assigned tour or
overtime supplement based on violation of the consistency requirement, except when CBP determines there exists, in connection with an agent's assigned overtime supplement, evidence of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of that agent.
§ 550.1616
Corrective actions.
(a) Except at provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an error made in connection with the assignment of an agent's regular tour of duty (including any associated overtime supplement) must be corrected as soon as possible.
(b) A retroactive correction of a tour assignment (
i.e.,
actual assigned work schedule as opposed to an error in the payroll system) may not be made in the following circumstances, unless CBP determines there exists, in connection with an agent's assigned tour, evidence of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the affected agent:
(1) Correction of an error in applying the consistency requirement described in §§ 550.1611(f)(5) and 550.1615; and
(2) Correction of an error that caused an employee to have a Level 1 regular tour of duty based solely on misapplication of the applicable percentage limitation described in §§ 550.1611(f)(4) and 550.1614.

# Treatment of Overtime Work
§ 550.1621
Rules for types of regular tour of duty.
(a)
Level 1 regular tour of duty.
For an agent with a Level 1 regular tour of duty and a 25 percent overtime supplement, the following rules apply:
(1) The agent has an officially established weekly regular tour of duty generally consisting of five 10-hour workdays (an 8-hour basic workday and 2 regularly scheduled overtime hours);
(2) The agent's 8-hour basic workday (regular time) may be interrupted by an unpaid off-duty meal break;
(3) The obligation to perform 2 hours of overtime work on a day including part of the agent's regular tour of duty does not apply if the agent performs no work during regular time on that day, subject to paragraph (e) of this section;
(4) As compensation for regularly scheduled overtime hours within the regular tour of duty, the agent is entitled to an overtime supplement equal to 25 percent of the agent's hourly rate of basic pay times the number of paid hours of regular time for the agent in the pay period (subject to the premium cap in §§ 550.105 and 550.107 and the restriction in § 550.1626(a)(5)), and no additional compensation or compensatory time off may be provided for such overtime hours;
(5) For any additional regularly scheduled overtime hours outside the regular tour of duty, the agent is entitled to overtime pay as provided in § 550.1624, except as otherwise provided by § 550.1626;
(6) For any irregular overtime hours, the agent is entitled to be credited with compensatory time off as provided in § 550.1625, except as otherwise provided by § 550.1626;
(7) The agent must be charged corresponding amounts of paid leave, compensatory time off, other paid time off, or time in nonpay status for each hour (or part thereof) the agent is absent from duty during regular time, as provided in § 550.1634, except as otherwise provided in § 550.1626(a); and
(8) If the agent is absent during regularly scheduled overtime hours within the agent's regular tour of duty that the agent is obligated to work, the agent accrues an obligation to perform other overtime work for each hour (or part thereof) the agent is absent, and such obligation must be satisfied as provided in § 550.1626.
(b)
Level 2 regular tour of duty.
For an agent with a Level 2 regular tour of duty and a 12.5 percent overtime supplement, the following rules apply:
(1) The agent has an officially established weekly regular tour of duty generally consisting of five 9-hour workdays (an 8-hour basic workday and 1 regularly scheduled overtime hour);
(2) The agent's 8-hour basic workday (regular time) may be interrupted by an unpaid off-duty meal break;
(3) The obligation to perform 1 hour of overtime work on a day including part of the agent's regular tour of duty does not apply if the agent performs no work during regular time on that day, subject to paragraph (e) of this section;
(4) As compensation for regularly scheduled overtime hours within the regular tour of duty, the agent receives an overtime supplement equal to 12.5 percent of the agent's hourly rate of basic pay times the number of paid hours of regular time for the agent in the pay period (subject to the premium cap in §§ 550.105 and 550.107 and the restriction in § 550.1626(a)(5)), and no additional compensation or compensatory time off may be provided for such overtime hours;
(5) For any additional regularly scheduled overtime hours outside the regular tour of duty, the agent is entitled to overtime pay as provided in § 550.1624, except as otherwise provided by § 550.1626;
(6) For any irregular overtime hours, the agent is entitled to be credited with compensatory time off as provided in § 550.1625, except as otherwise provided by § 550.1626;
(7) The agent must be charged corresponding amounts of paid leave, compensatory time off, other paid time off, or time in nonpay status for each hour (or part thereof) the agent is absent from duty during regular time, as provided in § 550.1634, except as otherwise provided in § 550.1626(a); and
(8) If the agent is absent during regularly scheduled overtime hours within the agent's regular tour of duty that the agent is obligated to work, the agent accrues an obligation to perform other overtime work for each hour (or part thereof) the agent is absent, and such obligation must be satisfied as provided in § 550.1626.
(c)
Basic regular tour of duty.
For an agent with a Basic regular tour of duty that includes no scheduled overtime hours and provides no overtime supplement, the following rules apply:
(1) The agent has an officially established weekly regular tour of duty generally consisting of five 8-hour basic workdays;
(2) The agent's 8-hour basic workday (regular time) may be interrupted by an unpaid off-duty meal break;
(3) For any regularly scheduled overtime hours, the agent is entitled to overtime pay as provided in § 550.1624, except as otherwise provided by § 550.1626;
(4) For any irregular overtime hours, the agent is entitled to be credited with compensatory time off as provided in § 550.1625, except as otherwise provided by § 550.1626; and
(5) The agent must be charged corresponding amounts of paid leave, compensatory time off, other paid time off, or time in nonpay status for each hour (or part thereof) the agent is absent from duty during regular time, as provided in § 550.1634, except as otherwise provided in § 550.1626(a).
(d)
Effect of premium pay cap.
If a premium pay cap established under 5 U.S.C. 5547 and §§ 550.105 and 550.107 limits payment of an overtime supplement or regularly scheduled overtime pay, or limits crediting of compensatory time off, the affected agent is still required to perform assigned overtime work.
(e)
Meaning of “work”.
In applying paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(3) of this section, the term “work” refers to paid hours of work, consistent with § 550.112, except that paid leave and other paid time off when an agent is excused from duty are not considered to be work hours. Official time under 5 U.S.C. 7131 during regular time is considered to be paid hours of “work” during the time an employee otherwise would be in a duty status.
(f)
Approval of absences.
Any absence during obligated overtime hours (as described in paragraphs (a)(8) and (b)(8) of this section) is subject to management approval under CBP policies.
§ 550.1622
Circumstances requiring special treatment.
(a)
General.
The rules in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section provide for special treatment based on specified circumstances and apply notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart.
(b)
Advanced training.
(1) During the first 60 days of advanced training in a calendar year, an agent's assigned regular tour of duty must be considered to continue and the agent must be deemed to have worked during any nonwork period within obligated overtime hours for the purpose of determining the agent's total hours to be compared to the applicable overtime threshold (as provided in § 550.1623(a)(2)(iv)), except
as provided under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) If an agent, during the period covered by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, performs creditable overtime work outside the agent's regular tour of duty on a day when the agent performed less than the required amount of obligated overtime work, the overtime work outside the regular tour of duty must be applied towards the obligated overtime hours, as provided in § 550.1626(b). After any such substitution, CBP must credit the agent with hours of work for any remaining nonwork time during obligated overtime hours on the same day for the purpose of determining the agent's total hours to be compared to the applicable overtime threshold. For example, if an agent performs 2 creditable hours of regularly scheduled overtime work outside the agent's Level 1 regular tour of duty on a training day when the agent performed half an hour of work during the 2 hours of obligated overtime, CBP would substitute 1.5 hours of regularly scheduled overtime outside the regular tour of duty for 1.5 hours of obligated overtime when no work was performed. CBP would not provide the agent with any credit for nonwork hours under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, since the 0.5 hours of actual work plus the 1.5 substituted hours account for the entire 2-hour period. The agent would be paid for the unsubstituted half hour of creditable regularly scheduled overtime work under § 550.1624.
(3) For days of advanced training in excess of 60 days in a calendar year, an agent must be assigned a Basic regular tour of duty and be treated accordingly. If this results in a hybrid pay period in which an agent has two types of regular tours of duty within the same biweekly pay period, CBP must determine the number of overtime hours outside the regular tour of duty as provided in § 550.1623(c). For an agent who is assigned a Basic regular tour of duty during advanced training under this paragraph, CBP must change the agent's regular tour of duty to the type in effect before the Basic tour was assigned when the agent is no longer participating in advanced training.
(4) Paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section apply solely to advanced training that is provided in whole-workday increments (
i.e.,
covering an entire 8-hour basic workday).
(c)
Canine care.
(1) For an agent assigned to provide care for a canine and assigned to the Level 1 regular tour of duty border patrol rate of pay, the combined sum of basic pay plus the 25 percent overtime supplement is considered to provide compensation for all canine care. Such an agent must be credited with 1 hour of regularly scheduled overtime work as part of the regular tour of duty on each day containing a part of that tour, without regard to the actual duration of such care or the time and day when such care was actually provided. That leaves the agent with an additional obligation to perform 1 other hour of regularly scheduled overtime work as part of the agent's regular tour of duty on any day containing a part of the employee's tour, if the agent performs work during regular time on that day and thus has obligated overtime hours. An agent may receive no other compensation or compensatory time off for hours of canine care beyond what is specifically provided under this paragraph.
(2) If an agent is generally assigned to provide care for a canine, but is temporarily relieved of that duty for any reason (e.g., no dog available), the agent may not receive the 1-hour credit for canine care on a day when the agent is relieved from providing canine care. If the period during which the agent is temporarily relieved from providing canine care lasts more than two full pay periods, CBP must assign the agent's tour based on the agent's default election for the annual period as provided in § 550.1611(c) or (d) unless other circumstances described in paragraph (f) of § 550.1611 are applicable. For shorter periods, the Level 1 regular tour of duty assigned based on canine care responsibilities will continue unless the agent requests a different tour based on the agent's default election for the annual period.
§ 550.1623
Overtime work outside the regular tour of duty.
(a)
General.
(1) For the purpose of determining hours of overtime work outside an agent's regular tour of duty in order to apply §§ 550.1624, 550.1625, and
550.1626, CBP must apply the applicable biweekly overtime threshold prescribed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. An agent's total hours of work (as determined under paragraph (a)(2) of this section) must be compared to the applicable threshold, and hours in excess of that threshold are overtime hours in applying §§ 550.1624, 550.1625, and 550.1626. The 8-hour daily and 40-hour weekly overtime thresholds under 5 U.S.C. 5542(a) and § 550.111 are not applicable to agents.
(2) An agent's total hours of work in a pay period for the purpose of applying applicable overtime thresholds is equal to the sum of:
(i) Time determined to be hours of work in duty status (regular time or overtime), subject to this subpart, 5 U.S.C. 4109 and 5 CFR 410.402 (related to training periods), and 5 U.S.C. 5542(b) and § 550.112 (establishing general rules), except that paragraphs (d) and (e) of § 550.112 are superseded by § 550.1626;
(ii) Paid leave or other paid time off during a period of nonduty status within an agent's regular time;
(iii) Obligated overtime hours during which no work is performed (creating a debt of hours) and for which no substitution is made under § 550.1626(b);
(iv) Nonwork hours deemed to be hours of work during obligated overtime hours on a day of advanced training under § 550.1622(b); and
(v) Overtime hours normally scheduled within an agent's regular tour of duty that an agent is not obligated to work because the agent performs no work during regular time on that day (as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(3) of § 550.1621).
(b)
Overtime thresholds for standard tours.
(1) The applicable biweekly overtime threshold prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section applies during a pay period to an agent whose regular tour of duty is fixed at one of the three standard tours for the entire pay period. (2) For an agent covered by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the threshold used to determine whether an agent has performed overtime work outside the regular tour of duty in a given pay period is—
(i) 100 hours for a Level 1 regular tour of duty;
(ii) 90 hours for a Level 2 regular tour of duty; or
(iii) 80 hours for a Basic regular tour of duty.
(c)
Overtime threshold for hybrid pay period.
(1) For a hybrid pay period in which an agent has one type of regular tour of duty in effect for one part of the period and another type for another part of the period, the threshold used to determine whether an agent has performed overtime work outside the regular tour of duty in a given pay period is equal to the sum of the regular time hours (paid or unpaid) and the number of normally scheduled overtime hours within a regular tour of duty (whether obligated or not and whether worked or not) in the pay period. For example, if an agent has a Level 1 regular tour of duty in the first week of a pay period and a Level 2 regular tour of duty in the second week, the agent's regular time hours would be 40 in the first week and 40 in the second week and the normally scheduled overtime hours within a regular tour of duty would be 10 (5 days times 2 hours each day) in the first week and 5 (5 days times 1 hour each day) in second week, resulting in an biweekly overtime threshold of 95 hours.
(2) For a hybrid pay period in which an individual is employed as a Border Patrol agent for only part of the pay period, the threshold used to determine whether an agent has performed overtime work outside the regular tour of duty in a given pay period is equal to the sum of the paid regular time hours (paid or unpaid) and the number of normally scheduled overtime hours within a regular tour of duty (whether obligated or not and whether worked or not) during the portion of the pay period the individual was employed as an agent. For example, if an individual is employed as an agent only during the second week of a pay period and has a Level 1 regular tour of duty, the overtime threshold would be 50 hours (40 regular time hours plus 10 normally scheduled overtime hours) in determining whether the agent has overtime hours in that week that are compensable under §§ 550.1624, 550.1625, and 550.1626.
§ 550.1624
Regularly scheduled overtime outside the regular tour of duty.
(a)
Coverage.
Any regularly scheduled overtime hours outside an agent's regular tour of duty, as specified in § 550.1623, are covered by this section, except that such hours are excluded from coverage under this section when required by the superseding provisions in § 550.1626.
(b)
Rates.
Agents receive overtime pay at the rates specified under 5 U.S.C. 5542(a) and § 550.113 for regularly scheduled overtime hours covered by paragraph (a) of this section, subject to the premium pay limitation established under 5 U.S.C. 5547 and §§ 550.105 and 550.107. An agent's rate of basic pay (without any overtime supplement) is used in computing overtime pay for such hours.
(c)
Avoiding additional regularly scheduled overtime.
(1) As required by section 2(c)(2) of the Border Patrol Agent Pay Reform Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-277), CBP must, to the maximum extent practicable, avoid the use of regularly scheduled overtime work by agents outside of the regular tour of duty.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, CBP may allow use of regularly scheduled overtime work outside an agent's regular tour of duty if an agent volunteers to perform such overtime (e.g., to reduce an overtime hours debt).
§ 550.1625
Irregular overtime and compensatory time off.
(a)
Coverage.
An agent is entitled to compensatory time off as provided in this section for irregular overtime hours outside an agent's regular tour of duty, as specified in § 550.1623, except that such hours are excluded from coverage under this section (except paragraph (c) of this section) when required by the superseding provisions in § 550.1626. The compensatory time off provisions in 5 U.S.C. 5543 and 5 CFR 550.114 are not applicable to an agent.
(b)
Earning on an hour-for-hour basis for irregular overtime.
Subject to the limitations specified in this section and the superseding provisions in § 550.1626, an agent must receive compensatory time off for an equal amount of time spent performing irregular overtime work.
(c)
Call-back overtime work.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, consistent with 5 U.S.C. 5542(b)(1) and § 550.112(h), an agent must be deemed to have performed 2 hours of irregular overtime work for a lesser amount of irregular overtime work if—
(1) An agent is required perform such work on a day when the agent was not scheduled to work; or
(2) An agent is required to return to the agent's place of employment to perform such work.
(d)
Earning limited by premium pay cap.
An agent may not be credited with earning compensatory time off if the value of such time off would cause the sum of the agent's basic pay and premium pay in the given pay period to exceed the limitation established under 5 U.S.C. 5547 and §§ 550.105 and 550.107 in the period in which it was earned. The dollar value of compensatory time off for the purpose of this paragraph is the amount of overtime pay the agent would have received for the period during which compensatory time off was earned if the overtime had been regularly scheduled outside the agent's regular tour of duty.
(e)
Pay period limit.
(1) An agent may not earn more than 10 hours of compensatory time off during any pay period unless—
(i) CBP, as it determines appropriate, approves in writing a waiver of the 10-hour limit; and
(ii) Such waiver approval is executed in advance of the performance of any work for which compensatory time off is earned.
(2) If a waiver of the 10-hour limit described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is not granted, the agent involved may not be ordered to perform the associated overtime work.
(f)
Annual period limit.
An agent may not earn more than 240 hours of compensatory time off during an annual period.
(g)
Usage.
(1) An agent may use compensatory time off by being excused from duty during regular time (in an amount equal to the compensatory time off being used) during the agent's basic workweek.
(2) An agent's balance of unused compensatory time off is used to satisfy an overtime hours debt, as provided in § 550.1626(c)(1).
(h)
Time limit for usage and forfeiture.
An agent must use any hours of compensatory time off not later than the end of the 26th pay period after the pay period during which the compensatory time off was earned. Any compensatory time off not used within that time limit, or prior to separation from an agent position, is forfeited and not available for any purpose, regardless of the circumstances. An agent may not receive any cash value for unused compensatory time off. An agent may not receive credit towards the computation of the agent's retirement annuity for unused compensatory time off.
§ 550.1626
Leave without pay during regular time and absences during obligated overtime hours.
(a)
Substitution for leave without pay during regular time.
(1) For any period of leave without pay during an agent's regular time (basic workweek), an equal period of work outside the agent's regular time in the same pay period must be substituted to the extent such work was performed. Any time substituted for leave without pay must be treated for all pay computation purposes as if it were regular time (except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section) and may not be considered an overtime hour of work for any purpose, including §§ 550.1621(a)(4) and (b)(4), 550.1624, and 550.1625.
(2) Hours of work must be substituted for regular time work under paragraph (a)(1) of this section before being substituted for regularly scheduled overtime within the agent's regular tour of duty under paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) Hours used for substitution under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be substituted in the following priority order: first, irregular overtime hours; second, regularly scheduled overtime hours outside the regular tour of duty; and third, regularly scheduled overtime hours within the regular tour of duty.
(4) The substitution of overtime hours for leave without pay is solely for pay computation purposes. The substitution does not change the hours of an agent's basic workweek or the fact that the agent was in a particular type of nonpay status during those hours. The hours that are substituted are considered to have been performed when they were worked, not during the leave without pay hours for which they are substituted. For example, if an agent performs 4 hours of overtime work outside the agent's regular tour of duty during the first week of a pay period and then is placed in leave without pay during the second week due to a shutdown furlough caused by a lapse in appropriations, the 4 hours must be substituted for furlough hours for the purpose of computing pay owed the agent for the week before the furlough began.
(5) If overtime hours are substituted for an absence without approval (AWOL) or a suspension, the basic pay for such substituted hours may not be used in computing an agent's overtime supplement.
(b)
Substitution for absences during obligated overtime hours within the regular tour of duty.
(1) For a period of absence during obligated overtime hours within an agent's regular tour of duty, an equal period of work outside the agent's regular tour of duty in the same pay period must be substituted to the extent such work was performed. Any time so substituted must be treated for all pay computation purposes as if it were obligated overtime work and may not be considered an overtime hour of work for any other purpose, including §§ 550.1624 and 550.1625.
(2) In substituting hours of work under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, work performed on the same day as the period of absence must be substituted first in circumstances described in § 550.1622(b)(2). Hours substituted under this paragraph must be substituted in the following priority order: first, irregular overtime hours; and second, regularly scheduled overtime hours outside the regular tour of duty.
(3) After substituting hours under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any remaining hours used for substitution under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be substituted in the following priority order: first, irregular overtime hours; and second, regularly scheduled
overtime hours outside the regular tour of duty.
(4) The substitution of overtime hours outside the regular tour of duty for obligated overtime hours not worked is solely for pay computation purposes. The substitution does not change the hours of an agent's regular tour of duty. The hours that are substituted are considered to have been performed when they were worked, not during the obligated overtime hours for which they are substituted.
(c)
Application of compensatory time off or future overtime work to offset overtime hours debt.
(1) If a Border Patrol agent does not have sufficient additional work in a pay period to substitute for all periods of absence during obligated overtime hours within the agent's regular tour of duty for that pay period, any unused balance of compensatory time off hours previously earned under § 550.1625 must be applied towards the newly accrued overtime hours debt.
(2) If an agent has a remaining overtime hours debt after applying paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) of this section, any additional overtime work outside the agent's regular tour of duty in subsequent pay periods that would otherwise be credited under § 550.1624 or § 550.1625 must be applied towards the overtime hours debt until that debt is satisfied. The application of such hours must be done in the following priority order: first, irregular overtime hours; and second, regularly scheduled overtime hours outside the regular tour of duty. Any overtime hour applied under this paragraph (c)(2) may not be considered an overtime hour of work for any other purpose.
(d)
Unsatisfied overtime hours debt at movement to a non-agent position or separation.
(1) Any unsatisfied overtime hours debt that exists at the time of movement to a non-agent position or separation from Federal service must be recovered to the extent possible by offsetting the affected employee's positive balance (if any) of annual leave, time-off awards, or compensatory time off for travel. In cases where the offset will totally eliminate the debt, an agent's balances must be applied in the following order: first, the balance of annual leave; second, the balance of time-off awards; and third, the balance of compensatory time off for travel.
(2) Any unsatisfied overtime hours debt that exists at the time of movement to a non-agent position or separation from Federal service after applying paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be converted to a monetary debt equal to the result of multiplying the agent's hourly rate of basic pay at the time of movement to a non-agent position or separation by the number of hours in the overtime hours debt. CBP must follow standard debt collection procedures to recover any debt.

# Relationship to Other Provisions
§ 550.1631
Other types of premium pay.
(a) An agent may not receive premium pay for night, Sunday, or holiday work for hours of regularly scheduled overtime work within the agent's regular tour of duty.
(b) An agent may receive premium pay for night, Sunday, or holiday work, as applicable, for hours not covered by paragraph (a) of this section, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5545(a) and (b) and section 5546 and corresponding regulations, except that section 5546(d) does not apply. (For an agent, pay for overtime work on a Sunday or holiday is determined under 5 U.S.C. 5542(g), not under section 5546(d).) The agent's rate of basic pay (without any overtime supplement) must be used in computing such premium payments.
(c) An agent may not be paid standby duty premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1) or administratively uncontrollable overtime pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(2).
§ 550.1632
Hazardous duty pay.
An agent is eligible for hazardous duty pay, subject to the requirements in 5 U.S.C. 5545(d) and subpart I of this part. The agent's rate of basic pay (without any overtime supplement) must be used in computing any hazardous duty pay.
§ 550.1633
Treatment of overtime supplement as basic pay.
Regularly scheduled overtime pay within an agent's regular tour of duty is treated as part of basic pay or basic salary only for the following purposes:
(a) 5 U.S.C. 5524a and 5 CFR part 550, subpart B, pertaining to advances in pay;
(b) 5 U.S.C. 5595(c) and 5 CFR part 550, subpart G, pertaining to severance pay;
(c) 5 U.S.C. 8114(e), pertaining to workers' compensation;
(d) 5 U.S.C. 8331(3) and 5 U.S.C. 8401(4) and related provisions that rely on the definition in those paragraphs, pertaining to retirement benefits;
(e) Subchapter III of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, pertaining to the Thrift Savings Plan;
(f) 5 U.S.C. 8704(c), pertaining to life insurance; and
(g) For any other purposes explicitly provided for by law or as the Office of
Personnel Management may prescribe by other regulation.
§ 550.1634
Leave and other paid time off.
(a) An agent is subject to the rules governing leave accrual and usage under 5 U.S.C. chapter 63 on the same basis as other employees. The tour of duty for leave accrual and usage purposes is the basic workweek, which excludes regularly scheduled overtime hours within the regular tour of duty established under this subpart. The agent must be charged corresponding amounts of leave for each hour (or part thereof) the agent is absent from duty during regular time (except that full days off for military leave must be charged when required).
(b) An agent is subject to the normally applicable rules governing other types of paid time off (such as holiday time off under 5 U.S.C. chapter 61, compensatory time off for religious observances under subpart J of this part, or compensatory time off for travel under subpart N of this part) on the same basis as other covered employees. The tour of duty used in applying those rules is the basic workweek, which excludes regularly scheduled overtime hours within the regular tour of duty established under this subpart. The agent must be charged corresponding amounts of paid time off for each hour (or part thereof) the agent is absent from duty during regular time.
(c) In computing a lump-sum annual leave payment under 5 U.S.C. 5551-5552, an overtime supplement for an agent's regularly scheduled overtime hours within the agent's regular tour of duty is included, as provided in § 550.1205(b)(5)(iv).
§ 550.1635
Alternative work schedule.
An agent may not have a flexible or compressed work schedule under 5 U.S.C. chapter 61, subchapter II. The regular tour of duty established under this subpart is a special work schedule established under 5 U.S.C. 5550. CBP may allow flexible starting and stopping times for an agent's basic workday if it determines such flexibility is appropriate for the position in question.
§ 550.1636
Exemption from Fair Labor Standards Act.
The minimum wage and the hours of work and overtime pay provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act do not apply to Border Patrol agents. (See also 5 CFR 551.217.)
§ 550.1637
Travel time.
(a) A Border Patrol agent's travel time to and from home and the agent's regular duty station (or to an alternative work location within the limits of the agent's official duty station, as defined in § 550.112(j)) may not be considered hours of work under any provision of law.
(b) Official travel time away from an agent's official duty station may be creditable hours of work as provided in § 550.112(g). When an agent travels directly between home and a temporary duty location outside the limits of the agent's official duty station (as defined in § 550.112(j)), the time the agent would have spent in normal home to work travel must be deducted from any creditable hours of work while traveling.
§ 550.1638
Official time.
An agent who uses official time under 5 U.S.C. 7131 may be assigned to a Level 1 or Level 2 regular tour of duty, but is required to perform agency work during obligated overtime hours or to accrue an overtime hours debt. Official time may be used during overtime hours only when, while the agent is engaged in the performance of agency work, an event arises incident to representational functions that must
be immediately addressed during the overtime hours. CBP may excuse the agent from duty during scheduled obligated overtime hours if it determines that an agent's official time duties during the basic workday make it impracticable to perform agency work during the scheduled obligated overtime hours on that day. The agent will accrue an overtime hours debt for that excused time. If CBP excuses the agent in this manner, then it must provide the agent with an opportunity to eliminate the resulting overtime hours debt by performing agency work outside the agent's regular tour of duty at another time. As provided in § 550.1621(e), official time during regular time is considered to be “work” when an agent otherwise would be in a duty status in applying paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(3) of § 550.1621.
Pt. 551

# PART 551—PAY ADMINISTRATION UNDER THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
551.101
General.
551.102
Authority and administration.
551.103
Coverage.
551.104
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Exemptions and Exclusions
551.201
Agency authority.
551.202
General principles.
551.203
Salary-based nonexemption.
551.204
Nonexemption of certain employees.
551.205
Executive exemption criteria.
551.206
Administrative exemption criteria.
551.207
Professional exemption criteria.
551.208
Learned professionals.
551.209
Creative professionals.
551.210
Computer employees.
551.211
Effect of performing different work or duties for a temporary period of time on FLSA exemption status.
551.212
Foreign exemption criteria.
551.213
Exemption of employees receiving availability pay.
551.214
Statutory exclusion.
551.215
Fire protection activities and 7(k) coverage for FLSA pay and exemption determinations.
551.216
Law enforcement activities and 7(k) coverage for FLSA pay and exemption determinations.
551.217
Exemption of Border Patrol agents.

# Subpart C—Minimum Wage Provisions

# Basic Provision
551.301
Minimum wage.

# Subminimum Wage
551.311
Subminimum wage.

# Subpart D—Hours of Work

# General Provisions
551.401
Basic principles.
551.402
Agency responsibility.

# Application of Principles in Relation to Normal Workday
551.411
Workday.
551.412
Preparatory or concluding activities.

# Application of Principles in Relation to Other Activities
551.421
Regular working hours.
551.422
Time spent traveling.
551.423
Time spent in training or attending a lecture, meeting, or conference.
551.424
Time spent adjusting grievances or performing representational functions.
551.425
Time spent receiving medical attention.
551.426
Time spent in charitable activities.

# Special Situations
551.431
Time spent on standby duty or in an on-call status.
551.432
Sleep time.

# Subpart E—Overtime Pay Provisions

# Basic Provisions
551.501
Overtime pay.

# Overtime Pay Computations
551.511
Hourly regular rate of pay.
551.512
Overtime pay entitlement.
551.513
Entitlement to other forms of pay.
551.514
Nondiscretionary bonuses.

# Fractional Hours of Work
551.521
Fractional hours of work.

# Compensatory Time Off
551.531
Compensatory time off.

# Special Overtime Pay Provisions
551.541
Employees engaged in fire protection activities or law enforcement activities.

# Subpart F—Child Labor
551.601
Minimum age standards.
551.602
Responsibilities.

# Subpart G—FLSA Claims and Compliance
551.701
Applicability.
551.702
Time limits.
551.703
Avenues of review.
551.704
Claimant's representative.
551.705
Filing an FLSA claim.
551.706
Responsibilities.
551.707
Withdrawal or cancellation of an FLSA claim.
551.708
Finality and effect of OPM FLSA claim decision.
551.709
Availability of information.
551.710
Where to file an FLSA claim with OPM.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5542(c); Sec. 4(f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended by Pub. L. 93-259, 88 Stat. 55 (29 U.S.C. 204f).

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
72 FR 52762, Sept. 17, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 551.101
General.
(a) The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (referred to as “the Act” or “FLSA”), provides minimum standards for both wages and overtime entitlements, and administrative procedures by which covered worktime must be compensated. Included in the Act are provisions related to child labor, equal pay, and portal-to-portal activities. In addition, the Act exempts specified employees or groups of employees from the application of certain of its provisions and prescribes penalties for the commission of specifically prohibited acts.
(b) This part contains the regulations, criteria, and conditions set forth by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) as prescribed by the Act, supplements and implements the Act, and must be read in conjunction with it.
(c) OPM's administration of the Act must comply with the terms of the Act but the law does not require OPM's regulations to mirror the Department of Labor's FLSA regulations. OPM's administration of the Act must be consistent with the Department of Labor's administration of the Act only to the extent practicable and only to the extent that this consistency is required to maintain compliance with the terms of the Act. For example, while OPM's executive, administrative, and professional exemption criteria are consistent with the Department of Labor's exemption criteria, OPM does not apply the highly compensated employee criteria in 29 CFR 541.601 to determine FLSA exemption status.
§ 551.102
Authority and administration.
Section 3(e)(2) of the Act authorizes the application of the provisions of the Act to any person employed by the Government of the United States, as specified in that section.
(a)
Office of Personnel Management.
Section 4(f) of the Act authorizes the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to administer the provisions of the Act. OPM is the administrator of the provisions of the Act with respect to any person employed by an agency, except as specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(b) The
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
administers the equal pay provisions contained in section 6(d) of the Act.
(c) The
Department of Labor
administers the Act for the government of the District of Columbia and the following United States Government entities:
(1) The Library of Congress;
(2) The United States Postal Service;
(3) The Postal Rate Commission; and
(4) The Tennessee Valley Authority.
(d)
Office of Compliance.
The Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, as amended, sections 1301
et seq.
of title 2, United States Code, extends rights and protections of the FLSA to employees of the following United States Government entities, and assigns certain administrative responsibilities to the Office of Compliance:
(1) The United States House of Representatives;
(2) The United States Senate;
(3) The Capitol Guide Service;
(4) The Capitol Police;
(5) The Congressional Budget Office;
(6) The Office of the Architect of the Capitol;
(7) The Office of the Attending Physician; and
(8) The Office of Compliance.
§ 551.103
Coverage.
(a)
Covered.
Any employee of an agency who is not specifically excluded by
another statute is covered by the Act. This includes any person who is:
(1) Defined as an employee in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code;
(2) A civilian employee appointed under other appropriate authority; or
(3) Suffered or permitted to work by an agency whether or not formally appointed.
(b)
Not covered.
The following persons are not covered by the Act:
(1) A person appointed under appropriate authority without compensation;
(2) A trainee;
(3) A volunteer; or
(4) A member of the Uniformed Services.
§ 551.104
Definitions.
In this part—
Act
or
FLSA
means the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (29 U.S.C. 201
et seq.
).
Administrative employee
means an employee who meets the administrative exemption criteria in § 551.206.
Agency
means any instrumentality of the United States Government, or any constituent element thereof acting directly or indirectly as an employer, as this term is defined in section 3(d) of the Act and in this section, but does not include the entities of the United States Government listed in § 551.102(c) for which the Department of Labor administers the Act or § 551.102(d)(1) through (8), whose employees are covered by the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, as amended, which makes applicable the rights and protections of the FLSA and assigns certain administrative responsibilities to the Office of Compliance.
Claim
means a written allegation regarding a current or former employee concerning the employee's FLSA exemption status determination or entitlement to minimum wage or overtime pay for work performed under the Act. The term
claim
is used generically in subpart G and includes complaints under the child labor provisions of the Act.
Claim period
means the time during which the cause or basis of the claim occurred.
Claimant
means any party who files an FLSA claim.
Customarily and regularly
means a frequency which must be greater than occasional but which may be less than constant. Tasks or work performed customarily and regularly includes work normally and recurrently performed every workweek. It does not include isolated or one-time tasks.
Directly and closely related
means work that is directly and closely related to the performance of exempt work which is also considered exempt work. The phrase
directly and closely related
means tasks that are related to exempt duties and that contribute to or facilitate performance of exempt work.
Directly and closely related
work may include typically nonexempt tasks that arise out of and are integral to exempt duties. Those nonexempt tasks must be performed by the exempt employee to perform his or her exempt work. Work
directly and closely related
to the performance of exempt duties may also include recordkeeping; maintaining various records pertaining to workload or employee performance; monitoring and adjusting machinery; taking notes; using the computer to create documents or presentations; opening the mail for the purpose of reading it and making decisions; and using a photocopier or fax machine. Work which both workers and supervisors are required to perform is considered to be closely related to the primary duty of the position (for example, physical training during tours of duty for firefighting and law enforcement personnel) and is exempt work. Work is not
directly and closely
related if the work is remotely related or completely unrelated to exempt duties. The following examples illustrate the type of work that is and is not normally considered as
directly and closely related
to exempt work:
(1) Work is closely related to exempt supervisory work when it contributes to the effective supervision of subordinate workers, or the smooth functioning of the unit supervised, or both. A supervisor who spot checks and examines the work of subordinates to determine whether they are performing their duties properly, and whether the product is satisfactory, is performing work which is directly and closely related to managerial and supervisory
functions, so long as the checking is distinguishable from the work ordinarily performed by a nonexempt inspector.
(2) Depending upon the nature of an organization, a supervisor who sets up a machine may be engaged in exempt work. In some cases the setup work, or adjustment of the machine for a particular job, is typically performed by the same employees who operate the machine. In such cases, setup work is part of the production operation and is not exempt. In other cases, the setting up of the work is a highly skilled operation which the ordinary production worker typically does not perform. In large plants, non-supervisors may perform such work. However, particularly in small plants, such work may be a regular duty of the executive employee and is directly and closely related to the executive employee's responsibility for the subordinates' work performance and for the adequacy of the final product. In addition, performing setup work that requires special skills typically is not performed by production employees in the occupation, and does not approach the volume that would justify hiring a specially trained employee to perform. Such closely related work may include performing infrequently recurring or one-time tasks which are impractical to delegate, because they would disrupt normal operations or take longer to explain than to perform. Under such circumstances, it is exempt work.
(3) A management analyst may take extensive notes recording the flow of work and materials through an organization; the analyst may personally use a computer to type a report and create a proposed table of organization. Standing alone, or separated from the primary duty, such note-taking and typing would not be exempt. However, because this work is necessary for analyzing the data and making recommendations (which is exempt work), it is directly and closely related to exempt work.
(4) A traffic manager in charge of planning an organization's transportation function, including identifying the most economical and quickest routes for shipping material to and from the activity, contracting for common-carrier and other transportation facilities, negotiating with carriers for adjustments for damages to material, and making the necessary rearrangements resulting from delays, damages or irregularities in transit, is performing exempt work. If the employee also spends part of the day taking telephone orders for local deliveries, such order-taking is a routine function and is not directly and closely related to the exempt work.
(5) An example of work directly and closely related to exempt professional duties is a chemist performing nonexempt tasks such as cleaning a test tube in the middle of an original experiment, even though such tasks can be assigned to laboratory assistants.
(6) A teacher performs work directly and closely related to exempt duties when, while taking students on a field trip, the teacher drives a school van or monitors the students' behavior in a restaurant.
Educational establishment
means a nursery school, an elementary or secondary school system, an institution of higher education, other educational institutions, and in certain circumstances, training facilities. The term
other educational establishment
includes special schools for mentally or physically disabled or gifted children, regardless of any classification of such schools as elementary, secondary, or higher.
Emergency
means a temporary condition that poses a direct threat to human life or safety, serious damage to property, or serious disruption to the operations of an activity, as determined by the employing agency.
Employ
means to engage a person in an activity that is for the benefit of an agency, including any hours of work that are suffered or permitted.
Employee
means a person who is employed—
(1) As a civilian in an Executive agency, as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code;
(2) As a civilian in a military department, as defined in section 102 of title 5, United States Code;
(3) In a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of an Executive agency or a military department;
(4) In a unit of the judicial branch of the Government that has positions in the competitive service; or
(5) In the Government Printing Office.
Employer,
as defined in section 3(d) of the Act, means any person acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee and includes a public agency, but does not include any labor organization (other than when acting as an employer) or anyone acting in the capacity of officer or agent of such labor organization.
Executive employee
means an employee who meets the executive exemption criteria in § 551.205.
Exempt area
means any foreign country, or any territory under the jurisdiction of the United States, other than the following locations:
(1) A State of the United States;
(2) The District of Columbia;
(3) Puerto Rico;
(4) The U.S. Virgin Islands;
(5) Outer Continental Shelf Lands as defined in the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (67 Stat. 462);
(6) American Samoa;
(7) Guam;
(8) Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands;
(9) Midway Atoll;
(10) Wake Island;
(11) Johnston Island; and
(12) Palmyra.
Filed
means a claim has been properly submitted by the claimant. The claimant must deliver the claim to the appropriate office within the agency or OPM, whichever is deciding the FLSA claim. The claim must be postmarked or date-stamped in order to establish the time of delivery.
FLSA exempt
means not covered by the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the Act.
FLSA exemption status
means an employee's designation as either FLSA exempt or FLSA nonexempt from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the Act.
FLSA nonexempt
means covered by the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the Act.
FLSA overtime pay
means overtime pay under this part.
FLSA pay claim
means a claim concerning an employee's entitlement to minimum wage or overtime pay for work performed under the Act.
Formulate, affect, interpret, or implement management policies or operating practices
means perform work that involves management policies or operating practices which range from specific objectives and practices of a small field office to broad national goals expressed in statutes or Executive orders. Employees performing such work make policy decisions or participate indirectly through developing or recommending proposals that are acted on by others. The work of employees who significantly affect the execution of management policies involves obtaining compliance with such policies by other individuals or organizations, within or outside of the Federal Government, or making significant determinations furthering the operation of programs and accomplishment of program objectives. Administrative employees engaged in such work typically perform one or more phases of program management (that is, planning, developing, promoting, coordinating, controlling, or evaluating operating programs of the employing organization or of other organizations subject to regulation or other controls).
Hours of work
means all time spent by an employee performing an activity for the benefit of an agency and under the control or direction of the agency. Hours of work are creditable for the purpose of determining overtime pay under subpart D of this part. Section 551.401 of subpart D further explains this term. However, whether time is credited as hours of work is determined by considering many factors, such as the rules in subparts D and E of this part, provisions of law, Comptroller General decisions, OPM decisions and policy guidance, agency policy, negotiated agreements, the rules in part 550 of this chapter (for hours of work for travel), and the rules in part 410 of this chapter (for hours of work for training).
Management
means performing activities such as interviewing, selecting, and training of employees; setting and adjusting their rates of pay and hours
of work; directing the work of employees; maintaining production or financial records for use in supervision or control; appraising employees' productivity and efficiency for the purpose of recommending promotions or other changes in status; handling employee complaints and grievances; disciplining employees; planning the work; determining the techniques to be used; apportioning the work among the employees; determining the type of materials, supplies, machinery, equipment, or tools to be used or merchandise to be bought, stocked and sold; controlling the flow and distribution of materials or merchandise and supplies; providing for the safety and security of the employees or the property; planning and controlling the budget; and monitoring or implementing legal compliance measures.
Nonexempt area
means any of the following locations:
(1) A State of the United States;
(2) The District of Columbia;
(3) Puerto Rico;
(4) The U.S. Virgin Islands;
(5) Outer Continental Shelf Lands as defined in the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (67 Stat. 462);
(6) American Samoa;
(7) Guam;
(8) Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands;
(9) Midway Atoll;
(10) Wake Island;
(11) Johnston Island; and
(12) Palmyra.
Official position
means the position to which the employee is officially assigned by means of a personnel action authorized by the agency.
Perform work in connection with an emergency
means perform work that is directly related to resolving or coping with an emergency, or its immediate aftermath, as determined by the employing agency.
Preserve the claim period
means establish the period of possible entitlement to back pay by filing a written claim. The date the agency or OPM receives the claim preserves the claim period and is the date that determines the period of possible entitlement to back pay.
Primary duty
typically means the duty that constitutes the major part (over 50 percent) of an employee's work. A duty constituting less than 50 percent of an employee's work (alternative primary duty) may be credited as the primary duty for exemption purposes provided that duty:
(1) Constitutes a substantial, regular part of the work assigned and performed;
(2) Is the reason for the existence of the position; and
(3) Is clearly exempt work in terms of the basic nature of the work, the frequency with which the employee must exercise discretion and independent judgment as discussed in § 551.206, and the significance of the decisions made.
Professional employee
means an employee who meets the professional exemption criteria in § 551.207.
Reckless disregard of the requirements of the Act
means failure to make adequate inquiry into whether conduct is in compliance with the Act.
Recognized organizational unit
means an established and defined organizational entity which has regularly assigned employees and for which a supervisor is responsible for planning and accomplishing a continuing workload. This distinguishes supervisors from leaders of temporary groups formed to perform assignments of limited duration.
(1) The term
recognized organizational unit
is intended to distinguish between a mere collection of employees assigned from time to time to a specific job or series of jobs and a unit with permanent status and function. A recognized organizational unit must have a permanent status and a continuing function. For example, a large human resources department might have subdivisions for labor relations, pensions and other benefits, equal employment opportunity, and recruitment and placement, each of which has a permanent status and function.
(2) A recognized organizational unit may move from place to place. The mere fact that the employee works in more than one location does not invalidate the exemption if other factors show that the employee is actually in charge of a recognized organizational unit with a continuing function in the organization.
(3) Continuity of the same subordinates is not essential to the existence of a recognized organizational unit with a continuing function. An otherwise exempt employee will not lose the exemption merely because the employee draws and supervises workers from a pool or supervises a team of workers drawn from other recognized organizational units, if other factors are present that indicate the employee is in charge of a recognized organizational unit with a continuing function.
Statute of limitations
means the time frame within which an FLSA pay claim must be filed, starting from the date the right accrued. All FLSA pay claims filed on or after June 30, 1994, are subject to a 2-year statute of limitations, except in cases of willful violation where the statute of limitations is 3 years.
Suffered or permitted work
means any work performed by an employee for the benefit of an agency, whether requested or not, provided the employee's supervisor knows or has reason to believe that the work is being performed and has an opportunity to prevent the work from being performed.
Title 5 overtime pay,
for the purpose of § 551.211, means overtime pay under part 550 of this chapter.
Trainee
means a person who does not meet the definition of “employee” in this section and who is assigned or attached to a Federal activity primarily for training. A person who attends a training program under the following conditions is considered a trainee and is not a Federal employee for purposes of the Act:
(1) The training, even though it includes actual operation of the facilities of the Federal activity, is similar to that given in a vocational school or other institution of learning;
(2) The training is for the benefit of the individual;
(3) The trainee does not displace regular employees, but is supervised by them;
(4) The Federal activity which provides the training derives no immediate advantage from the activities of the trainee; on occasion its operations may actually be impeded;
(5) The trainee is not necessarily entitled to a job with the Federal activity at the completion of the training period; and
(6) The agency and the trainee understand that the trainee is not entitled to the payment of wages from the agency for the time spent in training.
Two or more other employees
means the equivalent of two or more full-time employees. For the purpose of this definition, an employee is equal to a full-time equivalent (FTE). For example, one full-time and two half-time employees are equivalent to two full-time employees.
Volunteer
means a person who does not meet the definition of
employee
in this section and who volunteers or donates his or her service, the primary benefit of which accrues to the performer of the service or to someone other than the agency. Under such circumstances there is neither an expressed nor an implied compensation agreement. Services performed by such a volunteer include personal services that, if left unperformed, would not necessitate the assignment of an employee to perform them.
Willful violation
means a violation in circumstances where the agency knew that its conduct was prohibited by the Act or showed reckless disregard of the requirements of the Act. All of the facts and circumstances surrounding the violation are taken into account in determining whether a violation was willful.
Workday
means the period between the commencement of the principal activities that an employee is engaged to perform on a given day and the cessation of the principal activities for that day. The term is further explained in § 551.411.
Worktime,
for the purpose of determining FLSA exemption status, means time spent actually performing work. This excludes periods of time during which an employee performs no work, such as standby time, sleep time, meal periods, and paid leave.
Worktime in a representative workweek
means the average worktime over a period long enough to even out normal fluctuations in workloads and is representative of the job as a whole.
Workweek
means a fixed and recurring period of 168 hours—seven consecutive 24-hour periods. It need not
coincide with the calendar week but may begin on any day and at any hour of a day. For employees subject to part 610 of this chapter, the workweek must be the same as the administrative workweek defined in § 610.102 of this chapter.
Workweek basis
means the unit of time used as the basis for applying overtime standards under the Act and, for employees under flexible or compressed work schedules, under 5 U.S.C. 6121(6) or (7). The Act takes a single workweek as its standard (except for employees engaged in fire protection or law enforcement activities under section 7(k) of the Act) and does not permit the averaging of hours over two or more weeks, except for employees engaged in fire protection or law enforcement activities under section 7(k) of the Act.

# Subpart B—Exemptions and Exclusions

# Source:
72 FR 52765, Sept. 17, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 551.201
Agency authority.
The employing agency must review and make a determination on each employee's exemption status.
§ 551.202
General principles.
In all exemption determinations, the agency must observe the following principles:
(a) Each employee is presumed to be FLSA nonexempt unless the employing agency correctly determines that the employee clearly meets the requirements of one or more of the exemptions of this subpart and such supplemental interpretations or instructions issued by OPM. The agency must designate an employee FLSA exempt when the agency correctly determines that the employee meets the requirements of one or more of the exemptions of this subpart and such supplemental interpretations or instructions issued by OPM.
(b) Exemption criteria must be narrowly construed to apply only to those employees who are clearly within the terms and spirit of the exemption.
(c) The burden of proof rests with the agency that asserts the exemption.
(d) An employee who clearly meets the criteria for exemption must be designated FLSA exempt. If there is a reasonable doubt as to whether an employee meets the criteria for exemption, the employee will be designated FLSA nonexempt.
(e) While established position descriptions and titles may assist in making initial FLSA exemption determinations, the designation of an employee as FLSA exempt or nonexempt must ultimately rest on the duties actually performed by the employee.
(f) Although separate criteria are provided for the exemption of executive, administrative, and professional employees, those categories are not mutually exclusive. Employees who perform a combination of exempt duties set forth in this regulation may also qualify for exemption. For example, an employee whose primary duty involves a combination of exempt administrative and exempt executive work may qualify for exemption,
i.e.
, work that is exempt under one section of this part will not defeat the exemption under any other section.
(g) Failure to meet the criteria for exemption under what might appear to be the most obvious criteria does not preclude exemption under another category. For example, an engineering technician who fails to meet the professional exemption criteria may be performing exempt administrative work, or an administrative officer who fails to meet the administrative criteria may be performing exempt executive work.
(h) Although it is normally feasible and more convenient to identify a single exemption category, this is not always appropriate. An exemption may be based on a combination of functions, no one of which constitutes the primary duty, or the employee's primary duty may involve two categories which are intermingled and difficult to segregate. This does not preclude designating an employee FLSA exempt, provided the work as a whole clearly meets the other exemption criteria. The agency is responsible for showing and documenting that the work as a whole clearly meets one or more of the exemption criteria.
§ 551.203
Salary-based nonexemption.
(a) An employee, including a supervisory employee, whose annual rate of basic pay is less than $23,660 is nonexempt, unless:
(1) The employee is subject to § 551.211 (Effect of performing different work or duties for a temporary period of time on FLSA exemption status); or
(2) The employee is subject to § 551.212 (Foreign exemption criteria); or
(3) The employee is a professional engaged in the practice of law or medicine as prescribed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 551.208.
(b) For the purpose of this section, “rate of basic pay” means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee, including any applicable locality payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F, special rate supplement under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C, or similar payment or supplement under other legal authority, before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any other kind, such as premium payments, differentials, and allowances.
§ 551.204
Nonexemption of certain employees.
(a) Certain nonsupervisory white-collar employees are FLSA nonexempt (unless the employees are subject to § 551.211 (Effect of performing different work or duties for a temporary period of time on FLSA exemption status) or § 551.212 (Foreign exemption criteria)) because they do not fit any of the exemption categories. They include:
(1) Employees in equipment operating and protective occupations, and most clerical occupations;
(2) Employees performing technician work in positions properly classified below GS-9 (or the equivalent level in other white-collar pay systems) and many, but not all, of those positions properly classified at GS-9 or above (or the equivalent level in other white-collar pay systems); and
(3) Employees at any grade, or equivalent level, in occupations requiring highly specialized, technical skills and knowledge that can be acquired only through prolonged job training and experience, such as in the Air Traffic Control series, or in the Aircraft Operations series unless such employees are performing predominantly administrative functions rather than the technical work of the occupation.
(b) Nonsupervisory employees in the Federal Wage System or in other comparable wage systems are nonexempt, unless the employees are subject to § 551.211 (Effect of performing different work or duties for a temporary period of time on FLSA exemption status) or § 551.212 (Foreign exemption criteria).
§ 551.205
Executive exemption criteria.
(a) An
executive employee
is an employee whose primary duty is management (as defined in § 551.104) of a Federal agency or any subdivision thereof (including the lowest recognized organizational unit with a continuing function) and who:
(1)
Customarily and regularly directs
the work of two or more other employees. However, an employee who merely assists the manager of a particular department and supervises two or more employees only in the actual manager's absence does not meet this requirement. In addition, hours worked by an employee cannot be credited more than once for different executives. This takes into consideration those organizations that use matrix management,
i.e.
, a system of “shared” leadership, where supervision cuts across product and service lines in terms of accessing activities and advising top management on business operations, but where the supervisor/leader does not have the operating authority over all employees. Thus, a shared responsibility for the supervision of the same two employees in the same recognized organizational unit does not satisfy this requirement. However, a full-time employee who works 4 hours for one supervisor and 4 hours for a different supervisor will be credited as a half-time employee for both supervisors; and
(2) Has the authority to hire or fire other employees or whose suggestions and recommendations as to the hiring, firing, advancement, promotion, or any other change of status of other employees, are given particular weight.
(b)
Particular weight.
Criteria to determine whether an employee's suggestions and recommendations are given
particular weight by higher-level management include, but are not limited to: whether it is part of the employee's job duties to make such suggestions and recommendations; the frequency with which such suggestions and recommendations are made or requested; and the frequency with which the employee's suggestions and recommendations are relied upon. Generally, an executive's suggestions and recommendations must pertain to employees whom the executive customarily and regularly directs. Particular weight does not include consideration of an occasional suggestion with regard to the change in status of a co-worker. An employee's suggestions and recommendations may still be deemed to have particular weight even if a higher level manager's recommendation has more importance and even if the employee does not have authority to make the ultimate decision as to the employee's change in status.
§ 551.206
Administrative exemption criteria.
An
administrative employee
is an employee whose primary duty is the performance of office or non-manual work directly related to the management or general business operations, as distinguished from production functions, of the employer or the employer's customers and whose primary duty includes the exercise of discretion and independent judgment with respect to matters of significance.
(a) In general, the exercise of discretion and independent judgment involves the comparison and the evaluation of possible courses of conduct, and acting or making a decision after the various possibilities have been considered. The term “matters of significance” refers to the level of importance or consequence of the work performed.
(b) The phrase
discretion and independent judgment
must be applied in light of all the facts involved in the particular employment situation in which the question arises. Factors to consider when determining whether an employee exercises discretion and independent judgment with respect to matters of significance include, but are not limited to, whether the employee:
(1) Has authority to formulate, affect, interpret, or implement management policies or operating practices;
(2) Carries out major assignments in conducting the operations of the organization;
(3) Performs work that affects the organization's operations to a substantial degree, even if the employee's assignments are related to operation of a particular segment of the organization;
(4) Has authority to commit the employer in matters that have significant financial impact;
(5) Has authority to waive or deviate from established policies and procedures without prior approval;
(6) Has authority to negotiate and bind the organization on significant matters;
(7) Provides consultation or expert advice to management;
(8) Is involved in planning long- or short-term organizational objectives;
(9) Investigates and resolves matters of significance on behalf of management; and
(10) Represents the organization in handling complaints, arbitrating disputes, or resolving grievances.
(c) The exercise of discretion and independent judgment implies that the employee has authority to make an independent choice, free from immediate direction or supervision. However, an employee can exercise discretion and independent judgment even if the employee's decisions or recommendations are reviewed at a higher level. Thus, the term
discretion and independent judgment
does not require that decisions made by an employee have a finality that goes with unlimited authority and a complete absence of review. The decisions made as a result of the exercise of discretion and independent judgment may consist of recommendations for action rather than the actual taking of action. The fact that an employee's decision may be subject to review and that upon occasion the decisions are revised or reversed after review does not mean that the employee is not exercising discretion and independent judgment.
(d) An organization's workload may make it necessary to employ a number of employees to perform the same or
similar work. The fact that many employees perform identical work or work of the same relative importance does not mean that the work of each such employee does not involve the exercise of discretion and independent judgment with respect to matters of significance.
(e) The exercise of discretion and independent judgment must be more than the use of skill in applying well-established techniques, procedures, or specific standards described in manuals or other sources.
(f) The use of manuals, guidelines, or other established procedures containing or relating to highly technical, scientific, legal, financial, or other similarly complex matters that can be understood or interpreted only by those with advanced or specialized knowledge or skills does not preclude exemption. Such manuals and procedures provide guidance in addressing difficult or novel circumstances and thus use of such reference material would not affect an employee's exemption status. However, employees who simply apply well-established techniques or procedures described in manuals or other sources within closely prescribed limits to determine the correct response to an inquiry or set of circumstances will be nonexempt.
(g) An employee does not exercise discretion and independent judgment with respect to matters of significance merely because the employer will experience financial losses if the employee fails to perform the job properly. For example, a messenger who is entrusted with carrying large sums of money does not exercise discretion and independent judgment with respect to matters of significance even though serious consequences may flow from the employee's neglect. Similarly, an employee who operates very expensive equipment does not exercise discretion and independent judgment with respect to matters of significance merely because improper performance of the employee's duties may cause serious financial loss to the employer.
(h) Employees in certain occupations typically assist and support line managers and assume facets of the overall management function. Neither the location of the work nor the number of employees performing the same or similar work turns such work into a production function. For example, independent agencies or agency components often provide centralized human resources, information systems, procurement and acquisition, or financial management services as support services to other agencies or agency components. However, this does not change the inherent administrative nature of the work performed to line or production work. Similarly, employees who develop, interpret, and oversee agency or Governmentwide policy are performing management support functions. Some of these activities may be performed by employees who would otherwise qualify under another exemption. Depending upon the purpose of the work and the organizational context, work in certain occupations may be either exempt or nonexempt. For example, criminal investigators who perform work directly related to the internal management of the agency and typically would be expected to provide recommendations of great significance based on the analysis of investigative findings would likely be considered as performing a staff function. In contrast, the performance of investigative and inspectional work to confirm whether specific regulatory requirements have been met for an investigative/inspectional component of any agency would likely be considered as performing a line rather than a staff function.
(i) An employee who leads a team of other employees assigned to complete major projects (such as acquisitions; negotiating real estate transactions or collective bargaining agreements; designing and implementing productivity improvements; oversight, compliance, or program reviews; investigations) generally meets the duties requirements for the administrative exemption, even if the employee does not have direct supervisory responsibility over the other employees on the team. An example is a lead auditor who oversees an audit team in an auditing agency and who is assigned responsibility for leading a major audit requiring the use of substantial agency resources. This auditor is responsible for proposing the parameters of the audit and
developing a plan of action and milestones to accomplish the audit. Included in the plan are the methodologies to be used, the staff and other resources required to conduct the audit, proposed staff member assignments, etc. When conducting the audit, the lead auditor makes on-site decisions and/or proposes major changes to managers on matters of significance in accomplishing the audit, including deviations from established policies and practices of the agency.
(j) An executive assistant or administrative assistant to a high level manager or senior executive generally meets the duties requirements for the administrative exemption if such employee, without specific instructions or prescribed procedures, has been delegated authority regarding matters of significance.
(k) Human resources employees who formulate, interpret or implement human resources management policies generally meet the duties requirements for the administrative exemption. In addition, when interviewing and screening functions are performed by the human resources employee who makes the hiring decision or makes recommendations for hiring from a pool of qualified applicants, such duties constitute exempt work, even though routine, because this work is directly and closely related to the employee's exempt functions.
(l) Management analysts who study the operations of an organization and propose changes in the organization, program analysts who study program operations and propose changes to the program, and other management advisors generally meet the duties requirements for the administrative exemption.
(m) Acquisition employees with authority to bind the organization to significant purchases generally meet the duties requirements for the administrative exemption even if they must consult with higher management officials when making a commitment.
(n) Ordinary inspection work generally does not meet the duties requirements for the administrative exemption. Inspectors normally perform specialized work along standardized lines involving well-established techniques and procedures which may have been catalogued and described in manuals or other sources. Such inspectors rely on techniques and skills acquired by special training or experience. They have some leeway in the performance of their work but only within closely prescribed limits.
§ 551.207
Professional exemption criteria.
To qualify for the professional exemption, an employee's primary duty must be the performance of work requiring knowledge of an advanced type in a field of science or learning customarily acquired by a prolonged course of specialized intellectual instruction or requiring invention, imagination, originality or talent in a recognized field of artistic or creative endeavor. Learned professionals, creative professionals, and computer employees are described in §§ 551.208, 551.209, and 551.210, respectively.
§ 551.208
Learned professionals.
(a) To qualify for the learned professional exemption, an employee's primary duty must be the performance of work requiring advanced knowledge in a field of science or learning customarily acquired by a prolonged course of specialized intellectual instruction. The work must include the following three elements:
(1) The employee must perform work requiring advanced knowledge. Work requiring advanced knowledge is predominantly intellectual in character and includes work requiring the consistent exercise of discretion and judgment, as distinguished from performance of routine mental, manual, mechanical or physical work. An employee who performs work requiring advanced knowledge generally uses the advanced knowledge to analyze, interpret or make deductions from varying facts or circumstances. Advanced knowledge cannot be attained at the high school level;
(2) The advanced knowledge must be in a field of science or learning which includes the traditional professions of law, medicine, theology, accounting, actuarial computation, engineering, architecture, teaching, various types of physical, chemical and biological
sciences, pharmacy, and other similar occupations that have a recognized professional status as distinguished from the mechanical arts or skilled trades where in some instances the knowledge is of a fairly advanced type, but is not in a field of science or learning; and
(3) The advanced knowledge must be customarily acquired by a prolonged course of specialized intellectual instruction which restricts the exemption to professions where specialized academic training is a standard prerequisite for entrance into the profession. The best prima facie evidence that an employee meets this requirement is possession of the appropriate academic degree. However, the word “customarily” means that the exemption is appropriate for employees in such professions who have substantially the same knowledge level and perform substantially the same work as the degreed employees, but who attained the advanced knowledge through a combination of work experience and intellectual instruction. For example, the learned professional exemption is appropriate in unusual cases where a lawyer has not gone to law school, or a chemist does not possess a degree in chemistry. However, the learned professional exemption is not applicable to occupations that customarily may be performed with only the general knowledge acquired by an academic degree in any field, with knowledge acquired through an apprenticeship, or with training in the performance of routine mental, manual, mechanical, or physical processes. The learned professional exemption also does not apply to occupations in which most employees have acquired their skill by experience rather than by advanced specialized intellectual instruction. The position of Engineering Technician is an example of such an occupation where the employee collects, observes, tests and records factual scientific data within the oversight of professional engineers, and performs work using knowledge acquired through on-the-job and classroom training rather than by acquiring the knowledge through prolonged academic study.
(b)
Expansion of professional exemption.
The areas in which the professional exemption may be applicable are expanding. As knowledge is developed, academic training is broadened and specialized degrees are offered in new and diverse fields, thus creating new specialists in particular fields of science or learning. When an advanced specialized degree has become a standard requirement for a particular occupation, that occupation may have acquired the characteristics of a learned profession. Accrediting and certifying organizations similar to those listed in this section also may be created in the future. Such organizations may develop similar, specialized curriculums and certification programs which, if a standard requirement for a particular occupation, may indicate that the occupation has acquired the characteristics of a learned profession.
(c)
Practice of law.
(1) This exemption applies to an employee in a professional legal position requiring admission to the bar and involved in preparing cases for trial and/or the trial of cases before a court or an administrative body or persons having quasi-judicial power; rendering legal advice and services; preparing interpretive and administrative orders, rules, or regulations; drafting, negotiating, or examining contracts or other legal documents; drafting, preparing formal comments, or otherwise making substantive recommendations with respect to proposed legislation; editing and preparing for publication statutes enacted by Congress and opinions or decisions of a court, commission, or board; and drafting and reviewing decisions for consideration and adoption by agency officials.
(2) Section 551.203 (Salary-based nonexemption) does not apply to the employees described in this section.
(d)
Practice of medicine.
(1) An employee who holds a valid license or certificate permitting the practice of medicine or any of its branches and is actually engaged in the practice of the profession is exempt. The exemption applies to physicians and other practitioners licensed and practicing in the field of medical science and healing or any of the medical specialties practiced by physicians or practitioners.
The term “physicians” includes medical doctors, including general practitioners and specialists, osteopathic physicians (doctors of osteopathy), podiatrists, dentists (doctors of dental medicine), and optometrists (doctors of optometry or bachelors of science in optometry).
(2) An employee who holds the required academic degree for the general practice of medicine and is engaged in an internship or resident program pursuant to the practice of the profession is exempt. Employees engaged in internship or resident programs, whether or not licensed to practice prior to commencement of the program, qualify as exempt professionals if they enter such internship or resident programs after the earning of the appropriate degree required for the general practice of their profession.
(3) Section 551.203 (Salary-based nonexemption) does not apply to the employees described in this section.
(e)
Accounting.
Certified public accountants generally meet the duties requirements for the learned professional exemption. An employee performing similar professional work in a position with a positive educational requirement and requiring the application of accounting theories, concepts, principles, and standards may qualify as an exempt learned professional. However, accounting clerks and technicians and other employees who normally perform a great deal of routine work generally will not qualify as exempt professionals.
(f)
Engineering.
Engineers generally meet the duties requirements for the learned professional exemption. Professional engineering work typically involves the application of a knowledge of such engineering fundamentals as the strength and strain analysis of engineering materials and structures, the physical and chemical characteristics of engineering materials such as elastic limits, maximum unit stresses, coefficients of expansion, workability, hardness, tendency to fatigue, resistance to corrosion, engineering adaptability, and engineering methods of construction and processing. Exempt professional engineering work includes equivalent work performed in any of the specialized branches of engineering (e.g., electrical, mechanical, or materials engineering). On unusual occasions, engineering technicians performing work comparable to that performed by professional engineers on the basis of advanced knowledge may also be exempt. In such instances, the employee actually is performing the work of an occupation that generally requires a specialized academic degree and is performing substantially the same work as the degreed employee, but has gained the same advanced knowledge through a combination of work experience and intellectual instruction which has provided both theoretical and practical knowledge of the specialty, including knowledge of related disciplines and of new developments in the field.
(g)
Architecture.
Architects generally meet the duties requirements for the learned professional exemption. Professional architectural work typically requires knowledge of architectural principles, theories, concepts, methods, and techniques; a creative and artistic sense; and an understanding and skill to use pertinent aspects of the construction industry, as well as engineering and the physical sciences related to the design and construction of new, or the improvement of existing, buildings.
(h)
Teachers.
A teacher is any employee with a primary duty of teaching, tutoring, instructing or lecturing in the activity of imparting knowledge and who is employed and engaged in this activity as a teacher in an educational establishment by which the employee is employed.
(1) A teacher performs exempt work when serving, for example, as a regular academic teacher; teacher of kindergarten or nursery school pupils; teacher of gifted or disabled children; teacher of skilled and semi-skilled trades and occupations; teacher engaged in automobile driving instruction; aircraft flight instructor; home economics teacher; or vocal or instrumental music instructor. A faculty member who is engaged as a teacher but also spends a considerable amount of time in extracurricular activities such as coaching athletic teams or acting as a moderator or advisor in such areas as drama, speech, debate, or journalism is engaged in teaching. Such activities
are a recognized part of an educational establishment's responsibility in contributing to the educational development of the student. An instructor in an institution of higher education or another educational establishment whose primary duty is teaching, tutoring, instructing, or lecturing in the activity of imparting knowledge is also an exempt teacher.
(2) The possession of an elementary or secondary teacher's certificate provides a clear means of identifying the individuals contemplated as being within the scope of the exemption for teaching professionals. Teachers who possess a teaching certificate qualify for the exemption regardless of the terminology (e.g., permanent, conditional, standard, provisional, temporary, emergency, or unlimited) used by appropriate certifying entities. However, a teacher's certificate is not generally necessary for post-secondary educational establishments.
(3) Exempt teachers do not include teachers of skilled and semi-skilled trade, craft, and laboring occupations when the paramount knowledge is the knowledge of and the ability to perform the trade, craft, or laboring occupation. Conversely, if the primary requirement of the post-secondary education instructor is the ability to instruct, as opposed to knowledge of and ability to perform a trade, craft, or laboring occupation, then the position may be exempt.
(4) Section 551.203 (Salary-based nonexemption) does not apply to the employees described in this section.
(i)
Medical technologists.
Registered or certified medical technologists who have successfully completed 3 academic years of pre-professional study in an accredited college or university, plus a 4th year of professional course work in a school of medical technology approved by the Council of Medical Education of the American Medical Association, generally meet the duties requirements for the learned professional exemption.
(j)
Nurses.
Registered nurses who are registered by the appropriate State examining board generally meet the duties requirements for the learned professional exemption. Licensed practical nurses and other similar health care employees, however, generally do not qualify as exempt learned professionals because possession of a specialized advanced academic degree is not a standard prerequisite for entry into such occupations.
(k)
Dental hygienists.
Dental hygienists who have successfully completed 4 academic years of pre-professional and professional study in an accredited college or university approved by the Commission on Accreditation of Dental and Dental Auxiliary Educational Programs of the American Dental Association generally meet the duties requirements for the learned professional exemption.
(l)
Physician assistants.
Physician assistants who have successfully completed 4 academic years of pre-professional and professional study, including graduation from a physician assistant program accredited by the Accreditation Review Commission on Education for the Physician Assistant, and who are certified by the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants, generally meet the duties requirements for the learned professional exemption.
(m)
Paralegals.
Paralegals and legal assistants generally do not qualify as exempt learned professionals because an advanced, specialized academic degree is not a standard prerequisite for entry into the field. Although many paralegals possess general 4-year advanced degrees, most specialized paralegal programs are 2-year associate degree programs from a community college or equivalent institution. However, the learned professional exemption is applicable to paralegals who possess advanced, specialized degrees in other professional fields and apply advanced knowledge in that field in the performance of their duties. In addition, a paralegal who fails to meet the professional exemption criteria may be performing exempt administrative work, e.g., overseeing a full range of support services for a large legal office.
§ 551.209
Creative professionals.
(a) To qualify for the creative professional exemption, an employee's primary duty must be the performance of work requiring invention, imagination, originality, or talent in a recognized
field of artistic or creative endeavor as opposed to routine mental, manual, mechanical, or physical work. The work performed must be “in a recognized field of artistic or creative endeavor,” including such fields as music, writing, acting, and the graphic arts. The exemption does not apply to work which can be produced by a person with general manual or intellectual ability and training. The requirement of “invention, imagination, originality, or talent” distinguishes the creative professions from work that primarily depends on intelligence, diligence, and accuracy. The duties of employees vary widely, and exemption as a creative professional depends on the extent of the invention, imagination, originality, or talent exercised by the employee. Determination of exempt creative professional status must be made on a case-by-case basis. This requirement generally is met by actors, musicians, composers, conductors, and soloists; painters who at most are given the subject matter of their painting; and writers who choose their own subjects and hand in a finished piece of work to their employers. This requirement generally is not met by a person who is employed as a retoucher of photographs, since such work is not properly described as creative in character.
(b) Federal employees engaged in the work of newspapers, magazines, television, or other media are not exempt creative professionals if they only collect, organize, and record information that is routine or already public, or if they do not contribute a unique interpretation or analysis to a news product. For example, employees who merely rewrite press releases or who write standard recounts of public information by gathering facts on routine community events are not exempt creative professionals. Employees also do not qualify as exempt creative professionals if their work product is subject to substantial control by the organization. However, when the work requires invention, imagination, originality, or talent, as opposed to work which depends primarily on intelligence, diligence, and accuracy, such employees may qualify as exempt creative professionals if their primary duty is performing on the air in radio, television or other electronic media; conducting investigative interviews; analyzing or interpreting public events; writing editorials, opinion columns, or other commentary; or acting as a narrator or commentator. Work that does not fully meet the creative professional exemption criteria does not preclude exemption under another exemption category. For example, public affairs work under control of the organization that does not meet the creative professional exemption may meet the administrative exemption.
§ 551.210
Computer employees.
(a) Computer systems analysts, computer programmers, software engineers, or other similarly skilled workers in the computer field are eligible for exemption as professionals under section 13(a)(1) of the Act and under section 13(a)(17) of the Act. Because job titles vary widely and change quickly in the computer industry, job titles are not determinative of the applicability of this exemption.
(b) The exemption in section 13(a)(1) of the Act applies to any computer employee whose annual remuneration exceeds the salary-based nonexemption prescribed in § 551.203. The exemption in section 13(a)(17) applies to any computer employee compensated on an hourly basis at a rate of basic pay (as defined in § 551.203(b)) not less than $27.63 an hour. In addition, these exemptions apply only to computer employees whose primary duties consist of:
(1) The application of systems analysis techniques and procedures, including consulting with users, to determine hardware, software or system functional specifications;
(2) The design, development, documentation, analysis, creation, testing or modification of computer systems or programs, including prototypes, based on and related to user or system design specifications;
(3) The design, documentation, testing, creation or modification of computer programs related to machine operating systems; or
(4) A combination of the aforementioned duties, the performance of which requires the same level of skills.
(c)
Computer manufacture and repair.
The exemption for employees in computer occupations does not include employees engaged in the manufacture or repair of computer hardware and related equipment. Employees whose work is highly dependent upon, or facilitated by, the use of computers and computer software programs (e.g., engineers, drafters and others skilled in computer-aided design software), but who are not primarily engaged in computer systems analysis and programming or other similarly skilled computer-related occupations as identified in paragraph (b) of this section, are also not exempt computer professionals.
(d)
Executive and administrative computer employees.
Computer employees within the scope of this exemption, as well as those employees not within its scope, may also have executive and administrative duties which qualify the employees for exemption under this subpart. For example, systems analysts and computer programmers generally meet the duties requirements for the administrative exemption if their primary duty includes work such as planning, scheduling, and coordinating activities required to develop systems to solve complex business, scientific or engineering problems of the organization or the organization's customers. Similarly, a senior or lead computer programmer who manages the work of two or more other programmers in a customarily recognized organizational unit, and whose recommendations regarding the hiring, firing, advancement, promotion, or other change of status of the other programmers are given particular weight, generally meets the duties requirements for the executive exemption. Alternatively, a senior or lead computer programmer who leads a team of other employees assigned to complete a major project that is directly related to the management or general business operations of the employer or the employer's customers generally meets the duties requirements for the administrative exemption, even if the employee does not have direct supervisory responsibility over the other employees on the team.
§ 551.211
Effect of performing different work or duties for a temporary period of time on FLSA exemption status.
(a)
Applicability.
Performing different work or duties for a temporary period of time may affect an employee's exemption status.
(1)
When applicable.
This section applies only when an employee must perform work or duties that are not consistent with the employee's primary duties for an extended period, that is, for more than 30 consecutive calendar days—the “30-day test.” The period of performing different work or duties may or may not involve a different geographic duty location. The exemption status of an employee temporarily performing different work or duties must be determined as described in this section.
(2)
When not applicable.
This section does not apply when an employee is detailed to an identical additional position as the employee's position or to a position at the same level with the same basic duties and exemption status as the employee's position.
(b) An agency generally may not change an employee's exemption status based on a snapshot of the employee's duties during a particular week, unless the week involves emergency work under paragraph (f) of this section. An agency must:
(1) Assess an employee's temporary work or duties over a reasonable period of time (the 30-day test), compare them with the primary duties upon which the employee's exemption status is based, and determine the employee's exemption status as described in §§ 551.203 through 551.210; and
(2) Ensure that it does not avoid reassessing, and perhaps changing, an employee's exemption status by breaking up periods of temporary work or duties with periods of having the employee perform his or her regular work or duties. For example, an agency may not assign exempt employees to perform nonexempt work or duties for 29 consecutive calendar days, return them to their exempt duties for two or three days, then assign them again to perform nonexempt work for another 29 days.
(c) Aggregation of more than 30 nonconsecutive calendar days over an extended period does not meet the 30-day test and may not be used to change an employee's exemption status. For example, if an exempt employee performs nonexempt duties 4 days in one week, 2 days in the following week, and so on over a period of weeks or months, the days of nonexempt work may not be aggregated for the purpose of changing the employee's exemption status.
(d)
Effect on nonexempt employees.
(1) A nonexempt employee who must temporarily perform work or duties that are different from the employee's primary duties remains nonexempt for the entire period of temporary work or duties unless both of the following conditions are met:
(i) The period of temporary work or duties exceeds 30 consecutive calendar days; and
(ii) The employee's primary duties for the period of temporary work are exempt as defined in this part.
(2) If a nonexempt employee becomes exempt under the criteria in paragraph (d)(1) of this section:
(i) The employee must be considered exempt for the entire period of temporary work or duties; and
(ii) If the employee received FLSA overtime pay for work performed during the first 30 calendar days of the temporary work or duties, the agency must recalculate the employee's total pay retroactive to the beginning of that period because the employee is no longer entitled to the FLSA overtime pay received but may be owed title 5 overtime pay, or its equivalent.
(e)
Effect on exempt employees.
(1) An exempt employee who must temporarily perform work or duties that are different from the employee's primary duties remains exempt for the entire period of temporary work or duties unless both of the following conditions are met:
(i) The period of temporary work or duties exceeds 30 consecutive calendar days; and
(ii) The employee's primary duties for the period of temporary work are not exempt as defined in this part.
(2) If an exempt employee becomes nonexempt under the criteria in paragraph (e)(1) of this section:
(i) The employee must be considered nonexempt for the entire period of temporary work or duties; and
(ii) If the employee received title 5 overtime pay, or its equivalent, for work performed during the first 30 consecutive calendar days of the temporary work or duties, the agency must recalculate the employee's total pay retroactive to the beginning of that period because the employee may no longer be entitled to some or all of the title 5, or equivalent, overtime pay received but may be owed FLSA overtime pay.
(f)
Emergency situation.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, and regardless of an employee's grade or equivalent level, the agency may determine that an emergency situation exists that directly threatens human life or safety, serious damage to property, or serious disruption to the operations of an activity, and there is no recourse other than to assign qualified employees to temporarily perform work or duties in connection with the emergency. In such a designated emergency:
(1)
Nonexempt employee.
A nonexempt employee remains nonexempt whether the employee performs nonexempt work or exempt work during the emergency; and
(2)
Exempt employee.
The exemption status of an exempt employee must be determined on a workweek basis. The exemption status determination of exempt employees will result in the employee either remaining exempt or becoming nonexempt for that workweek, as described in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i)
Remain exempt.
An exempt employee remains exempt for any workweek in which the employee's primary duties for the period of emergency work are exempt as defined in this part.
(ii)
Become nonexempt.
An exempt employee becomes nonexempt for any workweek in which the employee's primary duties for the period of emergency work are nonexempt as defined in this part.
§ 551.212
Foreign exemption criteria.
Foreign exemption
means a provision of the Act under which the minimum
wage, overtime, and child labor provisions of the Act do not apply to any employee who spends all hours of work in a given workweek in an exempt area.
(a)
Application.
When the foreign exemption applies, the minimum wage, overtime, and child labor provisions of the Act do not apply to any employee who spends all hours of work in a given workweek in an exempt area. When an employee meets one of the two criteria in paragraph (b) of this section, the foreign exemption applies until the employee spends any hours of work in any nonexempt area as defined in § 551.104.
(b)
Foreign exemption applies.
If an employee meets one of the two following criteria, the employee is subject to the foreign exemption of the Act and the minimum wage, overtime, and child labor provisions of the Act do not apply:
(1) The employee is permanently stationed in an exempt area and spends all hours of work in a given workweek in one or more exempt areas; or
(2) The employee is not permanently stationed in an exempt area, but spends all hours of work in a given workweek in one or more exempt areas.
(c)
Foreign exemption does not apply.
For any given workweek, the minimum wage, overtime, and child labor provisions of the Act apply to an employee permanently stationed in an exempt area who spends any hours of work in any nonexempt area. For that workweek, the employee is not subject to the foreign exemption, and the agency must determine the exemption status of such an employee as described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. The foreign exemption does not resume until the employee again meets one of the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1)
Same duties.
If the duties performed during that workweek are consistent with the primary duties of the employee's official position, the agency must designate the employee the same FLSA exemption status as if the employee were permanently stationed in any nonexempt area.
(2)
Different duties.
If the duties performed during that workweek are not consistent with the primary duties of the employee's official position:
(i) The agency must first designate the employee the same FLSA exemption status as the employee would have been designated based on the duties included in the employee's official position if the employee was permanently stationed in any nonexempt area; and
(ii) The agency must determine the employee's exemption status for that workweek by applying § 551.211.
(d)
Resumption of foreign exemption.
When an employee returns to any exempt area from performing any hours of work in any nonexempt area, the employee is not subject to the foreign exemption until the employee meets one of the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 551.213
Exemption of employees receiving availability pay.
The following employees are exempt from the hours of work and overtime pay provisions of the Act:
(a) A criminal investigator receiving availability pay under § 550.181(a) of this chapter, as provided in 29 U.S.C. 213(a)(16));
(b) A pilot employed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection or its successor who is a law enforcement officer as defined in section 5541(3) of title 5, United States Code, and who receives availability pay under section 5545a(i) of title 5, United States Code.
§ 551.214
Statutory exclusion.
A customs officer who receives overtime pay under subsection (a) or premium pay under subsection (b) of 19 U.S.C. 267 and under 19 CFR 24.16 for time worked may not receive pay or other compensation for that work under any other provision of law.
§ 551.215
Fire protection activities and 7(k) coverage for FLSA pay and exemption determinations.
(a) The Office of Personnel Management may determine that the provisions of section 7(k) of the Act apply to certain categories of fire protection employees based on appropriate factors, such as the type of premium payments they receive (see § 551.501(a)(1) and (5) and § 551.541).
(b)
Fire protection activities.
Fire protection activities involve the performance of functions directly concerned with the response to and the control and extinguishment of fires; or performance of inspection of facilities and equipment for the primary purpose of reducing or eliminating fire hazards by trained firefighters eligible for reassignment to fire control and suppression or prevention duties; or provision of the primary (
i.e.
, the first called) rescue and ambulance service in connection with fire protection functions.
(c)
Engaged in fire protection activities.
(1) An employee (including a firefighter, paramedic, emergency medical technician, rescue worker, ambulance personnel, or hazardous materials worker) is considered engaged in fire protection activities for the purpose of determining possible application of section 7(k) of the Act as provided for in § 551.501(a)(1) and (5) and § 551.541 if the employee:
(i) Is trained in fire suppression, has authority and responsibility to engage in fire suppression, and is employed by an organization with fire suppression as a primary mission; and
(ii) Is engaged in the prevention, control, and extinguishment of fires or response to emergency situations where life, property, or the environment is at risk.
(2) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the following types of employees are engaged in fire protection activities for the purpose of determining possible application of section 7(k) of the Act:
(i) Employees in positions properly classified in the Fire Protection and Prevention series, including any qualified firefighter who is assigned to perform support functions (e.g., communications or dispatching functions, equipment maintenance or repair) or who is transferred to an administrative or supervisory position within the fire protection activity, except when such administrative or supervisory work exempts the employee under executive, administrative, and professional considerations;
(ii) Employees in positions properly classified in other series, such as Forestry Technician, for whom fire protection functions constitute substantially full-time assignments throughout the year, or for the duration of a specified fire season within the year;
(iii) Temporary employees hired solely to perform fire suppression work on an as-needed basis;
(iv) Members of rescue and ambulance crews with fire suppression training, authority, and responsibility, who are part of a fire suppression organization, as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section; and
(v) Any other employee in any workweek in which the employee performs fire control or suppression work for 80 percent or more of the total hours worked.
(d)
Not engaged in fire protection activities.
Examples of types of employees who are not engaged in fire protection activities for the purpose of applying section 7(k) of the Act (as provided for in § 551.501(a)(1) and (5) and § 551.541) include the following:
(1) Professional engineers, engineering technicians, and similar employees involved in fire protection research or in the design and development of fire protection and prevention equipment and materials;
(2) Employees who perform functions that support fire protection activities but who are
not
trained, qualified firefighters eligible for reassignment to fire control and suppression or prevention duties. Supporting functions (such as maintenance of fire apparatus, equipment, alarm systems, etc., or communications and dispatching work or preparation of records and reports) are included when performed by firefighters but are
not
included when performed by mechanics, communications systems and radio operators, clerks, or other employees;
(3) Employees whose primary duties are
not
related to fire protection but who perform fire control or suppression work on an as needed basis,
provided
that the fire control or suppression work constitutes less than 80 percent of the employees' hours of work within any workweek; and
(4) Employees on rescue and ambulance crews who:
(i) Are not trained in fire suppression;
(ii) Do not have fire suppression authority and responsibility; or
(iii) Are employed by an organization, such as a hospital, that does not have fire suppression as a primary mission.
§ 551.216
Law enforcement activities and 7(k) coverage for FLSA pay and exemption determinations.
(a) The Office of Personnel Management may determine that the provisions of section 7(k) of the Act apply to certain categories of law enforcement employees based on appropriate factors, such as the type of premium payments they receive (see §§ 551.501(a)(1) and (5) and 551.541).
(b)
Law enforcement activities.
Law enforcement activities involve work directly and primarily concerned with:
(1) Patrol and control functions that include patrolling an area to enforce law and order and to protect the lives, property, and civil rights of individuals through the prevention and detection of criminal acts; responding to complaints, violations, accidents, and emergencies; investigating for clues at the scene of a crime, interviewing witnesses, and evaluating evidence to locate suspects; and apprehending and arresting persons suspected of, or wanted for, criminal violations under a statutorily prescribed arrest authority;
(2) Executing the orders of a Federal court, including serving civil writs and criminal warrants issued by Federal courts; tracing and arresting persons wanted by warrants; and seizing and disposing of property under court orders;
(3) Planning and conducting investigations relating to alleged or suspected violations of criminal laws, including the arrest of suspected or wanted persons under a statutorily prescribed arrest authority;
(4) Security functions in a correctional institution involving direct custody and safeguarding of inmates charged with or convicted of violations of criminal laws; or
(5) Rescue and ambulance functions that provide the primary (
i.e.
, the first called) service in connection with law enforcement activities described above.
(c)
Engaged in law enforcement activities.
The following employees are engaged in law enforcement activities for the purpose of determining possible application of section 7(k) of the Act as provided for in § 551.501(a)(1) and (5) and § 551.541:
(1) Employees in positions properly classified in the Police series, and employees in positions that would be otherwise classifiable in that series if covered by classification criteria of chapter 51 of title 5, U.S. Code;
(2) Employees whose primary duties involve patrol and control functions performed for the purpose of detecting and apprehending persons suspected of violating criminal laws;
(3) Employees in positions properly classified in the U.S. Marshal series;
(4) Employees in positions properly classified in the Criminal Investigating series, and other employees performing criminal investigation as their primary duty, except as provided for in § 551.213 (Exemption of employees receiving availability pay);
(5) Employees in positions properly classified in the Correctional Officer series, Guard series, or other series, whose primary duty is to maintain custody of inmates of a correctional institution; and
(6) Employees on rescue and ambulance crews that provide the primary service in connection with law enforcement functions, provided that crew members have received intensive training in specialized rescue and first aid procedures applicable to law enforcement emergencies (e.g., gunshot wounds, riot and accident victims) and the crew responds to actual or potential law enforcement emergencies on a regular and recurring basis.
(d)
Not engaged in law enforcement activities.
The following employees are not engaged in law enforcement activities for the purpose of pay under section 7(k) of the Act as provided for in §§ 551.501(a)(1) and (5) and 551.541:
(1) Employees whose primary duties concern the protection of Government property from hazards such as sabotage, espionage, theft, fire, or accidental or willful damage and in so doing, control the movement of persons and protect the lives and property of persons on Government property (e.g., guards or other employees performing similar functions);
(2) Employees who perform work concerned with the determination of the
applicability of or compliance with laws and regulations when the duties primarily involve:
(i) Examining or inspecting products, premises, property, or papers of persons or firms to enforce or obtain compliance with laws and regulations (e.g., immigration and customs examining or inspecting; mine safety and health examining or inspecting; alcohol, tobacco and firearms examining or inspecting; plant protection and quarantine examining or inspecting); or
(ii) Planning and conducting investigations covering the character, practices, suitability or qualifications of persons or organizations seeking, claiming or receiving Federal benefits, permits, or employment (e.g., general investigations work);
(3) Employees who work within correctional institutions but who do not have direct custody and safeguarding of inmates as their primary duty; and
(4) Members of rescue or ambulance crews that provide those services in connection with law enforcement activities only in unusual situations (e.g., when the primary crews are unavailable or when an emergency situation requires more crews than can be provided by the primary service).
[72 FR 52765, Sept. 17, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 58121, Sept. 25, 2015]
§ 551.217
Exemption of Border Patrol agents.
A Border Patrol agent (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5550(a)(2) and 5 CFR 550.1603) is exempt from the minimum wage and the hours of work and overtime pay provisions of the Act.
[80 FR 58121, Sept. 25, 2015]

# Subpart C—Minimum Wage Provisions

# Basic Provision
§ 551.301
Minimum wage.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and § 551.311, an agency shall pay each of its employees wages at rates not less than the minimum wage specified in section 6(a)(1) of the Act for all hours of work as defined in subpart D of this part.
(2) The minimum wage provisions of the Act do not apply to a criminal investigator receiving availability pay under § 550.181.
(b) An employee has been paid in compliance with the minimum wage provisions of this subpart if the employee's hourly regular rate of pay, as defined in § 551.511(a) of this part, for the workweek is equal to or in excess of the rate specified in section 6(a)(1) of the Act.
[45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 66154, Dec. 23, 1994]

# Subminimum Wage
§ 551.311
Subminimum wage.
An agency may, if it meets certain criteria published by the Office of Personnel Management, employ certain groups of less than fully productive employees (e.g., handicapped patient workers) at rates less than the minimum wage specified in section 6(a)(1) of the Act.
[45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980]

# Subpart D—Hours of Work

# Source:
45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 551.401
Basic principles.
(a) All time spent by an employee performing an activity for the benefit of an agency and under the control or direction of the agency is “hours of work.” Such time includes:
(1) Time during which an employee is required to be on duty;
(2) Time during which an employee is suffered or permitted to work; and
(3) Waiting time or idle time which is under the control of an agency and which is for the benefit of an agency.
(b) For an employee, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5541(2), hours in a paid nonwork status (e.g., paid leave, holidays, compensatory time off, or excused absences) are “hours of work” under this part.
(c) Hours in an unpaid nonwork status (e.g., leave without pay, furlough, absence without leave) are not “hours of work” under this part.
(d) Time that is considered hours of work under this part shall be used only to determine an employee's entitlement to minimum wages or overtime pay under the Act, and shall not be used to determine hours of work for pay administration under title 5, United States Code, or any other authority.
(e) Irregular or occasional overtime work performed by an employee on a day on which work was not scheduled for that employee or for which the employee is required to return to his or her place of employment is deemed at least 2 hours in duration for the purpose of determining whether the employee may be entitled to overtime pay under this part, either in money or compensatory time off.
(f) For the purpose of determining hours of work in excess of 8 hours in a day under this part, agencies shall credit hours of work under § 410.402 of this chapter, part 532 of this chapter and 5 U.S.C. 5544, and part 550 of this chapter, as applicable.
(g) For the purpose of determining hours of work in excess of 40 hours in a week or in excess of another applicable overtime work standard under section 7(k) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, agencies shall credit hours of work under § 410.402 of this chapter, part 532 of this chapter and 5 U.S.C. 5544, and part 550 of this chapter, as applicable, that will not be compensated as hours of work in excess of 8 hours in a day, as well as any additional hours of work under this part.
(h) For the purpose of determining overtime pay for work in excess of 40 hours in a workweek under this part, time spent in a travel status is hours of work as provided in § 551.422 of this part and § 550.112(g) of this chapter or 5 U.S.C. 5544, as applicable.
[45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 47687, Dec. 16, 1987, and 53 FR 27147, July 19, 1988; 56 FR 20343, May 3, 1991; 57 FR 59279, Dec. 15, 1992; 64 FR 69180, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 551.402
Agency responsibility.
(a) An agency is responsible for exercising appropriate controls to assure that only that work for which it intends to make payment is performed.
(b) An agency shall keep complete and accurate records of all hours worked by its employees.

# Application of Principles in Relation to Normal Workday
§ 551.411
Workday.
(a) For the purposes of this part,
workday
means the period between the commencement of the principal activities that an employee is engaged to perform on a given day, and the cessation of the principal activities for that day. All time spent by an employee in the performance of such activities is hours of work. The workday is not limited to a calendar day or any other 24-hour period.
(b) Any rest period authorized by an agency that does not exceed 20 minutes and that is within the workday shall be considered hours of work.
(c)
Bona fide
meal periods are not considered hours of work, except for on-duty meal periods for employees engaged in fire protection or law enforcement activities who receive compensation for overtime hours of work under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1) or (2) or 5545b. However, for employees engaged in fire protection or law enforcement activities who have periods of duty of more than 24 hours, on-duty meal periods may be excluded from hours of work by agreement between the employer and the employee, except as provided in § 551.432(e) and (f).
[45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 36805, Aug. 15, 1983; 57 FR 59279, Dec. 15, 1992; 67 FR 15467, Apr. 2, 2002]
§ 551.412
Preparatory or concluding activities.
(a)(1) If an agency reasonably determines that a preparatory or concluding activity is closely related to an employee's principal activities, and is indispensable to the performance of the principal activities, and that the total time spent in that activity is more than 10 minutes per workday, the agency shall credit all of the time spent in that activity, including the 10 minutes, as hours of work.
(2) If the time spent in a preparatory or concluding activity is compensable as hours of work, the agency shall
schedule the time period for the employee to perform that activity. An employee shall be credited with the actual time spent in that activity during the time period scheduled by the agency. In no case shall the time credited for the performance of an activity exceed the time scheduled by the agency. The employee shall be credited for the time spent performing preparatory or concluding activities in accordance with paragraph (b) of § 551.521 of this part.
(b) A preparatory or concluding activity that is not closely related to the performance of the principal activities is considered a preliminary or postliminary activity. Time spent in preliminary or postliminary activities is excluded from hours of work and is not compensable, even if it occurs between periods of activity that are compensable as hours of work.
[48 FR 36805, Aug. 15, 1983]

# Application of Principles in Relation to Other Activities
§ 551.421
Regular working hours.
(a) Under the Act there is no requirement that a Federal employee have a regularly scheduled administrative workweek. However, under title 5 United States Code, and part 610 of this chapter, the head of an agency is required to establish work schedules for his or her employees. In determining what activities constitute hours of work under the Act, there is generally a distinction based on whether the activity is performed by an employee during regular working hours or outside regular working hours. For purposes of this part, “regular working hours” means the days and hours of an employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek established under part 610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
[45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 36806, Aug. 15, 1983]
§ 551.422
Time spent traveling.
(a) Time spent traveling shall be considered hours of work if:
(1) An employee is required to travel during regular working hours;
(2) An employee is required to drive a vehicle or perform other work while traveling;
(3) An employee is required to travel as a passenger on a one-day assignment away from the official duty station; or
(4) An employee is required to travel as a passenger on an overnight assignment away from the official duty station during hours on nonworkdays that correspond to the employee's regular working hours.
(b) An employee who travels from home before the regular workday begins and returns home at the end of the workday is engaged in normal “home to work” travel; such travel is not hours of work. When an employee travels directly from home to a temporary duty location outside the limits of his or her official duty station, the time the employee would have spent in normal home to work travel shall be deducted from hours of work as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section.
(c) An employee who is offered one mode of transportation, and who is permitted to use an alternative mode of transportation, or an employee who travels at a time other than that selected by the agency, shall be credited with the lesser of:
(1) The actual travel time which is hours of work under this section; or
(2) The estimated travel time which would have been considered hours of work under this section had the employee used the mode of transportation offered by the agency, or traveled at the time selected by the agency.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an agency may prescribe a mileage radius of not greater than 50 miles to determine whether an employee's travel is within or outside the limits of the employee's official duty station for determining entitlement to overtime pay for travel under this part. However, an agency's definition of an employee's official duty station for determining overtime pay for travel may not be smaller than the definition of “official station and post of
duty” under the Federal Travel Regulation issued by the General Services Administration (41 CFR 300-3.1).
[45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 66635, Dec. 28, 1994; 72 FR 12036, Mar. 15, 2007]
§ 551.423
Time spent in training or attending a lecture, meeting, or conference.
(a) Time spent in training, whether or not it is under the purview of part 410 of this chapter, shall be administered as follows:
(1) Time spent in training during regular working hours shall be considered hours of work.
(2) Time spent in training outside regular working hours shall be considered hours of work if:
(i) The employee is directed to participate in the training by his or her employing agency; and
(ii) The purpose of the training is to improve the employee's performance of the duties and responsibilities of his or her current position.
(3) Time spent in apprenticeship or other entry level training, or internship or other career related work study training, or training under the Veterans Recruitment Act (5 CFR part 307) outside regular working hours shall not be considered hours of work, provided no productive work is performed during such periods, except as provided by § 410.402(b) of this chapter and paragraphs (f) and (g) of § 551.401.
(4) Time spent by an employee performing work for the agency during a period of training shall be considered hours of work.
(b) The following phrases contained in paragraph (a) of this section, are further clarified:
(1)
Directed to participate
means that the training is required by the agency and the employee's performance or continued retention in his or her current position will be adversely affected by nonenrollment in such training. The fact that an agency pays for all or part of the expenses of training does not create an entitlement to overtime hours of work unless participation in the training is directed by the agency.
(2) Training “to improve the employee's performance * * * of his or her current position” is distinguished from upward mobility training or developmental training to provide an employee the knowledge or skills needed for a subsequent position in the same career field.
(c) Time spent by an employee within an agency's allowance of preparatory time for attendance at training shall be considered hours of work if such preparatory time is:
(1) During an employee's regular working hours; or
(2) Outside the employee's regular working hours, and the purpose of the training meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(d) Time spent attending a lecture, meeting, or conference shall be considered hours of work if attendance is:
(1) During an employee's regular working hours; or
(2) Outside an employee's regular working hours, and
(i) The employee is directed by an agency to attend such an event; or
(ii) The employee performs work for the benefit of the agency during such attendance.
[45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 64 FR 69180, Dec. 10, 1999; 70 FR 72068, Dec. 1, 2005]
§ 551.424
Time spent adjusting grievances or performing representational functions.
(a) Time spent by an employee adjusting his or her grievance (or any appealable action) with an agency during the time the employee is required to be on the agency's premises shall be considered hours of work.
(b) “Official time” granted an employee by an agency to perform representational functions during those hours when the employee is otherwise in a duty status shall be considered hours of work. This includes time spent by an employee performing such functions during regular working hours (including regularly scheduled overtime hours), or during a period of irregular, unscheduled overtime work, provided an event arises incident to representational functions that must be dealt with during the irregular, unscheduled overtime period.
§ 551.425
Time spent receiving medical attention.
(a) Time spent waiting for and receiving medical attention for illness or injury shall be considered hours of work if:
(1) The medical attention is required on a workday an employee reported for duty and subsequently became ill or was injured;
(2) The time spent receiving medical attention occurs during the employee's regular working hours; and
(3) The employee receives the medical attention on the agency's premises, or at the direction of the agency at a medical facility away from the agency's premises.
(b) Time spent taking a physical examination that is required for the employee's continued employment with the agency shall be considered hours of work.
§ 551.426
Time spent in charitable activities.
Time spent working for public or charitable purposes at an agency's request, or under an agency's direction or control, shall be considered hours of work. However, time spent voluntarily in such activities outside an employee's regular working hours is not hours of work.

# Special Situations
§ 551.431
Time spent on standby duty or in an on-call status.
(a)(1) An employee is on duty, and time spent on standby duty is hours of work if, for work-related reasons, the employee is restricted by official order to a designated post of duty and is assigned to be in a state of readiness to perform work with limitations on the employee's activities so substantial that the employee cannot use the time effectively for his or her own purposes. A finding that an employee's activities are substantially limited may not be based on the fact that an employee is subject to restrictions necessary to ensure that the employee will be able to perform his or her duties and responsibilities, such as restrictions on alcohol consumption or use of certain medications.
(2) An employee is not considered restricted for “work-related reasons” if, for example, the employee remains at the post of duty voluntarily, or if the restriction is a natural result of geographic isolation or the fact that the employee resides on the agency's premises. For example, in the case of an employee assigned to work in a remote wildland area or on a ship, the fact that the employee has limited mobility when relieved from duty would not be a basis for finding that the employee is restricted for work-related reasons.
(b) An employee will be considered off duty and time spent in an on-call status shall not be considered hours of work if:
(1) The employee is allowed to leave a telephone number or to carry an electronic device for the purpose of being contacted, even though the employee is required to remain within a reasonable call-back radius; or
(2) The employee is allowed to make arrangements such that any work which may arise during the on-call period will be performed by another person.
[45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 64 FR 69180, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 551.432
Sleep time.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section,
bona fide
sleep time that fulfills the following conditions shall not be considered hours of work if:
(1) The work shift is
24 hours or more;
(2) During such time there are adequate facilities such that an employee may usually enjoy an uninterrupted period of sleep; and
(3) There are at least 5 hours available for such time during the sleep period.
(b) For employees engaged in law enforcement or fire protection activities who receive annual premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1) or (2), the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section apply, except that on-duty sleep time may be excluded from hours of work only if the work shift is more than 24 hours.
(c) The total amount of bona fide sleep and meal time that may be excluded from hours of work may not exceed 8 hours in a 24-hour period.
(d) If sleep time is interrupted by a call to duty, the time spent on duty is considered hours of work.
(e) On-duty sleep and meal time during regularly scheduled hours for which standby duty premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1) is payable may not be excluded from hours of work.
(f) For firefighters compensated under 5 U.S.C. 5545b, on-duty sleep and meal time may not be excluded from hours of work.
[45 FR 85664, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 59279, Dec. 15, 1992; 64 FR 69180, Dec. 10, 1999]

# Subpart E—Overtime Pay Provisions

# Source:
45 FR 85665, Dec. 30, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Basic Provisions
§ 551.501
Overtime pay.
(a) An agency shall compensate an employee who is not exempt under subpart B of this part for all hours of work in excess of 8 in a day or 40 in a workweek at a rate equal to one and one-half times the employee's hourly regular rate of pay, except that an employee shall not receive overtime compensation under this part—
(1) On the basis of periods of duty in excess of 8 hours in a day when the employee receives compensation for that duty under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1) or (2) or 5545b;
(2) On the basis of hours of work in excess of 8 hours in a day that are not overtime hours of work under § 410.402 of this chapter, part 532 of this chapter and 5 U.S.C. 5544, or part 550 of this chapter;
(3) On the basis of hours of work in excess of 8 hours in a day for an employee covered by 5 U.S.C. 5544 for any hours in a standby or on-call status or while sleeping or eating;
(4) On the basis of hours of work in excess of 8 hours in a day for an individual who is not an employee, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5541(2), for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 5542, 5543, and 5544;
(5) On the basis of hours of work in excess of 40 hours in a workweek for an employee engaged in fire protection or law enforcement activities when the employee is receiving compensation under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1) or (2) or 5545b, or is not an employee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5541(2)) for the purposes of 5 U.S.C. 5542, 5543, and 5544;
(6) For hours of work that are not “overtime hours,” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 6121, for employees under flexible or compressed work schedules;
(7) For hours of work compensated by compensatory time off under § 551.531 of this part; and
(8) For fractional hours of work, except as provided in § 551.521 of this part.
(b) An employee's “workweek” is a fixed and recurring period of 168 hours—seven consecutive 24-hour periods. It need not coincide with the calendar week but may begin on any day and at any hour of a day. For employees subject to part 610 of this chapter, the workweek shall be the same as the administrative workweek defined in § 610.102 of this chapter.
(c) In this subpart, “irregular or occasional overtime work” is overtime work that is not scheduled in advance of the employee's workweek.
(d) The maximum earnings limitations described in §§ 550.105, 550.106, and 550.107 of this chapter do not apply to overtime pay due the employee under this subpart.
[45 FR 85665, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 11060, Mar. 15, 1991; 56 FR 20343, May 3, 1991; 57 FR 59279, Dec. 15, 1992; 63 FR 64594, Nov. 23, 1998; 64 FR 69180, Dec. 10, 1999]

# Overtime Pay Computations
§ 551.511
Hourly regular rate of pay.
(a) An employee's “hourly regular rate” is computed by dividing the total remuneration paid to an employee in the workweek by the total number of hours of work in the workweek for which such compensation was paid.
(b) “Total remuneration” includes all remuneration for employment paid to, or on behalf of, an employee except:
(1) Payments as rewards for service the amount of which is not measured by or dependent on hours of work, production, or efficiency (e.g., a cash award for a suggestion made by an employee and adopted by an agency);
(2) Reimbursements for travel expenses, or other similar expenses, incurred by an employee in furtherance
of an agency's interest, which are not related to hours of work;
(3) Payments made in recognition of services performed during a given period, if both the fact that payment is to be made and the amount of the payment are determined at the sole discretion of the agency (
i.e.,
discretionary cash awards or bonuses);
(4) Contributions by an agency to a fund for retirement, insurance, or similar benefits;
(5) Extra compensation provided by a premium rate paid for hours of work performed by an employee in excess of eight in a day, or in excess of the normal workweek applicable to the employee;
(6) Extra compensation provided by a premium rate paid for hours of work performed by an employee on a Sunday or a holiday where such premium rate is at least one and one-half times the employee's rate of pay for work performed in nonovertime hours on other days; or
(7) Extra compensation provided by a premium rate paid for hours of work performed by an employee outside his or her regular working hours, where such premium rate is at least one and one-half times the employee's rate of pay for work performed in nonovertime hours.
[45 FR 85665, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 47688, Dec. 16, 1987, and 53 FR 27147, July 19, 1988; 56 FR 20343, May 3, 1991; 64 FR 69180, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 551.512
Overtime pay entitlement.
(a) An employee's overtime entitlement under this subpart includes:
(1) The straight time rate of pay times all overtime hours worked; plus
(2) One-half times the employee's hourly regular rate of pay times all overtime hours worked.
(b) An employee's “straight time rate of pay” is equal to the employee's rate of pay for his or her position (exclusive of any premiums, differentials, or cash awards or bonuses) except for an employee who is authorized annual premium pay under § 550.141 or § 550.151 of this chapter. For an employee who is authorized annual premium pay, straight time rate of pay is equal to basic pay plus annual premium pay divided by the hours for which the basic pay plus annual premium pay are intended.
(c) An employee has been paid in compliance with the overtime pay provisions of this subpart only if the employee has received pay at a rate at least equal to the employee's straight time rate of pay for all nonovertime hours of work in the workweek.
[45 FR 85665, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 64 FR 69181, Dec. 10, 1999]
§ 551.513
Entitlement to other forms of pay.
Overtime pay under this subpart shall be paid in addition to all pay, other than overtime pay, to which the employee is entitled under title 5, United States Code, or any other authority. An employee entitled to overtime pay under this subpart and overtime pay under any authority outside of title 5, United States Code, shall be paid under whichever authority provides the greater overtime pay entitlement in the workweek.
[57 FR 59280, Dec. 15, 1992]
§ 551.514
Nondiscretionary bonuses.
(a) When an employee earns a nondiscretionary cash award or bonus (as opposed to discretionary cash awards or bonuses as described in § 551.511(b)(3)), the bonus must be taken into account in determining overtime pay for the period of time during which the bonus was earned. An agency may meet the overtime pay requirements for the bonus period by using one of the procedures described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section calculate the additional overtime pay the employee is due. The procedures in paragraphs (b)(3), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section describe methods where the overtime pay requirements are met in the calculation or distribution of the bonus itself.
(b)
Individual computation methods
—(1)
Week-by-week recomputation method.
The agency may compute the additional overtime pay owed an employee by allocating the nondiscretionary bonus payable under the agency bonus plan to the weeks or hours during which it was earned and recomputing the employee's total remuneration,
hourly regular rate, and overtime pay for each applicable workweek in the bonus period.
(2)
Bonus hourly rate method.
The agency may assume that an equal amount of the nondiscretionary bonus applies to each hour worked during the bonus period and derive a bonus hourly rate by dividing the employee's total bonus by the total number of hours worked by the employee during the bonus period. Then the agency may compute the employee's additional overtime pay by multiplying one-half of that bonus hourly rate by the total number of overtime hours worked by the employee during the bonus period.
(3)
Percentage bonus method.
An agency may establish a nondiscretionary bonus as a fixed percentage of total pay (
i.e.,
pre-bonus total remuneration, including straight time pay for any overtime hours, plus any half-rate overtime pay under § 551.512(a)(2)) to be earned by the employee during a future period of service. This method may not be used to circumvent any bonus limitations that might otherwise apply. At the agency's discretion, the portion of the bonus attributable to the employee's half-rate overtime pay under § 551.512(a)(2) may be excluded in applying bonus limitations, since it can be viewed as constituting additional FLSA overtime pay. (This method does not apply to nondiscretionary bonuses established as a percentage of a segment of pay, such as ratings-based cash awards under § 451.104(g) of this chapter that are expressed as a percentage of basic pay, excluding locality adjustments. To meet overtime pay requirements for these types of bonuses, use one of the methods described in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.)
(c)
Group-based bonus distribution methods.
(1) For employees who have earned nondiscretionary group cash awards or bonuses, payment of a bonus under one of the methods of distribution described in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section is considered to be in full compliance with the overtime pay requirements of this subpart. These methods may not be used to circumvent any bonus limitations that might otherwise apply.
(2)
Percentage method.
(i) Identify the amount of the group bonus under the agency's bonus plan and the period of time during which it was earned;
(ii) Establish the group bonus as a percentage of the total pay (
i.e.,
total remuneration before considering the group bonus, including straight time pay for any overtime hours, plus any half-rate overtime pay under § 551.512(a)(2)) earned by employees in the group during the bonus period; and (iii) Multiply the percentage in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section times each individual employee's total pay earned during the bonus period to determine each employee's share of the group bonus.
(3)
Boosted hour method.
(i) Identify the amount of the group bonus under the agency's bonus plan and the period of time during which it was earned;
(ii) Determine the total number of boosted hours for all employees under the group bonus plan by adding up the total number of hours of work by those employees (nonovertime and overtime hours) and increasing that sum by one-half of the total number of overtime hours;
(iii) Divide the amount of the group bonus by the total number of boosted hours for all employees under the group bonus plan to determine the amount of the bonus allocable to each hour; and (iv) Multiply this hourly bonus amount by the number of boosted hours credited to each individual employee in the bonus period to determine each employee's share of the group bonus.
[64 FR 69181, Dec. 10, 1999]

# Fractional Hours of Work
§ 551.521
Fractional hours of work.
(a) An employee shall be compensated for every minute of regular overtime work.
(b) A quarter of an hour shall be the largest fraction of an hour used for crediting irregular or occasional overtime work under this subpart. When irregular or occasional overtime work is performed in other than the full fraction, odd minutes shall be rounded up or rounded down to the nearest full fraction of an hour used to credit overtime work.
[48 FR 36806, Aug. 15, 1983]

# Compensatory Time Off
§ 551.531
Compensatory time off.
(a) At the request of an employee who is not exempt under subpart B of this part, the head of an agency (or designee) may grant compensatory time off from an employee's tour of duty instead of payment under § 551.501 for an equal amount of irregular or occasional overtime work.
(b) At the request of an employee, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105, the head of an agency may grant compensatory time off from an employee's basic work requirement under a flexible work schedule under 5 U.S.C. 6122 instead of payment under § 551.501 of this part for an equal amount of overtime work, whether or not irregular or occasional in nature.
(c) An agency may not require that an employee be compensated for overtime work under this subpart with an equivalent amount of compensatory time off from the employee's tour of duty. An employee may not directly or indirectly intimidate, threaten, or coerce, or attempt to intimidate, threaten, or coerce any other employee for the purpose of interfering with such employee's rights to request or not to request compensatory time off in lieu of payment for overtime hours.
(d) If compensatory time off earned under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is not taken within 26 pay periods after the pay period during which it was earned or if the employee transfers or separates from an agency before using the compensatory time, the employee must be paid for overtime work at the dollar value prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section.
(e) Compensatory time off to an employee's credit as of May 14, 2007 must be used by the end of the pay period ending 3 years after May 14, 2007. If the earned compensatory time off is not taken by the end of the pay period ending 3 years after May 14, 2007, the employee must be paid for overtime work at the dollar value prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section.
(f) If an employee with unused compensatory time off under paragraphs (a), (b), or (e) of this section separates from Federal service or is placed in a leave without pay status under the following circumstances, the employee must be paid for overtime work at the overtime rate at the dollar value prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section:
(1) The employee is separated or placed in a leave without pay status to perform service in the uniformed services (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 4303 and § 353.102); or
(2) The employee is separated or placed in a leave without pay status because of an on-the-job injury with entitlement to injury compensation under 5 U.S.C. chapter 81.
(g) The dollar value of compensatory time off when it is liquidated is the amount of overtime pay the employee otherwise would have received for hours of the pay period during which compensatory time off was earned by performing overtime work.
[56 FR 20343, May 3, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 28307, May 23, 1997; 64 FR 69181, Dec. 10, 1999; 72 FR 12036, Mar. 15, 2007]

# Special Overtime Pay Provisions
§ 551.541
Employees engaged in fire protection activities or law enforcement activities.
(a) An employee engaged in fire protection activities or law enforcement activities (as described in §§ 551.215 and 551.216, respectively) who receives compensation for those activities under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1) or (2) or 5545b, or does not meet the definition of “employee” in 5 U.S.C. 5541(2) for the purposes of 5 U.S.C. 5542, 5543, and 5544, is subject to section 7(k) of the Act and this section. (See § 551.501(a)(1) and (5)). Such an employee shall be paid at a rate equal to one and one-half times the employee's hourly regular rate of pay for those hours in a tour of duty which exceed the overtime standard for a work period specified in section 7(k) of the Act.
(b) The tour of duty of an employee covered by paragraph (a) of this section shall include all time the employee is on duty. Meal periods and sleep periods are included in the tour of duty except as otherwise provided in §§ 551.411(c) and 551.432(b).
(c) Each agency shall establish the “work period” to be used for application of section 7(k) of the Act. The work period shall be at least seven days and not more than 28 days.
(d) A firefighter subject to section 7(k) of the Act who is compensated under part 550, subpart M, of this chapter is deemed to be appropriately compensated under section 7(k) of the Act and this part if the requirements of § 550.1304(a) of this chapter are satisfied. (See 5 U.S.C. 5545b(d)(2).)
[45 FR 85665, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 59280, Dec. 15, 1992; 63 FR 64595, Nov. 23, 1998; 64 FR 69181, Dec. 10, 1999; 72 FR 52773, Sept. 17, 2007]

# Subpart F—Child Labor

# Source:
62 FR 67251, Dec. 23, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 551.601
Minimum age standards.
(a)
16-year minimum age.
The Act, in section 3(l), sets a general 16-year minimum age, which applies to all employment subject to its child labor provisions, with certain exceptions not applicable here.
(b)
18-year minimum age.
The Act, in section 3(l), also sets an 18-year minimum age with respect to employment in any occupation found and declared by the Secretary of Labor to be particularly hazardous for the employment of minors of such age or detrimental to their health or well-being.
(c) All work in fire suppression is deemed hazardous for the employment of individuals under 18 years of age. All work in fire protection and prevention is particularly hazardous for the employment of individuals between 16 and 18 years of age, except the following:
(1) Work in offices or in repair or maintenance shops without exposure to hazardous materials;
(2) Work in the construction, operation, repair, or maintenance of living and administrative quarters in firefighting camps without exposure to hazardous materials;
(3) Work in forest protection, such as clearing fire trails or roads, piling and burning slash, maintaining firefighting equipment, or acting as fire lookout or fire patrolman away from the actual logging operations, provided that this provision shall not apply to the felling or bucking of timber, the collecting or transporting of logs, the operation of power-driven machinery, the handling or use of explosives, and work on trestles;
(4) Work in the clean-up service outside of a structure after a fire has been declared by the fire official in charge to be under control; and
(5) Work assisting in the administration of first aid.
[62 FR 67251, Dec. 23, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 52773, Sept. 17, 2007]
§ 551.602
Responsibilities.
(a)
Agencies
must remain cognizant of and abide by regulations and orders published in part 570 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, by the Secretary of Labor regarding the employment of individuals under the age of 18 years. These regulations and orders govern the minimum age at which persons under the age of 18 years may be employed and the occupations in which they may be employed. Persons under the age of 18 years must not be employed in occupations or engage in work deemed hazardous by the Secretary of Labor.
(b)
OPM
will decide complaints concerning the employment of persons under the age of 18 years. Complaints must be filed following the procedures set forth in subpart G of this part.

# Subpart G—FLSA Claims and Compliance

# Source:
72 FR 52774, Sept. 17, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 551.701
Applicability.
(a)
Applicable.
This subpart applies to
FLSA exemption status determination claims,
FLSA pay claims for minimum wage or overtime pay for work performed under the Act, and complaints arising under the child labor provisions of the Act.
(b)
Not applicable.
This subpart does not apply to claims or complaints arising under the equal pay provisions of the Act. The equal pay provisions of the Act are administered by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
§ 551.702
Time limits.
(a)
Claims.
A claimant may at any time file a complaint under the child labor provisions of the Act or an FLSA
claim challenging the correctness of his or her FLSA exemption status determination. A claimant may also file an FLSA claim concerning his or her entitlement to minimum wage or overtime pay for work performed under the Act; however, time limits apply to FLSA pay claims. All FLSA pay claims filed on or after June 30, 1994, are subject to a 2-year statute of limitations (3 years for willful violations).
(b)
Statute of limitations.
An FLSA pay claim filed on or after June 30, 1994, is subject to the statute of limitations contained in the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947, as amended (section 255a of title 29, United States Code), which imposes a 2-year statute of limitations, except in cases of a willful violation where the statute of limitations is 3 years. In deciding a claim, a determination must be made as to whether the cause or basis of the claim was the result of a willful violation on the part of the agency.
(c)
Preserving the claim period.
A claimant or a claimant's designated representative may preserve the claim period by submitting a written claim either to the agency employing the claimant during the claim period or to OPM. The date the agency or OPM receives the claim is the date that determines the period of possible entitlement to back pay. The claimant is responsible for proving when the claim was received by the agency or OPM and for retaining documentation to establish when the claim was received by the agency or OPM, such as by filing the claim using certified, return receipt mail, or by requesting that the agency or OPM provide written acknowledgment of receipt of the claim. If a claim for back pay is established, the claimant will be entitled to pay for a period of up to 2 years (3 years for a willful violation) back from the date the claim was received.
§ 551.703
Avenues of review.
(a)
Negotiated grievance procedure (NGP) as exclusive administrative remedy.
If at any time during the claim period, a claimant was a member of a bargaining unit covered by a collective bargaining agreement that did not specifically exclude matters under the Act from the scope of the NGP, the claimant must use that NGP as the exclusive administrative remedy for all claims under the Act. There is no right to further administrative review by the agency or by OPM. The remaining sections in this subpart (that is, §§ 551.704 through 551.710) do not apply to such employees.
(b)
Non-NGP administrative review by agency or OPM.
A claimant may file a claim with the agency employing the claimant during the claim period or with OPM, but not both simultaneously, regarding matters arising under the Act if, during the entire claim period, the claimant:
(1) Was not a member of a bargaining unit, or
(2) Was a member of a bargaining unit not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, or
(3) Was a member of a bargaining unit covered by a collective bargaining agreement that specifically excluded matters under the Act from the scope of the NGP.
(c)
Judicial review.
Nothing in this subpart limits the right of a claimant to bring an action in an appropriate United States court. Filing a claim with an agency or with OPM does not satisfy the statute of limitations governing FLSA claims filed in court. OPM will not decide an FLSA claim that is in litigation.
§ 551.704
Claimant's representative.
A claimant may designate a representative to assist in preparing or presenting a claim. The claimant must designate the representative in writing. A representative may not participate in OPM interviews unless specifically requested to do so by OPM. An agency may disallow a claimant's representative who is a Federal employee in any of the following circumstances:
(a) When the individual's activities as a representative would cause a conflict of interest or position;
(b) When the designated representative cannot be released from his or her official duties because of the priority needs of the Government; or
(c) When the release of the designated representative would give rise to unreasonable costs to the Government.
§ 551.705
Filing an FLSA claim.
(a)
Filing an FLSA claim.
A claimant may file an FLSA claim with either the agency employing the claimant during the claim period or with OPM, but a claimant cannot pursue the same claim with both at the same time. OPM encourages a claimant to obtain a decision on the claim from the agency before filing the claim with OPM. However, this is a matter of personal discretion and a claimant is not required to do this; a claimant may use either avenue. A claimant who receives an unfavorable decision on a claim from the agency may still file the claim with OPM. However, a claimant may not file the claim with the agency after receiving an unfavorable decision from OPM. An OPM decision on a claim is final and is not subject to further administrative review.
(b)
FLSA claim filed with agency.
An FLSA claim filed with an agency should be made according to appropriate agency procedures. At the request of the claimant, the agency may forward the claim to OPM on the claimant's behalf. The claimant is responsible for ensuring that OPM receives all the information requested in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
FLSA claim filed with OPM.
An FLSA claim filed with OPM must be made in writing and must be signed by the claimant or the claimant's representative. Relevant information may be submitted to OPM at any time following the initial submission of a claim to OPM and prior to OPM's decision on the claim. The claim must include the following:
(1) The identity of the claimant (see § 551.706(a)(2) regarding requesting confidentiality) and any designated representative, the agency employing the claimant during the claim period, the position (job title, series, and grade, or equivalent level) occupied by the claimant during the claim period, and the current mailing address, commercial telephone number, and facsimile machine number, if available, of the claimant and any designated representative;
(2) A description of the nature of the claim and the specific issues or incidents giving rise to the claim, including the time period covered by the claim;
(3) A description of actions taken by the claimant to resolve the claim within the agency and the results of any actions taken;
(4) A copy of any relevant decision or written response by the agency;
(5) Evidence available to the claimant or the claimant's designated representative which supports the claim, including the identity, commercial telephone number, and location of other individuals who may be able to provide information relating to the claim;
(6) The remedy sought by the claimant;
(7) Evidence, if available, that the claim period was preserved in accordance with § 551.702. The date the claim is received by the agency or OPM becomes the date on which the claim period is preserved;
(8) A statement from the claimant that he or she was or was not a member of a collective bargaining unit at any time during the claim period;
(9) If the claimant was a member of a bargaining unit, a statement from the claimant that he or she was or was not covered by a negotiated grievance procedure at any time during the claim period, and if covered, whether that procedure specifically excluded the claim from the scope of the negotiated grievance procedure;
(10) A statement from the claimant that he or she has or has not filed an action in an appropriate United States court; and
(11) Any other information that the claimant believes OPM should consider.
§ 551.706
Responsibilities.
(a)
Claimant
—(1)
Providing information to OPM.
For all FLSA claims, the claimant or claimant's designated representative must provide any additional information requested by OPM within 15 workdays after the date of the request, unless the claimant or the claimant's representative requests additional time and OPM grants a longer period of time in which to provide the requested information. The disclosure of information by a claimant is voluntary. However, OPM may be unable
to render a decision on a claim without the information requested. In such a case, the claim will be cancelled without further action being taken by OPM. In the case of an FLSA pay claim, it is the claimant's responsibility to provide evidence that the claim period was preserved in accordance with § 551.702 and of the liability of the agency and the claimant's right to payment.
(2)
Requesting confidentiality.
If the claimant wishes the claim to be treated confidentially, the claim must specifically request that the identity of the claimant not be revealed to the agency. Witnesses or other sources may also request confidentiality. OPM will make every effort to conduct its investigation in a way to maintain confidentiality. If OPM is unable to obtain sufficient information to render a decision and preserve the requested confidentiality, OPM will notify the claimant that the claim will be cancelled with no further action by OPM unless the claimant voluntarily provides written authorization for his or her name to be revealed.
(b)
Agency.
(1) In
FLSA exemption status determination claims,
the burden of proof rests with the agency that asserts the FLSA exemption.
(2) The agency must provide the claimant with a written acknowledgment of the date the claim was received.
(3) Upon a claimant's request, and subject to any Privacy Act requirements, an agency must provide a claimant with information relevant to the claim.
(4) The agency must provide any information requested by OPM within 15 workdays after the date of the request, unless the agency requests additional time and OPM grants a longer period of time in which to provide the requested information.
§ 551.707
Withdrawal or cancellation of an FLSA claim.
(a)
Withdrawal.
OPM may grant a request from the claimant or claimant's representative to withdraw an FLSA claim at any time before OPM issues its decision. The claimant or the claimant's representative must submit the request in writing to OPM.
(b)
Cancellation.
OPM may, at its discretion, cancel an FLSA claim if the claimant or the claimant's representative fails to provide requested information within 15 workdays after the date of the request, unless the claimant or the claimant's representative requests additional time and OPM grants a longer period of time in which to provide the requested information. OPM may, at its discretion, reconsider a cancelled claim on a showing that circumstances beyond the claimant's control prevented pursuit of the claim.
§ 551.708
Finality and effect of OPM FLSA claim decision.
(a) OPM will send an FLSA claim decision to the claimant or the claimant's representative and the agency. An FLSA claim decision made by OPM is final. There is no further right of administrative appeal. However, at its discretion, OPM may reconsider its FLSA claim decision when material information was not considered or there was a material error of law, regulation, or fact in the original decision. The request must be submitted in writing and received by OPM within 45 calendar days after the date of the decision. At its unreviewable discretion, OPM may waive the time limit.
(b) A decision by OPM under the Act is binding on all administrative, certifying, payroll, disbursing, and accounting officials of agencies for which OPM administers the Act.
(c)(1) Upon receipt of a decision, the agency employing the claimant during the claim period must take all necessary steps to comply with the decision, including adherence to compliance instructions provided with the decision. All compliance actions must be completed within the time specified in the decision, unless an extension of time is requested by the agency and granted by OPM.
(2) The agency should identify all similarly situated current and former employees to ensure that they are treated in a manner consistent with the decision on FLSA coverage, informing them in writing of their right to file an FLSA claim with the agency or OPM.
§ 551.709
Availability of information.
(a) Except when the claimant has requested confidentiality, the agency and the claimant must provide to each other a copy of all information submitted with respect to the claim.
(b) When a claimant has not requested confidentiality, OPM will disclose to the parties concerned the information contained in an FLSA claim file. When a claimant has requested confidentiality, OPM will delete any information identifying the claimant before disclosing the information in an FLSA claim file to the parties concerned. For the purposes of this subpart, “the parties concerned” means the claimant, any representative designated in writing, and any representative of the agency or OPM involved in the proceeding.
(c) Except when the claimant has requested confidentiality or the disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, OPM, upon a request which identifies the individual from whose file the information is sought, will disclose the following information from a claim file to a member of the public:
(1) Confirmation of the name of the individual from whose file the information is sought and the names of the other parties concerned;
(2) The remedy sought;
(3) The status of the claim;
(4) The decision on the claim; and
(5) With the consent of the parties concerned, other reasonably identified information from the file.
§ 551.710
Where to file an FLSA claim with OPM.
An FLSA claim must be filed with the OPM Classification Appeals and FLSA Program, 1900 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20415-0001.
Pt. 553

# PART 553—REEMPLOYMENT OF CIVILIAN RETIREES TO MEET EXCEPTIONAL EMPLOYMENT NEEDS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
553.101
Applicability.
553.102
Definitions.
553.103
General policy.

# Subpart B—Special Provisions for Reemployment Without Penalty To Meet Exceptional Recruiting or Retention Needs
553.201
Requesting OPM approval for reemployment without reduction or termination of annuity in individual cases.
553.202
Request for delegation of authority to approve reemployment without reduction or termination of annuity in emergencies or other unusual circumstances.
553.203
Status of individuals serving without reduction.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8344, 8468, Sec. 651, Pub. L. 106-65 (113 STAT. 664).

# Source:
56 FR 6206, Feb. 14, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 553.101
Applicability.
This part applies to employment of civilian annuitants who would be subject to termination of annuity or annuity offset under 5 U.S.C. 8344 or 5 U.S.C. 8468. Agencies may request exceptions as provided in subpart B of this part from the reemployed annuitant provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8344 (for Civil Service Retirement System annuitants) or 8468 (for Federal Employees' Retirement System annuitants), as appropriate.
[65 FR 19644, Apr. 12, 2000]
§ 553.102
Definitions.
(a)
Agency,
as used in this part, means an executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.
(b)
Annuitant,
as used in this part, refers to a current or former civilian employee who is receiving, or meets the legal requirements and is applying or has announced intention to apply for, an annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, based on his or her service.
(c) Retiree, as used in this part refers to an annuitant as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
[56 FR 6206, Feb. 14, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 19644, Apr. 12, 2000]
§ 553.103
General policy.
(a)
Agency discretion and responsibility.
The decision to request an exception,
or to grant an exception under delegated authority, for any individual under any of the provisions of this part will be at the discretion of the employing agency. A determination made in connection with one position does not require a like determination in connection with any other position. In deciding whether to request an exception or grant an exception under delegated authority, each agency is expected to weigh fiscal responsibility and employee equity and should consider such factors as availability of funds as well as the criteria set out in this part.
(b)
Application of exceptions.
An exception to the salary offset provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8344 or 8468 authorized by OPM or an agency under this part applies only to the particular individual for whom it was authorized and only while that individual continues to serve in the same or a successor position. The exception terminates upon the individual's assignment to a different position unless a new exception is authorized under the provisions of this part.
[56 FR 6206, Feb. 14, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 19644, Apr. 12, 2000]

# Subpart B—Special Provisions for Reemployment Without Penalty To Meet Exceptional Recruiting or Retention Needs
§ 553.201
Requesting OPM approval for reemployment without reduction or termination of annuity in individual cases.
(a)
Request by agency head.
The head of an agency may request OPM to approve individual exceptions on a case-by-case basis to meet temporary hiring needs based on an emergency or other unusual circumstances or when the agency has encountered exceptional difficulty in recruiting or retaining a qualified candidate for a particular position. Authority to submit such a request may not be redelegated to an official below the agency's headquarters level.
(b)
Requirements for all requests.
(1) Each request must identify the individual for whom the exception is requested, the appointing authority to be used, and the position to which he or she will be appointed.
(2) The request must be submitted in accordance with the criteria set out in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section.
(3) Unless the request is submitted in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, the individual must be off the agency's rolls before submission.
(c)
Requests based on an emergency hiring need.
An agency may request reemployment without penalty for an individual whose services are needed on a temporary basis to respond to an emergency involving a direct threat to life or property. Requests submitted on that basis must meet the following criteria:
(1)
Nature of emergency.
Describe the military threat, natural disaster, or other unforeseen occurrence, the date it occurred, and the expected duration of the emergency response effort.
(2)
Need for the individual's services.
The agency must show either that the individual is uniquely qualified for the emergency response work to be done or that the number of positions to be filled and/or urgency of response justifies making the particular appointment without further delay. OPM will not approve reemployment without penalty under 5 U.S.C. 8344, or 8468 solely to meet normal seasonal workload fluctuations.
(d)
Requests based on severe recruiting difficulty.
Generally, requests for exception will be based on exceptional difficulty in recruiting a qualified candidate for a particular position. Requests submitted on this basis must include a description of the length, breadth, and results of the agency's recruiting efforts for the position and any other factors demonstrating that a legitimate recruiting need cannot be met without the requested waiver. These factors may include, but are not limited to, unusual qualification requirements or working conditions, possibility of job reengineering or contracting, or a need to fill the position without further delay.
(e)
Exceptions based on need to retain a particular individual.
In very rare cases, an exception may be appropriate when an agency needs to retain the services of a particular individual who is uniquely qualified for an ongoing
project. Requests submitted on this basis must meet the following criteria:
(1)
Critical nature of project.
The agency must describe the importance of the project to the agency's mission, the potential costs of project failure or delay, legislative or Presidential deadlines, if any, and any other factors demonstrating that the project is unusually critical. Exceptions will not be approved under this paragraph merely to avoid delay in scheduled completion of ongoing work.
(2)
Candidate's unique qualifications.
The agency must describe the knowledges, skills, and abilities possessed by the individual that are essential for successful completion of the project and that could not be acquired by another appointee within a reasonable time.
(3)
Need for retention.
The agency must show good cause to believe that the employee will retire (or, in the case of an individual currently reemployed without an exception, will resign from that position) and that the agency will lose his or her services if the exception is not granted.
(4)
Other staffing options.
While an agency in this situation is not required to conduct outside recruiting, the request for exception must address why the work could not be assigned to other employees involved with the same project.
(f)
Requests based on other unusual circumstances.
An agency may request reemployment without penalty for an individual whose services are needed on a temporary basis due to other unusual circumstances. Agencies must provide justification describing the unusual circumstances.
(g)
Length of exceptions.
OPM may specify a time limit for reemployment without penalty of any individual approved under this subpart. If the agency wishes to continue the exception for an individual beyond the specified time, the request for renewal must demonstrate that the conditions justifying the initial exception still exist.
[56 FR 6206, Feb. 14, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 12406, Apr. 10, 1992; 65 FR 19644, Apr. 12, 2000; 72 FR 53412, Sept. 19, 2007]
§ 553.202
Request for delegation of authority to approve reemployment without reduction or termination of annuity in emergencies or other unusual circumstances.
(a)
Request by agency head.
The head of an agency may request OPM to delegate to the agency authority to approve individual exceptions on a case-by-case basis in specific circumstances. Authority to submit such a request may not be redelegated to an official below the agency's headquarters level (or, in the case of the Department of Defense, to an official below the headquarters level of the military department or Defense agency).
(b)
Content of request.
The request for delegation must include:
(1) Description of the situations for which authority is requested. The situation must result from emergencies posing immediate and direct threat to life or property or from other unusual circumstances.
(2) Identification of the occupations, grades, and locations of positions that might be filled under the delegated authority.
(3) Statement of the expected duration of the reemployment to be approved under the requested authority.
(c)
Delegation agreement.
OPM will set out the conditions for use of each authority that it delegates under the provisions of this section in a delegation agreement. The agreement will remain in effect without time limit unless OPM specifies a termination date in the agreement, or unless OPM withdraws the delegated authority upon finding that the circumstances justifying the delegation have changed substantially or that the agency has failed to manage the authority in accordance with the law, the regulations, and the agreement itself.
[56 FR 6206, Feb. 14, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 12406, Apr. 10, 1992; 72 FR 53412, Sept. 19, 2007]
§ 553.203
Status of individuals serving without reduction.
Annuitants reemployed with full salary and annuity under an exception granted in accordance with this part are not considered employees for purposes of subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States
Code. They may not elect to have retirement contributions withheld from their pay; they may not use any employment for which an exception is granted as a basis for a supplemental or recomputed annuity; and they may not participate in the Thrift Savings Plan.
[72 FR 53413, Sept. 19, 2007]
Pt. 572

# PART 572—TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES; NEW APPOINTEES AND INTERVIEWS
Sec.
572.101
Agency authority.
572.102
Agency discretion.
572.103
Recordkeeping.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5706b and 5723.

# Source:
56 FR 6204, Feb. 14, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 572.101
Agency authority.
(a) An agency may determine which positions qualify for the payment of a new appointee's travel expenses to the first post of duty. Payment of travel and transportation expenses will be in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR) (41 CFR chapters 301-304).
(b) An agency may determine which interviewees are eligible for payment of pre-employment interview travel expenses. Payment of these travel expenses will be in accordance with the FTR.
[56 FR 28307, June 20, 1991]
§ 572.102
Agency discretion.
Payment of travel expenses for any individual candidate or appointee will be at the discretion of the employing agency. A decision by one agency that payment is appropriate for a particular position does not require a like determination by any other agency filling similar positions. A decision made in connection with one specific vacancy does not require a like decision in connection with future vacancies. In deciding to pay travel and transportation or interview expenses in filling any position, the agency should consider such factors as availability of funds as well as the desirability of conducting interviews for a particular job or offering a recruiting incentive to a particular candidate.
§ 572.103
Recordkeeping.
Each agency will maintain records of payments made under this authority and will make those records available to OPM on request.
Pt. 575

# PART 575—RECRUITMENT, RELOCATION, AND RETENTION INCENTIVES; SUPERVISORY DIFFERENTIALS; AND EXTENDED ASSIGNMENT INCENTIVES

# Subpart A—Recruitment Incentives
Sec.
575.101
Purpose.
575.102
Definitions.
575.103
Eligible categories of employees.
575.104
Ineligible categories of employees.
575.105
Applicability to employees.
575.106
Authorizing a recruitment incentive.
575.107
Agency recruitment incentive plan and approval levels.
575.108
Approval criteria and written determination.
575.109
Payment of recruitment incentives.
575.110
Service agreement requirements.
575.111
Termination of a service agreement.
575.112
Internal monitoring requirements and revocation or suspension of authority.
575.113
Records and reports.

# Subpart B—Relocation Incentives
575.201
Purpose.
575.202
Definitions.
575.203
Eligible categories of employees.
575.204
Ineligible categories of employees.
575.205
Applicability to employees.
575.206
Authorizing a relocation incentive.
575.207
Agency relocation incentive plan and approval levels.
575.208
Approval criteria and written determination.
575.209
Payment of relocation incentives.
575.210
Service agreement requirements.
575.211
Termination of a service agreement.
575.212
Internal monitoring requirements and revocation or suspension of authority.
575.213
Records and reports.

# Subpart C—Retention Incentives
575.301
Purpose.
575.302
Definitions.
575.303
Eligible categories of employees.
575.304
Ineligible categories of employees.
575.305
Applicability to employees.
575.306
Authorizing a retention incentive.
575.307
Agency retention incentive plan and approval levels.
575.308
Approval criteria and written determination.
575.309
Payment of retention incentives.
575.310
Service agreement requirements.
575.311
Continuation, reduction, and termination of retention incentives.
575.312
Internal monitoring requirements and revocation or suspension of authority.
575.313
Records and reports.
575.314
Retention incentives for employees likely to leave for a different position in the Federal service.

# Subpart D—Supervisory Differentials
575.401
Purpose.
575.402
Delegation of authority.
575.403
Definitions.
575.404
Use of authority.
575.405
Calculation and payment of supervisory differential.
575.406
Adjustment or termination of supervisory differential.
575.407
Records.

# Subpart E—Extended Assignment Incentives
575.501
Purpose.
575.502
Definitions.
575.503
Who may approve the payment of an extended assignment incentive?
575.504
What requirements must an agency satisfy before authorizing the payment of an extended assignment incentive?
575.505
What criteria must an agency use to determine who will receive an extended assignment incentive?
575.506
When is an agency prohibited from paying an extended assignment incentive?
575.507
What is the maximum extended assignment incentive that may be paid for a period of service?
575.508
What is the maximum amount of service that may be covered by an extended assignment incentive?
575.509
Is an extended assignment incentive considered basic pay for any purpose?
575.510
What requirements are associated with service agreements?
575.511
What happens when an employee is involuntarily separated or involuntarily reassigned prior to completion of the service period?
575.512
When may an agency terminate a service agreement?
575.513
What are the agency's and the employee's obligations when an employee fails to fulfill the terms of a service agreement?
575.514
What are an agency's monitoring responsibilities?
575.515
What records and reports are required?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 1104(a)(2) and 5307; subparts A and B also issued under 5 U.S.C. 5753; subpart C also issued under 5 U.S.C. 5754; subpart D also issued under 5 U.S.C. 5755; subpart E also issued under 5 U.S.C. 5757 and sec. 207 of Public Law 107-273, 116 Stat. 1780.

# Source:
56 FR 12838, Mar. 28, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Recruitment Incentives

# Source:
70 FR 25740, May 13, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 575.101
Purpose.
This subpart contains regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5753, which authorizes payment of recruitment incentives. An agency may pay a recruitment incentive to a newly appointed employee under the conditions specified in this subpart provided the agency has determined that the employee's position is likely to be difficult to fill in the absence of an incentive.
§ 575.102
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
means an executive agency or a legislative branch agency included in 5 U.S.C. 5102(a)(1).
Authorized agency official
means the head of an agency or an official who is authorized to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Competencies
means the knowledge, skills, abilities, behaviors, and other characteristics an individual needs to perform the duties of a position.
Employee
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105, except that the term also includes an employee described in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c). For the purpose of determining whether an individual was an employee of the Federal Government during the 90-day period referred to in the definition of
newly appointed, employee
also includes an employee described in 5 U.S.C. 2105(e). For the purpose of § 575.109(d), an
employee
means an individual not yet employed who has received a written offer to be newly appointed or reappointed and has signed the written service agreement required by § 575.110 before payment of the recruitment incentive.
Executive agency
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 105.
Federal Government
means all entities of the Government of the United States, including the United States Postal Service and the Postal Regulatory Commission.
Newly appointed
refers to—
(1) The first appointment, regardless of tenure, as an employee of the Federal Government;
(2) An appointment of a former employee of the Federal Government following a break in Federal Government service of at least 90 days; or
(3) An appointment of an individual in the Federal Government when his or her service in the Federal Government during the 90-day period immediately preceding the appointment was not in a position excluded by § 575.104 and was limited to one or more of the following:
(i) A time-limited appointment in the competitive or excepted service;
(ii) A non-permanent appointment in the competitive or excepted service;
(iii) Employment with the government of the District of Columbia (DC) when the candidate was first appointed by the DC government on or after October 1, 1987;
(iv) An appointment as an expert or consultant under 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 5 CFR part 304;
(v) Employment under a provisional appointment designated under 5 CFR 316.403;
(vi) Employment under an Internship Program appointment under § 213.3402(a) of this chapter; or
(vii) Employment as a Senior Executive Service limited term appointee or limited emergency appointee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(5) and (a)(6), respectively).
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position to which an employee is or will be appointed before deductions and including any special rate under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C, or similar payment under other legal authority, and any locality-based comparability payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F, or similar payment under other legal authority, but excluding additional pay of any other kind. For example, a
rate of basic pay
does not include additional pay such as night shift differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f) or environmental differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(c)(4).
Service agreement
means a written agreement between an agency and an employee under which the employee agrees to a specified period of employment of not less than 6 months or more than 4 years with the agency in return for payment of a recruitment incentive.
[70 FR 25740, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67837, Dec. 3, 2007; 77 FR 28223, May 11, 2012; 78 FR 49363, Aug. 14, 2013 ]
§ 575.103
Eligible categories of employees.
(a) Except as provided in § 575.104, an Executive agency may pay a recruitment incentive to an employee appointed or placed in the following categories of positions:
(1) A General Schedule position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5332 or 5305 (or similar special rate authority);
(2) A senior-level or scientific or professional position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5376;
(3) A Senior Executive Service position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5383 or a Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration Senior Executive Service position paid under 5 U.S.C. 3151;
(4) A position as a law enforcement officer, as defined in 5 CFR 550.103;
(5) A position under the Executive Schedule paid under 5 U.S.C. 5311-5317 or a position the rate of pay for which is fixed by law at a rate equal to a rate for the Executive Schedule;
(6) A prevailing rate position, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5342(a)(3); or
(7) Any other position in a category for which payment of recruitment incentives has been approved by OPM at the request of the head of an executive agency.
(b) Except as provided in § 575.104, a legislative agency may pay a recruitment incentive to an employee appointed or placed in a General Schedule position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5332 or 5305 (or similar special rate authority).
[70 FR 25740, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67837, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.104
Ineligible categories of employees.
An agency may not pay a recruitment incentive to an employee in—
(a) A position to which an individual is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate;
(b) A position in the Senior Executive Service as a noncareer appointee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(7));
(c) A position excepted from the competitive service by reason of its confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character; or
(d) A position not otherwise covered by the exclusions in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section—
(1) To which an individual is appointed by the President without the advice and consent of the Senate, except a Senior Executive Service position in which the individual serves as a career appointee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(4));
(2) Designated as the head of an agency, including an agency headed by a collegial body composed of two or more individual members;
(3) In which the employee is expected to receive an appointment as the head of an agency; or
(4) To which an individual is appointed as a Senior Executive Service limited term appointee or limited emergency appointee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(5) and (a)(6), respectively) when the appointment must be cleared through the White House Office of Presidential Personnel.
[70 FR 25740, May 13, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 49363, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.105
Applicability to employees.
(a) A recruitment incentive may be paid under the conditions prescribed in this subpart to an employee who is newly appointed to a position listed in § 575.103 that is likely to be difficult to fill, as determined under § 575.106.
(b)(1) An agency may target groups of similar positions (excluding positions covered by § 575.103(a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(5) or those in similar categories approved by OPM under § 575.103(a)(7)) that have been difficult to fill in the past or that may be difficult to fill in the future and make the required determination to offer a recruitment incentive to newly-appointed employees on a group basis.
(2) An agency must define a targeted category of positions using factors that relate to the conditions described in § 575.106(b). Factors that may be appropriate include the following: occupational series, grade level, distinctive job duties, unique competencies required for the positions, and geographic location.
(3) An agency must review each decision to target a group of similar positions for the purpose of granting a recruitment incentive at least annually to determine whether the positions are still likely to be difficult to fill. An authorized agency official must certify this determination in writing. If an agency determines the positions are no longer likely to be difficult to fill, the agency may not offer a recruitment incentive to newly-appointed employees in that group on a group basis.
(c) An agency may not commence a recruitment incentive service agreement during—
(1) A period of employment established under any service agreement required for a relocation incentive under 5 CFR part 575, subpart B, or
(2) A period of employment established under any service agreement required for a retention incentive or for which an employee receives retention incentive payments without a service agreement under 5 CFR part 575, subpart C.
[70 FR 25740, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67838, Dec. 3, 2007; 78 FR 49363, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.106
Authorizing a recruitment incentive.
(a)
Authority of authorized agency official.
An authorized agency official retains sole and exclusive discretion, subject only to OPM review and oversight, to—
(1) Determine when a position is likely to be difficult to fill under paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Approve a recruitment incentive for an employee under § 575.105;
(3) Establish the criteria for determining the amount of a recruitment incentive and the length of a service
period under §§ 575.109(a) and 575.110(a), respectively;
(4) Request a waiver from OPM of the limitation on the maximum amount of a recruitment incentive under § 575.109(c); and
(5) Establish the criteria for terminating a service agreement under § 575.111.
(b)
Factors for determining when a position is likely to be difficult to fill.
An agency in its sole and exclusive discretion, subject only to OPM review and oversight, may determine that a position is likely to be difficult to fill if the agency is likely to have difficulty recruiting candidates with the competencies required for the position (or group of positions) in the absence of a recruitment incentive. An agency must consider the following factors, as applicable to the case at hand, in determining whether a position (or group of positions) is likely to be difficult to fill in the absence of a recruitment incentive and in documenting this determination as required by § 575.108:
(1) The availability and quality of candidates possessing the competencies required for the position, including the success of recent efforts to recruit candidates for the position or similar positions using indicators such as offer acceptance rates, proportion of positions filled, and the length of time required to fill similar positions;
(2) The salaries typically paid outside the Federal Government for similar positions;
(3) Recent turnover in similar positions;
(4) Employment trends and labor-market factors that may affect the agency's ability to recruit candidates for similar positions;
(5) Special or unique competencies required for the position;
(6) Agency efforts to use non-pay authorities, such as special training and work scheduling flexibilities, to resolve difficulties alone or in combination with a recruitment incentive;
(7) The desirability of the duties, work or organizational environment, or geographic location of the position; and
(8) Other supporting factors.
(c) An agency may determine that a position (or group of positions) is likely to be difficult to fill if OPM has approved the use of a direct-hire authority applicable to the position (or group of positions) under 5 CFR part 337, subpart B.
[70 FR 25740, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67838, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.107
Agency recruitment incentive plan and approval levels.
(a) Before paying recruitment incentives under this subpart, an agency must establish a recruitment incentive plan. The plan must include the following elements:
(1) The designation of officials with authority to review and approve payment of recruitment incentives (subject to paragraph (b) of this section), including the circumstances under which an official has the authority to approve payment without higher-level approval under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the designation of officials with authority to waive the repayment of a recruitment incentive under § 575.111(h);
(2) The categories of employees who are prohibited from receiving recruitment incentives;
(3) Required documentation for determining that a position is likely to be difficult to fill;
(4) Any requirements for determining the amount of a recruitment incentive;
(5) The payment methods that may be authorized;
(6) Requirements governing service agreements, which, at a minimum, must include—
(i) The criteria for determining the length of a service period;
(ii) The conditions for terminating a service agreement; and
(iii) The obligations of the agency and the employee, as applicable, if an agency terminates a service agreement; and
(7) Documentation and recordkeeping requirements sufficient to allow reconstruction of the action and to fulfill the requirements of §§ 575.112 and 575.113.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an authorized agency official who is at least one
level higher than the employee's supervisor must review and approve each determination to pay a recruitment incentive to a newly appointed employee, unless there is no official at a higher level in the agency. The authorized agency official must review and approve the recruitment incentive determination before the agency may pay the incentive to the employee.
(2) When necessary to make a timely offer of employment, an authorized agency official may establish criteria in advance for offering recruitment incentives to newly-appointed employees and may authorize an official who is not lower than a candidate's supervisor to use these criteria to offer a recruitment incentive (in any amount within a pre-established range) to a candidate without further review or approval.
(c) Unless the head of the agency determines otherwise, an agency recruitment incentive plan must apply uniformly across the agency.
[70 FR 25740, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67838, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.108
Approval criteria and written determination.
(a) For each determination to pay a recruitment incentive under this subpart, an agency must document in writing—
(1) The basis for determining that a position is likely to be difficult to fill, as determined under § 575.106;
(2) The basis for authorizing a recruitment incentive; and
(3) The basis for the amount and timing of the approved recruitment incentive payment and the length of the required service period.
(b) An agency must make the determination to pay a recruitment incentive before the prospective employee enters on duty in the position for which recruited.
§ 575.109
Payment of recruitment incentives.
(a) An authorized agency official must establish the criteria for determining the amount of a recruitment incentive. An agency may pay a recruitment incentive-(1) As an initial lump-sum payment at the commencement of the service period required by the service agreement or before the start of the service period, as authorized by paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) In installments throughout the service period required by the service agreement;
(3) As a final lump-sum payment upon the completion of the full service period required by the service agreement; or
(4) In a combination of these payment methods.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the total amount of recruitment incentive payments paid to an employee in a service period may not exceed 25 percent of the annual rate of basic pay of the employee at the beginning of the service period multiplied by the number of years (including fractions of a year) in the service period (not to exceed 4 years).
(2) For hourly rate employees who do not have a scheduled annual rate of basic pay, compute the annual rate required for paragraph (b)(1) of this section by multiplying the applicable hourly rate in effect at the beginning of the service period by 2,087 hours.
(3) For the purpose of determining the number of years in a service period under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, divide the total number of calendar days in the service period by 365 and round the result to two decimal places. For example, a service period covering 39 biweekly pay periods equals 546 days, and 546 days divided by 365 days equals 1.50 years.
(c)(1) An authorized agency official may request that OPM waive the limitation in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for an employee or group of employees based on a critical agency need. The authorized agency official must determine that the competencies required for the position(s) are critical to the successful accomplishment of an important agency mission, project, or initiative (e.g., programs or projects related to a national emergency or implementing a new law or critical management initiative). Under such a waiver, the total amount of recruitment incentive payments paid to an employee in a service period may not exceed 50 percent of the employee's annual rate of basic pay at the beginning of the
service period multiplied by the number of years (including fractions of a year) in the service period. However, in no event may a waiver provide total recruitment incentive payments exceeding 100 percent of the employee's annual rate of basic pay at the beginning of the service period.
(2) Waiver requests must include—
(i) A description of the critical agency need the proposed recruitment incentive would address;
(ii) The documentation required by § 575.108;
(iii) The proposed recruitment incentive payment amount and a justification for that amount;
(iv) The timing and method of making the recruitment incentive payments;
(v) The service period required; and
(vi) Any other information pertinent to the case at hand.
(d) An agency may pay a recruitment incentive to an employee who has not yet entered on duty once the employee has signed a service agreement established under § 575.110.
(e) A recruitment incentive is not part of an employee's rate of basic pay for any purpose.
(f) Payment of a recruitment incentive is subject to the aggregate limitation on pay under 5 CFR part 530, subpart B.
[70 FR 25740, May 13, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 49363, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.110
Service agreement requirements.
(a) Before paying a recruitment incentive, an agency must require the employee to sign a written service agreement to complete a specified period of employment with the agency (or successor agency in the event of a transfer of function). An authorized agency official must establish the criteria for determining the length of a service period. The service period may not be less than 6 months and may not exceed 4 years.
(b)(1) The service agreement must include the commencement and termination dates of the required service period. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the required service period must begin upon the commencement of service with the agency. The service period must terminate on the last day of a pay period.
(2) If service with the agency does not begin on the first day of a pay period, the agency must delay the service period commencement date so that a required service period begins on the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after the commencement of service in the agency.
(3) An agency may delay a service agreement commencement date until after the employee completes an initial period of formal training or required probationary period when continued employment in the position is contingent on successful completion of the formal training or probationary period. The agency must make the determination to pay a recruitment incentive before the employee enters on duty in the position. However, the service agreement must specify that if an employee does not successfully complete the training or probationary period before the service period commences, the agency is not obligated to pay any portion of the recruitment incentive to the employee.
(c) The service agreement must specify the total amount of the incentive, the method of paying the incentive, and the timing and amounts of each incentive payment, as established under § 575.109.
(d) The service agreement must include the conditions under which the agency must terminate the service agreement (
i.e.
, if an employee is demoted or separated for cause, receives a rating of record of less than “Fully Successful” or equivalent, or otherwise fails to fulfill the terms of the service agreement) and the conditions under which the employee must repay a recruitment incentive under § 575.111.
(e) The service agreement must include the conditions under which the agency may terminate the service agreement before the employee completes the agreed-upon service period. The service agreement must specify the effect of a termination under § 575.111, including the conditions under which the agency will pay an additional recruitment incentive payment for partially completed service under § 575.111(e) and (f).
(f) The service agreement may include any other terms or conditions that, if violated, will result in termination of the service agreement under § 575.111(b). For example, the service agreement may specify the employee's work schedule, type of position, and the duties he or she is expected to perform. In addition, the service agreement may address the extent to which periods of time on detail, in a nonpay status, or in a paid leave status are creditable towards the completion of the service period.
§ 575.111
Termination of a service agreement.
(a) An authorized agency official may unilaterally terminate a recruitment incentive service agreement based solely on the management needs of the agency. For example, an agency may terminate a service agreement when the employee's position is affected by a reduction in force, when there are insufficient funds to continue the planned incentive payments, or when the agency assigns the employee to a different position (if the different position is not within the terms of the service agreement).
(b) An authorized agency official must terminate a recruitment incentive service agreement if an employee is demoted or separated for cause (
i.e.
, for unacceptable performance or conduct), if the employee receives a rating of record (or an official performance appraisal or evaluation under a system not covered by 5 U.S.C. chapter 43 or 5 CFR part 430) of less than “Fully Successful” or equivalent, or if the employee otherwise fails to fulfill the terms of the service agreement.
(c) The termination of a service agreement is not grievable or appealable.
(d) The agency must notify an employee in writing when it terminates a recruitment incentive service agreement.
(e) If an authorized agency official terminates a service agreement under paragraph (a) of this section, the employee is entitled to all recruitment incentive payments that are attributable to completed service and to retain any portion of a recruitment incentive payment he or she received that is attributable to uncompleted service.
(f) Except as provided in paragraph (j) of this section, if an authorized agency official terminates a service agreement under paragraph (b) of this section, the employee is entitled to retain recruitment incentive payments previously paid by the agency that are attributable to the completed portion of the service period. If the employee received recruitment incentive payments that are less than the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period, the agency is not obligated to pay the employee the amount attributable to completed service, unless the agency agreed to such payment under the terms of the recruitment incentive service agreement. If the employee received recruitment incentive payments in excess of the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period, he or she must repay the excess amount, except when an authorized agency official waives the requirement to repay the excess amount under paragraph (h) of this section.
(g) If an employee fails to reimburse the paying agency for the full amount owed under paragraph (f) of this section, the amount outstanding must be recovered from the employee under the agency's regulations for collection by offset from an indebted Government employee under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, or through the appropriate provisions governing Federal debt collection if the individual is no longer a Federal employee.
(h) If an employee received recruitment incentive payments in excess of the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period under paragraph (f) of this section, an authorized agency official may waive the requirement to repay the excess amount when, in the judgment of the official, collection of the excess amount would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States.
(i) The full amount of the authorized recruitment incentive must be prorated across the length of the service period to determine the amount of the recruitment incentive attributable to
completed service and uncompleted service under this section.
(j) Notwithstanding paragraph (f) of this section, if an agency terminates a service agreement under paragraph (b) of this section when an employee is separated as a result of material false or inaccurate statements or deception or fraud in examination or appointment, or as a result of failing to meet employment qualifications, the employee must repay all recruitment incentive payments received under that service agreement.
[70 FR 25740, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67838, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.112
Internal monitoring requirements and revocation or suspension of authority.
(a) Each agency must monitor the use of recruitment incentives to ensure that its recruitment incentive plan and the payment of recruitment incentives are consistent with the requirements and criteria established under 5 U.S.C. 5753 and this subpart.
(b) When OPM finds that an agency is not paying recruitment incentives consistent with the agency's recruitment incentive plan and the criteria established under 5 U.S.C. 5753 and this subpart or otherwise determines that the agency is not using this authority selectively and judiciously, OPM may—
(1) Direct the agency to revoke or suspend the authority granted to any organizational component in the agency and, with respect to any category or categories of employees, require that the component obtain approval from the agency's headquarters level before paying a recruitment incentive to such employees; or
(2) Revoke or suspend the authority granted to the agency under this subpart for all or any part of the agency and, with respect to any category or categories of employees, require that the agency obtain OPM's approval before paying a recruitment incentive to such employees.
§ 575.113
Records and reports.
Each agency must keep a record of each determination to pay a recruitment incentive and make such records available for review upon OPM's request.
[70 FR 25740, May 13, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 49363, Aug. 14, 2013]

# Subpart B—Relocation Incentives

# Source:
70 FR 25743, May 13, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 575.201
Purpose.
This subpart contains regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5753, which authorizes payment of relocation incentives. An agency may pay a relocation incentive to a current employee who must relocate to accept a position in a different geographic area under the conditions specified in this subpart provided the agency determines that the position is likely to be difficult to fill in the absence of an incentive.
§ 575.202
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
means an executive agency or a legislative branch agency included in 5 U.S.C. 5102(a)(1).
Authorized agency official
means the head of an agency or an official who is authorized to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Competencies
means the knowledge, skills, abilities, behaviors, and other characteristics an employee needs to perform the duties of a position.
Employee
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105, except that the term also includes an employee described in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c). For the purpose of determining whether an individual had status as an employee of the Federal Government immediately prior to the relocation (
i.e.
, in § 575.205(a)(2)),
employee
also includes an employee described in 5 U.S.C. 2105(e).
Executive agency
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 105.
Federal Government
means all entities of the Government of the United States, including the United States Postal Service and the Postal Regulatory Commission.
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position to which the employee is relocated before deductions and including any special rate under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C, or similar payment under other legal authority, and any locality-based comparability payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F, or similar payment under other legal authority, but excluding additional pay of any other kind. For example, a
rate of basic pay
does not include additional pay such as night shift differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f) or environmental differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(c)(4).
Service agreement
means a written agreement between an agency and an employee under which the employee agrees to a specified period of employment of not more than 4 years with the agency at the new duty station to which relocated in return for payment of a relocation incentive.
[70 FR 25743, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67838, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.203
Eligible categories of employees.
(a) Except as provided in § 575.204, an Executive agency may pay a relocation incentive to an employee in the following categories of positions:
(1) A General Schedule position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5332 or 5305 (or similar special rate authority);
(2) A senior-level or scientific or professional position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5376;
(3) A Senior Executive Service position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5383 or a Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration Senior Executive Service position paid under 5 U.S.C. 3151;
(4) A position as a law enforcement officer, as defined in 5 CFR 550.103;
(5) A position under the Executive Schedule paid under 5 U.S.C. 5311-5317 or a position the rate of pay for which is fixed by law at a rate equal to a rate for the Executive Schedule;
(6) A prevailing rate position, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5342(a)(3); or
(7) Any other position in a category for which payment of relocation incentives has been approved by OPM at the request of the head of an executive agency.
(b) Except as provided in § 575.204, a legislative agency may pay a relocation incentive to an employee in a General Schedule position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5332 or 5305 (or similar special rate authority).
[70 FR 25743, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67838, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.204
Ineligible categories of employees.
An agency may not pay a relocation incentive to an employee in—
(a) A position to which an individual is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate;
(b) A position in the Senior Executive Service as a noncareer appointee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(7));
(c) A position excepted from the competitive service by reason of its confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character; or
(d) A position not otherwise covered by the exclusions in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section—
(1) To which an individual is appointed by the President without the advice and consent of the Senate, except a Senior Executive Service position in which the individual serves as a career appointee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(4));
(2) Designated as the head of an agency, including an agency headed by a collegial body composed of two or more individual members;
(3) In which the employee is expected to receive an appointment as the head of an agency; or
(4) To which an individual is appointed as a Senior Executive Service limited term appointee or limited emergency appointee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(5) and (a)(6), respectively) when the appointment must be cleared through the White House Office of Presidential Personnel.
[70 FR 25743, May 13, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 49363, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.205
Applicability to employees.
(a) An agency may pay a relocation incentive under the conditions prescribed in this subpart to an employee who—
(1) Relocates to a different geographic area (permanently or temporarily) to accept a position listed in § 575.203 in an agency when the position is likely to be difficult to fill, as determined under § 575.206; and
(2) Is an employee of the Federal Government immediately before the relocation.
(b) An agency may pay a relocation incentive under paragraph (a) of this section when an employee must relocate to accept a position or assignment in a different geographic area. A position is considered to be in a different geographic area if the worksite of the new position is 50 or more miles from the worksite of the position held immediately before the move. If the worksite of the new position is less than 50 miles from the worksite of the position held immediately before the move, but the employee must relocate (
i.e.
, establish a new residence) to accept the position, an authorized agency official may waive the 50-mile requirement and pay the employee a relocation incentive subject to the requirements of this subpart. In all cases, the employee must establish a residence in the new geographic area before the agency may pay a relocation incentive to the employee. A relocation incentive may be paid only if the employee maintains residency in the new geographic area for the duration of the service agreement.
(c) A relocation incentive may be paid only when the employee's rating of record (or an official performance appraisal or evaluation under a system not covered by 5 U.S.C. chapter 43 or 5 CFR part 430) for the position held immediately before the move is at least “Fully Successful” or equivalent.
(d) An agency may not commence a relocation incentive service agreement during—
(1) A period of employment established under any service agreement required for a recruitment incentive under 5 CFR part 575, subpart A, or
(2) A period of employment established under any service agreement required for a relocation incentive previously authorized under this subpart.
(e) An agency may commence a relocation incentive service agreement during a period of employment established under a service agreement for a previously authorized retention incentive or for which an employee is receiving previously authorized retention incentive payments without a service agreement under 5 CFR part 575, subpart C. The service period under such a relocation incentive service agreement and the service period required by the retention incentive service agreement, if applicable, must be fulfilled concurrently.
[70 FR 25743, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67838, Dec. 3, 2007; 78 FR 49364, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.206
Authorizing a relocation incentive.
(a)
Authority of authorized agency official.
An authorized agency official retains sole and exclusive discretion, subject only to OPM review and oversight, to—
(1) Determine when a position is likely to be difficult to fill under paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Approve a relocation incentive for an employee under § 575.205;
(3) Establish the criteria for determining the amount of a relocation incentive and the length of a service period under §§ 575.209 and 575.210, respectively;
(4) Request a waiver from OPM of the limitation on the maximum amount of a relocation incentive under § 575.209(c); and
(5) Establish the criteria for terminating a service agreement under § 575.211.
(b)
Factors for determining when a position is likely to be difficult to fill.
An agency in its sole and exclusive discretion, subject only to OPM review and oversight, may determine that a position is likely to be difficult to fill if the agency is likely to have difficulty recruiting candidates with the competencies required for the position (or group of positions) in the absence of a relocation incentive. An agency must consider the following factors, as applicable to the case at hand, in determining whether a position (or group of positions) is likely to be difficult to fill in the absence of a relocation incentive and in documenting this determination as required by § 575.208:
(1) The availability and quality of candidates possessing the competencies required for the position, including the success of recent efforts to recruit candidates for the position or similar positions using indicators such as offer acceptance rates, proportion of positions filled, and the length of time required to fill similar positions;
(2) The salaries typically paid outside the Federal Government for similar positions;
(3) Recent turnover in similar positions;
(4) Employment trends and labor-market factors that may affect the agency's ability to recruit candidates for similar positions;
(5) Special or unique competencies required for the position;
(6) Agency efforts to use non-pay authorities, such as special training and work scheduling flexibilities, to resolve difficulties alone or in combination with a relocation incentive;
(7) The desirability of the duties, work or organizational environment, or geographic location of the position; and
(8) Other supporting factors.
(c) An agency may determine that a position (or group of positions) is likely to be difficult to fill if OPM has approved the use of a direct-hire authority applicable to the position (or group of positions) under 5 CFR part 337, subpart B.
[70 FR 25743, May 13, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 74996, Dec. 19, 2005; 72 FR 67839, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.207
Agency relocation incentive plan and approval levels.
(a) Before paying relocation incentives under this subpart, an agency must establish a relocation incentive plan. This plan must include the following elements:
(1) The designation of officials with authority to review and approve payment of relocation incentives (subject to paragraph (b) of this section) and the designation of officials with authority to waive the repayment of a relocation incentive under § 575.211(h);
(2) The categories of employees who are prohibited from receiving relocation incentives;
(3) Required documentation for determining that a position (or group of positions) is likely to be difficult to fill;
(4) Any requirements for determining the amount of a relocation incentive;
(5) The payment methods that may be authorized;
(6) Requirements governing service agreements which, at a minimum, must include—
(i) The criteria for determining the length of a service period under a service agreement;
(ii) The conditions for terminating a service agreement; and
(iii) The obligations of the agency and the employee, as applicable, if an agency terminates a service agreement; and
(7) Documentation and recordkeeping requirements sufficient to allow reconstruction of the action and fulfill the requirements of §§ 575.212 and 575.213.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an authorized agency official who is at least one level higher than the employee's supervisor must review and approve each determination to pay a relocation incentive, unless there is no official at a higher level in the agency. The authorized agency official must review and approve the relocation incentive determination before the agency pays the incentive to the employee.
(2) The higher level approval required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not needed when approving coverage of individual employees under a previously approved relocation incentive authorization if the case-by-case approval requirement is waived under § 575.208(b).
(c) Unless the head of the agency determines otherwise, an agency relocation incentive plan must apply uniformly across the agency.
[70 FR 25743, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67839, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.208
Approval criteria and written determination.
(a)(1) For each determination to pay a relocation incentive under this subpart, an agency must document in writing—
(i) The basis for determining that a position is likely to be difficult to fill as determined under § 575.206;
(ii) The basis for authorizing a relocation incentive for an employee;
(iii) The basis for the amount and timing of the approved relocation incentive payments and the length of the required service period; and
(iv) That the worksite of the employee's new position is not in the same geographic area as the worksite of the position held immediately before the move (or that a waiver was approved under § 575.205(b)) and that the employee established a residence in the new geographic area, as required by § 575.205(b).
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the agency must make each determination to pay a relocation incentive on a case-by-case basis for each employee.
(3) The agency must make the determination to pay a relocation incentive before the employee enters on duty in the position to which relocated.
(b)(1) An agency may waive the case-by-case approval requirement under paragraph (a) of this section when—
(i) The employee is a member of a group of employees subject to a mobility agreement and the agency determines that relocation incentives are necessary to retain employees subject to such an agreement to ensure continuation of operations; or
(ii) A major organizational unit of the agency is relocated to a new duty station and the agency determines that relocation incentives are necessary for a group of employees to ensure the continued operation of that unit without undue disruption of an activity or function that is deemed essential to the agency's mission or without undue disruption of service to the public.
(2) The written determination under paragraph (a) of this section must specify the group of employees covered by the case-by-case waiver, the conditions under which the waiver is approved, and the period of time for which the waiver may be applied.
§ 575.209
Payment of relocation incentives.
(a) An authorized agency official must establish the criteria for determining the amount of a relocation incentive. An agency may pay a relocation incentive—
(1) As an initial lump-sum payment at the commencement of the service period required by the service agreement;
(2) In installments throughout the service period required by the service agreement;
(3) As a final lump-sum payment upon the completion of the full service period required by the service agreement; or
(4) In a combination of these payment methods.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the total amount of relocation incentive payments paid to an employee in a service period may not exceed 25 percent of the annual rate of basic pay of the employee at the beginning of the service period multiplied by the number of years (including fractions of a year) in the service period (not to exceed 4 years).
(2) For hourly rate employees who do not have a scheduled annual rate of basic pay, compute the annual rate required for paragraph (b)(1) of this section by multiplying the applicable hourly rate in effect at the beginning of the service period by 2,087 hours.
(3) For the purpose of determining the number of years in a service period under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, divide the total number of calendar days in the service period (as established under § 575.208) by 365 and round the result to two decimal places. For example, a service period covering 39 biweekly pay periods equals 546 days, and 546 days divided by 365 days equals 1.50 years.
(c)(1) An authorized agency official may request that OPM waive the limitation in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for an employee based on a critical agency need. The authorized agency official must determine that the competencies required for the position are critical to the successful accomplishment of an important agency mission, project, or initiative (e.g., programs or projects related to a national emergency or implementing a new law or critical management initiative). Under such a waiver, the total amount of relocation incentive payments paid to an employee in a service period may not exceed 50 percent of the annual rate of
basic pay of the employee at the beginning of the service period multiplied by the number of years (including fractions of a year) in the service period. However, in no event may a waiver provide total relocation incentive payments exceeding 100 percent of the employee's annual rate of basic pay at the beginning of the service period.
(2) Waiver requests must include—
(i) A description of the critical agency need the proposed relocation incentive would address;
(ii) The documentation required by § 575.208;
(iii) The proposed relocation incentive payment amount and a justification for that amount;
(iv) The timing and method for making the relocation incentive payments;
(v) The period of service required; and
(vi) Any other information pertinent to the case at hand.
(d) A relocation incentive is not part of an employee's rate of basic pay for any purpose.
(e) Payment of a relocation incentive is subject to the aggregate limitation on pay under 5 CFR part 530, subpart B.
§ 575.210
Service agreement requirements.
(a) Before paying a relocation incentive, an agency must require the employee to sign a written service agreement to complete a specified period of employment with the agency (or successor agency in the event of a transfer of function) at the new duty station. An authorized agency official must establish the criteria for determining the length of a service period. The service period may not exceed 4 years.
(b)(1) The service agreement must include the commencement and termination dates of the required service period. Except as provided under paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the required service period must begin upon the commencement of service at the new duty station. The service period must terminate on the last day of a pay period.
(2) If service at the new duty station does not begin on the first day of a pay period, the agency must delay the service period commencement date so that a required service period begins on the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after the commencement of service at the new duty station.
(3) An agency may delay a service agreement commencement date until after the employee completes an initial period of formal training when continued employment in the position is contingent on successful completion of the formal training. The agency must make the determination to pay a relocation incentive before the employee enters on duty in the position, as required by § 575.208(a)(3). However, the service agreement must specify that if an employee does not successfully complete the training before the service period commences, the agency is not obligated to pay any portion of the relocation incentive to the employee.
(c) The service agreement must specify the total amount of the incentive, the method of paying the incentive, and the timing and amount of each incentive payment, as established under § 575.209.
(d) The service agreement must include the conditions under which the agency must terminate the service agreement (
i.e.,
if an employee is demoted or separated for cause, receives a rating of record of less than “Fully Successful” or equivalent, fails to maintain residency in the new geographic area for the duration of the service agreement, or otherwise fails to fulfill the terms of the service agreement) and the conditions under which the employee must repay a relocation incentive under § 575.211. An agency must define the limits of the new geographic area in the service agreement for the purpose of determining whether an employee maintains residency in that geographic area for the duration of the service agreement.
(e) The service agreement must include the conditions under which the agency may terminate the service agreement before the employee completes the agreed-upon service period. The service agreement must specify the effect of the termination under § 575.211, including the conditions under which the agency will pay an additional relocation incentive payment for partially completed service under § 575.211(e) and (f).
(f) The service agreement may include any other terms or conditions that, if violated, will result in termination of the service agreement. For example, the service agreement may specify the employee's work schedule, type of position, and the duties he or she is expected to perform. In addition, the service agreement may address the extent to which periods of time on detail, in a nonpay status, or in a paid leave status are creditable towards the completion of the service period.
[70 FR 25743, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67839, Dec. 3, 2007; 78 FR 49364, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.211
Termination of a service agreement.
(a) An authorized agency official may unilaterally terminate a relocation incentive service agreement based solely on the management needs of the agency. For example, an agency may terminate a service agreement when the employee's position is affected by a reduction in force, when there are insufficient funds to continue the planned incentive payments, or when the agency assigns the employee to a different position (if the different position is not within the terms of the service agreement).
(b) An authorized agency official must terminate a relocation incentive service agreement if an employee is demoted or separated for cause (
i.e.,
for unacceptable performance or conduct), if the employee receives a rating of record (or an official performance appraisal or evaluation under a system not covered by 5 U.S.C. chapter 43 or 5 CFR part 430) of less than “Fully Successful” or equivalent, if the employee fails to maintain residency in the new geographic area for the duration of the service agreement, or if the employee otherwise fails to fulfill the terms of the service agreement.
(c) The termination of a service agreement is not grievable or appealable.
(d) The agency must notify an employee in writing when it terminates a relocation incentive service agreement.
(e) If an authorized agency official terminates a service agreement under paragraph (a) of this section, the employee is entitled to all relocation incentive payments attributable to completed service and to retain any portion of a relocation incentive payment he or she received that is attributable to uncompleted service.
(f) If an authorized agency official terminates a service agreement under paragraph (b) of this section, the employee is entitled to retain relocation incentive payments previously paid by the agency that are attributable to the completed portion of the service period. If the employee received relocation incentive payments that are less than the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period, the agency is not obligated to pay the employee the amount attributable to completed service, unless the agency agreed to such payment under the terms of the relocation incentive service agreement. If the employee received relocation incentive payments in excess of the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period, he or she must repay the excess amount, except when an authorized agency official waives the requirement to repay the excess amount under paragraph (h) of this section.
(g) If an employee fails to reimburse the paying agency for the full amount owed under paragraph (f) of this section, the amount outstanding must be recovered from the employee under the agency's regulations for collection by offset from an indebted Government employee under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, or through the appropriate provisions governing Federal debt collection if the individual is no longer a Federal employee.
(h) If an employee received relocation incentive payments in excess of the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period under paragraph (f) of this section, an authorized agency official may waive the requirement to repay the excess amount when, in the judgment of the official, collection of the excess amount would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States.
(i) The full amount of the authorized relocation incentive must be prorated across the length of the service period
to determine the amount of the relocation incentive attributable to completed service and uncompleted service under this section.
[70 FR 25743, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67839, Dec. 3, 2007; 78 FR 49364, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.212
Internal monitoring requirements and revocation or suspension of authority.
(a) Each agency must monitor the use of relocation incentives to ensure that the agency's relocation incentive plan and the payment of relocation incentives are consistent with the requirements and criteria established under 5 U.S.C. 5753 and this subpart.
(b) When OPM finds that an agency is not paying relocation incentives consistent with the agency's relocation incentive plan and the criteria established under this subpart or otherwise determines that the agency is not using this authority selectively and judiciously, OPM may—
(1) Direct the agency to revoke or suspend the authority granted to any organizational component in the agency and, with respect to any category or categories of employees, require that the component obtain approval from the agency's headquarters level before paying a relocation incentive to such employees; or
(2) Revoke or suspend the authority granted to the agency under this subpart for all or any part of the agency and, with respect to any category or categories of employees, require that the agency obtain OPM's approval before paying a relocation incentive to such employees.
§ 575.213
Records and reports.
Each agency must keep a record of each determination to pay a relocation incentive and make such records available for review upon OPM's request.
[70 FR 25743, May 13, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 49364, Aug. 14, 2013]

# Subpart C—Retention Incentives

# Source:
70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 575.301
Purpose.
This subpart contains regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5754, which authorizes payment of retention incentives. An agency may pay a retention incentive to a current employee under the conditions specified in this subpart when an agency determines that the unusually high or unique qualifications of the employee or a special need of the agency for the employee's services makes it essential to retain the employee and that the employee would be likely to leave in the absence of an incentive.
[70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 64527, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 575.302
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
means an executive agency or a legislative branch agency included in 5 U.S.C. 5102(a)(1).
Authorized agency official
means the head of an agency or an official who is authorized to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Competencies
means the knowledge, skills, abilities, behaviors, and other characteristics an employee needs to perform the duties of a position.
Employee
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105, except that the term also includes an employee described in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c).
Executive agency
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 105.
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position to which an employee is appointed before deductions and including any special rate under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C, or similar payment under other legal authority, and any locality-based comparability payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F, or similar payment under other legal authority, but excluding additional pay of any other kind. For example, a
rate of basic pay
does not include additional pay such as night shift differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f) or environmental differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(c)(4).
Service agreement
means a written agreement between an agency and an employee under which the employee
agrees to a specified period of employment with the agency in return for payment of a retention incentive.
§ 575.303
Eligible categories of employees.
(a) Except as provided in § 575.304, an Executive agency may pay a retention incentive to a current employee who holds—
(1) A General Schedule position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5332 or 5305 (or similar special rate authority);
(2) A senior-level or scientific or professional position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5376;
(3) A Senior Executive Service position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5383 or a Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration Senior Executive Service position paid under 5 U.S.C. 3151;
(4) A position as a law enforcement officer, as defined in 5 CFR 550.103;
(5) A position under the Executive Schedule paid under 5 U.S.C. 5311-5317 or a position the rate of pay for which is fixed by law at a rate equal to a rate for the Executive Schedule;
(6) A prevailing rate position, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5342(a)(3); or
(7) Any other position in a category for which payment of retention incentives has been approved by OPM at the request of the head of an executive agency.
(b) Except as provided in § 575.304, a legislative agency may pay a retention incentive to a current employee who holds a General Schedule position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5332 or 5305 (or similar special rate authority).
[70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67839, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.304
Ineligible categories of employees.
An agency may not pay a retention incentive to an employee in—
(a) A position to which an individual is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate;
(b) A position in the Senior Executive Service as a noncareer appointee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(7));
(c) A position excepted from the competitive service by reason of its confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character; or
(d) A position not otherwise covered by the exclusions in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section—
(1) To which an individual is appointed by the President without the advice and consent of the Senate, except a Senior Executive Service position in which the individual serves as a career appointee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(4));
(2) Designated as the head of an agency, including an agency headed by a collegial body composed of two or more individual members;
(3) In which the employee is expected to receive an appointment as the head of an agency; or
(4) To which an individual is appointed as a Senior Executive Service limited term appointee or limited emergency appointee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(5) and (a)(6), respectively) when the appointment must be cleared through the White House Office of Presidential Personnel.
[70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 49364, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.305
Applicability to employees.
(a) An agency may pay a retention incentive to an individual employee under the conditions prescribed in this subpart when the agency determines that—
(1) The unusually high or unique qualifications (
i.e.
, competencies) of the employee or a special need of the agency for the employee's services makes it essential to retain the employee; and
(2) The employee would be likely to leave the Federal service in the absence of a retention incentive.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an agency may pay a retention incentive to a group or category of employees under the conditions prescribed in this subpart when the agency determines that—
(1) The unusually high or unique qualifications (
i.e.
, competencies) of the group or category of employees or a special need of the agency for the employees' services makes it essential to retain the employees in that group or category; and
(2) There is a high risk that a significant number of the employees in the group would be likely to leave the Federal service in the absence of a retention incentive.
(c) An agency may not include in a group retention incentive authorization an employee covered by § 575.303(a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(5) or those in similar categories of positions approved by OPM to receive retention incentives under § 575.303(a)(7).
(d) A retention incentive may be paid only when the employee's rating of record (or an official performance appraisal or evaluation under a system not covered by 5 U.S.C. chapter 43 or 5 CFR part 430) is at least “Fully Successful” or equivalent.
[70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 49364, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.306
Authorizing a retention incentive.
(a)
Authority of authorized agency official.
An authorized agency official retains sole and exclusive discretion, subject only to OPM review and oversight, to—
(1) Determine when the unusually high or unique qualifications (
i.e.
, competencies) of an employee or a special need of the agency for the employee's services makes it essential to retain the employee and when the employee would be likely to leave the Federal service in the absence of a retention incentive;
(2) Determine when a group or category of employees has unusually high or unique qualifications (
i.e.
, competencies) or when an agency has a special need for the employees' services that makes it essential to retain the employees in that group or category and when there is a high risk that a significant number of employees in the group would be likely to leave the Federal service in the absence of a retention incentive;
(3) Approve a retention incentive for an employee (or group or category of employees, except as prohibited by § 575.305(c)) in a position (or positions) listed in § 575.303;
(4) Establish the criteria for determining the amount of a retention incentive and the length of a service period under §§ 575.309 and 575.310, respectively;
(5) Request a waiver from OPM of the limitation on the maximum amount of a retention incentive for an employee (or group or category of employees) under § 575.309(e); and
(6) Establish the criteria for terminating a service agreement or retention incentive payments under § 575.311.
(b)
Factors for authorizing a retention incentive for an individual employee.
An agency must consider the following factors, as applicable to the case at hand, in determining whether the unusually high or unique qualifications of an employee or a special need of the agency for an employee's services makes it essential to retain the employee and that the employee would be likely to leave the Federal service in the absence of a retention incentive:
(1) Employment trends and labor market factors such as the availability and quality of candidates in the labor market possessing the competencies required for the position and who, with minimal training, cost, or disruption of service to the public, could perform the full range of duties and responsibilities of the employee's position at the level performed by the employee;
(2) The quality and availability of the potential sources of employees that are identified in any agency succession plan (e.g., succession plans required for leadership positions), who possess the competencies required for the position, and who, with minimal training, cost, and disruption of service to the public, could perform the full range of duties and responsibilities of the employee's position at the level performed by the employee;
(3) The success of recent efforts to recruit candidates and retain employees with competencies similar to those possessed by the employee for positions similar to the position held by the employee;
(4) Special or unique competencies required for the position;
(5) Agency efforts to use non-pay authorities to help retain the employee instead of or in addition to a retention incentive, such as special training and work scheduling flexibilities or improving working conditions;
(6) The desirability of the duties, work or organizational environment, or geographic location of the position;
(7) The extent to which the employee's departure would affect the agency's ability to carry out an activity, perform a function, or complete a project that the agency deems essential to its mission;
(8) The salaries typically paid outside the Federal Government; and
(9) Other supporting factors.
(c)
Factors for authorizing a retention incentive for a group or category of employees.
(1) An agency must consider the factors in paragraph (b) of this section as they relate to determining whether a group or category of employees—
(i) Has unusually high or unique qualifications (
i.e.
, competencies) or that the agency has a special need for the employees' services that makes it essential to retain the employees in that category; and
(ii) That it is reasonable to presume that there is a high risk that a significant number of employees in the targeted category would be likely to leave the Federal service in the absence of a retention incentive.
(2) An agency must narrowly define a targeted category of employees using factors that relate to the conditions described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Factors that may be appropriate include the following: occupational series, grade level, distinctive job duties, unique competencies required for the position, assignment to a special project, minimum agency service requirements, organization or team designation, geographic location, and required rating of record. (While a rating of record of higher than the “Fully Successful” rating of record required by § 575.305(d) may be a factor used in defining the targeted category, a rating of record by itself is not sufficient to justify a retention incentive. A rating of record may function as a supporting factor in authorizing an incentive or setting the incentive rate only to the extent it directly relates to the conditions in paragraph (d) of this section.)
(d) An agency must document the determinations required under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section as required by § 575.308.
[70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 49364, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.307
Agency retention incentive plan and approval levels.
(a) Before paying retention incentives under this subpart, an agency must establish a retention incentive plan. This plan must include the following elements:
(1) The designation of officials with authority to review and approve payment of retention incentives, subject to paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) The categories of employees who are prohibited from receiving retention incentives;
(3) Required documentation for determining that an employee would be likely to leave the Federal service;
(4) Any requirements for determining the amount of a retention incentive;
(5) The payment methods that may be authorized;
(6) Requirements governing service agreements which, at a minimum, must include—
(i) The criteria for determining the length of a service period under a service agreement;
(ii) The conditions for terminating a service agreement;
(iii) The obligations of the agency if the agency terminates a service agreement; and
(iv) The conditions for terminating retention incentive payments when no service agreement is required (see § 575.310(f)); and
(7) Documentation and recordkeeping requirements sufficient to allow reconstruction of the action and fulfill the requirements of §§ 575.312 and 575.313.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an authorized agency official who is at least one level higher than the employee's (or group of employees') supervisor must review and approve each determination to pay a retention incentive to an individual or group of employees, unless there is no official at a higher level in the agency. The authorized agency official must review and approve the retention incentive determination before the agency pays the incentive to the employee.
(2) The higher level approval required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not needed when approving coverage of individual employees under a previously approved group retention incentive authorization.
(c) Unless the head of the agency determines otherwise, an agency retention incentive plan must apply uniformly across the agency.
[70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67839, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.308
Approval criteria and written determination.
(a) An agency in its sole and exclusive discretion, subject only to OPM review and oversight, may approve a retention incentive for an individual employee or group or category of employees using the approval criteria in § 575.306.
(b) For each determination to pay a retention incentive under this subpart, an agency must document in writing—
(1) The basis for determining that the unusually high or unique qualifications of the employee (or group of employees) or a special need of the agency for the employee's (or group of employees') services makes it essential to retain the employee(s);
(2) The basis for determining that the employee (or a significant number of employees in a group) would be likely to leave the Federal service in the absence of a retention incentive; and
(3) The basis for establishing the amount and timing of the approved retention incentive payment and the length of the required service period.
§ 575.309
Payment of retention incentives.
(a) An authorized agency official must determine the criteria for determining the amount of a retention incentive. An agency must establish a single retention incentive rate for each individual or group of employees that is expressed as a percentage of the employee's rate of basic pay. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a retention incentive rate may not exceed—
(1) 25 percent, if authorized for an individual employee; or
(2) 10 percent, if authorized for a group or category of employees.
(b) An agency may pay a retention incentive in—
(1) Installments after the completion of specified periods of service; or
(2) A single lump-sum payment after completion of the full service period.
(c)(1) An installment payment is derived by multiplying the rate of basic pay the employee earned in the installment period by a percentage not to exceed the incentive percentage rate established for the employee under paragraph (a) of this section. For example, an agency establishes a retention incentive percentage rate of 10 percent for an employee. The employee has a service agreement that provides for a retention incentive installment payment after completion of 6 pay periods of service at the full percentage rate established for the employee. The employee earns $15,000 during the 6 pay periods of service ($2,500 biweekly rate of basic pay × 6). Upon completion of that service period, the employee will receive the accrued retention incentive installment payment of $1,500 ($15,000 × .10).
(2) If the retention incentive installment payment percentage is less than the full percentage rate established for the employee under paragraph (a) of this section, any accrued portion of the retention incentive that is not paid as an installment payment during the service period must be paid as part of a final installment payment to the employee after completion of the full service period under the terms of the service agreement established under § 575.310. For example, an agency establishes a retention incentive percentage rate of 10 percent for an employee. The employee's service agreement provides for a 7 percent retention incentive installment payment after completion of 6 pay periods of service. The employee earns $15,000 during the 6 pay periods of service ($2,500 biweekly rate of basic pay × 6). Upon completion of that installment period, the employee accrues a retention incentive installment payment of $1,500 ($15,000 × .10). However, under the terms of the service agreement, the employee will receive a $1,050 retention incentive installment payment ($15,000 × .07). The agency
must pay the accrued but unpaid portion of the retention incentive payment of $450 ($1,500−$1,050) as a final lump-sum payment upon completion of the full service period required by the service agreement.
(3) An agency may not pay a retention incentive as an initial lump-sum payment at the start of a service period or in advance of fulfilling the service period for which the retention incentive is being paid.
(d) A retention incentive payment paid as a single lump-sum payment upon completion of the full service period required by the service agreement is derived by multiplying the retention incentive percentage rate established under paragraph (a) of this section by the total basic pay the employee earned during the full service period. For example, an agency establishes a retention incentive percentage rate of 10 percent for an employee. The employee has a service agreement that provides for a single lump-sum retention incentive payment after completion of the full service period required by the service agreement (
i.e.
, 26 pay periods). The employee earns $65,000 during the 26 pay periods of service ($2,500 biweekly rate of basic pay × 26). Upon completion of the full service period, the employee will receive a single lump-sum retention incentive payment of $6,500 ($65,000 × .10).
(e)(1) An authorized agency official may request that OPM waive the limitation in paragraph (a) of this section and permit the agency to pay an individual employee or group of employees a retention incentive of up to 50 percent of the employee's basic pay based on a critical agency need. In addition to the determination required by § 575.308, the authorized agency official must determine that the employee's (or group of employees') unusually high or unique qualifications (
i.e.
, competencies) are critical to the successful accomplishment of an important agency mission, project, or initiative (e.g., programs or projects related to a national emergency or implementing a new law or critical management initiative).
(2) Waiver requests must include—
(i) A description of the employee's work requirements and responsibilities or, if requesting a group retention incentive, a description of the group or category of employees and the number of employees to be covered by the proposed retention incentive;
(ii) A description of the critical agency need the proposed retention incentive would address;
(iii) The written documentation required by § 575.308;
(iv) The proposed retention incentive percentage rate and a justification for that percentage;
(v) The timing and method of making the retention incentive payments;
(vi) The service period required; and
(vii) Any other information pertinent to the case at hand.
(3) OPM may require that waiver requests for groups or categories of employees be coordinated with other agencies having similarly situated employees in the same category.
(4) Notwithstanding § 575.310(f), an authorized agency official must require a signed written service agreement for any employee who may receive a higher retention incentive as a result of approval of a waiver of the maximum limit on the amount of a retention incentive under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f) An agency may not offer or authorize a retention incentive for an individual prior to employment with the agency.
(g) An agency may not commence a group or individual retention incentive service agreement or provide a group or individual retention incentive without a service agreement under § 575.310(f) for any biweekly pay period during—
(1) A period of employment established under any service agreement required for the payment of a recruitment incentive under 5 CFR part 575, subpart A, or a relocation incentive under 5 CFR part 575, subpart B, (see 5 CFR 575.205(e) regarding the authority to commence a relocation incentive service agreement during a period of employment established under a service agreement for a previously authorized retention incentive or for which an employee is receiving previously authorized retention incentive payments without a service agreement); or
(2) A period of employment established under a service agreement for a previously authorized retention incentive or for which an employee is receiving a previously authorized retention incentive without a service agreement under § 575.310(f) (including a group retention incentive with or without a service agreement).
(h) A retention incentive is not part of an employee's rate of basic pay for any purpose.
(i) Payment of a retention incentive is subject to the aggregate limitation on pay under 5 CFR part 530, subpart B.
[70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 67839, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.310
Service agreement requirements.
(a) Before paying a retention incentive, an agency must require an employee, including each employee covered by a group retention incentive authorization and any employee who may receive a higher retention incentive as a result of an approved waiver of the maximum limit on the amount of a retention incentive under § 575.309(e), to sign a written service agreement to complete a specified period of employment with the agency (or successor agency in the event of a transfer of function). An authorized agency official must determine the length of a service period. A written service agreement is not required under the condition described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(b) The service agreement must include the commencement and termination dates of the required service period. The service period must begin on the first day of a pay period and end on the last day of a pay period.
(c) The service agreement must specify the retention incentive percentage rate established under § 575.309(a); whether the incentive will be paid in installments or in a lump-sum payment upon completion of the service period provided in the service agreement; whether any installment payments will be paid at less than the full retention incentive percentage rate established under § 575.309(a), with the accrued but unpaid incentive payment being paid in a lump sum upon completion of the full service period required by the service agreement under § 575.309(c)(2); and the timing of incentive payments.
(d) The service agreement must include the conditions under which the agency must terminate the service agreement before the employee completes the agreed-upon service period (
i.e.
, if an employee is demoted or separated for cause, receives a rating of record of less than “Fully Successful” or equivalent, or otherwise fails to fulfill the terms of the service agreement) under § 575.311. The service agreement must specify the effect of a termination, including the conditions under which the agency will pay an additional retention incentive payment for partially completed service under § 575.311(e) and (f).
(e) The service agreement may include any other terms or conditions that, if violated, will result in a termination of the service agreement under § 575.311(b). For example, the service agreement may specify the employee's work schedule, type of position, and the duties he or she is expected to perform. In addition, the service agreement may address the extent to which periods of time on detail, in a nonpay status, or in paid leave status are creditable towards the completion of the service period.
(f) A written service agreement is not required if the agency—
(1) Pays the retention incentive in biweekly installments; and
(2) Sets each biweekly installment payment at the full retention incentive percentage rate established for the employee under § 575.309(a).
[70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 74996, Dec. 19, 2005]
§ 575.311
Continuation, reduction, and termination of retention incentives.
(a)(1) For each retention incentive that is subject to a service agreement, an authorized agency official must review the determination to pay a retention incentive at least annually to determine whether the original determination still applies or whether payment is still warranted as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and must certify this determination in writing.
(2) An authorized agency official must terminate a retention incentive service agreement when conditions change such that the original determination to pay the retention incentive no longer applies (e.g., when the agency assigns the employee to a different position that is not within the terms of the service agreement) or when payment is no longer warranted after considering factors such as—
(i) Whether a retention incentive is needed to retain the employee (or group of employees),
(ii) Whether labor-market factors make it more likely (or reasonably likely) to recruit a candidate with competencies similar to those possessed by the employee (or group of employees), or
(iii) Whether the agency's need for the services of the employee (or group or category of employees) has been reduced to a level that makes it unnecessary to continue paying a retention incentive.
(3) An authorized agency official may terminate unilaterally a retention incentive service agreement based solely on the management needs of the agency, even if the conditions giving rise to the original determination to pay the incentive still exist. For example, an agency may terminate a service agreement when there are insufficient funds to continue the planned retention incentive payments.
(b) An authorized agency official must terminate a retention incentive service agreement when—
(1) The employee is demoted or separated for cause (
i.e.
, for unacceptable performance or conduct);
(2) The employee receives a rating of record (or an official performance appraisal or evaluation under a system not covered by 5 U.S.C. chapter 43 or 5 CFR part 430) of less than “Fully Successful” or equivalent; or
(3) The employee otherwise fails to fulfill the terms of the service agreement.
(c) If an authorized agency official terminates a service agreement under paragraph (a) of this section, the employee is entitled to retain any retention incentive payments that are attributable to completed service and to receive any portion of a retention incentive payment owed by the agency for completed service.
(d) If an authorized agency official terminates a service agreement under paragraph (b) of this section, the employee is entitled to retain retention incentive payments previously paid by the agency that are attributable to the completed portion of the service period. If the employee received retention incentive payments that are less than the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period, the agency is not obligated to pay the employee the amount attributable to completed service, unless the agency agreed to such payment under the terms of the retention incentive service agreement.
(e) To determine the amount of retention incentive payments that may be owed to an employee for completed service under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, multiply the total rate of basic pay the employee earned during the completed portion of the service period by the retention incentive percentage rate established for the employee under § 575.309(a) and subtract the amount of retention incentive payments already paid to the employee from this product. The difference is the amount owed to the employee for completed service.
(f)(1) For retention incentives that are paid when no service agreement is required under § 575.310(f), an agency must review each determination to pay the incentive at least annually to determine whether payment is still warranted. An authorized agency official must certify this determination in writing.
(2) An agency may continue paying a retention incentive to an employee when no service agreement is required as long as the conditions giving rise to the original determination to pay the incentive still exist.
(3) An authorized agency official must reduce or terminate a retention incentive authorization when no service agreement is required whenever conditions change such that the original determination to pay the retention incentive no longer applies (e.g., when the agency assigns the employee to a different position that is not within
the terms of the original determination) or when payment is no longer warranted at the level originally approved or at all after considering factors such as—
(i) Whether a lesser amount (or none at all) would be sufficient to retain the employee (or group or category of employees);
(ii) Whether labor-market factors make it more likely (or reasonably likely) to recruit a candidate with competencies similar to those possessed by the employee (or group or category of employees); or
(iii) Whether the agency's need for the services of the employee (or group or category of employees) has been reduced to a level that makes it unnecessary to continue payment at the level originally approved (or at all).
(4) An authorized agency official may terminate unilaterally a retention incentive authorization when no service agreement is required based solely on the management needs of the agency, even if the conditions giving rise to the original determination to pay the incentive still exist. For example, an agency may terminate a retention incentive when there are insufficient funds to continue the planned retention incentive payments.
(5) An authorized agency official must terminate a retention incentive authorization when no service agreement is required when—
(i) The employee is demoted or separated for cause (
i.e.
, for unacceptable performance or conduct), or
(ii) The employee receives a rating of record (or an official performance appraisal or evaluation under a system not covered by 5 U.S.C. chapter 43 or 5 CFR part 430) of less than “Fully Successful” or equivalent.
(g) The termination of a retention incentive service agreement or the reduction or termination of a retention incentive under this section is not grievable or appealable.
(h) If an agency terminates a retention incentive service agreement or reduces or terminates a retention incentive paid without a service agreement under this section, the agency must notify the employee in writing. When a retention incentive is terminated under paragraph (f) of this section, the employee is entitled to receive any scheduled incentive payments through the end of the pay period in which the written notice is provided or until the date of separation, if sooner.
[72 FR 67840, Dec. 3, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 49364, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.312
Internal monitoring requirements and revocation or suspension of authority.
(a) Each agency must monitor the use of retention incentives to ensure that its retention incentive plan and the payment of retention incentives are consistent with the requirements and criteria established under 5 U.S.C. 5754 and this subpart.
(b) When OPM finds that an agency is not paying retention incentives consistent with the agency's retention incentive plan and the criteria established under 5 U.S.C. 5754 or this subpart or otherwise determines that the agency is not using this authority selectively and judiciously, OPM may—
(1) Direct the agency to revoke or suspend the authority granted to any organizational component of the agency and, with respect to any category or categories of employees, require that the component obtain approval from the agency's headquarters level before paying a retention incentive to such employees; or
(2) Revoke or suspend the authority granted to the agency under this subpart for all or any part of the agency and, with respect to any category or categories of employees, require that the agency obtain OPM's approval before paying a retention incentive to such employees.
§ 575.313
Records and reports.
Each agency must keep a record of each determination to pay a retention incentive and make such records available for review upon OPM's request.
[70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, as amended at 78 FR 49364, Aug. 14, 2013]
§ 575.314
Retention incentives for employees likely to leave for a different position in the Federal service.
(a)
Authority.
(1) An agency in its sole and exclusive discretion, subject only
to OPM review and oversight, may approve a retention incentive for an individual employee under the conditions prescribed in this section when the agency determines that—
(i) Given the agency's mission requirements and employee's competencies, the agency has a special need for the employee's services that makes it essential to retain the employee in his or her current position during a period of time before the closure or relocation of the employee's office, facility, activity, or organization; and
(ii) The employee would be likely to leave for a different position in the Federal service in the absence of a retention incentive.
(2) An agency in its sole and exclusive discretion, subject only to OPM review and oversight, may approve a retention incentive for a group or category of employees (subject to the exclusions in § 575.305(c)) under the conditions prescribed in this section when the agency determines that—
(i) Given the agency's mission requirements and employees' competencies, the agency has a special need for the employees' services that makes it essential to retain the employees in their current positions during a period of time before the closure or relocation of the employees' office, facility, activity, or organization; and
(ii) There is a high risk that a significant number of the employees in the group would be likely to leave for different positions in the Federal service in the absence of a retention incentive.
(b)
Employee eligibility.
An agency may pay a retention incentive to an employee under this section when—
(1) The employee holds a position listed in § 575.303, and is not excluded by § 575.304;
(2) The employee's rating of record (or an official performance appraisal or evaluation under a system not covered by 5 U.S.C. chapter 43 or 5 CFR part 430) is at least “Fully Successful” or equivalent; and
(3) The agency has provided a general or specific written notice to the employee that his or her position may or would be affected by the closure or relocation of the employee's office, facility, activity, or organization (e.g., the employee's position may or would move to a new geographic location or the employee's position may or would be eliminated).
(c)
Retention incentive plan and approval levels.
Before authorizing a retention incentive under this section, an agency must include in its retention incentive plan established under § 575.307(a) the conditions and requirements governing the use of retention incentives under this section for employees who would be likely to leave for a different position in the Federal service before the closure or relocation of the employees' office, facility, activity, or organization, including a designation of the authorized agency officials who may approve retention incentives under this section, consistent with the approval requirements in § 575.307(b).
(d)
Approval criteria and written determination.
(1) For each determination to pay a retention incentive under this section, an agency must document in writing—
(i) The basis for determining the agency has a special need for the employee's (or group of employees') services that makes it essential to retain the employee(s), based on the agency's mission needs and the employee's (or group of employees') competencies, during a period of time before the closure or relocation of the employee's (or group of employees') office, facility, activity, or organization;
(ii) The basis for determining, in the absence of a retention incentive, the employee (or a significant number of employees in a group) would be likely to leave for a different position in the Federal service; and
(iii) The basis for establishing the amount and timing of the approved retention incentive payment and the length of the required service period.
(2) An agency must address the following factors when documenting the determination required by paragraph (a) of this section for an individual employee:
(i) The factors for authorizing a retention incentive for an individual employee described in § 575.306(b) as they relate to a determination made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(ii) The extent to which the employee's departure for a different position in the Federal service would affect the agency's ability to carry out an activity, perform a function, or complete a project the agency deems essential to its mission before and during the closure or relocation period (e.g., the agency's need to retain the employee to ensure minimal disruption in the performance of mission-critical functions, continuity of key operations, or minimal disruption of service to the public before and during the closure or relocation; to train new employees who will move with the organization to the new geographic location; to assist with the actual closure or relocation of the office, facility, activity, or organization; or to perform similar mission-essential functions before or during the closure or relocation);
(iii) The competencies possessed by the employee that are essential to retain; and
(iv) The agency (which may be in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch) for which the employee would be likely to leave in the absence of the retention incentive.
(3) An agency must address the following factors when documenting the determination required by paragraph (a) of this section for a group or category of employees:
(i) The factors for authorizing a retention incentive for a group or category of employees described in § 575.306(c) as they relate to the determination made under paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(ii) The factors in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii) through (d)(2)(iv) of this section as they relate to the determination made under paragraph (a)(2) of this section for the group or category of employees.
(4) An agency must narrowly define a targeted category of employees using factors that relate to the conditions described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The factors that may be appropriate are described in § 575.306(c)(2), except that each group retention incentive authorized under this section may cover no more than one occupational series.
(e)
Payment of retention incentives.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the provisions regarding computing and paying retention incentives under § 575.309 apply to computing and paying retention incentives under this section for employees who would be likely to leave for a different position in the Federal service before the closure or relocation of the their office, facility, activity, or organization.
(2) An agency may not pay retention incentives under this section in biweekly installments at the full retention incentive percentage rate established for the employee under § 575.309(a).
(f)
Service agreement requirements.
(1) The service agreement provisions in §§ 575.310(b) through 575.310(e) apply to retention incentive service agreements under this section, subject to the additional requirements in paragraphs (f)(2) through (f)(5) of this section.
(2) Before paying a retention incentive under this section, an agency must require an employee, including each employee covered by a group retention incentive authorization, to sign a written service agreement to complete a specified period of employment with the agency.
(3) In no event, may the service period under a service agreement established under this paragraph extend past the date on which the employee's position is actually affected by the relocation or closure of the employee's office, facility, activity, or organization (e.g., the date the employee's position moves to a new geographic location or the date the employee's position is eliminated).
(4) In addition to the terminating conditions in § 575.310(d) and (e), the service agreement must include the conditions under which the agency must terminate the service agreement under paragraph (g) of this section, including the conditions under which the agency will pay an additional retention incentive payment for partially completed service under § 575.311.
(5) The service agreement must include a notification to the employee that the agency will review the determination to pay the retention incentive at least annually to determine whether payment is still warranted, as
required by paragraph (g) of this section.
(g)
Termination of retention incentives.
(1) The provisions in § 575.311 regarding termination of retention incentive service agreements and paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(4) of this section apply to the termination of retention incentives authorized under this section. Each determination to pay a retention incentive under this section must be reviewed at least annually to determine if payment is still warranted. An authorized agency official must certify this determination in writing.
(2) In addition to the terminating conditions in § 575.311(a) and (b), an authorized agency official must terminate a retention incentive service agreement under this section if—
(i) The closure or relocation is cancelled or no longer affects the employee's position;
(ii) The employee moves to another position not affected by the closure or relocation (including another position within the same agency);
(iii) For relocation situations, the employee accepts the agency's offer to relocate with his or her the office, facility, activity, or organization and, thus, the employee is no longer likely to leave for a different position in the Federal service; or
(iv) The employee moves to a different position in the same office, facility, activity, or organization subject to closure or relocation that is not covered by the employee's service agreement. In this situation, the agency may authorize a new retention incentive for the employee under this section, as appropriate.
(3) If an authorized agency official terminates a service agreement under paragraph (g)(2)(ii) or (iv) of this section in cases in which the employee's movement to another position is by management action and not at the employee's request or under paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, the employee is entitled to retain any retention incentive payments that are attributable to completed service and to receive any portion of a retention incentive payment owed by the agency for completed service.
(4) If an authorized agency official terminates a service agreement in termination actions under paragraph (g)(2) of this section that are not covered by paragraph (g)(3) of this section, the employee is entitled to retain retention incentive payments previously paid by the agency that are attributable to the completed portion of the service period. If the employee received retention incentive payments that are less than the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period, the agency is not obligated to pay the employee the amount attributable to completed service, unless the agency agreed to such payment under the terms of the retention incentive service agreement.
(h)
Monitoring requirements.
The monitoring requirements in § 575.312 apply to retention incentives authorized under this section.
(i)
Records and reports.
In addition to the recordkeeping requirements in § 575.313, each agency must submit a written report to OPM by March 31 of each year on the use of retention incentives under this section. Each report must include—
(1) A description of how the authority to pay retention incentives under this section was used in the agency during the previous calendar year;
(2) The number and dollar amount of retention incentives paid during the previous calendar year to individuals under this section by occupational series and grade, pay level, or other pay classification;
(3) The agency (which may be in the executive, judicial, legislative branch) to which each employee would be likely to leave in the absence of a retention incentive;
(4) Each employee's official worksite and the geographic location of the agency (which may be in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch) for which each employee would be likely to leave in the absence of a retention incentive; and
(5) Other information, records, reports, and data as OPM may require.
[72 FR 64527, Nov. 16, 2007. Redesignated and amended at 78 FR 49364, Aug. 14, 2013]

# Subpart D—Supervisory Differentials

# Source:
56 FR 20338, May 3, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 575.401
Purpose.
This subpart provides regulations to implement 5 U.S.C. 5755, which authorizes payment of a supervisory differential to an employee under the General Schedule who has supervisory responsibility for one or more civilian employees not under the General Schedule if one or more of the subordinate civilian employees would, in the absence of such a differential, be paid more than the supervisory employee.
§ 575.402
Delegation of authority.
(a) The head of an agency may pay a supervisory differential to a supervisor who is—
(1) In a General Schedule position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5332; and
(2) Responsible for providing direct, technical supervision over the work of one or more civilian employees whose positions are not under the General Schedule if the continuing pay (as determined under § 575.405(d) of this part) of one or more of the subordinates would, in the absence of such a differential, be more than the continuing pay (as determined under § 575.405(c) of this part) of the supervisor.
(b) A supervisory differential may not be paid on the basis of supervising a civilian employee whose rate of basic pay exceeds the maximum rate of basic pay established for grade GS-15 on the pay schedule applicable to the GS supervisor, including a schedule for any applicable special rate under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; locality-based comparability payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; or similar payment or supplement under other legal authority.
[56 FR 20338, May 3, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 37394, Aug. 19, 1992; 58 FR 65537, Dec. 15, 1993; 61 FR 3543, Feb. 1, 1996; 70 FR 25751, May 13, 2005; 72 FR 67841, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.403
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 5102.
Continuing
pay means the aggregate of all continuing payments and annual premium pay received by an employee at any one time.
Continuing payment
means basic pay and any other form of pay that is paid in the same manner and at the same time as basic pay—
i.e.,
for periods during which an employee receives basic pay.
Employee
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 5102.
Head of agency
means the head of an agency or an official who has been delegated the authority to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position to which the employee is or will be appointed before deductions and including any special rate under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; locality-based comparability payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; or similar payment or supplement under other legal authority, but excluding additional pay of any other kind. For example,
rate of basic pay
excludes a night differential under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f), an environment differential under 5 U.S.C. 5343(c)(4), or a similar payment under other legal authority.
Supervisor
has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a)(10).
[56 FR 20338, May 3, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 2435, Jan. 22, 1992; 61 FR 3543, Feb. 1, 1996; 70 FR 25751, May 13, 2005; 72 FR 67841, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.404
Use of authority.
(a) Each determination to pay a supervisory differential shall be made in writing under procedures established by each agency.
(b) The procedures established by each agency under paragraph (a) of this section shall provide that—
(1) Each determination to pay a supervisory differential, including the amount of such differential, shall be reviewed and approved by an official of the agency who is at higher level than the official who made the initial decision, unless there is no official at a higher level in the agency; and
(2) In determining whether to use the authority under 5 U.S.C. 5755 and this subpart and in determining the amount
of such differential, the relationship in pay among supervisors under the General Schedule in the same organizational component of the agency shall be considered, as well as the relationship in pay between the supervisor and his or her subordinate(s).
(3) Each determination to pay a supervisory differential shall be documented.
§ 575.405
Calculation and payment of supervisory differential.
(a) A supervisory differential shall be calculated as a percentage of the supervisor's rate of basic pay or as a dollar amount and shall be paid in the same manner and at the same time as the supervisor's basic pay—
i.e.,
the differential shall be paid at an hourly rate for each hour during which the supervisor receives basic pay.
(b) The amount of a supervisory differential shall not cause the supervisor's continuing pay, as determined under paragraph (c) of this section, to exceed the continuing pay of the highest paid subordinate not under the General Schedule, as determined under paragraph (d) of this section, by more than 3 percent.
(c) For purposes of comparing the continuing pay of a supervisor whose position is under the General Schedule with the continuing pay of a subordinate whose position is not under the General Schedule, the following payments shall be included in determining the amount of continuing pay received by the supervisor:
(1) Basic pay, including a retained rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5363 and part 536 of this chapter or other similar authority:
(2) Any other continuing payment, except night, Sunday, or holiday premium pay or a hazardous duty differential under chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code;
(3) Premium pay paid on an annual basis under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c); and
(4) Any other continuing payment, except night, Sunday, or holiday premium pay or hazardous duty pay under 5 U.S.C. chapter 55, subchapter V; recruitment or relocation incentives under 5 U.S.C. 5753; retention incentives under 5 U.S.C. 5754; or similar payments under other legal authority.
(d) For purposes of comparing the continuing pay of a supervisor whose position is under the General Schedule with the continuing pay of a subordinate whose position is not under the General Schedule, the following payments shall be included in determining the amount of continuing pay received by the subordinate:
(1) Basic pay, excluding a night or environmental differential under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f) or 5343(c)(4), respectively, or similar payment under other legal authority;
(2) Any other continuing payment, except Sunday or holiday pay under 5 U.S.C. chapter 55, subchapter V; recruitment or relocation incentives under 5 U.S.C. 5753; retention incentives under 5 U.S.C. 5754; or similar payments under other legal authority; and
(3) Premium pay paid on an annual basis under an authority similar to 5 U.S.C. 5545(c).
(e) For the purpose of making any of the comparisons required by this subpart, continuing pay shall be calculated on an annual basis for both the supervisor and the subordinate.
(f) Payment of a supervisory differential is subject to the aggregate limitation on pay under 5 U.S.C. 5307 and subpart B of part 530 of this chapter.
(g) A supervisory differential shall not be considered part of the supervisor's rate of basic pay for any purpose.
[56 FR 20338, May 3, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 2435, Jan. 22, 1992; 57 FR 37394, Aug. 19, 1992; 59 FR 66154, Dec. 23, 1994; 61 FR 3544, Feb. 1, 1996; 70 FR 25752, May 13, 2005; 72 FR 67841, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.406
Adjustment or termination of supervisory differential.
(a) An agency may establish procedures that allow for adjusting or terminating a supervisory differential at any time the agency determines it is appropriate to do so.
(b) A supervisory differential shall be terminated when the continuing pay of the supervisor (not including the supervisory differential) exceeds the continuing pay of the highest paid subordinate whose position is not under the General Schedule.
(c) A supervisory differential shall be reduced or terminated, as appropriate, when the continuing pay of the supervisor (including the supervisory differential) exceeds the continuing pay of the highest paid subordinate whose position is not under the General Schedule by more than 3 percent.
(d) The effective date of a reduction or termination of a supervisory differential under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall be not later than 30 calendar days after the date on which the event that necessitates the reduction or termination occurs.
(e) Each determination to adjust a supervisory differential shall be made in writing under procedures established by each agency similar to those established under § 575.404 of this part.
(f) The reduction or termination of a supervisory differential may not be appealed. However, the preceding sentence shall not be construed to extinguish or lessen any right or remedy under subchapter II of chapter 12 of title 5, United States Code, or under any of the laws referred to in 5 U.S.C. 2302(d).
[56 FR 20338, May 3, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 37394, Aug. 19, 1992]
§ 575.407
Records.
(a) Each agency shall keep a record of each determination required by §§ 575.404(a) and 575.406(e) of this part. Each record shall contain sufficient information to allow reconstruction of the action, including the basis for determining the amount of the differential and the comparison of continuing pay required by § 575.405(b) of this part.
(b) Each agency shall promptly submit a report of each determination made to establish, adjust, or terminate a supervisory differential as a part of its regular submission to OPM's Central Personnel Data File.

# Subpart E—Extended Assignment Incentives

# Source:
68 FR 53669, Sept. 12, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 575.501
Purpose.
This subpart contains OPM regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5757, which authorizes the payment of extended assignment incentives. Subject to the requirements of this subpart, an agency may pay an extended assignment incentive to eligible Federal employees assigned to positions located in a territory or possession of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands who agree to complete a specified additional period of employment with the agency in that location.
§ 575.502
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
means an “Executive agency,” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.
Authorized agency official
means the head of an agency or an official who is authorized to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Employee
means an employee of an agency who satisfies the definition of that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.
Involuntarily reassigned
refers to a reassignment initiated by an agency against an employee's will and without he employee's consent for reasons other than cause on charges of misconduct, delinquency, or inefficiency.
Involuntarily separated
refers to a separation initiated by an agency against an employee's will and without the employee's consent for reasons other than cause on charges of misconduct, delinquency, or inefficiency. In addition, when an employee is separated because he or she declines to accept reassignment to another geographic area outside one of the covered locations, the separation is involuntary if the employee's position description or other written agreement does not provide for such reassignment. However, an employee's separation is not involuntary if, after such a written mobility agreement is added, the employee accepts one reassignment outside his or her particular territory, possession, or commonwealth, but subsequently declines another reassignment. An employee's separation as a result of disability retirement, a disability that prevents an employee from continuing Federal service or is the basis for separation by the agency as determined by acceptable medical evidence, or the death of an employee is considered to be an involuntary separation.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee, including any special rate under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; locality-based comparability payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; or similar payment under other legal authority, but before deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any other kind. For example, a
rate of basic pay
may not include nonforeign area cost-of-living allowances under 5 U.S.C. 5941, night shift differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f), or environmental differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(c)(4).
Service agreement
means a written agreement between an agency and an employee under which the employee agrees to a specified period of employment with the agency in a particular territory, possession, or commonwealth in return for payment of an extended assignment incentive.
Service period
means an agreed-upon period of employment an employee is obligated to complete under a service agreement.
Territory, possession, or commonwealth
means a territory or a possession of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
[68 FR 53669, Sept. 12, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 25752, May 13, 2005; 72 FR 67841, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.503
Who may approve the payment of an extended assignment incentive?
An authorized agency official must review and approve the offer of an extended assignment incentive for an employee, including the amount of such incentive. The authorized agency official must be at a higher level than the official who made the initial decision to offer an extended assignment incentive, unless there is no official at a higher level in the agency.
§ 575.504
What requirements must an agency satisfy before authorizing the payment of an extended assignment incentive?
Before paying an extended assignment incentive under this subpart, an agency must establish an extended assignment incentive plan. This plan must include the following elements:
(a) The designation of authorized agency officials who must review and approve the payment of extended assignment incentives;
(b) The categories of employees which are prohibited from receiving an extended assignment incentive;
(c) The criteria that must be met or considered in authorizing extended assignment incentives, including criteria for determining the size of an incentive;
(d) The requirements governing service agreements, including the obligations of the agency and the employee when the service period is not completed;
(e) The procedures for paying extended assignment incentives; and
(f) Documentation and recordkeeping requirements sufficient to allow reconstruction of the action.
§ 575.505
What criteria must an agency use to determine who will receive an extended assignment incentive?
(a) An agency must base the payment of an extended assignment incentive on a written determination that—
(1) The eligible employee has completed at least 2 years of continuous service immediately before the commencement of the service agreement in one or more civil service positions located in a particular territory, possession, or commonwealth;
(2) It is in the best interest of the Government to encourage the employee to complete a specified additional period of employment with the agency in that location; and
(3) Replacing the employee with another employee possessing the required qualifications and experience would be difficult.
(b) In determining whether it is in the best interest of the Government to retain an employee under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an agency may consider how the employee's departure would affect the agency's ability to operate effectively or to carry out an activity or perform a function which the agency deems essential to its mission.
(c) Any determination to approve an extended assignment incentive must be made on a case-by-case basis for each
employee. However, an agency may consider common factors that apply to a category of employees, such as past recruitment and retention problems or the anticipation of such problems in the future.
§ 575.506
When is an agency prohibited from paying an extended assignment incentive?
(a) An extended assignment incentive may not be paid to the head of an agency, including an agency headed by a collegial body composed of two or more individual members.
(b) An agency may not begin paying an extended assignment incentive to an otherwise eligible employee who is receiving or fulfilling the requirements of a service agreement for the payment of a recruitment, relocation, or retention incentive. (See 5 CFR part 575, subparts A, B, and C.)
[68 FR 53669, Sept. 12, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 25752, May 13, 2005]
§ 575.507
What is the maximum extended assignment incentive that may be paid for a period of service?
(a) The total amount of extended assignment incentive payments that may be paid for a service period may not exceed the greater of—
(1) An amount equal to 25 percent of the annual rate of basic pay of the employee at the beginning of the service period times the number of years (including fractions of a year) in the service period; or
(2) $15,000 per year (including fractions of a year) in the service period.
(b) For hourly rate employees who do not have a scheduled annual rate of basic pay, the annual rate in paragraph (a) of this section is computed by multiplying the applicable hourly rate in effect at the beginning of the service period by 2,087 hours.
(c) The number of years in the service period is computed by dividing the total number of calendar days in the service period (as established under § 575.510(a)) by 365 and rounding the result to two decimal places. For example, a service period covering 39 biweekly pay periods equals 546 days, and 546 days divided by 365 days equals 1.50 years.
§ 575.508
What is the maximum amount of service that may be covered by an extended assignment incentive?
An employee's total service under one or more extended assignment incentive service agreements with a particular agency for service in a particular territory, possession, or commonwealth may not exceed 5 years. For this purpose, a year is equal to 365 days, resulting in a total service limit of 1,825 days.
§ 575.509
Is an extended assignment incentive considered basic pay for any purpose?
No, an extended assignment incentive is not considered part of an employee's rate of basic pay for any purpose, nor is it included for the purpose of calculating a lump-sum payment for annual leave under 5 CFR 550.1205.
§ 575.510
What requirements are associated with service agreements?
(a) Before paying an extended assignment incentive, the agency must require the employee to sign a written service agreement to complete a specified period of employment with the agency in a particular territory, possession, or commonwealth. The service period must meet the following conditions:
(1) The service period must begin on the first day of a pay period and end on the last day of a pay period; and
(2) The service period must not cause an employee to exceed the 5-year lifetime limitation described in § 575.508.
(b) In addition to the service requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, the service agreement may specify other terms and conditions of employment applicable to the employee. For example, the service agreement may specify the employee's work schedule, type of position, and performance level. In addition, the service agreement may address the extent to which periods of time on a detail, in a nonpay status, or in a paid leave status are creditable towards the completion of the service period.
(c) The service agreement must specify the method of payment of an extended assignment agreement. The agency may choose to pay an extended
assignment incentive in an initial lump-sum payment at the beginning of the service period, in installments at the end of specified periods throughout the service period (biweekly, monthly, quarterly, etc.), in a lump-sum payment at the end of the entire service period, or through a combination of payment methods.
(d) The service agreement must include the conditions under which the employee would be required to repay an extended assignment incentive under § 575.513.
(e) The service agreement must specify the conditions under which the payment of an extended assignment incentive may be terminated by the agency under § 575.512.
(f) The service agreement must specify the conditions under which the agency may be obligated to pay an additional incentive payment for partially completed service, as provided in § 575.513(d).
(g) The service agreement must specify the conditions under which the agency may impose a repayment penalty under § 575.513(e) for an employee who fails to fulfill the terms of the service agreement.
(h) The service agreement must specify the conditions under which the agency may be obligated to pay an incentive payment attributable to some or all of the employee's
uncompleted
service for employees covered by § 575.511 or § 575.512.
§ 575.511
What happens when an employee is involuntarily separated or involuntarily reassigned prior to completion of the service period?
An employee who is involuntarily separated or is involuntarily reassigned to a position outside the particular territory, possession, or commonwealth involved is not indebted to the Federal Government for any extended assignment incentive payments he or she has received. The employee is entitled to keep all incentive payments received and, if applicable, is entitled to receive any additional amount representing the difference between the amount received and the prorated share of the total incentive attributable to completed service. The employee may receive a portion or all of the incentive payment attributable to uncompleted service only to the extent provided in the service agreement.
[68 FR 53669, Sept. 12, 2003; 68 FR 56665, Oct. 1, 2003]
§ 575.512
When may an agency terminate a service agreement?
(a) An agency may unilaterally terminate a service agreement based solely on the business needs of the agency. For example, an authorized agency official may terminate a service agreement when the employee's position is affected by a reduction in force or when there are insufficient funds to continue the planned incentive payments.
(b) If an agency terminates a service agreement under paragraph (a) of this section, the employee is entitled to keep all incentive payments received and, if applicable, is entitled to receive any additional amount representing the difference between the amount received and the prorated share of the total incentive attributable to completed service. The employee may receive a portion or all of the incentive payment attributable to uncompleted service only to the extent provided in the service agreement.
§ 575.513
What are the agency's and the employee's obligations when an employee fails to fulfill the terms of a service agreement?
(a) This section does not apply when an employee is involuntarily separated or involuntarily reassigned to a position outside the particular territory, possession, or commonwealth involved, as provided in § 575.511 or when an agency unilaterally terminates a service agreement under § 575.512.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, an employee is indebted to the Federal Government and must repay the paying agency for an appropriate portion of an extended assignment incentive received by the employee if—
(1) The employee fails to complete the period of employment required in his or her service agreement; or
(2) The employee violates any other condition specified in the service agreement that would trigger termination of the agreement.
(c)(1) If an employee does not fulfill the terms of a service agreement under the circumstances prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section and has received incentive payments whose value as a percentage of the planned total sum of incentive payments for the entire service period exceeds the percentage reflecting the portion of the service period completed by the employee, he or she must repay the excess payment and any additional repayment penalty imposed by the agency under paragraph (e) of this section, except when an authorized agency official waives the requirement to repay the excess amount under paragraph (g) of this section.
(2) For example, consider an employee who signed a 364-day (26 pay period) service agreement and received the full amount of the extended assignment incentive as an initial lump-sum payment. If the employee voluntarily leaves after 20 pay periods (280 days), the employee will have received 100 percent of the total extended assignment incentive while completing only 76.9 percent (280/364) of the service period. The excess is 23.1 percent. Therefore, the employee must repay 23.1 percent (84/364) of the incentive. The employee is entitled to keep 76.9 percent of the incentive, unless the agency imposes an additional repayment penalty for failure to fulfill the service agreement under paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)(1) If an employee does not fulfill the terms of the service agreement under the circumstances prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section and has received incentive payments whose value as a percentage of the planned total sum of incentive payments for the entire service period is less than or equal to the percentage reflecting the portion of the service period completed by the employee, the employee has no repayment obligation unless the agency imposes an additional repayment penalty under paragraph (e) of this section. The agency may pay an additional incentive payment for some or all of the service completed by the employee if such additional payment is required by the service agreement. The total amount of incentive payments received by the employee may not exceed the prorated share of the planned incentive attributable to completed service.
(2) For example, consider an employee who signed a 364-day (26 pay period) service agreement to receive a total extended assignment payment of $24,501 in two equal installment payments—
i.e.,
$12,250.50 at the end of 13 pay periods of completed service and $12,250.50 at the end of the required service period. If the employee voluntarily leaves after 20 pay periods (280 days), the employee will have received only 50 percent of the total extended assignment incentive while completing 76.9 percent (280/364) of the service agreement. The agency may pay the employee an additional amount of up to 26.9 percent of the incentive payment that is attributable to completed service, as allowed under the terms of the service agreement, assuming the agency does not impose an additional repayment penalty for failure to fulfill the service period under paragraph (e) of this section.
(e) An agency may impose an additional repayment penalty on an employee who does not fulfill the terms of a service agreement. This repayment penalty is in addition to any repayment required by paragraph (c) of this section. The specific terms and conditions governing the repayment penalty must be included in the service agreement. For example, an agency may adopt a schedule or formula that provides for varying penalty amounts based on the portion of the service period completed by the employee.
(f) If an employee fails to reimburse the paying agency for the full amount owed under this section, the amount outstanding must be recovered from the employee under the agency's regulations for collection by offset from an indebted Government employee under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, or through the appropriate provisions for debt collection if the individual is no longer a Federal employee.
(g) If an employee received extended assignment incentive payments in excess of the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period under paragraph (c) of this section, an authorized agency official may waive the requirement to
repay the excess amount when, in the judgment of the official, collection of the excess amount would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States.
[68 FR 53669, Sept. 12, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 33536, June 16, 2004; 72 FR 67841, Dec. 3, 2007]
§ 575.514
What are an agency's monitoring responsibilities?
Each agency must monitor the use of extended assignment incentives to ensure that the agency's extended assignment incentive plan and the payment of extended assignment incentives are consistent with the requirements and criteria established under 5 U.S.C. 5757 and this subpart.
§ 575.515
What records and reports are required?
(a) Each agency must keep a record of each determination required by this subpart and make such records available for review upon OPM's request.
(b) Each agency must provide any information requested by OPM for its report to Congress, as required by 5 U.S.C. 5757(d). Before February 15, 2006, each agency must submit a written report to OPM on—
(1) The agency's use of extended assignment incentives by providing the data required in paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Whether the use of extended assignment incentives influenced employees to stay longer than their initial tour of duty at their current duty stations; and
(3) The agency's recommendations for changes necessary to improve the effectiveness of extended assignment incentives.
(c) Each agency report must contain the following data for the period from May 2, 2003, to December 31, 2005:
(1) The number of extended assignment service agreements that commenced in each fiscal year;
(2) The dollar amount expended on extended assignment incentives in each fiscal year;
(3) The number of employees who declined an extended assignment incentive, by occupational series and geographic location;
(4) The number of employees who signed an extended assignment incentive service agreement, the total amount of the planned incentives, and the total number of years of agreed-upon service, by occupational series and geographic location;
(5) The number of employees whose service agreements were terminated before completion of the agreed-upon service period, with subcounts showing the number covered by §§ 575.511, 575.512, and 575.513, respectively.
(6) The number of employees who incurred a repayment debt under § 575.513 (including any repayment penalty under § 575.513(e)) and the total amount of repayment debt incurred; and
(7) The portion of the repayment debt that, as of December 31, 2005—
(i) Has been recovered;
(ii) Is subject to ongoing collection efforts; and
(iii) Has been waived or written off.
Pt. 576

# PART 576—VOLUNTARY SEPARATION INCENTIVE PAYMENTS

# Subpart A—Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments
Sec.
576.101
Definitions.
576.102
Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment implementation plans.
576.103
Offering Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments to employees.
576.104
Additional agency requirements.
576.105
Existing Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment authorities.

# Subpart B—Waiver of Repayment of Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments
576.201
Definitions.
576.202
Repayment requirement.
576.203
Waivers of the Voluntary Separation Incentive Repayment requirement.

# Authority:
Sections 3521 through 3525 of title 5, United States Code.

# Source:
70 FR 3859, Jan. 27, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments
§ 576.101
Definitions.
In this part:
Employee
, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3521, means an employee as defined under 5
U.S.C. 2105 employed by an agency and an individual employed by a county committee established under section 8(b)(5) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)(5)) who—
(1) Is serving under an appointment without time limitation; and
(2) Has been currently employed for a continuous period of at least 3 years.
Specific designee
means a senior officer or official within an agency who has been specifically designated to sign requests for authority to offer Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments for, or in place of, the head of the agency. Examples include the Chief Human Capital Officer, the Assistant Secretary for Administration, the Director of Human Resources Management, or a deputy of one of these persons.
§ 576.102
Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment implementation plans.
(a) In accordance with section 3522(b) of title 5, United States Code, a plan submitted by the head of an agency, or his or her specific designee, must include:
(1) Identification of the specific positions and functions to be reduced or eliminated, identified by organizational unit, geographic location, occupational series, grade level and any other factors related to the position;
(2) A description of the categories of employees who will be offered incentives identified by organizational unit, geographic location, occupational series, grade level and any other factors, such as skills, knowledge, or retirement eligibility (as discussed in implementing guidance);
(3) The time period during which incentives may be paid;
(4) The number and maximum amounts of Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments to be offered;
(5) A description of how the agency will operate without the eliminated or restructured positions and functions;
(6) A proposed organizational chart displaying the expected changes in the agency's organizational structure after the agency has completed the incentive payments;
(7) A short explanation of how Voluntary Early Retirement Authority will be used in conjunction with separation incentives, if the agency has requested, or will request, that authority; and
(8) A description of how Voluntary Separation Incentives offered under another statutory authority are being used, if the agency is offering incentives under any other statutory authority.
(b) When submitting a plan to OPM, the agency may submit either:
(1) A specific Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment implementation plan outlining the intended use of the incentive payments, or
(2) The agency's human capital plan, which outlines the intended use of the incentive payments and the expected changes in the agency's organizational structure after the agency has completed the incentive payments. If the human capital plan is submitted, it must include the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) OPM will consult with the Office of Management and Budget regarding the plan and any subsequent modifications, and will notify the agency head in writing when the plan is approved. The review may include a consideration of costs and benefits associated with using the authority. If there are questions concerning the agency's plan, OPM reserves the right to contact the agency, inform agency staff of its concerns, and require that the agency revise the plan to bring it into conformance with these regulations. The agency must obtain OPM approval before offering incentives under this authority.
§ 576.103
Offering Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments to employees.
(a) Agencies may make offers of Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments to employees who agree to voluntarily separate by resignation, early retirement, or optional retirement.
(b) Each time an agency with authority to offer Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments establishes a window period for acceptance of Voluntary Separation Incentive applications, it may limit offers to its employees based on an established opening and closing date or the acceptance of a specified number of applications. However, at
the time of the offer, the agency must notify its employees that it retains the right to limit the number of Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment offers by use of a specific closing date or by receipt of a specified number of applications.
(c) An agency's downsizing and/or reshaping strategy may change, necessitating a change in the offer notice to employees. If the amended notice includes a revised closing date, or a revised number of applications to be accepted, the new date or number of applications must be announced to the same group of employees included in the original announcement. If a new or separate notice includes a new window period with a new closing date, or a new instance of a specific number of applications to be accepted, the new window period or number of applications to be accepted may be announced to a different group of employees as long as the new group is covered by the approved Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment authority.
(d) Section 4311 of title 38, United States Code, requires that, for all practical purposes, agencies treat employees on military duty as though they were still on the job. Further, employees are not to be disadvantaged because of their military duty. In accordance with these provisions, employees on military duty who would otherwise be eligible for an offer of a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment will have 30 days following their return to duty to either accept or reject an offer of a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment. This is true even if the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment authority provided by OPM has expired.
(e) An employee may separate from the service voluntarily, with a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment, if, on the date of separation, the employee:
(1) Is serving in a position covered by a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment offer; and
(2) Meets the definition of employee discussed in 5 U.S.C. 3521.
(f) Agencies are responsible for ensuring that employees are not coerced into accepting a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment. If an agency finds any instances of coercion, it must take appropriate corrective action.
(g) An agency may not offer Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments beyond the stated expiration date of an authority or assign an effective date for a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment that is beyond the time period for paying a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment that was stated in the agency's approved Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment plan.
(h) An agency may not offer Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments to employees who are outside the scope of the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment authority approved by OPM.
(i) OPM may amend, limit, or terminate Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment authority if it determines that the agency is no longer undergoing the condition(s) that formed the basis for its approval or to ensure that the law and regulations governing Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments, including the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment usage reporting requirements, are being properly followed.
§ 576.104
Additional agency requirements.
After OPM approves an agency plan for Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments, the agency must immediately notify OPM of any subsequent changes in the conditions that served as the basis for the approval of the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment authority.
[80 FR 75786, Dec. 4, 2015]
§ 576.105
Existing Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment authorities.
As provided in section 1313(a)(3) of Public Law 107-296, any agency exercising Voluntary Separation Incentive authority in effect on January 24, 2003, may continue to offer Voluntary Separation Incentives consistent with that authority until that authority expires. An agency that is eligible to offer Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments under this authority and under any other statutory authority may choose which authority it wishes to use, or offer incentives under both.

# Subpart B—Waiver of Repayment of Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments
§ 576.201
Definitions.
‘Employment’ means
employment with the Government of the United States, including employment under a personal services contract (or other direct contract) with the United States Government (other than an entity in the legislative branch) unless employed pursuant to § 576.203(a).
§ 576.202
Repayment requirement.
An executive branch employee who received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment as described in subpart A of this part and accepts any employment for compensation with the Government of the United States within 5 years after the date of the separation on which the payment is based must repay the entire amount of the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment to the agency that paid it before the individual's first day of reemployment.
§ 576.203
Waivers of the Voluntary Separation Incentive Repayment requirement.
(a)(1) If the proposed reemployment is with an agency other than the Government Accountability Office, the United States Postal Service, or the Postal Rate Commission, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management may, at the request of the head of the agency, waive the repayment if—
(i) The individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the position; or
(ii) In case of an emergency involving a direct threat to life or property, the individual—
(A) Has skills directly related to resolving the emergency; and
(B) Will serve on a temporary basis only so long as that individual's services are made necessary by the emergency.
(2) If the proposed reemployment is with an entity in the legislative branch, the head of the entity or the appointing official may waive the repayment if the individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the position.
(3) If the proposed reemployment is with the judicial branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts may waive the repayment if the individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the position.
(4) The repayment waiver provisions under this section do not extend to a repayment obligation resulting from employment under a personal services contract or other direct contract.
(b) For a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment made under statutory authority other than subpart A of this part, the agency should review the authorizing statute and, if a waiver is permitted, submit a request as specified by that statute.
[70 FR 3859, Jan. 27, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 46065, Aug. 9, 2005]
Pt. 581

# PART 581—PROCESSING GARNISHMENT ORDERS FOR CHILD SUPPORT AND/OR ALIMONY

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
581.101
Purpose.
581.102
Definitions.
581.103
Moneys which are subject to garnishment.
581.104
Moneys which are not subject to garnishment.
581.105
Exclusions.
581.106
Future payments.

# Subpart B—Service of Process
581.201
Agent to receive process.
581.202
Service of process.
581.203
Information minimally required to accompany legal process.

# Subpart C—Compliance With Process
581.301
Suspension of payment.
581.302
Notification of obligor.
581.303
Response to legal process or interrogatories.
581.304
Nonliability for disclosure.
581.305
Honoring legal process.
581.306
Lack of moneys due from, or payable by, a governmental entity served with legal process; transfer of service of legal process to another governmental entity.
581.307
Compliance with legal process requiring the payment of attorney fees, interest, and/or court costs.

# Subpart D—Consumer Credit Protection Act Restrictions
581.401
Aggregate disposable earnings.
581.402
Maximum garnishment limitations.

# Subpart E—Implementation by Governmental Entities
581.501
Rules, regulations, and directives by governmental entities.
Appendix A to Part 581—List of Agents Designated To Accept Legal Process
Appendix B to Part 581—List of Agents Designated To Facilitate the Service of Legal Process on Federal Employees

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 659; 15 U.S.C. 1673; E.O. 12105 (43 FR 59465 and 3 CFR 262)(1979). Secs. 581.102 and 581.306 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8336a and 8412a.

# Source:
45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 581.101
Purpose.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law (including section 407 of title 42, United States Code, section 5301 of title 38, United States Code, and sections 8346 and 8470 of title 5, United States Code), section 659 of title 42, United States Code, as amended, provides that moneys, the entitlement to which is based upon remuneration for employment, due from, or payable by, the United States or the District of Columbia to any individual, shall be subject, in like manner and to the same extent as if the United States or the District of Columbia were a private person:
(1) To legal process for the enforcement of an obligor's legal obligations to provide child support, alimony, or both, resulting from an action brought by an individual obligee; and
(2) To withholding in accordance with State law enacted pursuant to subsections (a)(1) and (b) of section 666 of title 42, United States Code, and to regulations of the Secretary of Health and Human Services under such subsections, and to any other legal process brought by a State agency subject to regulations of the Secretary of Health and Human Services that is administering a program under an approved State plan to enforce the legal obligations of obligors to provide child support and alimony.
(b) Section 659 of title 42, United States Code, as amended, provides further that each governmental entity shall be subject to the same requirements as would apply if the governmental entity were a private person, except as set forth in this part.
[63 FR 14757, Mar. 26, 1998]
§ 581.102
Definitions.
In this part: (a)
The executive branch of the Government of the United States
means all “governmental entities” as defined in this section, including therein the territories and possessions of the United States, the United States Postal Service, the Postal Rate Commission, any wholly owned Federal corporation created by an Act of Congress, and the government of the District of Columbia.
(b)
Governmental entity
means each department, both civilian and military, agency, independent establishment, or instrumentality of the executive branch, including the United States Postal Service, the Postal Rate Commission, any wholly owned Federal corporation created by an Act of Congress, any office, commission, bureau, or other administrative subdivision or creature of the executive branch, and the governments of the District of Columbia and of the territories and possessions of the United States.
(c)
Private person
means a person who does not have sovereign or other special immunity or privilege which causes that person not be be subject to legal process.
(d)
Child support
means the amounts required to be paid for the support and maintenance of a child, including a child who has attained the age of majority under the law of the issuing State, or a child and the parent with whom the child is living, which provides for monetary support, health care, arrearages or reimbursement, and which may include other related costs and fees, interest and penalties, income withholding, attorney's fees, and other relief.
(e)
Alimony
means periodic payments of funds for the support and maintenance of the spouse (or former spouse) of the individual, and (subject to and in accordance with State law) includes separate maintenance, alimony pendente lite, maintenance, and spousal support, and includes attorney's fees, interest, and court costs when and to the extent that the same are expressly made recoverable as such pursuant to a decree, order, or judgment issued in accordance with applicable State law by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Alimony
does not include child support or any payment or transfer of property or its value by an individual to the spouse or a former spouse of the individual in compliance with any community property settlement, equitable distribution of property, or other division of property between spouses or former spouses.
(f)
Legal process
means any writ, order, summons, notice to withhold income pursuant to subsection (a)(1) or (b) of section 666 of title 42, United States Code, or other similar process in the nature of garnishment, which may include an attachment, writ of execution, court ordered wage assignment, or in the case where a child support order is submitted by a child support agency using the standard Order/Notice to withhold income for child support as required by section 324 of Pub. L. 104-193 and which—
(1) Is issued by:
(i) A court of competent jurisdiction, including Indian tribal courts, within any State, territory, or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia;
(ii) A court of competent jurisdiction in any foreign country with which the United States has entered into an agreement that requires the United States to honor such process; or
(iii) An authorized official pursuant to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction or pursuant to State or local law; or
(iv) A State agency authorized to issue income withholding notices pursuant to State or local law or pursuant to the requirements of section 666(b) to title 42 of the United States Code; and
(2) Is directed to, and the purpose of which is to compel, a governmental entity, to make a payment from moneys otherwise payable to an individual, to another party to satisfy a legal obligation of the individual to provide child support, alimony or both.
(g)
Legal obligation
means an obligation to pay alimony and/or child support that is enforceable under appropriate State or local law. A legal obligation may include current as well as past due alimony and/or child support debts depending on the law in the jurisdiction from which the legal process was issued.
(h)
Obligor
means an individual having a legal obligation to pay alimony and/or child support.
(i)
Remuneration for employment
means compensation paid or payable for personal services, whether such compensation is denominated as wages, salary, commission, bonus, pay, or otherwise, and includes, but is not limited to, those items set forth in § 581.103.
(j)
Party
means the person or persons to whom alimony and/or child support payments should be made, or, in the case of an agency established by State or local law, the agency which has been assigned, by law or by agreement, the right to receive such payment or payments.
(k)
Individual obligee
means any individual or entity other than a State agency authorized to issue income withholding notices pursuant to the requirements of section 666(b) to title 42 of the United States Code.
(l)
Phased retirement status
has the same meaning given that term in § 838.103 of this chapter; and
(m)
Phased retirement annuity
has the same meaning given that term in § 838.103 of this chapter.
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 26279, June 7, 1983; 55 FR 1355, Jan. 16, 1990; 63 FR 14757, Mar. 26, 1998; 79 FR 46618, Aug. 8, 2014]
§ 581.103
Moneys which are subject to garnishment.
(a) For the personal service of a civilian employee obligor:
(1) Saved pay;
(2) Retained pay;
(3) Night differentials;
(4) Sunday and holiday premium pay;
(5) Overtime pay;
(6) Standby duty pay, administratively uncontrollable overtime pay, and availability pay;
(7) Environmental differentials;
(8) Hazardous duty pay;
(9) Tropical differentials;
(10) Recruitment incentives, recruitment and relocation bonuses and retention allowances;
(11) Equalization allowance;
(12) Any payment in consideration of accrued leave;
(13) Severance pay;
(14) Sick pay;
(15) Physicians comparability allowances;
(16) Special pay for physicians and dentists;
(17) Amounts paid pursuant to a personal services contract where the contractor recipient performed the services and received the payments in the capacity as a Federal employee;
(18) Merit pay;
(19) Incentive pay;
(20) Cash awards, including performance-based cash awards;
(21) Agency and Presidential incentive awards (except where such award is for making a suggestion);
(22) Senior Executive Service rank and performance awards;
(23) Moneys due for the services of a deceased employee obligor, including:
(i) Overtime or premium pay;
(ii) Amounts due as refunds of pay deductions for United States savings bonds;
(iii) Payments for accumulated and current accrued annual or vacation leave as provided for in section 5581 of title 5 of the United States Code;
(iv) Retroactive pay as provided for in section 5344(b)(2) of title 5 of the United States Code; and
(v) Amounts of checks drawn for moneys due which were not delivered by the governmental entity to the employee obligor prior to the employee obligor's death or which were not negotiated and returned to the governmental entity because of the death of the employee obligor, except those moneys due that are listed in § 581.104(i);
(24) Locality-based comparability payments or continued rate adjustments;
(25) Staffing differentials;
(26) Supervisory differentials;
(27) Special pay adjustments for law enforcement officers in selected cities;
(28) Advances in pay; and
(29) Voluntary separation incentive payments.
(b) For the personal service of an obligor in the uniformed services of the United States:
(1) Basic pay (including service academy cadet and midshipmen pay);
(2) Special pay (including enlistment and re-enlistment bonuses);
(3) Lump sum reserve bonus;
(4) Continuation pay for physicians and dentists;
(5) Special pay for physicians, dentists, optometrists, and veterinarians;
(6) Incentive pay;
(7) Variable incentive pay;
(8) Inactive duty training pay;
(9) Administrative duty pay;
(10) Academy official pay (other than personal money allowances);
(11) Any payments made in consideration of accrued leave (basic pay portion only);
(12) Readjustment pay;
(13) Disability retired pay;
(14) Severance pay (including disability severance pay);
(15) Cash awards (NOAA Corps);
(16) Special separation benefits; and
(17) Voluntary separation incentives.
(c) For obligors generally:
(1) Periodic benefits, including a periodic benefit as defined in section 428(h)(3) of title 42 of the United States Code, title II of the Social Security Act, to include a benefit payable in a lump sum if it is commutation of, or a substitute for, periodic payments; or other payments to these individuals under the programs established by subchapter II of chapter 7 of title 42 of the United States Code (Social Security Act); and payments under chapter 9 of title 45 of the United States Code (Railroad Retirement Act) or any other system, plan, or fund established by the United States (as defined in section 662(a) of title 42 of the United States Code) which provides for the payment of:
(i) Pensions;
(ii) Retirement benefits;
(iii) Retired/retainer pay;
(iv) Annuities; and
(v) Dependents' or survivors' benefits when payable to the obligor;
(2) Refunds of retirement contributions where an application has been filed;
(3) Amounts received under any federal program for compensation for work injuries; and
(4) Benefits received under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
(5) Compensation for death under any federal program, including death gratuities authorized under 5 U.S.C. 8133(f); 5 U.S.C. 8134(a); Pub. L. 103-332, section 312; and Pub. L. 104-208, section 651.
(6) Any payment under any federal program established to provide “black lung” benefits;
(7) Any payment by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs as compensation for a service-connected disability paid by the Secretary to a former member of the Armed Forces who is in receipt of retired or retainer pay if the former member has waived either the entire amount or a portion of the retired or retainer pay in order to receive such compensation. In such cases, only that part of the Department of Veterans Affairs payment that is in lieu of the waived retired pay or waived retainer pay is subject to garnishment.
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 26279, June 7, 1983; 55 FR 1356, Jan. 16, 1990; 56 FR 36723, Aug. 1, 1991; 58 FR 35846, July 2, 1993; 59 FR 66154, Dec. 23, 1994; 61 FR 3544, Feb. 1, 1996; 63 FR 14758, Mar. 26, 1998]
§ 581.104
Moneys which are not subject to garnishment.
(a) Payments made pursuant to the provisions of the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, sections 1346(b) and 2671
et seq.,
of title 28 of the United States Code;
(b) Payments or portions of payments made by the Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to sections 501-562 of title 38 of the United States Code, in which the entitlement of the payee is based on non-service-connected disability or death, age, and need;
(c) Refunds and other payments made in connection with overpayments or erroneous payments of income tax and other taxes levied under title 26 of the United States Code;
(d) Grants;
(e) Fellowships;
(f) Education and vocational rehabilitation benefits for veterans and eligible persons under chapters 30, 31, 32, 35, and 36 of title 38, United States Code, and chapters 106 and 107 of title 10, United States Code;
(g) Contracts, except where the contractor recipient performed personal services and received payments in his/her capacity as an employee of a governmental entity; and
(h) Reimbursement for expenses incurred by an individual in connection with his/her employment, or allowances in lieu thereof, and other payments and allowances, including, but not limited to:
(1) In the case of civilian employees:
(i) Uniform allowances;
(ii) Travel and transportation expenses (including mileage allowances);
(iii) Relocation expenses;
(iv) Storage expenses;
(v) Post differentials;
(vi) Foreign areas allowances;
(vii) Education allowances for dependents;
(viii) Separate maintenance allowances;
(ix) Post allowances and supplementary post allowances;
(x) Home service transfer allowances;
(xi) Quarters allowances;
(xii) Cost-of-living allowances (COLA), when applicable to an employee in a foreign area or an employee stationed outside of the continental United States or in Alaska;
(xiii) Remote worksite allowance; and
(xiv) Per diem allowances.
(2) In the case of members of the uniformed services:
(i) Position pay (Navy only);
(ii) Basic allowance for quarters;
(iii) Basic allowance for subsistence;
(iv) Station allowances;
(v) Armed Forces health professions scholarship stipends;
(vi) Public Health Service scholarship stipends;
(vii) Travel and transportation allowances;
(viii) Dislocation allowances;
(ix) Family separation allowances;
(x) ROTC subsistence allowance;
(xi) Allowance for recruiting expenses;
(xii) Education allowances for dependents;
(xiii) Clothing allowances for enlisted personnel;
(xiv) Uniform allowances; and
(xv) Personal money allowances for General and Flag officers, and for the Surgeon General of the United States.
(3) In the case of volunteers serving under either the Domestic Volunteer Service Act or the Peace Corps Act, all allowances, including, but not limited to, readjustment allowances, stipends, and reimbursements for out-of-pocket expenses.
(i) Moneys due a deceased employee obligor where the amounts are reimbursement for expenses incurred by the deceased employee in connection with his/her employment, or allowances in lieu thereof, including:
(1) Per diem instead of subsistence, mileage, and amounts due in reimbursement of travel expenses, including incidental and miscellaneous expenses in connection therewith;
(2) Allowances on change of official station;
(3) Quarters allowances; and
(4) Cost-of-living allowances (COLA), when applicable as a result of the deceased employee obligor's having been in a foreign area or stationed outside of the continental United States or in Alaska.
(j) Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments made pursuant to sections 1381
et seq.,
of title 42 of the United States Code (title XVI of the Social Security Act).
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 26280, June 7, 1983; 55 FR 1356, Jan. 16, 1990; 56 FR 36724, Aug. 1, 1991; 58 FR 35846, July 2, 1993; 60 FR 5044, Jan. 25, 1995; 63 FR 14758, Mar. 26, 1998]
§ 581.105
Exclusions.
In determining the amount of any “moneys due from, or payable by, the United States” to any individual, there shall be excluded amounts which:
(a) Are owed by the individual to the United States, except that an indebtedness based on a levy for income tax under section 6331 of title 26 of the United States Code, shall not be excluded in complying with legal process for the support of minor children if the legal process was entered prior to the date of the levy;
(b) Are required by law to be deducted from the remuneration or other payment involved, including, but not limited to:
(1) Amounts withheld from benefits payable under title II of the Social Security Act where the withholding is required by law;
(2) Federal employment taxes;
(3) Amounts mandatorily withheld for the United States Soldiers' and Airmen's Home;
(4) Fines and forfeitures ordered by a court-martial or by a commanding officer; and
(5) Amounts deducted for Medicare;
(c) Are properly withheld for Federal, State, or local income tax purposes, if the withholding of the amounts is authorized or required by law and if amounts withheld are not greater than would be the case if the individual claimed all dependents to which he/she were entitled. The withholding of additional amounts pursuant to section 3402(i) of title 26 of the United States Code may be permitted only when the individual presents evidence of a tax obligation which supports the additional withholding;
(d) Are deducted as health insurance premiums, including, but not limited to, amounts deducted from civil service annuities for Medicare where such deductions are requested by the Health Care Financing Administration;
(e) Are deducted as normal retirement contributions, not including amounts deducted for supplementary coverage. For purposes of this section, all amounts contributed under sections 8351 and 8432(a) of title 5 of the United States Code to the Thrift Savings Fund are deemed to be normal retirement contributions. Amounts withheld as Survivor Benefit Plan or Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan payments are considered to be normal retirement contributions. Except as provided in this paragraph, amounts voluntarily contributed toward additional retirement benefits are considered to be supplementary; or
(f) Are deducted as normal life insurance premiums from salary or other remuneration for employment, not including amounts deducted for supplementary coverage. Both Servicemen's Group Life Insurance and “Basic Life” Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance premiums are considered to be normal life insurance premiums; all optional Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance premiums and life insurance premiums paid for by allotment, such as National Service Life Insurance, are considered to be supplementary.
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 26280, June 7, 1983; 55 FR 1356, Jan. 16, 1990; 63 FR 14758, Mar. 26, 1998]
§ 581.106
Future payments.
Moneys paid by a governmental entity which may be due and payable to an individual at some future date, shall not be considered due the individual unless and until all of the conditions necessary for payment of the moneys to the individual have been met, including, but not limited to, the following conditions which might apply:
(a) Retirement;
(b) Resignation from a position in the Federal service; or
(c) Application for payment of moneys by the individual.

# Subpart B—Service of Process
§ 581.201
Agent to receive process.
(a) Appendix A to this part lists agents designated to accept service of process.
(b) The head of each governmental entity shall submit to the Office of the General Counsel, Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20415, for publication in appendix A to this part, the following information concerning the agent(s) designated to accept service of process:
(1) Title;
(2) Mailing address;
(3) Telephone number; and
(4) Geographical area or region, if applicable.
(c) United States Attorneys are not considered appropriate agents to accept service of process.
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 1356, Jan. 16, 1990]
§ 581.202
Service of process.
(a) A party using this part shall serve legal process on the agent designated in appendix A to this part, or if no agent has been designated for the governmental entity having payment responsibility for the moneys involved, then upon the head of that governmental entity, which has moneys due and payable to the obligor. Where the legal process is directed to, and the purpose of the legal process is to compel a governmental entity which holds moneys which are otherwise payable to an individual, to make a payment from such moneys in order to satisfy a legal obligation of such individual to provide child support or make alimony payments, the legal process need not expressly name the governmental entity as a garnishee.
(b) Service shall be accomplished pursuant to State procedures in effect pursuant to subsection (a)(1) or (b) of section 666 of title 42 of the United States Code. The designated agent shall note the date and time of receipt on the legal process. The governmental entity shall make every reasonable effort to facilitate proper service of process on its designated agent(s). If legal process is not directed to any particular official within the entity, or if it is addressed to the wrong individual, the recipient shall, nonetheless, forward the legal process to the designated agent. However, valid service is not accomplished until the legal process is received in the office of the designated agent. Moreover, the Government will not be liable for any costs or damages resulting from an agency's failure to timely serve process or to correct faulty service of process.
(c) Where it does not appear from the face of the process that it has been brought to enforce the legal obligation(s) defined in § 581.102(d) and/or (e), the process must be accompanied by a certified copy of the court order or other document establishing such legal obligations(s).
(d) Where the State or local law provides for the issuance of legal process without a support order, such other documentation establishing that it was brought to enforce legal obligation(s) defined in § 581.102(d) and/or (e) must be submitted.
(e) In order for the party who caused the legal process to be served to receive the additional five (5) percent provided for in either § 581.402(a) or (b), it must appear on the face of the legal process that the process was brought for the enforcement of a support order for a period which is twelve (12) weeks in arrears, or a certified copy of the support order, or other evidence acceptable to the head of the governmental entity, establishing this fact, must be submitted.
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 26280, June 7, 1983; 55 FR 1356, Jan. 16, 1990; 58 FR 35846, July 2, 1993; 63 FR 14758, Mar. 26, 1998]
§ 581.203
Information minimally required to accompany legal process.
(a) Sufficient identifying information must accompany the legal process in order to enable processing by the governmental entity named. Therefore, the following identifying information about the obligor, if known, is requested:
(1) Full name;
(2) Date of birth;
(3) Employment number, social security number, Department of Veterans Affairs claim number, or civil service retirement claim number;
(4) Component of the governmental entity for which the obligor works, and the official duty station or worksite; and
(5) Status of the obligor, e.g., employee, former employee, or annuitant.
(b) If the information submitted is not sufficient to identify the obligor, the legal process shall be returned directly to the court, or other authority, with an explanation of the deficiency. However, prior to returning the legal process, if there is sufficient time, an attempt should be made to inform the party who caused the legal process to be served, or the party's representative, that it will not be honored unless adequate identifying information is supplied.
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 26280, June 7, 1983; 55 FR 1357, Jan. 16, 1990]

# Subpart C—Compliance With Process
§ 581.301
Suspension of payment.
Upon proper service of legal process, together with all supplementary documents and information as required by §§ 581.202 and 581.203, the head of the governmental entity, or his/her designee, shall identify the obligor to whom that governmental entity holds moneys due and payable as remuneration for employment and shall suspend,
i.e.,
withhold, payment of such moneys for the amount necessary to permit compliance with the legal process in accordance with this part.
[48 FR 26280, June 7, 1983]
§ 581.302
Notification of obligor.
(a) As soon as possible, but not later than fifteen (15) calendar days after the date of valid service of legal process, the agent designated to accept legal process shall send to the obligor, at his or her duty station or last known home address, written notice:
(1) That such process has been served, including a copy of the legal process, and, if submitted, such other documents as may be required by § 581.202;
(2) Of the maximum garnishment limitations set forth in § 581.402, with a request that the obligor submit supporting affidavits or other documentation necessary for determining the applicable percentage limitation;
(3) That by submitting supporting affidavits or other necessary documentation, the obligor consents to the disclosure of such information to the garnishor; and
(4) Of the percentage that will be deducted if he/she fails to submit the documentation necessary to enable the governmental entity to respond to the legal process within the time limits set forth in § 581.303.
(b) The governmental entity may provide the obligor with the following additional information:
(1) Copies of any other documents submitted in support of the legal process;
(2) That the United States does not represent the interests of the obligor in the pending legal proceedings;
(3) That the obligor may wish to consult legal counsel regarding defenses to the legal process that he or she may wish to assert; and
(4) That obligors in the uniformed services may avail themselves of the protections provided in sections 520, 521, and 523 of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940 (50 U.S. Code App. 501
et seq.
).
§ 581.303
Response to legal process or interrogatories.
(a) Whenever the designated agent is validly served with legal process pursuant to State procedures in effect pursuant to subjection (a)(1) or (b) of section 666 of title 42, United States Code, within 30 calendar days, or within such longer period as may be prescribed by applicable State law, the agent shall comply with all applicable provisions of section 666, including as follows:
(1) If an agent is served with notice concerning amounts owed by an obligor to more than one person, the agent shall comply with section 666(b)(7);
(2) Allocation of moneys due and payable to an individual under section 666(b) shall be governed by section 666(b) and the regulations prescribed under such section by the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
(3) Such moneys as remain after compliance with paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall be available to satisfy any other such legal process on a first-come, first-served basis, with any such legal process being satisfied out of such moneys as remain after the satisfaction of all such legal process which have been previously served.
(4) The agent or the agent's counsel or other designee shall respond within 30 calendar days to interrogatories which accompany legal process if the information sought in the interrogatory is not available to the entity to which it was sent, and the proper entity is known, the recipient shall forward the interrogatory to the appropriate entity in sufficient time to allow for a timely response.
(b) If State or local law authorizes the issuance of interrogatories prior to or after the issuance of legal process, the agent shall respond to the interrogatories within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt:
Provided,
That the document(s) required by § 581.202(c) have been presented.
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 63 FR 14759, Mar. 26, 1998]
§ 581.304
Nonliability for disclosure.
(a) No Federal employee whose duties include responding to interrogatories pursuant to § 581.303(b), shall be subject to any disciplinary action or civil or criminal liability or penalty for any disclosure of information made by him/her in connection with the carrying out of any duties pertaining directly or indirectly to answering such interrogatories.
(b) However, a governmental entity would not be precluded from taking disciplinary action against an employee who consistently or purposely failed to provide correct information requested by interrogatories.
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 26280, June 7, 1983]
§ 581.305
Honoring legal process.
(a) The governmental entity shall comply with legal process, except where the process cannot be complied with because:
(1) It does not, on its face, conform to the laws of the jurisdiction from which it was issued;
(2) The legal process would require the withholding of funds not deemed moneys due from, or payable by, the United States as remuneration for employment;
(3) The legal process is not brought to enforce legal obligation(s) for alimony and/or child support;
(4) It does not comply with the mandatory provisions of this part; or
(5) An order of a court of competent jurisdiction enjoining or suspending the operation of the legal process has been served on the governmental entity.
(b) Where notice is received that the obligor has appealed either the legal process or the underlying alimony and/or child support order, payment of moneys subject to the legal process shall be suspended;
i.e.,
moneys shall continue to be withheld, but these amounts shall be retained by the governmental entity until the entity is ordered by the court, or other authority,
to resume payments or otherwise disburse the suspended amounts. However, no suspension action shall be taken where the applicable law of the jurisdiction wherein the appeal is filed requires compliance with the legal process while an appeal is pending. Where the legal process has been issued by a court in the District of Columbia, a motion to quash shall be deemed equivalent to an appeal.
(c) Under the circumstances set forth in § 581.305 (a) or (b), or where the governmental entity is directed by the Justice Department not to comply with the legal process, the entity shall respond directly to the court, or other authority, setting forth its objections to compliance with the legal process. In addition, the governmental entity shall inform the party who caused the legal process to be served, or the party's representative, that the legal process will not be honored. Thereafter, if litigation is initiated or threatened, the entity shall immediately refer the matter to the United States Attorney for the district from which the legal process issued. To ensure uniformity in the executive branch, governmental entities which have statutory authority to represent themselves in court shall coordinate their representation with the United States Attorney.
(d) If a governmental entity is served with more than one legal process for the same moneys due or payable to an individual, the entity shall comply with § 581.303(a).
Provided,
That in no event will the total amount garnished for any pay or disbursement cycle exceed the applicable limitation set forth in § 581.402.
(e)(1) Neither the United States, any disbursing officer, nor any governmental entity shall be liable for any payment made from moneys due from, or payable by, the United States to any individual pursuant to legal process regular on its face, if such payment is made in accordance with this part.
(2) Neither the United States, any disbursing officer, nor any governmental entity shall be liable under this part to pay money damages for failure to comply with legal process.
(f) Governmental entities affected by legal process served under this part shall not be required to vary their normal pay or disbursement cycles to comply with the legal process. However, legal process, valid at the time of service, which is received too late to be honored during the disbursement cycle in which it is received, shall be honored to the extent that the legal process may be satisfied during the next disbursement cycle within the limits set forth in § 581.402. The fact that the legal process may have expired during this period would not relieve the governmental entity of its obligation to honor legal process which was valid at the time of service. If, in the next disbursement cycle, no further payment will be due from the entity to the obligor, the entity shall follow the procedures set forth in § 581.306.
(g) If a governmental entity receives legal process which, on its face, appears to conform to the laws of the jurisdiction from which it was issued, the entity shall not be required to ascertain whether the authority which issued the legal process had obtained personal jurisdiction over the obligor.
(h) A failure by the party bringing the garnishment action to comply with the provisions of the Uniform Reciprocal Enforcement of Support Act (URESA) or the Revised Uniform Reciprocal Enforcement of Support Act by itself shall not be a valid basis for a governmental entity to refuse to comply with legal process.
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 26280, June 7, 1983; 55 FR 1357, Jan. 16, 1990; 63 FR 14759, Mar. 26, 1998]
§ 581.306
Lack of moneys due from, or payable by, a governmental entity served with legal process; transfer of service of legal process to another governmental entity.
(a) When legal process is served on a governmental entity, and the individual identified in the legal process as the obligor is found not to be entitled to moneys (the entitlement to which is based upon remuneration for employment) due from, or payable by, the governmental entity, the entity shall follow the procedures set forth in the legal process for that contingency or, if no procedures are set forth therein, shall return the legal process to the court, or other authority from which it was issued, and advise the court, or
other authority, that no moneys, the entitlement to which is based upon remuneration for employment, are due from, or payable by, the governmental entity to the named individual.
(b) Where it appears that remuneration for employment is only temporarily exhausted or otherwise unavailable, the court, or other authority, shall be fully advised as to why, and for how long, the remuneration will be unavailable, if that information is known by the governmental entity.
(c) In instances where an employee obligor separates from his/her employment with a governmental entity which is presently honoring a continuing legal process, the entity shall inform the party who caused the legal process to be served, or the party's representative, and the court, or other authority, that the payments are being discontinued. In cases where the obligor has a Thrift Savings Fund account, or has retired, or has separated and requested a refund of retirement contributions, or transferred, or is receiving benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, or where the employee obligor has been employed by either another governmental entity or by a private employer, and where this information is known by the governmental entity, the governmental entity shall provide the party with the designated agent for the new disbursing governmental entity or with the name and address of the private employer.
(d) In instances where an employee obligor, who is employed by a governmental entity which is honoring a continuing legal process, enters phased retirement status in accordance with part 831, subpart Q, and part 848 of this chapter, the entity must inform the party who caused the legal process to be served, or the party's representative, and the court or other authority, that remuneration for employment will continue at a reduced rate and that the employee obligor will be receiving a phased retirement annuity. The governmental entity must provide the party with the designated agent at the Office of Personnel Management who is responsible for the disbursement of retirement benefits.
[45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 26281, June 7, 1983; 55 FR 1357, Jan. 16, 1990; 58 FR 35846, July 2, 1993; 79 FR 46618, Aug. 8, 2014]
§ 581.307
Compliance with legal process requiring the payment of attorney fees, interest, and/or court costs.
Before complying with legal process that requires withholding for the payment of attorney fees, interest, and/or court costs, the governmental entity must determine that the legal process meets both of the following requirements:
(a) The legal process must expressly provide for inclusion of attorney fees, interest, and/or court costs as (rather than in addition to) child support and/or alimony payments;
(b) The awarding of attorney fees, interest, and/or court costs as child support and/or alimony must be within the authority of the court, authorized official, or authorized State agency that issued the legal process. It will be deemed to be within the authority of the court, authorized official, or authorized State agency to award attorney fees as child support and/or alimony if such order is not in violation of or inconsistent with State or local law, even if State or local law does not expressly provide for such an award.
[55 FR 1357, Jan. 16, 1990]

# Subpart D—Consumer Credit Protection Act Restrictions
§ 581.401
Aggregate disposable earnings.
The “aggregate disposable earnings”, when used in reference to the amounts due from, or payable by, the United States or the District of Columbia which are garnishable under the Consumer Credit Protection Act for child support and/or alimony, are the obligor's remuneration for employment less those amounts deducted in accordance with § 581.105.
§ 581.402
Maximum garnishment limitations.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, pursuant to section
1673(b)(2) (A) and (B) of title 15 of the United States Code (the Consumer Credit Protection Act, as amended), unless a lower maximum garnishment limitation is provided by applicable State or local law, the maximum part of the aggregate disposable earnings subject to garnishment to enforce any support order(s) shall not exceed:
(1) Fifty percent of the obligor's aggregate disposable earnings for any workweek, where the obligor asserts by affidavit, or by other acceptable evidence, that he or she is supporting a spouse, a dependent child, or both, other than the former spouse, child, or both, for whose support such order is issued, except that an additional five percent will apply if it appears on the face of the legal process, or from other evidence submitted in accordance with § 581.202(d), that such earnings are to enforce a support order for a period which is 12 weeks prior to that workweek. An obligor shall be considered to be supporting a spouse, dependent child, or both, only if the obligor provides over half of the support for a spouse, dependent child or both.
(2) Sixty percent of the obligor's aggregate disposable earnings for any workweek, where the obligor fails to assert by affidavit or establishes by other acceptable evidence, that he or she is supporting a spouse, dependent child, or both, other than a former spouse, child, or both, with respect to whose support such order is issued, except that an additional five percent will apply if it appears on the face of the legal process, or from other evidence submitted in accordance with § 581.202(d), that such earnings are to enforce a support order for a period which is 12 weeks prior to that workweek.
(3) Where, under § 581.302(a)(2), an obligor submits evidence that he or she is supporting a second spouse, child, or both a second spouse and dependent child, copies of the evidence shall be sent by the governmental entity to the garnishor, or the garnishor's representative, as well as to the court, or other authority as specified in § 581.102(f)(1), together with notification that the obligor's support claim will be honored. If the garnishor disagrees with the obligor's support claim, the garnishor should immediately refer the matter to the court, or other authority, for resolution.
(b) In instances where an obligor is receiving remuneration from more than one governmental entity, an authority described in § 581.102(f)(1) may apply the limitations described in paragraph (a) of this section to the total remuneration,
i.e.,
to the combined aggregate disposable earnings received by the obligor.
[63 FR 14759, Mar. 26, 1998]

# Subpart E—Implementation by Governmental Entities
§ 581.501
Rules, regulations, and directives by governmental entities.
Appropriate officials of all governmental entities shall, to the extent necessary, issue implementing rules, regulations, or directives that are consistent with this part or as are otherwise in accordance with statutory law.
[63 FR 14759, Mar. 26, 1998]
Pt. 581, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 581—List of Agents Designated To Accept Legal Process
[This appendix lists the agents designated to accept legal process for the Executive Branch of the United States, the United States Postal Service, the Postal Regulatory Commission, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Smithsonian Institution.]

# I. Departments

# Department of Agriculture
Office of the Secretary:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Executive Resources, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-0027.
Farm Production and Conservation:
FPAC-BC, WDC (NHQ), Attn: FPAC HRD—Room 3223S, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Washington, DC 20250, 855-344-4793, 833-528-1259 (fax).
Farm Service Agency:
FPAC-BC, WDC (NHQ), Attn: FPAC HRD—Room 3223S, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Washington, DC 20250, 855-344-4793, 833-528-1259 (fax).
Natural Resources Conservation Service:
FPAC-BC, WDC (NHQ), Attn: FPAC HRD—Room 3223S, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Washington, DC 20250, 855-344-4793, 833-528-1259 (fax).
Risk Management Agency:
FPAC-BC, WDC (NHQ), Attn: FPAC HRD—Room 3223S, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Washington, DC 20250, 855-344-4793, 833-528-1259 (fax).
FPAC Business Center:
FPAC-BC, WDC (NHQ), Attn: FPAC HRD—Room 3223S, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Washington, DC 20250, 855-344-4793, 833-528-1259 (fax).
Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services:
Director, Human Resources Division, Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services, 1320 Braddock Pl., Alexandria, VA 22314, (844) 208-2364.
Food Safety and Inspection Service:
Chief, Financial Services, Food Safety and Inspection Service, 4520 114th Street, Urbandale, IA 50322, (833) 643-2258 or
FSCGeneral@usda.gov.
Marketing and Regulatory Programs:
Chief, Human Resources, USDA, APHIS, 250 Marquette Avenue, Suite 410, Minneapolis, MN 55401, (612) 336-3317.
Agricultural Marketing Services:
Chief, Human Resources, USDA, APHIS, 250 Marquette Avenue, Suite 410, Minneapolis, MN 55401, (612) 336-3317.
Agricultural Marketing Service—Milk Marketing Administration:
Personnel Management Specialist, Agricultural Marketing Service, DA, Room 2548—South Bldg., Mail Stop 0228, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Washington, DC 20250-0228, (202) 690-0212.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service:
Chief, Human Resources, USDA, APHIS, 250 Marquette Avenue, Suite 410, Minneapolis, MN 55401, (612) 336-3317.
Forest Service:
U.S. Forest Service, Human Resources Management, Attn: Pay and Leave, 4000 Masthead Street NE, Albuquerque, NM 87109, 877-372-7248.
Research, Education, and Economics:
Agricultural Research Service, Human Resources Division, 5601 Sunnyside Ave., Room 2-WS-1515, Stop—5101, Beltsville, MD 20705-5101, (301) 504-1357.
Agricultural Research Service:
Human Resources Division, 5601 Sunnyside Ave., Room 2-WS-1515, Stop—5101, Beltsville, MD 20705-5101, (301) 504-1357.
Economic Research Service:
Agricultural Research Service, Human Resources Division, 5601 Sunnyside Ave., Room 2-WS-1515, Stop—5101, Beltsville, MD 20705-5101, (301) 504-1357.
National Agricultural Statistics Service:
Agricultural Research Service, Human Resources Division, 5601 Sunnyside Ave., Room 2-WS-1515, Stop—5101, Beltsville, MD 20705-5101, (301) 504-1357.
National Institute of Food and Agriculture:
Agricultural Research Service, Human Resources Division, 5601 Sunnyside Ave., Room 2-WS-1515, Stop—5101, Beltsville, MD 20705-5101, (301) 504-1357.
Office of the Chief Scientist:
U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Office of Human Resources Management, Room 318W, Washington, DC 20250, (202) 302-9509.
Rural Development:
Human Resources Office, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Mail Stop 0730, Washington, DC 20250, (202) 720-2278.
Rural Business—Cooperative Service:
Human Resources Office, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Mail Stop 0730, Washington, DC 20250, (202) 720-2278.
Rural Housing Service:
Human Resources Office, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Mail Stop 0730, Washington, DC 20250, (202) 720-2278.
Rural Utilities Service:
Human Resources Office, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Mail Stop 0730, Washington, DC 20250, (202) 720-2278.
Rural Development Business Center:
Human Resources Office, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Mail Stop 0730, Washington, DC 20250, (202) 720-2278.
Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs:
Human Capital Management Division, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 5071, Mail Stop 1001, Washington, DC 20250.
Foreign Agricultural Service:
Human Capital Management Division, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 5071, Mail Stop 1001, Washington, DC 20250.
Office of Budget and Program Analysis:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of the Chief Economist:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of the Chief Financial Officer:
USDA, Office of the Chief Financial Officer, 13800 Old Gentilly Road, Modular Bldg. H-8, New Orleans, LA 70129,
ocfo.fms.hr.services@usda.gov.
Office of the Chief Information Officer:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of Civil Rights:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of Communications:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of the General Counsel:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of the General Counsel, Office of Ethics:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington,
DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of Hearings and Appeals:
USDA, Office of the Chief Financial Officer, 13800 Old Gentilly Road, Modular Bldg. H-8, New Orleans, LA 70129,
ocfo.fms.hr.services@usda.gov.
Office of Homeland Security:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Counsel to the Inspector General, Office of Inspector General:
USDA, Whitten Buildinguiin1400 Independence Avenue SW, STOP 2308, Room 441-E, Washington, DC 20250-2308, (202) 720-9110.
Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Departmental Administration:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of Contracting and Procurement:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of Customer Experience:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of Human Resources Management:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of Operations:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of Property and Environmental Management:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.
Office of Safety, Security, and Protection:
USDA, Office of Human Resources Management—Payroll, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 318 W, Whitten Bldg., Washington, DC 20250-1400, (202) 720-4175,
HROperationspayroll@usda.gov.

# Department of Commerce
1.
Bureau of the Census, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), and the Office of the Under Secretary for Economic Affairs (OUS/EA):
For Census employee-obligors employed by Census headquarters in Suitland, Maryland; for BEA employee-obligors, and OUS/EA employee-obligors and serviced by Enterprise Services: Enterprise Services Human Resource Service Center, 8400 Corporate Drive, Suite 300, Landover, MD 20785, (888) 316-2285.
1.a.
For employee-obligors employed by the Census National Processing Center and Tucson Telephone Center:
Bureau of the Census, National Processing Center, ATTN: Chief, Employee and Labor Relations Section, Human Resources Branch, Bldg. 63A, Room 2, 1201 East 10th Street, Jeffersonville, IN 47132, (812) 218-3321, or by eFax at 812-218-3492.
b. For employee-obligors employed by the Census Regional Offices:
UPS and Fed Ex:
Bureau of the Census, Human Resources Division ATTN: Chief, Information Services Branch, 4600 Silver Hill Road, Suitland, MD 20746, (301) 763-4748.
Certified Mail and USPS:
Bureau of the Census, Human Resources Division ATTN: Chief, Information Services Branch, 4600 Silver Hill Rd., Washington, DC 20233, (301) 763-4748.
eFax:
Bureau of the Census, HRD Call Center, 301-763-8466.
2.
Patent and Trademark Office (PTO):
Human Resources Manager, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Box 3, Washington, DC 20231, (703) 305-8221.
3.
United States and Foreign Commercial Service (US
FCS):
Personnel Officer, Office of Foreign Service Personnel, Room 3815, 14th Street
Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230, (202) 482-3133.
4.
International Trade Administration (ITA) (For employee-obligors of the Headquarters/Washington, DC offices only):
Human Resources Manager, Personnel Management Division, Room 4809, 14th Street
Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230, (202) 482-3438.
5.
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)and the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) (For NIST employee-obligors; for employee-obligors employed by NTIS):
Personnel Officer, Office of Human Resources Management, Administration Building, Room A-123, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, (301) 975-3000.
6.
Office of the Inspector General (OIG):
Human Resources Manager, Resource Management Division, Room 7713, 14th Street
Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230, (202) 482-4948.
7.
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) (For employee-obligors in the Headquarters/Washington, DC; the Silver Spring and Camp Springs, MD; and the Sterling, VA
offices only):
Chief, Human Resources Services Division, NOAA, 1315 East-West Highway, Room 13619, Silver Spring, MD 20910, (301) 713-0524.
8.
Office of the Secretary (O/S), Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), Economic Development Administration (EDA), Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA), and National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) (For employee-obligors in Washington, DC metro area offices only):
Human Resources Manager, Office of Personnel Operations, Office of the Secretary, Room 5005, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230, (202) 482-3827.
9. Regional employees of NOAA, NIST, BIS, EDA, MBDA, ITA, NTIA, to the Human Resources Manager servicing the region or state in which they are employed, as follows:
a.
Central Region.
For NOAA employee-obligors in the states of: Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee, and Wisconsin; for National Marine Fisheries Service employees in the states of North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas; and for National Weather Service employees in the states of Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming; for employee-obligors in the BIS, EDA, MBDA, and ITA in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, and Wisconsin: Human Resources Manager, Central Administrative Support Center (CASC), Federal Building, Room 1736, 601 East 12th Street, Kansas City, MO 64106, (816) 426-2056.
b.
Eastern Region.
For NOAA employee-obligors in the states of: Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands; for employee-obligors in the BIS, EDA, MBDA, and ITA in the states of Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands: Human Resources Manager, Eastern Administrative Support Center (EASC), NOAA EC, 200 World Trade Center, Norfolk, VA 23510, (757) 441-6517.
c.
Mountain Region.
For NOAA employee-obligors in the states of: Alaska, Colorado, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, and Oklahoma, at the South Pole and in American Samoa; and for the National Weather Service employees in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas and in Puerto Rico; for employee-obligors in BIS, EDA, MBDA, NIST, and NTIA in the states of Arkansas, Colorado, Hawaii, Iowa, Louisiana, Missouri, Montana, South Dakota, Texas, Utah and Wisconsin: Human Resources Office, Mountain Administrative Support Center (MASC), MC22A, 325 Broadway, Boulder, CO 80303-3328, (303) 497-3578.
d.
Western Region.
For NOAA employee-obligors in the states of Arizona, California, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and the Trust Territories; for employee-obligors in BIS, EDA, MBDA, and ITA in the states of Arizona, California, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and the Trust Territories: Human Resources Manager, Western Administrative Support Center (WASC), NOAA WC2, 7600 Sand Point Way NE, Bin C15700, Seattle, WA 89115-0070, (206) 526-6057.
10.
In cases where the name of the operating unit cannot be determined:
Director for Human Resources Management, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Room 5001, (202) 482-4807.
11.
For employee-obligors employed by bureaus serviced by Enterprise Services (BIS, EDA, ITA, MBDA, NOAA, NTIA, and O/S):
Enterprise Services Human Resource Service Center, 8400 Corporate Drive, Suite 300, Landover, MD 20785, (888) 316-2285.

# Department of Defense
Unless specifically listed below, all military members (active, retired, reserve, and national guard), and all civilian employees of the Department of Defense:
Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.

# Army
a.
Civilian employees in Germany:
Commander, 266th Theater Finance Corps, Attention: AEUCF-CPF, Unit 29001, APO AE 09007, 011-49-6221-57-7977/6044.
b. Non-appropriated fund civilian employees of the Army:

# Post Exchanges
Department of Defense.
Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.

# Navy
a.
Military Sealift Command Pacific Mariners:
Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland,
OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.
b.
Military Sealift Command Atlantic Mariners:
Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.
c.
Non-appropriated fund civilian employees of Navy Exchanges or related non-appropriated fund instrumentalities administered by the Navy Exchange Service Command:
Chief Executive Officer, Navy Exchange Service Command, ATTN: Office of Counsel, 3280 Virginia Beach Blvd., Virginia Beach, VA 23452-5724, (757) 631-3617.
d.
Non-appropriated fund civilian employees at Navy clubs, messes or recreational facilities:
Chief of Navy Personnel, Director, Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Division (MWR), Washington, DC 20370, (202) 433-3005.
e. Non-appropriated fund personnel of activities that fall outside the purview of the Chief of Navy Personnel or the Chief Executive Officer of the Navy Exchange Service Command, such as locally established morale, welfare and other social and hobby clubs, such process may be served on the commanding officer of the activity concerned.

# Marine Corps
Non-appropriated fund civilian employees, process may be served on the commanding officer of the activity concerned.

# Air Force
a.
Non-appropriated fund civilian employees of base exchanges:
Army and Air Force Exchange Service, Attention: FA-F/R, P.O. Box 650038, Dallas, TX 75265-0038, (214) 312-2119.
b.
Non-appropriated fund civilian employees of all other Air Force non-appropriated fund activities:
Office of Legal Counsel, Air Force Services Agency, 10100 Reunion Place, Suite 503, San Antonio, TX 78216-4138, (210) 652-7051.

# Department of Education
Assistant Secretary, Office of Finance and Operations, Lyndon Baines Johnson Building—2nd Floor, 400 Maryland Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20202, (202) 401-3000.

# Department of Energy
Garnishment orders for civilian employees of the Department of Energy, other than those employed by the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), should be sent to: Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.
Garnishment orders for civilian employees of BPA and FERC should be sent to the addresses below:

# Bonneville Power Administration
Chief, Payroll Section DSDP, Bonneville Power Administration, Department of Energy, 905 NE 11th Avenue, Portland, OR 97232, (503) 230-3203.

# Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Payroll Office, 888 First Street NE, Washington, DC 20246, (202) 502-8990.

# Department of Health and Human Services
Garnishment orders for civilian employees of the Department of Health and Human Services should be sent to: Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.

# Department of Homeland Security
For Department of Homeland Security Headquarters employees:
Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer, HRMS/Payroll and Processing/Mailstop 0170, Department of Homeland Security, 6595 Springfield Center Drive, Springfield, VA 20598-0170.

# U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
Financial Operations Center—Payroll, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, 70 Kimball Avenue South Burlington, VT 05403, (802) 657-7860.

# United States Coast Guard
Commanding Officer (LGL), Coast Guard Pay and Personnel Center, 444 SE Quincy Street, Topeka, KS 66683-3591, (785) 339-3595.

# U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Chief, Payroll Branch, Finance and Accounting Division, 6650 Telecom Drive, Suite 100, Indianapolis, IN 46278, (317) 298-1305.

# Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
Unless an alternative means of service is specified at
https://www.cisa.gov/contact-us,
deliver service of process to: Office of the Chief Counsel, CISA-NGR STOP 0645 Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, 1110 N Glebe Rd., Arlington, VA 20598-0645. To aid in prompt handling, parties are encouraged to also email a copy to
CISA.OCC@cisa.dhs.gov.

# Federal Emergency Management Agency
Director, Payroll and Processing Division, Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer, 500 C St. SW, Washington, DC 20472, (866) 896-8003.

# Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
Chief Counsel, 1131 Chapel Crossing Road, Building 93, Glynco, GA 31524, (912) 267-244.

# United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Office of Human Capital, Payroll Unit, 8222 N Belt Line Road, 2nd Floor, Irving, TX 75063.

# United States Secret Service
U.S. Secret Service, 245 Murray Ln SW—BLDG T-5, Washington, DC 20223, (202) 406-5708.

# Transportation Security Administration
TSA HR Service Center, 6363 Walker Lane, Suite #400, Alexandria, VA 22310.

# Department of Housing and Urban Development
Director, Systems Support Division, Employee Service Center, 451 7th Street SW, Room 2284, Washington, DC 20410, (202) 708-0241.

# Department of the Interior
Chief, Payroll Operations Division, Attn: Code D-2605, Interior Business Center, Department of the Interior, P.O. Box 272030, Denver, CO 80227-9030, (303) 969-7739.

# Department of Justice

# Antitrust Division
Executive Office, Personnel Section 450 5th Street NW, Room 3100, Washington, DC 20530, (202) 415-4163.

# Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
Human Resources and Professional Development, 99 New York Ave. NE, Washington, DC 20226, (202) 344-5608.

# Bureau of Prisons (All Facilities)
Human Resource Services Center, 346 Marine Forces Drive, Grand Prairie, TX 75051, (202) 235-7824.

# Civil Division
Office of Human Resources, 1100 L Street NW, Room 2034, Washington, DC 20530, (202) 616-0353.

# Civil Rights Division
Office of Human Resources and Security, 150 M Street NE, Room 6.1408, Washington, DC 20530, (202) 514-3934.

# Criminal Division
Office of Administration, 1400 New York Ave. NW, 6th Floor, Room 629, Washington, DC 20005, (202) 514-0361.

# Drug Enforcement Administration
Compensation, Benefits and Processing Section, 8701 Morrissette Drive, HR/HRS, Springfield, VA 22152, (571) 776-2821.

# Environment

# Natural Resources Division
150 M Street NE, Room 2.1142, Washington, DC 20530, (202) 616-3359.

# Executive Office for Immigration Review
Office of Human Resources, 5107 Leesburg Pike, 19th Floor, (703) 756-8061.

# Executive Office for United States Attorneys
Human Resources, 175 N Street NE, Washington, DC 20530, (202) 252-5324.

# Federal Bureau of Investigations
Human Resources Division, Payroll Management Unit, 935 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Room 10997, Washington, DC 20535, (202) 324-3333.

# Justice Management Division (for All DOJ Components Not Otherwise Listed)
JMD Human Resources Operations/Payroll, 145 N Street NE, Room 9W.1425, Washington, DC 20530, (202) 616-9008.

# Office of Justice Programs
Office of Administration, Human Resources Division, 810 7th Street NW, Room 3300, Washington, DC 20531, (202) 307-0730.

# Office of the Inspector General
M
P Office of Human Resources, 150 M Street, Suite 11.000, Washington, DC 20530, (202) 616-4522.

# Tax Division
150 M Street NE, Suite 1.1330, Washington, DC 20530, (202) 616-1762.

# U.S. Marshals Service
Human Resources Division, Office of Compensation, Benefits, and Processing, CG3 4th Floor, Room 4030, Arlington, VA 22202, (703) 740-1714.

# Department of Labor
1.
Payments to employees of the Department of Labor:
Division Director, Office of Compensation and Processing, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, N-4654, Washington, DC 20210, (202) 693-6856.
2.
Process relating to those exceptional cases where there is money due and payable by the United States under the Longshoreman's Act should be directed to the:
Associate Director for Longshore and Harbor Worker's Compensation, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, C-3516, Washington, DC 20210, (202) 219-8721.
3. Process relating to benefits payable under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act should be directed to the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs:

# DFELHWC—FECA
Fiscal Operations, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, 2300 Main Street, Suite 10128, Kansas City, MO 64108-2416, (202) 513-6860.

# Department of State
The Executive Office, Office of the Legal Adviser, Suite 5.600, Department of State, 600 19th Street NW, Washington, DC 20522.

# Department of Transportation

# Office of the Secretary
Assistant General Counsel for Litigation and Enforcement, C-30, U.S. Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Room W94-310, Washington, DC 20590, (202) 366-4713.

# Federal Aviation Administration
Chief, Payroll Operations Division, Attn: Code D-2605, Interior Business Center, Department of the Interior, P.O. Box 272030, Denver, CO 80227-9030, (303) 969-7739.

# Department of the Treasury

# (1) Departmental Offices
Office of Human Resources, Treasury Department, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220, (202) 622-0450.

# (2) Office of Foreign Assets Control
Chief Counsel, Second Floor, Treasury Annex/Freedman's Bank Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220, (202) 622-2410.

# (3) Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Human Capital Division, Room A4-H, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, P.O. Box 1328, Parkersburg WV 26106-1328, (304) 480-8303.

# (4) Internal Revenue Service
Austin Payroll Center, P.O. Box 9002, Beckley, WV 25802-9002, (304) 254-5940.

# (5) Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Attention: Accounting Services Branch 2 Avery Street A3-G, P.O. Box 1328, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.

# (6) Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
Office of Human Resources, 2070 Chain Bridge Road, G99, Vienna, VA 22182, (703) 905-3591.

# (7) Office of the Inspector General
Office of Human Resources, 875 15th Street NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20220, 202-927-5200.

# (8) Special Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery
2051 Jamieson Avenue, Suite 600, Alexandria, VA 22314, (202) 695-0753.

# (9) Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP)
HR Office, 14509 Delcastle Dr., Bowie, MD 20721, (202) 538-4647,
SIGTARPCareers@treasury.gov.

# (10) Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration
Bureau of Fiscal Service, Administrative Resource Center, Room A2-A, P.O. Box 1328, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328, (304) 480—8000 Option 4,
tigtaHRProcessing@fiscal.treasury.gov,
Fax: (304) 480—8295.

# (11) Bureau of Engraving

# Printing
Chief Counsel, 14th
C Streets NW, Room 306M, Washington, DC 20228, (202) 874-2500.

# (12) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

# Washington Headquarters
Director of Litigation, Chief Counsel's Office, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 400 7th Street SW, Washington, DC 20219-0001, (202) 649-5400.

# District Offices
District Counsel-Northeast, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 340 Madison Avenue, 5th Floor, New York, NY 10173, (212) 790-4000.
District Counsel-Southern, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 500 North Akard Street, Suite 1600, Dallas, TX 75201-3323, (214) 720-0656.
District Counsel-Central, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 425 South Financial Place, Suite 1700, Chicago, IL 60605-1073, (312) 360-8800.
District Counsel-Western, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 1050 17th Street, Suite 1500, Denver, CO 80265-1050, (720) 475-7600.

# (13) United States Mint
Chief Counsel, 801 Ninth Street NW, Washington, DC 20220, (202) 756-6468.

# Department of Veterans Affairs
Garnishment orders for civilian employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs should be sent to: Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box
998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411 (Those parties seeking offset of Veteran benefit payments pursuant to court and/or child support enforcement orders should contact the Veterans Benefits Administration at 1-800-827-1000 or
https.www.benefits.va.gov/benefits-/offices.asp
for the appropriate service address of the Veterans Affairs Regional Office corresponding to the debtor's legal domicile).

# Social Security Administration
1.
For the garnishment of the remuneration of employees:
Garnishment Agent, Office of the General Counsel, Room 611, Altmeyer Building, 6401 Security Blvd., Baltimore, MD 21235, (410) 965-4202.
Effective March 30, 1998, garnishment orders for employees of the Social Security Administration should be sent to: Chief, Payroll Operations Division, Attn.: Code D-2640, Bureau of Reclamation, Administrative Services Center, Department of the Interior, P.O. Box 272030, Denver, CO 80227-9030, (303) 969-7739.
2. For the garnishment of benefits under Title II of the Social Security Act, legal process may be served on the office manager at any Social Security District or Branch Office. The addresses and telephone numbers of Social Security District and Branch Offices may be found in the local telephone directory.

# II. Agencies
(Unless otherwise indicated below, all agencies of the executive branch shall be subject to service of legal process brought for the enforcement of an individual's obligation to provide child support and/or make alimony payments where such service is sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service, upon the head of the agency.)

# Agency for International Development
For employees of the Agency for International Development:
Chief, Payroll Division, United States Agency for International Development, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20523, (202) 916-4405, (202) 916-4956 (fax),
payroll@usaid.gov
.

# Central Intelligence Agency
Office of Personnel Security, Attn: Chief, Special Activities Staff, Washington, DC 20505, (703) 482-1217.

# Commission on Civil Rights
Solicitor, Commission on Civil Rights, 624 9th Street NW, Suite 632, Washington, DC 20425, (202) 376-8351.

# Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Director, Office of Personnel, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Center, Room 7200, 1155 21st Street NW, Washington, DC 20581, (202) 418-5003.

# Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
General Counsel, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552, (202) 435-5206.

# Consumer Product Safety Commission
(Mail Service), General Counsel, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207-0001, (202) 504-0980.
(Personal Service), General Counsel, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East-West Highway, Room 700, Bethesda, MD 20814-4408, (301) 504-0980.

# Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
Interior Business Center, Department of the Interior, Chief, Payroll Operations Division, ATTN: D-2640, P.O. Box 272030, Denver, CO 80227-9030, (303) 969-7739.

# Environmental Protection Agency
Department of the Interior, Interior Business Center, Debt Management Branch Attention: D-2640, 7201 W Mansfield Avenue, Denver, CO 80235, (866) 367-1272.

# Export-Import Bank of the United States
General Counsel, Export-Import Bank of the United States, 811 Vermont Avenue NW, Room 947, Washington, DC 20571, (202) 566-8334.

# Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Director, Finance and Systems Services Division, Room 4SE09E, 131 M Street NE, Washington, DC 20507, (202) 921-2869.

# Farm Credit Administration
Chief, Fiscal Management Division, Farm Credit Administration, 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, VA 22102-5090, (703) 883-4122.

# Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Counsel, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 550 17th Street NW, Washington, DC 20429, (202) 898-3686.

# Federal Election Commission
Accounting Officer, Federal Election Commission, 999 E Street NW, Washington, DC 20463, (202) 376-5270.

# Federal Labor Relations Authority
Director of Personnel, Federal Labor Relations Authority, 607 14th Street NW, Suite 430, Washington, DC 20424, (202) 482-6690.

# Federal Maritime Commission
Director of Personnel or Deputy Director of Personnel, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street NW, Washington, DC 20573, (202) 523-5773.

# Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
General Counsel, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, 2100 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20427, (202) 653-5305.

# Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
Payments to Board employees:
Director of Administration, Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, 1250 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20005, (202) 942-1670.
Benefits from the Thrift Savings Fund:
General Counsel, Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, 1250 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20005, (202) 942-1662.

# Federal Trade Commission
Garnishment orders for employees of the Federal Trade Commission should be sent to:
Chief, Payroll Operations Division, Attn.: Code D-2605, Bureau of Reclamation, Administrative Services Center, Department of the Interior, 7201 West Mansfield Avenue, Denver, CO 80227-9030, (303) 969-7739.

# General Services Administration
Director, Kansas City Finance Division—6BC, 1500 East Bannister Road—Room 1107, Kansas City, MO 64131, (816) 926-7625.

# Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
Chief, Payroll Operations Division, Attention: Mail Code 2640, National Business Center, Department of the Interior, P.O. Box 272030, Denver, CO 80227-9030, (303) 969-7739.

# Institute of Peace
Garnishment orders for employees of the Institute of Peace should be sent to:
General Services Administration, Director, Finance Division—(6BC), 1500 E Bannister Road, Room 1107, Kansas City, MO 64131, (816) 926-1666.

# International Trade Commission
Director, Office of Finance and Budget, 500 E Street SW, Suite 316, Washington, DC 20436, (202) 205-2678.

# Merit Systems Protection Board
Director, Financial and Administrative Management Division, 1615 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20419, (202) 653-7263.

# National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Interior Business Center, Department of the Interior, Chief, Payroll Operations Division, ATTN: D-2640, P.O. Box 272030, Denver, CO 80227-9030, (303) 969-7739.

# National Archives and Records Administration
General Counsel (NGC), National Archives and Records Administration, Suite 3110, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740, 301-837-1750.

# National Capital Planning Commission
Administrative Officer, National Capital Planning Commission, 1325 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20576, (202) 724-0170.

# National Credit Union Administration
General Counsel, Office of General Counsel, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428, (703) 518-6540.

# National Endowment for the Arts
General Counsel, National Endowment for the Arts, 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Room 522, Washington, DC 20506, (202) 682-5418.

# National Endowment for the Humanities
General Counsel, National Endowment for the Humanities, Room 530, Old Post Office, 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20506, (202) 606-8322.

# National Labor Relations Board
Director of Personnel, National Labor Relations Board, 1099 14th Street NW, Room 6700, Washington, DC 20570-0001, (202) 273-3904.

# National Mediation Board
Administrative Officer, National Mediation Board, 1301 K Street NW, Suite 250 East, Washington, DC 20572, (202) 523-5950.

# National Railroad Adjustment Board
Staff Director/Grievances, National Railroad Adjustment Board, 175 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60604, (312) 886-7300.

# National Science Foundation
Human Resources Management, National Science Foundation, 2415 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22314, (703) 292-5111.

# National Security Agency
General Counsel, National Security Agency, 9800 Savage Road, Ft. Meade, MD 20755-6000, (301) 688-6054.

# National Transportation Safety Board
Director, Personnel and Training Division, National Transportation Safety Board, ATTN: AD-30, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20594, (202) 382-6718.

# Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission
Attorney, Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission, 201 East Birch, Room 11,
P.O. Box KK, Flagstaff, AZ 86002, (602) 779-2721.

# Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Comptroller, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, (301) 415-0667.

# Office of Personnel Management
Payments to OPM employees:
Human Resources, Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street NW, Washington, DC 20415.
Payments of retirement benefits under the Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees Retirement System:
Court Ordered Benefits Branch, ATTN: Garnishments, Office of Personnel Management, P.O. Box 17, Washington, DC 20044-0017, (202) 606-0222.

# Overseas Private Investment Corporation
Director, Human Resources Management, Overseas Private Investment Corporation, 1100 New York Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20527, (202) 336-8524.

# Panama Canal Commission
Secretary, Office of the Secretary, International Square, 1825 I Street NW, Suite 1050, Washington, DC 20006-5402, (202) 634-6441.

# Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
Associate General Counsel, 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024, (202) 229-4400.

# Presidio Trust
Chief, Payroll Operations Division, Attention: Mail Code 2640, National Business Center, Department of the Interior, P.O. Box 272030, Denver, CO 80227-9030, (303) 969-7739.

# Railroad Retirement Board
General Counsel, 844 North Rush Street, Chicago, IL 60611, (312) 751-4948.

# Securities and Exchange Commission
Branch Chief, Employee Services, Office of Human Resources, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, (202) 551-7500.

# Selective Service System
General Counsel, 1515 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA 22209-2425, (703) 235-2050.

# Small Business Administration
District Director, Birmingham District Office, 908 South 20th Street, Birmingham, AL 35205, (205) 254-1344.
District Director, Anchorage District Office, 1016 West 6th Avenue, Anchorage, AK 99501, (907) 271-4022.
District Director, Phoenix District Office, 3030 North Central Avenue, Phoenix, AZ 85012, (602) 261-3611.
District Director, Little Rock District Office, 611 Gaines Street, Little Rock, AR 72201, (501) 378-5871.
District Director, Los Angeles District Office, 350 S Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, CA 90071, (213) 688-2956.
District Director, San Diego District Office, 880 Front Street, San Diego, CA 92188, (714) 291-5440.
District Director, San Francisco District Office, 211 Main Street, San Francisco, CA 94105, (415) 556-7490.
District Director, Denver District Office, 721 19th Street, Denver, CO 80202, (303) 837-2607.
District Director, Hartford District Office, One Financial Plaza, Hartford, CT 06106, (203) 244-3600.
District Director, Washington District Office, 1030 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20417, (202) 655-4000.
District Director, Jacksonville District Office, 400 West Bay Street, Jacksonville, FL 32202, (904) 791-3782.
District Director, Miami District Office, 222 Ponce de Leon Blvd., Coral Gables, FL 33134, (305) 350-5521.
District Director, Atlanta District Office, 1720 Peachtree Street NW, Atlanta, GA 30309, (404) 347-2441.
District Director, Honolulu District Office, 300 Ala Moana Blvd., Honolulu, HI 96850, (808) 546-8950.
District Director, Boise District Office, 1005 Main Street, Boise, ID 83701, (208) 384-1096.
District Director, Des Moines District Office, 210 Walnut Street, Des Moines, IA 50309, (515) 284-4433.
District Director, Chicago District Office, 219 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604, (312) 353-4528.
District Director, Indianapolis District Office, 575 N Pennsylvania Street, Indianapolis, IN 46204, (317) 269-7272.
District Director, Wichita District Office, 110 East Waterman Street, Wichita, KS 67202, (316) 267-6571.
District Director, Louisville District Office, 600 Federal Place, Louisville, KY 40201, (502) 582-5978.
District Director, New Orleans District Office, 1001 Howard Avenue, New Orleans, LA 70113, (504) 589-6685.
District Director, Augusta District Office, 40 Western Avenue, Augusta, ME 04330, (207) 622-6171.
District Director, Baltimore District Office, 8600 LaSalle Road, Towson, MD 21204, (301) 862-4392.
District Director, Boston District Office, 150 Causeway Street, Boston, MA 02114, (617) 223-2100.
District Director, Detroit District, 477 Michigan Avenue, Detroit, MI 48116, (313) 226-6075.
District Director, Minneapolis District Office, 12 South 6th Street, Minneapolis, MN 55402, (612) 725-2362.
District Director, Jackson District Office, 101 West Capitol Street, Suite 400, Jackson, MS 39201, (601) 965-5371.
District Director, Kansas City District Office, 1150 Grande Avenue, Kansas City, MO 64106, (816) 374-3416.
District Director, St. Louis District Office, One Mercantile Center, St. Louis, MO 63101, (314) 425-4191.
District Director, Helena District Office, 301 South Park Avenue, Helena, MT 59601, (406) 449-5381.
District Director, Omaha District Office, 19th
Farnam Streets, Omaha, NE 68102, (404) 221-4691.
District Director, Las Vegas District Office, 301 East Stewart Avenue, Las Vegas, NV 89101, (702) 385-6611.
District Director, Concord District Office, 55 Pleasant Street, Concord, NH 03301, (603) 224-4041.
District Director, Newark District Office, 970 Broad Street, Newark, NJ 07102, (201) 645-2434.
District Director, Albuquerque District Office, 5000 Marble Avenue NE, Albuquerque, NM 87110, (505) 766-3430.
District Director, New York District Office, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10007, (212) 264-4355.
District Director, Syracuse District Office, 100 South Clinton Street, Syracuse, NY 13260, (315) 423-5383.
District Director, Charlotte District Office, 230 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, NC 28202, (704) 371-6111.
District Director, Fargo District Office, 657 2nd Avenue North, Fargo, ND 58108, (701) 237-5771.
District Director, Sioux Falls District Office, 101 South Main Avenue, Sioux Falls, SD 57102, (605) 336-2980.
District Director, Cleveland District Office, 1240 East 9th Street, Cleveland, OH 44199, (216) 522-4180.
District Director, Columbus District Office, 85 Marconi Boulevard, Columbus, OH 43215, (614) 469-6860.
District Director, Oklahoma City District Office, 200 NW 5th Street, Oklahoma City, OK 73102, (405) 231-4301.
District Director, Portland District Office, 1220 SW Third Avenue, Portland, OR 97204, (503) 221-2682.
District Director, Philadelphia District Office, 231 St. Asaphs Road, Bala Cynwyd, PA 19004, (215) 597-3311.
District Director, Pittsburgh District Office, 1000 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15222, (412) 644-2780.
District Director, Hato Rey District Office, Chardon
Bolivia Streets, Hato Rey, PR 00918, (809) 753-4572.
District Director, Providence District Office, 57 Eddy Street, Providence, RI 02903, (401) 528-4580.
District Director, Columbia District Office, 1835 Assembly Street, Columbia, SC 29201, (803) 765-5376.
District Director, Nashville District Office, 404 James Robertson Parkway, Nashville, TN 37219, (615) 251-5881.
District Director, Dallas District Office, 1100 Commerce Street, Dallas, TX 75242, (214) 767-0605.
District Director, Houston District Office, 500 Dallas Street, Houston, TX 77002, (713) 226-4341.
District Director, Lower Rio Grande Valley District Office, 222 East Van Buren Street, Harlingen, TX 78550, (512) 423-4534.
District Director, Lubbock District Office, 1205 Texas Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79401, (806) 762-7466.
District Director, San Antonio District Office, 727 East Durango Street, San Antonio, TX 78206, (512) 229-6250.
District Director, Salt Lake City District Office, 125 South State Street, Salt Lake City, UT 84138, (314) 425-5800.
District Director, Montpelier District Office, 87 State Street, Montpelier, VT 05602, (802) 229-0538.
District Director, Richmond District Office, 400 North 8th Street, Richmond, VA 23240, (804) 782-2617.
District Director, Seattle District Office, 915 Second Avenue, Seattle, WA 98174, (206) 442-5534.
District Director, Spokane District Office, West 920 Riverside Avenue, Spokane, WA 99210, (509) 456-5310.
District Director, Clarksburg District Office, 109 North 3rd Street, Clarksburg, WV 26301, (304) 623-5631.
District Director, Madison District Office, 212 East Washington Avenue, Madison, WI 53703, (608) 264-5261.
District Director, Casper District Office, 100 East B Street, Casper, WY 82602, (307) 265-5266.

# Tennessee Valley Authority
Payments to TVA employees:
Chairman, Board of Directors, Tennessee Valley Authority, 400 West Summit Hill Drive, Knoxville, TN 37902, (423) 632-2101.
Payments of retirement benefits under the TVA Retirement System:
Chairman, Board of Directors, TVA Retirement System, 500 West Summit Hill Drive, Knoxville, TN 37902, (423) 632-0202.

# Trade and Development Agency
Effective August 3, 1998, garnishment orders for employees of the United States Trade and Development Agency should be sent to: Chief, Payroll Operations Division, Attn.: Code D-2640, Bureau of Reclamation,
Administrative Services Center, Department of the Interior, P.O. Box 272030, Denver, CO 80227-9030, (303) 969-7739.

# United States Soldiers'

# Airmen's Home
Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.

# III. United States Postal Service and Postal Regulatory Commission

# United States Postal Service and Postal Regulatory Commission
Manager, Payroll Operations, 2825 Lone Oak Parkway, Eagan, MN 55121-0650, (651) 406-3600.

# IV. The District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, and the Virgin Islands

# The District of Columbia
Assistant City Administrator for Financial Management, The District Building, Room 412, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 727-6979.

# American Samoa
Director of Administrative Service, American Samoa government, Pago Pago, American Samoa 96799, (684) 633-4155.

# Guam
Attorney General, P.O. Box DA, Agana, Guam 96910, 472-6841 (Country Code 671).

# The Virgin Islands
Attorney General, P.O. Box 280, St. Thomas, VI 00801, (809) 774-1163.

# V. Instrumentality

# Smithsonian Institution
For service of process in garnishment proceedings for child support and/or alimony of present Smithsonian Institution employees:
Controller, Office of Finance and Accounting, Smithsonian Institution, P.O. Box 37012 MRC 1203, Washington, DC 20013-7012, (202) 633-7250
For service of process in garnishment proceedings for child support and/or alimony involving retirement annuities of former trust fund employees of the Smithsonian Institution:
General Counsel, Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America, College Retirement Equity Fund (TIAA/CREF), 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017, (212) 490-9000

# VI. Executive Office of the President

# Executive Office of the President
Garnishment orders for civilian employees of the Executive Office of the President should be sent to: Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.
[88 FR 32083, May 19, 2023]
Pt. 581, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 581—List of Agents Designated To Facilitate the Service of Legal Process on Federal Employees
(The agents designated to accept legal process for the garnishment of the remuneration for employment due from the United States are listed in appendix A to part 581. Appendix B to part 581 lists the agents designated to assist in the service of legal process in civil actions pursuant to orders of State courts to establish paternity and to establish or to enforce support obligations by making Federal employees and members of the Uniformed Services available for service of process, regardless of the location of the employee's workplace or of the member's duty station. Agents are listed in appendix B only for those executive agencies where the designations differ from those found in appendix A to part 581.)

# Department of Defense
The Department of Defense officials identified pursuant to Executive Order 12953, section 302, shall facilitate an employee's or member's availability for service of process. Additionally, these officials shall be responsible for answering inquiries about their respective organization's service of process rules. Such officials are not responsible for actual service of process and will not accept requests to make such service.

# Office of the Secretary of Defense
Personnel Management Specialist, DoD Civilian Personnel Management Service, 1400 Key Blvd., Level A, Arlington, VA 22209

# Department of the Army
Members of the uniformed service, active, reserve, and retired.
Office of the Judge Advocate General, ATTN: DAJA-LA, 2200 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310-2200, (703) 697-3170.
Federal civilian employees of the Army, both appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund.
Deputy Assistant Secretary, (Civilian Personnel Policy/Director of Civilian Personnel), 111 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310-0111, (703) 695-4237
Active duty, reserve, and appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund employees of the Department of the Army employed within the United States.
Appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund Federal civilian employees employed in Panama.
Deputy Chief of Staff for Resource Management, U.S. Army Southern Command, Finance
Accounting Office, Civilian Personnel Section, ATTN: Unit 7153, SORM-FA-C, APO AA 34004

# Department of the Navy
In order to locate, or determine the cognizant command and mailing address of a Navy Member:
Bureau of Naval Personnel, Worldwide Locator, (Pers 324D), 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370-3000, (703) 614-3155/5011
In order to obtain assistance in the service of legal process in civil actions pursuant to orders of State courts:
Bureau of Naval Personnel, Office of Legal Counsel (Pers 06), 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370-5006, (703) 614-4110

# Members of the Marine Corps
Paralegal Specialist, Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps (JAR), 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380-1775, (703) 614-2510
For assistance in service of process on Department of the Navy civilian employees:
Department of the Navy, Office of Civilian Personnel Mgmt., Office of Counsel (Code OL), 800 N. Quincy Street, Arlington, VA 2203, (703) 696-4717

# Department of the Air Force
For all military and civilian personnel:
AFLSA/JACA, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1420, (703) 695-2450

# Defense Intelligence Agency
Defense Intelligence Agency, ATTN: Office of the General Counsel, The Pentagon—Room 2E-238, Washington, DC 20301-7400

# Defense Mapping Agency
Defense Mapping Agency, Office of Legal Services, 3200 South Second Street, St. Louis, MO 63118

# Defense Nuclear Agency
Associate General Counsel, Defense Nuclear Agency, 6801 Telegraph Road, Alexandria, VA 22310-3398, (703) 325-7681

# On-Site Inspection Agency
General Counsel, Defense Nuclear Agency, 6801 Telegraph Road, Alexandria, VA 22310-3398, (703) 325-7681

# Department of Housing and Urban Development

# Headquarters
Chief, Systems Support Branch, Technology Support Division, 451 7th Street, SW., Room 2256, Washington, DC 20410, (202) 708-0241

# New England (Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Connecticut)
Human Resources Officer, Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Federal Building, 10 Causeway Street, Room 375, Boston, MA 02222, (617) 565-5435

# New York, New Jersey
Human Resources Officer, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10278, (212) 264-0782

# Mid-Atlantic (Pennsylvania, Maryland, Washington, DC, West Virginia, Virginia, and Delaware)
Human Resources Officer, The Wanamaker Building, 100 Penn Square East, Philadelphia, PA 19107, (215) 656-0593

# Southwest (Georgia, North Carolina, Kentucky, Tennessee, South Carolina, Alabama, Mississippi, Puerto Rico, and Florida)
Human Resources Officer, Richard B. Russell Federal Building, 75 Spring Street, SW., Atlanta, GA 30303, (404) 331-4078

# Midwest (Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio, and Indiana)
Human Resources Officer, Ralph H. Metcalfe Federal Building, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60604, (312) 353-5960

# Southwest (Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, and New Mexico)
Human Resources Officer, 1600 Throckmorton, Post Office Box 2905, Fort Worth, TX 76113, (817) 885-5471

# Great Plains (Kansas, Missouri, Iowa, and Nebraska)
Human Resources Officer, Gateway Tower II, 400 State Avenue, Kansas City, KS 66101, (913) 551-5419

# Rocky Mountain (Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming, and Utah)
Human Resources Officer, First Interstate Tower North, 633 17th Street, Denver, CO 80202, (303) 672-5259

# Pacific/Hawaii (California, Nevada, Arizona, and Hawaii)
Human Resources Officer, Phillip Burton Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, 450 Golden Gate Avenue, Post Office Box 36003, San Francisco, CA 94102, (415) 556-7142

# Northwest/Alaska (Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Alaska)
Human Resources Officer, Federal Office Building, 909 First Avenue, Suite 200, Seattle, WA 98104, (206) 220-5125

# Department of Transportation
HPT-1 (FHWA), Room 4317, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590
G-PC (USCG), Room 4100E, CGHQ, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590
RAD-10 (FRA), Room 8232, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590
NAD-20 (NHTSA), Room 5306, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590
TAD-30 (FTA), Room 7101, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590
DMA-12 (RSPA), Room 8401, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590
JM-20 (OIG), Room 7418, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590
MAR-360 (MARAD), Room 8101, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590
Personnel Officer (SLSDC), 180 Andrews Street, Masena, NY 13662-1763
AHR-1 (FAA), FOB-10A, Room 500E, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590
Chief Counsel, Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, 400 Seventh St., SW., Room 5424, Washington, DC 20590

# Department of Veterans Affairs

# Alabama
Human Resources Management Officer, Birmingham Medical Center, 700 South 19th Street, Birmingham, AL 35233, (205) 933-4478
Montgomery Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Human Resources Management Officer, Montgomery Medical Center, 215 Perry Hill Road, Montgomery, AL 36109-3798, (334) 272-4670
Human Resources Management Officer, Tuskegee Medical Center, 2400 Hospital Road, Tuskegee, AL 36083-5001, (334) 727-0550
Human Resources Management Officer, Tuscaloosa Medical Center, 3701 Loop Road, Tuscaloosa, AL 35404, (205) 554-2000, ext. 2542
Fort Mitchell National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2400 Hospital Road, Tuskegee, AL 36083-5001, (334) 727-0550
Mobile Outpatient Clinic Substation, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 400 Veterans Blvd., Biloxi, MS 39531, (601) 388-5541, ext. 5780

# Alaska
Fort Richardson (Sitka) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center
Regional Office, 2925 DeBarr Road, Anchorage, AK 99508-2989, (907) 257-4750
Human Resources Management Officer, Anchorage Medical Center
Regional Office, 2925 DeBarr Road, Anchorage, AK 99508-2989, (907) 257-4750

# Arizona
Human Resources Management Officer, Prescott Medical Center, 500 N. Highway 89, Prescott, AZ 86313-5000, (520) 776-6015
Prescott National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 500 N. Highway 89, Prescott, AZ 86313-5000, (520) 776-6015
Human Resources Management Officer, Phoenix Medical Center, 650 E. Indian School Road, Phoenix, AZ 85012, (602) 277-5551, ext. 7594
Human Resources Management Officer, Tucson Medical Center, 3601 South Sixth Avenue, Tuscon, AZ 85723-0001, (520) 629-1803
Phoenix Regional Office, Send to: VBA Western Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
Arizona (Cave Creek) Memorial National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 650 E. Indian School Road, Phoenix, AZ 85012, (602) 277-5551, ext. 7594

# Arkansas
Fayetteville National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1100 N. College Avenue, Fayetteville, AR 72703, (501) 444-5020
Fort Smith National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1100 N. College Avenue, Fayetteville, AR 72703, (501) 444-5020
Little Rock National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 4300 West 7th Street, Little Rock, AR 72114, (501) 370-6677
Little Rock Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Human Resources Management Officer, Little Rock Medical Center, 4300 West 7th Street, Little Rock, AR 72114, (501) 370-6677
Human Resources Management Officer, Fayetteville Medical Center, 1100 N. College Avenue, Fayetteville, AR 72703, (501) 444-5020

# California
Human Resources Management Officer, Palo Alto Medical Center, 3801 Miranda Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94304-1207, (415) 493-5000, ext. 5515
Human Resources Management Officer, Loma Linda Medical Center, 11201 Benton Street, Loma Linda, CA 92357-0002, (909) 825-7084, ext. 3058
San Diego Regional Office, Send to: VBA Western Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
Sepulveda VCS Western Region, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 16111 Plummer Street, Sepulveda, CA 91343-2099, (818) 895-9377
Human Resources Management Officer, San Francisco Medical Center, 4150 Clement Street, San Francisco, CA 94121-1598, (415) 750-2107
Human Resources Management Officer, Fresno Medical Center, 2615 E. Clinton Avenue, Fresno, CA 93703-2223, (209) 225-6100, ext. 5005
Human Resources Management Officer, San Diego Medical Center, 3350 La Jolla Village Drive, San Diego, CA 92161-0001, (619) 552-8585
Oakland Regional Office, Send To: VBA Western Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
Human Resources Management Officer, Sepulveda Medical Center, 16111 Plummer Street, Sepulveda, CA 91343-2099, (818) 895-9377
Human Resources Management Officer, Los Angeles, Medical Center, Wilshire
Sawtelle Blvds., Los Angeles, CA 90073, (310) 824-3153
Los Angeles Field Office of Audit, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Wilshire
Sawtelle Blvds., Los Angeles, CA 90073, (310) 824-3153
Los Angeles Regional Office of Audit, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Wilshire
Sawtelle Blvds., Los Angeles, CA 90073, (310) 824-3153
Human Resources Management Office, Los Angeles Outpatient Clinic, 351 E. Temple St., Los Angeles, CA 90012-3328, (213) 253-2677
Pleasant Hill Northern California System of Clinics, Human Resources Management Officer, 2300 Contra Costa Blvd., Suite 440, Pleasant Hills, CA 94523-3961, (510) 372-2008
Human Resources Management Officer, Long Beach Medical Center, 5901 E. Seventh Street, Long Beach, CA 90882-5201, (310) 494-5642
Los Angeles Regional Office, Send To: VBA Western Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
San Bruno (Golden Gate) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 4150 Clement Street, San Francisco, CA 94121-1598, (415) 750-2107
Fort Rosecrans National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 3350 La Jolla Village Drive, San Diego, CA 92161-0001, (619) 552-8585
Los Angeles National Cemetery, Send to Human Resources Management Office, VA Medical Center, Wilshire
Sawtelle Blvds., Los Angeles, CA 90073, (310) 824-3153
San Joaquin Valley National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2615 E. Clinton Avenue, Fresno, CA 93703-2223, (209) 225-6100, ext. 5005
Riverside National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 11201 Benton Street, Loma Linda, CA 92357-0002, (909) 825-7084, ext. 3058
San Francisco National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 4150 Clement Street, San Francisco, CA 94121-1598, (415) 750-2107
San Diego Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 3350 La Jolla Village Drive, San Diego, CA 92161-0001, (619) 552-8585

# Colorado
Human Resources Management Officer, Grand Junction Medical Center, 2121 North Avenue, Grand Junction, CO 81501, (970) 252-0731, ext. 2062
Human Resources Management Officer, Denver Medical Center, 1055 Clermont Street, Denver, CO 80220-0166, (303) 393-2815
Denver Regional Office, Sent to: VBA Western Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
Human Resources Management Officer, Fort Lyon Medical Center, Fort Lyon, CO 81038-5000, (719) 384-3190
Fort Logan National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1055 Clermont Street, Denver, CO 80220-0166, (303) 393-2815
Denver National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1055 Clermont Street, Denver, CO 80220-0166, (303) 393-2815
VBA Western Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 12600, W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
Denver Civilian Health and Medical Program (CHAMPVA), Human Resources Management Officer, 300 S. Jackson St., Denver, CO 80206, (303) 331-7514
Denver Distribution Center, Send to: VBA Western Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215 (303) 231-5855

# Connecticut
Hartford Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
Human Resources Management Officer, Newington Medical Center, 555 Willard Avenue, Newington, CT 06111, (203) 667-6710
Human Resources Management Officer, West Haven Medical Center, 950 Campbell Avenue, West Haven, CT 06516, (203) 932-5711

# District of Columbia
Human Resources Management Officer, Washington DC Medical Center, 50 Irving Street, NW., Washington, DC 20422, (202) 745-8200
Director, Central Office Human Resources, Management Service, VA Central Office, 810 Vermont Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20420, (202) 273-4950
Washington DC Regional Office, Sent to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090

# Delaware
Human Resources Management Officer, Wilmington Medical and Regional Office Center, 1601 Kirkwood Highway, Wilmington, DE 19805, (302) 633-5340

# Florida
Pensacola (Barrancas) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 400 Veterans Blvd., Biloxi, MS 39531, (601) 388-5541, ext. 5780
Human Resources Management Officer, Bay Pines Medical Center, 10000 Bay Pines Blvd., Bay Pines, FL 33504, (813) 398-6661, ext. 4116
Florida National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 13000 Bruce B. Downs Blvd., Tampa, FL 33612, (813) 972-7524
Riviera Beach Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1201 Northwest 16th Street, Miami, FL 33125, (305) 324-4455, ext. 3343
Orlando Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 13000 Bruce B. Downs Blvd., Tampa, FL 33612, (813) 972-7524
Miami VA Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Jacksonville VA Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Jacksonville Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1601 SW Archer Road, Gainesville, FL 32608-1197, (904) 374-6045
Daytona Beach Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1601 SW Archer Road, Gainesville, FL 32608-1197, (904) 374-6045
Jacksonville Vet Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer,
VA Medical Center, 1601 SW Archer Road, Gainesville, FL 32608-1197, (904) 374-6045
Human Resources Management Officer, Tampa Medical Center, 13000 Bruce B. Downs Blvd., Tampa, FL 33612, (813) 972-7524
Bay Pines National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 10000 Bay Pines Blvd., Bay Pines, FL 33504, (813) 398-6661, ext. 4116
Human Resources Management Officer, Gainesville Medical Center, 1601 SW Archer Road, Gainesville, FL 32608-1197, (904) 374-6045
St. Petersburg Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Human Resources Management Officer, Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center, P.O. Box 33207, Palm Beach Gardens, FL 33420, (407) 691-8251
Human Resources Management Officer, Miami Medical Center, 1201 Northwest 16th Street, Miami, FL 33125, (305) 324-4455, ext. 3343
Human Resources Management Officer, Lake City Medical Center, 801 S. Marion Street, Lake City, FL 32025-5898, (904) 755-3016

# Georgia
Marietta National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1670 Clairmont Road, Decatur, GA 30033, (404) 728-7636
Atlanta Veterans Canteen Service Field Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1670 Clairmont Road, Decatur, GA 30033, (404) 728-7636
Human Resources Management Officer, Augusta Medical Center, 1 Freedom Way, Augusta, GA 30904-6285, (706) 823-3955
Human Resources Management Officer, Dublin Medical Center, 1826 Veterans Blvd., Dublin, GA 31021, (912) 277-2753
Atlanta Field Office of Audit, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Atlanta National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1670 Clairmont Road, Decatur, GA 30033, (404) 728-7636
Human Resources Management Officer, Atlanta Medical Center, 1670 Clairmont Road, Decatur, GA 30033, (404) 728-7636
Income Verification Match Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1670 Clairmont Road, Decatur, GA 30033, (404) 728-7636
Atlanta Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140

# Hawaii
Human Resources Management Officer, Honolulu Medical and Regional Office Center, 300 Ala Moana Blvd., P.O. Box 50188, Honolulu, HI 96850, (808) 566-1470
Pacific Memorial National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical and Regional Office Center, 300 Ala Moana Blvd., P.O. Box 50188, Honolulu, HI 96850, (808) 566-1470

# Idaho
Human Resources Management Officer, Boise Medical Center, 500 W. Fort Street, Boise, ID 83702-4598, (208) 338-7218
Boise Regional Office, Send to: VBA Western Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855

# Illinois
Human Resources Management Officer, North Chicago Medical Center, 3001 Green Bay Road, North Chicago, IL 60064, (708) 578-3763
Human Resources Management Office, Hines Medical Center, Edward Hines Jr. Hospital, 5th Avenue
Roosevelt Road, Hines, IL 60141, (708) 216-2601
Rock Island National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Highway 6 West, Iowa City, IA 52246, (319) 338-0581, ext. 7720
Danville National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1900 E. Main Street, Danville, IL 61832, (217) 431-6548
Human Resources Management Officer, Chicago Lakeside Medical Center, 333 E. Huron Street, Chicago, IL 60611, (312) 943-6600
Camp Butler National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1900 E. Main Street, Danville, IL 61832, (217) 431-6548
Hines Systems Delivery Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, Hines Benefits Delivery Center, PO Box 27 (901A1), Hines, IL 60141, (708) 681-6680
Human Resources Management Officer, Chicago Medical Center, 820 South Damen Avenue, PO Box 8195, Chicago, IL 60680, (312) 633-2174
Chicago Regional Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Human Resources Management Officer, Marion Medical Center, 2401 W. Main Street, Marion, IL 62959, (618) 997-5311, ext. 4116
Hines Finance Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, Hines Benefits Delivery Center, PO Box 27 (901A1), Hines, IL 60141, (708) 681-6680
Human Resources Management Officer, Danville Medical Center, 1900 E. Main Street, Danville, IL 61832, (217) 431-6548
Hines National Acquisition Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, Hines Benefits Delivery Center, PO Box 27 (901A1), Hines, IL 60141, (708) 681-6680
Hines Benefits Delivery Center, Human Resources Management Officer, PO Box 27 (901A1), Hines, IL 60141, (708) 681-6680
Alton National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Jefferson Barracks, St. Louis, MO 63106, (314) 894-6620
Mound City National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2401 W. Main Street, Marion, IL 62959, (618) 997-5311, ext. 4116
Quincy National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Highway 6 West, Iowa City, IA 52246, (319) 338-0581, ext. 7720

# Indiana
Marion National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1700 East 38th, Marion, IN 46953-4589, (317) 677-3101
Human Resources Management Officer, Marion Medical Center, 1700 East 38th, Marion, IN 46953-4589, (317) 677-3101
Human Resources Management Officer, Indianapolis Medical Center, 1481 West 10th Street, Indianapolis, IN 46202, (317) 267-8758
Human Resources Management Officer, Fort Wayne Medical Center, 2121 Lake Avenue, Fort Wayne, IN 46805-5100, (219) 460-1342
Indianapolis Regional Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
New Albany National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 800 Zorn Avenue, Louisville, KY 40206, (502) 895-3401, ext. 5866
Evansville Outpatient Clinic Substation, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2401 W. Main Street, Marion, IL 62959, (618) 997-5311, ext. 4116
Indianapolis National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1481 West 10th Street, Indianapolis, IN 46202, (317) 267-8758

# Iowa
Des Moines Regional Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Keokuk National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Highway 6 West, Iowa City, IA 52246, (319) 338-0581, ext. 7720
Human Resources Management Officer, Knoxville Medical Center, 1515 W. Pleasant Street, Knoxville, IA 50138, (515) 842-3101, ext. 6219
Human Resources Management Officer, Des Moines Medical Center, 3600 30th Street, Des Moines, IA 50310, (515) 271-5812
Human Resources Management Officer, Iowa City Medical Center, Highway 6 West, Iowa City, IA 52246, (319) 338-0581, ext. 7720

# Kansas
Human Resources Management Officer, Topeka Medical Center, 2200 Gage Blvd., Topeka, KS 66622, (913) 271-4310
Human Resources Management Officer, Leavenworth Medical Center, 4101 S. 4th St. Trafficway, Leavenworth, KS 66048, (913) 682-2000, ext. 2500
Leavenworth National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 4101 S. 4th St. Trafficway, Leavenworth, KS 66048, (913) 682-2000, ext 2500
Human Resources Management Officer, Wichita Medical and Regional Office Center, 901 George Washington Blvd., Wichita, KS 67211, (316) 651-3625
Fort Scott National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 4101 S. 4th St. Trafficway, Leavenworth, KS 66048, (913) 682-2000, ext. 2500
Ft. Leavenworth National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 4101 S. 4th St. Trafficway, Leavenworth, KS 66048, (913) 682-2000, ext. 2500

# Kentucky
Nicholasville (Camp Nelson) National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2250 Leestown Road, Lexington, KY 40511-1093, (606) 281-3924
Zachary Taylor National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 800 Zorn Avenue, Louisville, KY 40206, (502) 895-3401, ext. 5866
Human Resources Management Officer, Louisville Medical Center, 800 Zorn Avenue, Louisville, KY 40206, (502) 895-3401, ext. 5866
Lebanon National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 800 Zorn Avenue, Louisville, KY 40206, (502) 895-3401, ext. 5866
Louisville Regional Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Cave Hill National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 800 Zorn Avenue, Louisville, KY 40206, (502) 895-3401, ext. 5866
Human Resources Management Officer, Lexington Medical Center, 2250 Leestown Road, Lexington, KY 40511-1093, (606) 281-3924
Danville National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2250 Leestown Road, Lexington, KY 40511-1093, (606) 281-3924
Lexington National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2250 Leestown Road, Lexington, KY 40511-1093, (606) 281-3924
Nancy National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2250 Leestown Road, Lexington, KY 40511-1093, (606) 281-3924
Perryville National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2250 Leestown Road, Lexington, KY 40511-1093, (606) 281-3924

# Louisiana
Human Resources Management Officer, New Orleans Medical Center, 1601 Perdido Street, New Orleans, LA 70146, (504) 568-0811
Port Hudson (Zachary) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1601 Perdido Street, New Orleans, LA 70146, (504) 568-0811
Human Resources Management Officer, Alexandria Medical Center, Highway 171, Alexandria, LA 71301, (318) 473-0010, ext. 2262
Human Resources Management Officer, Shreveport Medical Center, 510 E. Stoner Avenue, Shreveport, LA 71101-4295, (318) 424-6028
Alexandria (Pinesville) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Highway 171, Alexandria, LA 71301, (318) 473-0010, ext. 2262
New Orleans Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Baton Rouge National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1601 Perdido Street, New Orleans, LA 70146, (504) 568-0811
Shreveport VA Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140

# Maine
Human Resources Management Officer, Togus Medical and Regional Office Center, Togus, ME 04330, (207) 623-5713
Portland VA (Vet Center) Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical and Regional Office Center, Togus, ME 04330, (207) 623-5713
Togus National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical and Regional Office Center, Togus, ME 04330, (207) 623-5713

# Maryland
Human Resources Management Officer, Ft. Howard Medical Center, 9600 N. Point Road, Ft. Howard, MD 21052, (410) 687-8343
Ft. Howard VCS Eastern Region, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 9600 N. Point Road, Ft. Howard, MD 21052, (410) 687-8343
Baltimore Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
Human Resources Management Officer, Baltimore Medical Center, 10 N. Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, (410) 605-7200
Baltimore National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 10 N. Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, (410) 605-7200
Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
Human Resources Management Officer, Perry Point Medical Center, Building 101, Perry Point, MD 21902, (410) 642-2411, ext. 5193
Baltimore Rehabilitation, Research and Development Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 10 N. Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, (410) 605-7200
Annapolis National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 10 N. Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, (410) 605-7200
Baltimore Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 10 N. Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, (410) 605-7200
Hyattsville Field Office of Audit, Send to: Director, CO Human Resources Management Service, VA Central Office, 810 Vermont Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20420, (202) 273-4950

# Massachusetts
Human Resources Management Officer, Boston Medical Center, 150 S. Huntington Ave., Boston, MA 02130, (617) 232-9500, ext. 5561
Human Resources Management Officer, Northampton Medical Center, Northampton, MA 01060-1288, (413) 582-3027
Boston Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
Human Resources Management Officer, Bedford Medical Center, 200 Springs Road, Bedford, MA 01730, (617) 275-7500, ext. 2367
Bourne National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 940 Belmont Street, Brockton, MA 02401, (508) 583-4500, ext. 3260
Human Resources Management Officer, Brockton Medical Center, 940 Belmont Street, Brockton, MA 02401, (508) 583-4500, ext. 3260
Boston Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 150 S. Huntington Ave., Boston, MA 02130, (617) 232-9500, ext. 5561
Lowell Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 150 S. Huntington Ave., Boston, MA 02130, (617) 232-9500, ext. 5561
New Bedford Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 830 Chalkstone Avenue, Providence, RI 02908-4799, (401) 457-3072
Springfield Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Northampton, MA 01060-1288, (413) 582-3027
Springfield VA Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
West Roxbury Medical Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 940 Belmont Street, Brockton, MA 02401, (508) 583-4500, ext. 3260
Worchester Outpatient Clinic Substation, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 940 Belmont Street, Brockton, MA 02401, (508) 583-4500, ext. 3260

# Michigan
Fort Custer National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 5500 Armstrong Rd., Battle Creek, MI 49016, (616) 966-5600, ext. 3600
Grand Rapids Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 5500 Armstrong Rd., Battle Creek, MI 49016, (616) 966-5600, ext. 3600
Detroit Regional Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Human Resources Management Officer, Battle Creek Medical Center, 5500 Armstrong Rd., Battle Creek, MI 49016, (616) 966-5600, ext. 3600
Human Resources Management Officer, Saginaw Medical Center, 1500 Weiss Street, Saginaw, MI 48602, (517) 793-2340, ext. 3070
VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Human Resources Management Officer, Iron Mountain Medical Center, H Street, Iron Mountain, MI 49801, (906) 774-3300, ext. 2280
Human Resources Management Officer, Ann Arbor Medical Center, 2215 Fuller Rd., Ann Arbor, MI 28105, (313) 761-7938
Human Resources Management Officer, Allen Park Medical Center, Southfield
Outer Drive, Allen Park, MI 48101, (313) 562-6000, ext. 3323

# Minnesota
St. Paul Regional Office and Insurance Center, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Fort Snelling National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, One Veterans Drive, Minneapolis, MN 55417, (612) 725-2061
Fort Snelling Debt Management Center, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Human Resources Management Officer, Minneapolis Medical Center, One Veterans Drive, Minneapolis, MN 55417, (612) 725-2061
Human Resources Management Officer, St. Cloud Medical Center, 4801 8th Street North, St. Cloud, MN 56303, (612) 255-6301
St. Paul Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, One Veterans Drive, Minneapolis, MN 55417, (612) 725-2061

# Mississippi
Corinth National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1030 Jefferson Avenue, Memphis, TN 38104, (901) 523-8990, ext. 5928
VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Human Resources Management Officer, Biloxi Medical Center, 400 Veterans Blvd., Biloxi, MS 39531, (601) 388-5541, ext. 5780
Biloxi National Cemetery, Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 400 Veterans Blvd., Biloxi, MS 39531, (601) 388-5541, ext. 5780
Jackson Regional Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Human Resources Management Officer, Jackson Medical Center, 1500 E. Woodrow Wilson Blvd., Jackson, MS 39216, (601) 364-1239
Natchez National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1500 E. Woodrow Wilson Blvd., Jackson, MS 39216, (601) 364-1239

# Missouri
Human Resources Management Officer, St. Louis Medical Center, Jefferson Bks., St. Louis, MO 63106, (314) 894-6620
Human Resources Management Officer, Poplar Bluff Medical Center, 1500 N. Westwood Blvd., Poplar Bluff, MO 63901, (314) 686-4151, ext. 328
St. Louis Records Processing Center, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Human Resources Management Officer, Kansas City Medical Center, 4801 Linwood Blvd., Kansas City, MO 64128, (816) 861-4700, ext. 6926
Jefferson Barracks National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 800 Hospital Drive, Columbia, MO 65201, (314) 443-2511, ext. 6261
Human Resources Management Officer, Columbia Medical Center, 800 Hospital Drive, Columbia, MO 65201, (314) 443-2511, ext. 6261
St. Louis Regional Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources, Management
Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Veterans Canteen Service Field Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Jefferson Barracks, St. Louis, MO 63106, (314) 894-6620
Springfield National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1100 N. College Avenue, Fayetteville, AR 72703, (501) 444-5020

# Montana
Human Resources Management Officer, Fort Harrison Medical Center and Regional Office, Fort Harrison, MT 59636, (406) 447-7933
Human Resources Management Officer, Miles City Medical Center, 210 South Winchester, Miles City, MT 59301-4798, (406) 232-8287

# Nebraska
Lincoln Regional Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Human Resources Management Officer, Lincoln Medical Center, 600 South 70th Street, Lincoln, NE 68510, (402) 489-3802, ext. 7819
Human Resources Management Officer, Grand Island Medical Center, 2201 N. Broadwell Ave., Grand Island, NE 68803, (308) 389-5177
Maxwell (Fort McPherson) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2201 N. Broadwell Ave., Grand Island, NE 68803, (308) 389-5177
Human Resources Management Officer, Omaha Medical Center, 4101 Woolworth Avenue, Omaha, NE 68105, (402) 449-0614

# Nevada
Human Resources Management Officer, Reno Medical Center, 1000 Locust Street, Reno, NV 89520-0111, (702) 328-1260
Reno Regional Office, Send to: VBA Western Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
Las Vegas Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1000 Locust Street, Reno, NV 89520-0111, (702) 328-1260
Henderson Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1000 Locust Street, Reno, NV 89520-0111, (702) 328-1260

# New Hampshire
Manchester Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
Human Resources Management Officer, Manchester Medical Center, 718 Smyth Road, Manchester, NH 03104, (603) 624-4366, ext. 6608

# New Jersey
Beverly National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, University
Woodland Avenues, Philadelphia, PA 19104, (215) 823-4088
New Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
Human Resources Management Officer, East Orange Medical Center, 385 Tremont Avenue, East Orange, NJ 07018-0195, (201) 676-1000, ext. 1366
James J. Howard Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 385 Tremont Avenue, East Orange, NJ 07018-0195, (201) 676-1000, ext. 1366
Newark Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 385 Tremont Avenue, East Orange, NJ 07018-0195, (201) 676-1000, ext. 1366
Human Resources Management Officer, Lyons Medical Center, Knollcroft Road, Lyons, NJ 07939, (908) 647-0180, ext. 4002

# New Mexico
Albuquerque Regional Office, Send to: VBA Western Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
Santa Fe National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2100 Ridgecrest Dr., SE., Albuquerque, NM 87108-5138, (505) 256-5702

# New York
Human Resources Management Officer, Bath Medical Center, Bath, NY 14810, (607) 776-2111, ext. 1239
Human Resources Management Officer, Brooklyn Medical Center, 800 Poly Place, Brooklyn, NY 11209, (718) 630-3660
Human Resources Management Officer, Montrose Medical Center, P.O. Box 100, Montrose, NY 10548-0100, (914) 737-4400, ext. 2553
Human Resources Management Officer, Syracuse Medical Center, 800 Irving Avenue, Syracuse, NY 13210-2799, (315) 477-4531
Human Resources Management Officer, Bronx Medical Center, 130 W. Kingsbridge Road, Bronx, NY 10468, (718) 584-9000, ext. 6590
Human Resources Management Officer, New York Medical Center, 423 East 23rd Street, New York, NY 10010, (212) 686-7500, ext. 7635
Human Resources Management Officer, Castle Point Medical Center, Route 9D, Castle Point, NY 12511, (914) 831-2000, ext. 5405
Human Resources Management Officer, Northport Medical Center, 79 Middleville Road, Northport, NY 11768, (516) 261-4400, ext. 2715
Human Resources Management Officer, Albany Medical Center, 113 Holland Avenue, Albany, NY 12208, (518) 462-3311, ext. 2231
Calverton National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 79 Middleville Road, Northport, NY 11768, (516) 261-4400, ext. 2715
Human Resources Management Officer, Buffalo Medical Center, 3495 Bailey Avenue, Buffalo, NY 14215, (716) 862-3605
New York Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
Human Resources Management Officer, Batavia Medical Center, 222 Richmond Ave., Batavia, NY 14020, (716) 343-7500, ext. 7272
Bath (Elmira) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Bath, NY 14810, (607) 776-2111, ext 1239
Long Island National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 79 Middleville Road, Northport, NY 11768, (516) 261-4400, ext. 2715
Albany VA (Vet Center) Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 113 Holland Avenue, Albany, NY 12208, (518) 462-3311, ext. 2231
Brooklyn National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 800 Poly Place, Brooklyn, NY 11209, (718) 630-3660
Brooklyn Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 800 Poly Place, Brooklyn, NY 11209, (718) 630-3660
New York Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 423 East 23rd Street, New York, NY 10010, (212) 686-7500, ext. 7635
New York Prosthetics Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 423 East 23rd Street, New York, NY 10010, (212) 686-7500, ext. 7635
New York Veterans Canteen Service Field Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 423 East 23rd Street, New York, NY 10010, (212) 686-7500, ext. 7635
Rochester VA (Vet Center) Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 222 Richmond Ave., Batavia, NY 14020, (716) 343-7500, ext. 7272
Buffalo Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
Rochester Outpatient Clinic Substation, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 222 Richmond Ave., Batavia, NY 14020, (716) 343-7500, ext. 7272
Human Resources Management Officer, Canandaigua Medical Center, Canandaigua, NY 14424, (716) 394-2000, ext. 3700
Syracuse VA Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090

# North Carolina
Human Resources Management Officer, Fayetteville Medical Center, 2300 Ramsey Street, Fayetteville, NC 28301, (919) 822-7055
Raleigh National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 508 Fulton Street, Durham, NC 27705, (919) 286-6901
Human Resources Management Officer, Durham Medical Center, 508 Fulton Street, Durham, NC 27705, (919) 286-6901
Human Resources Management Officer, Asheville Medical Center, 1100 Tunnell Road, Asheville, NC 28805, (704) 299-2535
New Bern National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2300 Ramsey Street, Fayetteville, NC 28301, (919) 822-7055
Salisbury National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1601 Brenner Avenue, Salisbury, NC 28144, (704) 638-3432
Winston-Salem Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Human Resources Management Officer, Salisbury Medical Center, 1601 Brenner Avenue, Salisbury, NC 28144, (704) 638-3432
Wilmington National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2300 Ramsey Street, Fayetteville, NC 28301, (919) 822-7055
Winston-Salem Outpatient Regional Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1601 Brenner Avenue, Salisbury, NC 28144, (704) 638-3432

# North Dakota
Human Resources Management Officer, Fargo Medical and Regional Office Center, 655 First Avenue, Fargo, ND 58102, (701) 232-3241

# Ohio
Human Resources Management Officer, Columbus Outpatient Clinic, 2090 Kenny Road, Columbus, OH 43221, (614) 257-5501
Cleveland Regional Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Dayton National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 4100 W. Third Street, Dayton, OH 45428, (513) 262-2107
Human Resources Management Officer, Cincinnati Medical Center, 3200 Vine Street, Cincinnati, OH 45220, (513) 559-5051
Cincinnati VA Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Columbus VA Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Human Resources Management Officer, Dayton Medical Center, 4100 W. Third Street, Dayton, OH 45428, (513) 262-2107
Human Resources Management Officer, Cleveland Medical Center, 10000 Brecksville Rd., Brecksville, OH 44141, (216) 526-3030, ext. 7900
Human Resources Management Officer, Chillicothe Medical Center, 17273 State Route 104, Chillicothe, OH 45601, (614) 773-1141, ext. 7538

# Oklahoma
Fort Gibson National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Honor Heights Drive, Muskogee, OK 74401, (918) 683-3261, ext. 404
Human Resources Management Officer, Oklahoma City Medical Center, 921 NE 13th Street, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, (405) 270-5157
Muskogee Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Human Resources Management Officer, Muskogee Medical Center, Honor Heights Drive, Muskogee, OK 74401, (918) 683-3261, ext. 404
Oklahoma City VA Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson MS 39213, (601) 965-4140

# Oregon
Portland Regional Office, Send to: VBA Western Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
Human Resources Management Officer, White City Medical Center, 8495 Craterlake Highway, White City, OR 97503-1088, (503) 826-2111, ext. 3204
Human Resources Management Officer, Roseburg Medical Center, 913 NW Garden Valley Blvd., Roseburg, OR 97470-6153, (503) 440-1260
Human Resources Management Officer, Portland Medical Center, 3710 SW US Veterans Hospital Rd., Portland, OR 97207-1034, (503) 220-3403
Eagle Point National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 8495 Craterlake Highway, White City, OR 97503-1088, (503) 826-2111, ext. 3204
Williamette National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 3710 SW US Veterans Hospital Rd., Portland, OR 97207-1034, (503) 220-3403

# Pennsylvania
Human Resources Management Officer, Pittsburgh Medical Center, University Drive C, Pittsburgh, PA 15240, (412) 692-3240
Philadelphia Benefits Delivery Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Liaison, VA Regional Office, 5000 Wissahickon Avenue, P.O. Box 13399, Philadelphia, PA 19101, (215) 951-5534
Human Resources Management Officer, Wilkes-Barre Medical Center, 1111 East End Boulevard, Wilkes-Barre, PA 18711, (717) 821-7209
Philadelphia Systems Development Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Liaison, VA Regional Office, 5000 Wissahickon Avenue, P.O. Box 13399, Philadelphia, PA 19101, (215) 951-5534
Philadelphia National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, University
Woodland Avenues, Philadelphia, PA 19104, (215) 823-4088
Annville (Indiantown Gap) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1700 S. Lincoln Avenue, Lebanon, PA 17042, (717) 272-6621, ext. 4055
Human Resources Management Officer, Philadelphia Medical Center, University
Woodland Avenues, Philadelphia, PA 19104, (215) 823-4088
Human Resources Management Officer, Altoona Medical Center, 2907 Pleasant Valley Blvd., Altoona, PA 16602-4377, (814) 943-8164, ext. 7039
Human Resources Management Officer, Lebanon Medical Center, 1700 S. Lincoln Avenue, Lebanon, PA 17042, (717) 272-6621, ext. 4055
Harrisburg Outpatient Clinic Substation, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1700 S. Lincoln Avenue, Lebanon, PA 17042, (717) 272-6621, ext. 4055
Human Resources Management Officer, Coatesville Medical Center, 1400 BlackHorse Hill Rd., Coatesville, PA 19320-2096, (610) 383-0234
Human Resources Management Officer, Pittsburgh (HD) Medical Center, 7180 Highland Drive, Pittsburgh, PA 15206-1297, (412) 365-4755
Human Resources Management Officer, Butler Medical Center, 325 New Castle Road, Butler, PA 16001-2480, (412) 477-5051
Pittsburgh Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
Philadelphia Regional Office, Human Resources Management Liaison, 5000 Wissahickon Avenue, P.O. Box 13399, Philadelphia, PA 19101, (215) 951-5534
Human Resources Management Officer, Erie Medical Center, 135 East 38th Street, Erie, PA 16504, (814) 868-6205

# Philippines
Manila Regional Office Outpatient Clinic, Manila Regional Office Center, Send to: Director, Department of Veterans Affairs, APO, San Francisco, CA 96528, 011-632-521-7116

# Puerto Rico
Puerto Rico National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, One Veterans Plaza, San Juan, PR 00927-5800, (809) 766-5485
Human Resources Management Officer, San Juan Medical Center, One Veterans Plaza, San Juan, PR 00927-5800, (809) 766-5485
Mayaguez Outpatient Clinic Substation, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, One Veterans Plaza, San Juan, PR 00927-5800, (809) 766-5485
San Juan Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Officer, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140

# Rhode Island
Human Resources Management Officer, Providence Medical Center, 830 Chalkstone Avenue, Providence, RI 02908-4799, (401) 457-3072
Providence Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090

# South Carolina
Florence National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 6439 Garners Ferry Rd., Columbia, SC 29201-1639, (803) 695-6835
Human Resources Management Officer, Columbia Medical Center, 6439 Garners Ferry Rd., Columbia, SC 29201-1639, (803) 695-6835
Greenville Outpatient Clinic Substation, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 6439 Garners Ferry Rd., Columbia, SC 29201-1639, (803) 695-6835
Human Resources Management Officer, Charleston Medical Center, 109 Bee Street, Charleston, SC 29401-5799, (803) 577-5011, ext. 7610
Beaufort National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 109 Bee Street, Charleston, SC 29401-5799, (803) 577-5011, ext. 7610
Columbia Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140

# South Dakota
Human Resources Management Officer, Hot Springs Medical Center, 500 North 5th Street, Hot Springs, SD 57747, (605) 745-2018
Hot Springs National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 500 North 5th Street, Hot Springs, SD 57747, (605) 745-2018
Human Resources Management Officer, Fort Meade Medical Center, 113 Comanche Road, Fort Meade, SD 57741, (605) 347-7090
Fort Meade (Black Hills) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 113 Comanche Road, Fort Meade, SD 57741, (605) 347-7090
Human Resources Management Officer, Sioux Falls Medical and Regional Office Center, PO Box 5046, 2501 W. 22nd St., Sioux Falls, SD 57117, (605) 333-6852

# Tennessee
Mountain Home National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Johnston City, Mountain Home, TN 37684, (615) 926-1171, ext. 7181
Nashville (Madison) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1310 24th Avenue South, Nashville, TN 37212-2637, (615) 327-5381
Chattanooga National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 3400 Lebanon Road, Murfreesboro, TN 37129-1236, (615) 893-1360, ext. 3317
Knoxville National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Johnston City, Mountain Home, TN 37684, (615) 926-1171, ext. 7181
Memphis National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1030 Jefferson Avenue, Memphis, TN 38104, (901) 523-8900, ext. 5928
Human Resources Management Officer, Memphis Medical Center, 1030 Jefferson Avenue, Memphis, TN 38104, (901) 523-8990, ext. 5928
Human Resources Management Officer, Mountain Home Medical Center, Johnston City, Mountain Home, TN 37684, (615) 926-1171, ext. 7181
Human Resources Management Officer, Nashville Medical Center, 1310 24th Avenue South, Nashville, TN 37212-2637, (615) 327-5381
Knoxville Outpatient Clinic Substation, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1310 24th Avenue South, Nashville, TN 37212-2637, (615) 327-5381
Nashville Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office Human Resources Management Officer, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140

# Texas
Human Resources Management Officer, San Antonio Medical Center, 7400 Merton Minter Blvd., San Antonio, TX 78284, (210) 617-5300, ext. 6732
Corpus Christi Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 7400 Merton Minter Blvd., San Antonio, TX 78284, (210) 617-5300, ext. 6732
McAllen Outpatient Clinic Substation, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 7400 Merton Minter Blvd., San Antonio, TX 78284, (210) 617-5300, ext. 6732
Human Resources Management Officer, Temple Medical Center,1901 S. 1st Street, Temple, TX 76504, (817) 778-4811, ext. 4429
Human Resources Management Officer, Austin Automation Center, 1615 E. Woodard Street, Austin, TX 78772, (512) 326-6054
Human Resources Management Officer, Waco Medical Center, 4800 Memorial Drive, Waco, TX 76711, (817) 752-6581, ext. 6346
Waco Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 4800 Memorial Drive, Waco, TX 76711, (817) 752-6581, ext. 6346
Human Resources Management Officer, Dallas Medical Center, 4500 S. Lancaster Road, Dallas, TX 75216, (214) 372-7032
Human Resources Management Officer, Houston Medical Center, 2002 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, (713) 794-7458
Beaumont Outpatient Clinic Substation, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2002 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, (713) 794-7458
Lufkin Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2002 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, (713) 794-7458
Human Resources Management Officer, Waco Medical Center, 4800 Memorial Drive, Waco, TX 76711, (817) 752-6581, ext. 6346
Human Resources Management Officer, El Paso Outpatient Clinic, 5919 Brook Hollow Drive, El Paso, TX 79925, (915) 540-7878
Fort Bliss National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, El Paso Outpatient Clinic, 5919 Brook Hollow Drive, El Paso, TX 79925, (915) 540-7878
Houston Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
San Antonio VA Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Human Resources Management Officer, Big Spring Medical Center, 2400 Gregg St., Big Spring, TX 79720, (915) 264-4820
Austin Systems Development Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, Austin Automation Center, 1615 E. Woodard Street, Austin, TX 78772, (512) 326-6054
Human Resources Management Officer, Amarillo Medical Center, 6010 Amarillo Blvd. West, Amarillo, TX 79106, (806) 354-7827
Houston National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 2002 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, (713) 794-7458
San Antonio National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 7400 Merton Minter Blvd., San Antonio, TX 78284, (210) 617-5300, ext. 6732
Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 7400 Merton Minter Blvd., San Antonio, TX 78284, (210) 617-5300, ext. 6732
Human Resources Management Officer, Kerrville Medical Center, 3600 Memorial Blvd., Kerrville, TX 78028, (210) 792-2518
Kerrville National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 3600 Memorial Blvd., Kerrville, TX 78028, (210) 792-2518
Human Resources Management Officer, Marlin Medical Center, 1016 Ward Street, Marlin, TX 76661, (817) 883-3511, ext. 4702
Human Resources Management Officer, Bonham Medical Center, East Ninth
Lipscomb Street, Bonham, TX 75418-4091, (903) 583-2111, ext. 6331
Waco Regional Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Dallas VA Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Lubbock VA Office, Send to: VBA Southern Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 6508 Dogwood Parkway, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39213, (601) 965-4140
Lubbock Outpatient Clinic, Send to: Human Resources Management Office, VA Medical Center, 6010 Amarillo Blvd. West, Amarillo, TX 79106, (806) 354-7827
Austin Finance Center, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, Austin Automation Center, 1615 E. Woodard Street, Austin, TX 78772, (512) 326-6054

# Utah
Salt Lake City Regional Office, Send to: VBA Western Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
Human Resources Management Officer, Salt Lake City Medical Center, 500 Foothill Blvd., Salt Lake City, UT 84148-0001, (801) 584-1284

# Vermont
Human Resources Management Officer, White River Junction Medical and Regional Office Center, White River Junction, VT 05009, (802) 295-9363, ext. 5350

# Virginia
Human Resources Management Officer, Richmond Medical Center, 1201 Broad Rock Blvd., Richmond, VA 23249, (804) 230-1305
Human Resources Management Officer, Hampton Medical Center, 100 Emancipation Road, Hampton, VA 23667, (804) 722-9961, ext. 3160
Richmond National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1201 Broad Rock Blvd., Richmond, VA 23249 (804) 230-1305
Quantico National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 50 Irving Street, NW., Washington, DC 20422, (202) 745-8200
Hampton National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 100 Emancipation Road, Hampton, VA 23667, (804) 722-9961, ext. 3160
Culpepper National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Route 9, Martinsburg, WV 25401, (304) 263-0811, ext. 3237
Roanoke Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090
Human Resources Management Officer, Salem Medical Center, 1970 Roanoke Blvd., Salem, VA 24153, (703) 982-2463, ext. 2812
Danville National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1970 Roanoke Blvd., Salem, VA 24153, (703) 982-2463, ext. 2812
Alexandria National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 50 Irving Street, NW., Washington, DC 20422, (202) 745-8200
Leesburg National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 50 Irving Street, NW., Washington, DC 20422, (202) 745-8200
Mechanicsville National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1201 Broad Rock Blvd., Richmond, VA 23249, (804) 230-1305
Sandston National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1201 Broad Rock Blvd., Richmond, VA 23249, (804) 230-1305
Hopewell National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1201 Broad Rock Blvd., Richmond, VA 23249 (804) 230-1305
Staunton National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1970 Roanoke Blvd., Salem, VA 24153, (703) 982-2463, ext. 2812
Winchester National Cemetery Area Office, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, Route 9, Martinsburg, WV 25401, (304) 263-0811, ext. 3237

# Washington
Seattle Regional Office, Send to: VBA Western Area Human Resources, Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 126000 W. Colfax Ave., Suite C-300, Lakewood, CO 80215, (303) 231-5855
Human Resources Management Officer, Walla Walla Medical Center, 77 Wainwright Drive, Walla Walla, WA 99362-3975, (509) 527-3453
Human Resources Management Officer, Seattle Medical Center, 1660 S. Columbian Way, Seattle, WA 98108-1597, (206) 764-2135
Seattle Outpatient Clinic (Vet Center), Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1660 S. Columbian Way, Seattle, WA 98108-1597, (206) 764-2135
Human Resources Management Officer, Tacoma Medical Center, American Lake, Tacoma, WA 98493, (206) 582-8440, ext. 6054
Human Resources Management Officer, Spokane Medical Center, 4815 North Assembly Street, Spokane, WA 99205-6197, (509) 327-0242

# West Virginia
Human Resources Management Officer, Huntington Medical Center, 1540 Spring Valley Road, Huntington, WV 25704, (304) 429-6755, ext. 2343
Human Resources Management Officer, Beckley Medical Center, 200 Veterans Avenue, Beckley, WV 25801, (304) 255-2121, ext. 4461
Human Resources Management Officer, Clarksburg, Medical Center, 1 Medical Center Dr., Clarksburg, WV 26301, (304) 623-7697
Human Resources Management Officer, Martinsburg Medical Center, Route 9, Martinsburg, WV 25401, (304) 263-0811, ext. 3237
West Virginia (Grafton) National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 1 Medical Center Dr., Clarksburg, WV 26301, (304) 623-7697
Huntington Regional Office, Send to: Eastern Area Servicing Assistance Center, Human Resources Management Director, 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD 21202-2004, (410) 962-4090

# Wisconsin
Wood National Cemetery, Send to: Human Resources Management Officer, VA Medical Center, 5000 W. National Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53295, (414) 384-2000
Milwaukee Regional Office, Send to: VBA Central Area Human Resources Management Office, Human Resources Management Director, 38701 Seven Mile Road, Suite 345, Livonia, MI 48152, (313) 953-8830
Human Resources Management Officer, Milwaukee Medical Center, 5000 W. National Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53295, (414) 384-2000, ext. 2930
Human Resources Management Officer, Tomah Medical Center, 500 E. Veterans Street, Tomah, WI 54660, (608) 372-1636
Human Resources Management Officer, Madison Medical Center, 2500 Overlook Terrace, Madison, WI 53705, (608) 262-7026

# Wyoming
Human Resources Management Officer, Sheridan Medical Center, 1898 Fort Road, Sheridan, WY 82801-8320, (307) 672-1673
Human Resources Management Officer, Cheyenne Medical and Regional Office Center, 2360 East Pershing Blvd., Cheyenne, WY 82001, (307) 778-7331

# II. Agencies

# American Battle Monuments Commission
Chief, Administration, Room 5127, Pulaski Building, 20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20314-0001, (202) 761-0533

# Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
General Counsel, 1331 F Street, NW., #1000, Washington, DC 20004-1111, (202) 272-5434, ext. 16

# Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Management Director, Office of Management, 1801 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20507, (202) 663-4411

# Export-Import Bank of the United States
Associate General Counsel, 811 Vermont Avenue, NW., Room 955, Washington, DC 20571, (202) 565-3432

# Farm Credit Administration
Chief, Human Resources Division, Farm Credit Administration, 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, VA 22102-5090, (703) 883-4122

# Federal Communications Commission
Chief, Payroll/Personnel Support Branch, 1919 M Street, NW., Room 212, Washington, DC 20554, (202) 481-0136

# Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Chief, Operations Section, Office of Personnel Management, 550 17th Street, NW., PA-1730-5018, Washington, DC 20429, (202) 942-3401

# Federal Election Commission
Assistant General Counsel—Administrative Law, 999 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20463, (202) 219-3690

# Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Chief, Payroll Branch, Department of Energy, GTN Building, Room E-259, Washington, DC 20585, (301) 903-4012

# Federal Housing Finance Board
Federal Housing Finance Board, 1777 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20006, (202) 408-2685 or (202) 408-2686

# Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
Director of Personnel, 1250 H Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20005, (202) 942-1680

# Federal Trade Commission
Director, Division of Personnel, 6th Street
Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Room H-148, Washington, DC 20580, (202) 326-2022

# General Accounting Office
Comptroller General, Attention: Chief, Payroll/Personnel Systems Branch, Personnel, Room 1180, 441 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20415, (202) 512-5811

# Institute of Peace
Personnel and Benefits Manager, 1550 M Street, NW., Suite 700, Washington, DC 20005, (202) 429-3801

# Inter-American Foundation
General Counsel, 901 N. Stuart Street, 10th Floor, Arlington, VA 22203, (703) 841-3894

# JFK Assassination Records Review Board
General Counsel, 600 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20530

# National Archives

# Records Administration
Supervisory Personnel Staffing Specialist, Personnel Operations Branch, 9700 Page Avenue, Room 2002, St. Louis, MO 63132, (314) 538-4953

# National Capital Planning Commission
General Counsel, 801 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 301, Washington, DC 20576, (202) 724-0174

# Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chief, Policy and Labor Relations, Office of Personnel, Washington, DC 20555, (301) 415-7526

# Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
Administrative Officer, 1100 Wilson Blvd., Suite 910, Arlington, VA 22209, (703) 235-4473

# Office of Special Counsel
Director of Management and Associate Special Counsel for Planning and Advice, 1730 M Street, NW., Suite 201, Washington, DC 20036-4505, (202) 653-9485

# Peace Corps
Associate General Counsel, 1990 K Street, NW., Room 8300, Washington, DC 20526, (202) 606-3114

# Resolution Trust Corporation
Payroll Specialist/Paralegal Specialist, 1717 H Street, NW., Washington, DC 20434, (202) 736-3095

# Securities and Exchange Commission
Personnel Management Specialist, Office of Administrative
Personnel Management, 450 5th Street, NW. (Stop 2-3), Washington, DC 20549

# Small Business Administration
Chief, Personnel/Payroll Systems Branch or Payroll Analyst, 409 3rd Street, SW., Suite 4200, Washington, DC 20416, (202) 205-6148 or (202) 205-6213

# III. United States Postal Service

# United States Postal Service
The United States Postal Service will cooperate with process servers in the service of process regarding private civil or criminal matters only when service is attempted in person on the subject employee at the employee's place of employment, in accordance with the provisions of 39 CFR 243.2(g). Service of summonses and complaints, in prviate matters, by mail to either the agent or employees at their workstations is not permitted.
The Postal Service agent will attempt to facilitate and assist personnel of child support enforcement agencies within the limitations imposed by the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a and relevant Postal regulations. The requester must furnish the name and social security number of the person who is the subject of the inquiry.
Manager, Payroll Processing Branch, 1 Federal Drive, Ft. Snelling, MN 55111-9650, (612) 293-6300
[63 FR 14777, Mar. 26, 1998; 63 FR 34777, June 26, 1998; 63 FR 56537, Oct. 22, 1998]
Pt. 582

# PART 582—COMMERCIAL GARNISHMENT OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' PAY

# Subpart A—Purpose, Definitions, and Exclusions
Sec.
582.101
Purpose.
582.102
Definitions.
582.103
Exclusions.

# Subpart B—Service of Legal Process
582.201
Agent to receive process.
582.202
Service of legal process.
582.203
Information minimally required to accompany legal process.
582.204
Electronic disbursement.

# Subpart C—Compliance With Legal Process
582.301
Suspension of payment.
582.302
Notification of employee-obligor.
582.303
Response to legal process or interrogatories.
582.304
Nonliability for disclosure.
582.305
Honoring legal process.
582.306
Lack of entitlement by the employee-obligor to pay from the agency served with legal process.

# Subpart D—Consumer Credit Protection Act Restrictions
582.401
Aggregate disposable earnings.
582.402
Maximum garnishment limitations.

# Subpart E—Implementation by Agencies
582.501
Rules, regulations, and directives by agencies.
Appendix A to Part 582—List of Agents Designated To Accept Legal Process

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5520a; 15 U.S.C. 1673; E.O. 12897; Sec. 582.102 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8336a and 8412a.

# Source:
60 FR 13030, Mar. 10, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose, Definitions, and Exclusions
§ 582.101
Purpose.
Section 5520a of title 5 of the United States Code provides that with certain exceptions set forth in this part, pay from an agency to an employee is subject to legal process in the same manner and to the same extent as if the agency were a private person. The purpose of this part is to implement the objectives of section 5520a as they pertain to each executive agency of the United States Government, except with regard to employees of the United States Postal Service, the Postal Rate Commission, and the General Accounting Office.
§ 582.102
Definitions.
In this part—(1)
Agency
means each agency of the executive branch of the Federal Government, excluding the United States Postal Service, the Postal Rate Commission, and the General Accounting Office;
agency
does not include the government of the District of Columbia or the territories and possessions of the United States. (Section 5520a(j)(1) of title 5 of the United States Code provides that separate implementing regulations shall be promulgated by the legislative branch and the judicial branch; section 5520a(k) provides that separate implementing regulations shall be promulgated with regard to members of the uniformed services; and Executive Order 12897 provides that separate implementing regulations shall be promulgated with regard to employees of the United States Postal Service. The regulations promulgated for employees of the United States Postal Service also apply to employees of the Postal Rate Commission.)
(2)
Employee or employee-obligor
means an individual who is employed by an
agency
as defined in this section, including a reemployed annuitant, an individual engaged in phased employment as defined in part 831, subpart Q, and part 848 of this chapter, and a retired member of the uniformed services who is employed by an agency.
Employee
does not include a retired employee, a member of the uniformed services, a retired member of the uniformed services, or an individual whose service is based on a contract, including an individual who provides personal services based on a contract with an agency.
(3)
Legal process
means any writ, order, summons, or other similar process in the nature of garnishment, which may include an attachment, writ of execution, court ordered wage assignment, or tax levy from a State or local government, which—
(i) Is issued by:
(A) A court of competent jurisdiction, including Indian tribal courts, within any State, territory, or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia. As stated in § 582.101, pay is subject to legal process in the same manner and to the same extent as if the agency were a private person. There is, therefore, no requirement in this part that, for example, legal process be signed by a Judge; or.
(B) An authorized official pursuant to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction or pursuant to State or local law; or
(C) A State agency authorized to issue income withholding notices pursuant to State or local law; and
(ii) Orders an agency to withhold an amount from the pay of an employee-obligor and to make a payment of such withholding to a
person,
for a specifically described satisfaction of a legal debt of the employee-obligor, or recovery of attorney fees, interest, or court costs;
(4)
Person
may include an individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint venture, private organization or other legal entity, and includes the plural of that term;
person
may include any of the entities that may issue
legal
process
as set forth in § 582.102(3)(i) (A), (B), and (C), and a State or local government as well as a foreign entity or a foreign governmental unit, but does not include the United States or an agency of the United States.
(5) In conformance with 5 U.S.C. 5520a,
pay
means basic pay; premium pay paid under chapter 55, subchapter V, of title 5 of the United States Code; any payment received under chapter 55, subchapters VI, VII, and VIII, of title 5 of the United States Code; severance pay and back pay under chapter 55, subchapter IX, of title 5 of the United States Code; sick pay, and any other paid leave; incentive pay; locality pay (including special pay adjustments for law enforcement officers and locality-based comparability payments); back pay awards; and any other compensation paid or payable for personal services, whether such compensation is denominated as pay, wages, salary, lump-sum leave payments, commission, bonus, award, or otherwise; but does not include amounts received under any Federal program for compensation for work injuries; awards for making suggestions, reimbursement for expenses incurred by an individual in connection with employment, or allowances in lieu of thereof as determined by the employing agency.
[60 FR 13030, Mar. 10, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 3544, Feb. 1, 1996; 79 FR 46618, Aug. 8, 2014]
§ 582.103
Exclusions.
In determining the amount of pay subject to garnishment under this part, there shall be excluded amounts which:
(a) Are owed by the employee-obligor to the United States;
(b) Are required by law to be deducted from the employee-obligor's pay, including, but not limited to amounts deducted in compliance with the Federal Insurance and Contributions Act (FICA), including amounts deducted for Medicare and for Old Age, Survivor, and Disability Insurance (OASDI);
(c) Are properly withheld for Federal, State, or local income tax purposes, if the withholding of the amounts is authorized or required by law and if amounts withheld are not greater than would be the case if the employee-obligor claimed all dependents to which the employee-obligor were entitled. The withholding of additional amounts pursuant to section 3402(i) of title 26 of the United States Code may be permitted only when the employee-obligor presents evidence of a tax obligation which supports the additional withholding;
(d) Are deducted as health insurance premiums;
(e) Are deducted as normal retirement contributions, not including amounts deducted for supplementary coverage. For purposes of this section, all amounts contributed under sections 8351 and 8432(a) of title 5 of the United States Code to the Thrift Savings Fund are deemed to be normal retirement contributions. Except as provided in this paragraph, amounts voluntarily contributed toward additional retirement benefits are considered to be supplementary;
(f) Are deducted as normal life insurance premiums from salary or other remuneration for employment, not including amounts deducted for supplementary coverage. Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance premiums for “Basic Life” coverage are considered to be normal life insurance premiums; all optional Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance premiums and any life insurance premiums paid for by allotment are considered to be supplementary.
(g) Amounts withheld in compliance with legal process based on child support and/or alimony indebtedness are not exclusions.

# Subpart B—Service of Legal Process
§ 582.201
Agent to receive process.
(a) Except as provided in appendix A to this part, appendix A to 5 CFR part 581 lists agents designated to accept service of process under part 581 and this part.
(b) United States Attorneys are not considered appropriate agents to accept service of process.
§ 582.202
Service of legal process.
(a) A person using this part shall serve interrogatories and legal process on the agent to receive process as explained in § 582.201. Where the legal
process is directed to an agency, and the purpose of the legal process is to compel an agency to garnish an employee's pay, the legal process need not expressly name the agency as a garnishee.
(b) Service of legal process may be accomplished by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service only upon the agent to receive process as explained in § 582.201, or if no agent has been designated, then upon the head of the employee-obligor's employing agency. The designated agent shall note the date and time of receipt on the legal process.
(c) Parties bringing garnishment actions shall comply with the service of process provisions in this section. Service will not be effective where parties fail to comply with the service of process provisions of this section, notwithstanding whether the person bringing the garnishment action has complied with the service of process requirements of the jurisdiction issuing the legal process.
§ 582.203
Information minimally required to accompany legal process.
(a) Sufficient identifying information must accompany the legal process in order to enable processing by the agency. Parties seeking garnishment actions, therefore, should provide as many of the following identifying pieces of information concerning the employee-obligor as possible:
(1) Full name;
(2) Date of birth;
(3) Employment number or social security number;
(4) Component of the agency for which the employee-obligor works;
(5) Official duty station or worksite; and
(6) Home address or current mailing address.
(b) If the information submitted is not sufficient to identify the employee-obligor, the legal process shall be returned directly to the court, or other authority, with an explanation of the deficiency. However, prior to returning the legal process, if there is sufficient time prior to the time limits imposed in § 582.303, an attempt should be made to inform the person who caused the legal process to be served, or the person's representative, that it will not be honored unless adequate identifying information is supplied.
§ 582.204
Electronic disbursement.
The party designated to receive the garnished funds may forward a written request to the garnishing agency to have the funds remitted by electronic funds transfer, rather than by paper check. The request shall include the designated party's name, address, and deposit account number, and the name, address, and 9-digit routing transit number of the designated party's financial institution. Written requests accompanying service of process will be honored beginning with the first remission of garnished funds. Written requests received by the agency subsequent to service of process will be honored in as timely a manner as the agency deems feasible.

# Subpart C—Compliance With Legal Process
§ 582.301
Suspension of payment.
Upon proper service of legal process as specified in §§ 582.202 and 582.203, the agency shall suspend,
i.e.,
withhold, payment of such moneys for the amount necessary to permit compliance with the legal process in accordance with this part.
§ 582.302
Notification of employee-obligor.
(a) As soon as possible, but not later than 15 calendar days after the date of valid service of legal process, the agent designated to accept legal process shall send to the employee-obligor, at his or her duty station or last known home address, written notice that such process has been served, including a copy of the legal process;
(b) The agency may provide the employee-obligor with the following additional information:
(1) Copies of any other documents submitted in support of or in addition to the legal process;
(2) Notice that the United States does not represent the interests of the employee-obligor in the pending legal proceedings; and
(3) Advice that the employee-obligor may wish to consult legal counsel regarding defenses to the legal process that he or she may wish to assert.
§ 582.303
Response to legal process or interrogatories.
(a) Whenever the designated agent is validly served with legal process, the agent shall respond within 30 calendar days after receipt, or within such longer period as may be prescribed by applicable State or local law. The agent shall also respond within this time period to interrogatories which accompany legal process. Notwithstanding State law, an agent need only respond once to legal process.
(b) If State or local law authorizes the issuance of interrogatories prior to or after the issuance of legal process, the agent shall respond to the interrogatories within 30 calendar days after being validly served, or within such longer period as may be prescribed by applicable State or local law.
§ 582.304
Nonliability for disclosure.
(a) No agency employee whose duties include responding to interrogatories pursuant to § 582.303(b), shall be subject to any disciplinary action or civil or criminal liability or penalty for any disclosure of information made in connection with the carrying out of any duties pertaining directly or indirectly to answering such interrogatories.
(b) However, an agency would not be precluded from taking disciplinary action against an employee who consistently or purposely failed to provide correct information requested by interrogatories.
§ 582.305
Honoring legal process.
(a) The agency shall comply with legal process, except where the process cannot be complied with because:
(1) It is not regular on its face.
(2) The legal process would require the withholding of funds not deemed pay as described in § 582.102(a)(5).
(3) It does not comply with section 5520a of title 5 of the United States Code or with the mandatory provisions of this part; or
(4) An order of a court of competent jurisdiction enjoining or suspending the operation of the legal process has been served on the agency.
(b) While an agency will not comply with legal process which, on its face, indicates that it has expired or is otherwise no longer valid, legal process will be deemed valid notwithstanding the fact that the underlying debt and/or the underlying judgment arose prior to the effective date of section 5520a of title 5 of the United States Code.
(c)(1) The filing of an appeal by an employee-obligor will not generally delay the processing of a garnishment action. If the employee-obligor establishes to the satisfaction of the employee-obligor's agency that the law of the jurisdiction which issued the legal process provides that the processing of the garnishment action shall be suspended during an appeal, and if the employee-obligor establishes that he or she has filed an appeal, the employing agency shall comply with the applicable law of the jurisdiction and delay or suspend the processing of the garnishment action.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the employing agency shall not be required to establish an escrow account to comply with the legal process even if the applicable law of the jurisdiction requires private employers to do so.
(d) Under the circumstances set forth in § 582.305 (a) or (b), or where the agency is directed by the Justice Department not to comply with the legal process, the agency shall respond directly to the court, or other authority, setting forth its reasons for non-compliance with the legal process. In addition, the agency shall inform the person who caused the legal process to be served, or the person's representative, that the legal process will not be honored. Thereafter, if litigation is initiated or appears imminent, the agency shall immediately refer the matter to the United States Attorney for the district from which the legal process issued. To ensure uniformity in the executive branch, agencies which have statutory authority to represent themselves in court shall coordinate their representation with the United States Attorney.
(e) In the event that an agency is served with more than one legal process or garnishment order with respect to the same payments due or payable to the same employee, the agency shall satisfy such processes in priority based on the time of service:
Provided,
That in no event will the total amount garnished for any pay or disbursement cycle exceed the applicable limitation set forth in § 582.402.
Provided further,
That processes which are not limited in time shall preserve their priority based on time of service until fully satisfied. Generally, a modified order will retain its original priority while a time limited order will lose its priority after it has expired.
(f) Legal process to which an agency is subject under sections 459, 461, and 462 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 659, 661, and 662) for the enforcement of an employee's legal obligation to provide child support or to make alimony payments, including child support or alimony arrearages, shall have priority over any legal process to which an agency is subject under this part. In addition to having priority, compliance with legal process to which an agency is subject under sections 459, 461, and 462 of the Social Security Act may exhaust the moneys available for compliance with legal process under this part. See § 582.402(a).
(g)(1) Neither the United States, and executive agency, nor any disbursing officer shall be liable for any payment made from moneys due from, or payable by, the United States to any individual pursuant to legal process regular on its face, if such payment is made in accordance with this part.
(2) Neither the United States, an executive agency, nor any disbursing officer shall be liable under this part to pay money damages for failure to comply with the legal process.
(h) Agencies affected by legal process served under this part shall not be required to vary their normal pay or disbursement cycles to comply with the legal process. However, legal process, valid at the time of service, which is received too late to be honored during the disbursement cycle in which it is received, shall be honored, to the extent that the legal process may be satisfied, during the next disbursement cycle within the limits set forth in § 582.402. The fact that the legal process may have expired during this period would not relieve the agency of its obligation to honor legal process which was valid at the time of service. If, in the next disbursement cycle, no further payment will be due from the agency to the employee-obligor, the agency shall follow the procedures set forth in § 582.306.
(i) Agencies need not establish escrow accounts in order to comply with legal process. Therefore, even if the amount garnished by an agency in one disbursement cycle is not sufficient to satisfy the entire indebtedness, the agency need not retain those funds until the amount retained would satisfy the entire indebtedness. On the contrary, agencies will, in most instances, remit the garnished amount after each disbursement cycle. Agencies need not pro-rate payments for less than a full disbursement cycle.
(j) If an agency receives legal process which is regular on its face, the agency shall not be required to ascertain whether the authority which issued the legal process had obtained personal jurisdiction over the employee-obligor.
(k) At the discretion of the executive agency, the agency's administrative costs in executing a garnishment may be added to the garnishment amount and the agency may retain costs recovered as offsetting collections. To facilitate recovery of these administrative costs, an administrative fee may be assessed for each legal process that is received and processed by an agency, provided that the fee constitutes the agency's administrative costs in executing the garnishment action.
(l) Where an employee-obligor has filed a bankruptcy petition under section 301 or 302 of title 11 of the United States Code, or is the debtor named in an involuntary petition filed under section 303 of title 11, the agency must cease garnishment proceedings affected by the automatic stay provision, section 362(a) of title 11. Upon filing a petition in bankruptcy or upon learning that he or she is the debtor named in an involuntary petition, the employee-obligor should immediately notify the agency. To enable the agency to determine if the automatic stay applies, the
employee-obligor should provide the agency with a copy of the filing or a letter from counsel stating that the petition was filed and indicating the court and the case number, the chapter under which the petition was filed, whether State or federal exemptions were elected, and the nature of the claim underlying the garnishment order.
(m) Within 30 days following the collection of the amount required in the garnishment order, the creditor may submit a final statement of interest that accrued during the garnishment process, and the employing agency shall process the statement for payment, provided the garnishment order authorizes the collection of such interest. This final statement of interest should be accompanied by a statement of account showing how the interest was computed.
[60 FR 13030, Mar. 10, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 14787, Mar. 26, 1998]
§ 582.306
Lack of entitlement by the employee-obligor to pay from the agency served with legal process.
(a) When legal process is served on an agency and the individual identified in the legal process as the employee-obligor is found not to be entitled to pay from the agency, the agency shall follow the procedures set forth in the legal process for that contingency or, if no procedures are set forth therein, the agency shall return the legal process to the court, or other authority from which it was issued, and advise the court, or other authority, that the identified employee-obligor is not entitled to any pay from the agency.
(b) Where it appears that the employee-obligor is only temporarily not entitled to pay from the agency, the court, or other authority, shall be fully advised as to why, and for how long, the employee-obligor's pay will not be garnished, if that information is known by the agency and if disclosure of that information would not be prohibited.
(c) In instances where an employee-obligor separates from employment with an agency that had been honoring a continuing legal process, the agency shall inform the person who caused the legal process to be served, or the person's representative, and the issuing court, or other authority, that the garnishment action is being discontinued. In cases where the employee-obligor has been employed by either another agency or by a private employer, and where this information is known by the agency, the agency shall provide the person with the designated agent for the new employing agency or with the name and address of the private employer.

# Subpart D—Consumer Credit Protection Act Restrictions
§ 582.401
Aggregate disposable earnings.
In accordance with the Consumer Credit Protection Act, the
aggregate disposable earnings
under this part are the employee-obligor's pay less those amounts excluded in accordance with § 582.103.
§ 582.402
Maximum garnishment limitations.
Pursuant to section 1673(a)(1) of title 15 of the United States Code (the Consumer Credit Protection Act, as amended) and the Department of Labor regulations to title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, part 870, the following limitations are applicable:
(a) Unless a lower maximum limitation is provided by applicable State or local law, the maximum part of an employee-obligor's aggregate disposable earnings subject to garnishment to enforce any legal debt other than an order for child support or alimony, including any amounts withheld to offset administrative costs as provided for in § 582.305(k), shall not exceed 25 percent of the employee-obligor's aggregate disposable earnings for any workweek. As appropriate, State or local law should be construed as providing a lower maximum limitation where legal process may only be processed on a one at a time basis. Where an agency is garnishing 25 percent or more of an employee-obligor's aggregate disposable earnings for any workweek in compliance with legal process to which an agency is subject under sections 459, 461, and 462 of the Social Security Act, no additional amount may be garnished in compliance with legal process
under this part. Furthermore, the following dollar limitations, which are contained in title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, part 870, must be applied in determining the garnishable amount of the employee's aggregate disposable earnings:
(1) If the employee-obligor's aggregate disposable earnings for the workweek are in excess of 40 times the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) minimum hourly wage, 25 percent of the employee-obligor's aggregate disposable earnings may be garnished. For example, effective September 1, 1997, when the FLSA minimum wage rate is $5.15 per hour, this rate multiplied by 40 equals $206.00 and thus, if an employee-obligor's disposable earnings are in excess of $206.00 for a workweek, 25 percent of the employee-obligor's disposable earnings are subject to garnishment.
(2) If the employee-obligor's aggregate disposable earnings for a workweek are less than 40 times the FLSA minimum hourly wage, garnishment may not exceed the amount by which the employee-obligor's aggregate disposable earnings exceed 30 times the current minimum wage rate. For example, at an FLSA minimum wage rate of $5.15 per hour, the amount of aggregate disposable earnings which may not be garnished is $154.50 [$5.15 × 30]. Only the amount above $154.50 is garnishable.
(3) If the employee-obligor's aggregate disposable earnings in a workweek are equal to or less than 30 times the FLSA minimum hourly wage, the employee-obligator's earnings may not be garnished in any amount.
(b) There is no limit on the percentage of an employee-obligor's aggregate disposable earnings that may be garnished for a Federal, State or local tax obligation or in compliance with an order of any court of the United States having jurisdiction over bankruptcy cases under Chapter 13 of title 11 of the United States Code. Orders from courts having jurisdiction over bankruptcy cases under Chapter 7 or Chapter 11 of the United States Code are subject to the maximum garnishment restrictions in § 582.402(a).
[60 FR 13030, Mar. 10, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 14788, Mar. 26, 1998]

# Subpart E—Implementation by Agencies
§ 582.501
Rules, regulations, and directives by agencies.
Appropriate officials of all agencies shall, to the extent necessary, issue implementing rules, regulations, or directives that are consistent with this part or as are otherwise in accordance with statutory law.
[63 FR 14788, Mar. 26, 1998]
Pt. 582, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 582—List of Agents Designated To Accept Legal Process
Note:
The agents designated to accept legal process are listed in appendix A to part 581 of this chapter. This appendix provides listings only for those executive agencies where the designations differ from those found in appendix A to part 581.

# I. Departments
Department of Defense.
Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.
Agents for receipt of all legal process for all Department of Defense civilian employees except where another agent has been designated as set forth below.
For requests that apply to employees of the Army and Air Force Exchange Service or to civilian employees of the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) who are employed outside the United States: See appendix A to part 581 of this chapter.
For requests that apply to civilian employees of the Army Corps of Engineers, the National Security Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, and non-appropriated fund civilian employees of the Air Force, serve the following offices:
Civilian employees of the Army Corps of Engineers.
Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.
Army Non-Appropriated Fund Employees in Europe.
Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Office of General Counsel, Attn: Garnishment Law Directorate, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002, Fax: 216-367-3675; Toll-Free Fax: 877-622-5930, Phone: 888-332-7411.
National Security Agency.
General Counsel, National Security Agency/Central Security
Service, 9800 Savage Rd., Ft. George G. Meade, MD 20755-6000, (301) 688-6705.
Defense Intelligence Agency.
Office of General Counsel, Defense Intelligence Agency, Pentagon, 2E238, Washington, DC 20340-1029, (202) 697-3945.
Air Force Non-Appropriated Fund Employees.
Office of General Counsel, Air Force Services Agency, 10100 Reunion Place, Suite 503, San Antonio, TX 78216-4138, (210) 652-7051.
For civilian employees of the Army, Navy and Marine Corps who are employed outside the United States, serve the following offices:
Army Civilian Employees in Europe.
Commander, 266th Theater Finance Command, ATTN: AEUCF-CPF, APO AE 09007-0137, 011-49-6221-57-6303/2136, DSN 370-6303/2136.
Army Civilian Employees in Japan.
Commander, U.S. Army Finance and Accounting Office, Japan, ATTN: APAJ-RM-FA-E-CP, Unit 45005, APO AP 96343-0087, DSN 233-3362.
Army Civilian Employees in Korea.
Commander, 175th Finance and Accounting Office, Korea, ATTN: EAFC-FO (Civilian Pay), Unit 15300, APO AP 96205-0073, 011-822-791-4599, DSN 723-4599.
Army Civilian Employees in Panama.
DCSRM Finance
Accounting Office, ATTN: SORM-FAP-C, Unit 7153, APO AA 34004-5000, 011-507-287-6766, DSN 287-5312.
Navy and Marine Corps Civilian Employees Overseas.
Director of the Office of Civilian Personnel Management, Office of Counsel, Office of Civilian Personnel Management (OCPM-OL), Department of the Navy, 800 N. Quincy Street, Arlington, VA 22203-1990, (703) 696-4717.
Navy and Marine Corps Non-Appropriated Fund Employees.
The agents are the same as those designated to receive garnishment orders of Navy and Marine Corps non-appropriated fund personnel for the collection of child support and alimony, published at 5 CFR part 581, appendix A, except as follows:
For non-civil service civilian personnel of Marine Corps non-appropriated fund instrumentalities, process may be served on the Commanding Officer of the employing activity, ATTN: Morale, Welfare and Recreation Director.
Department of the Interior.
Chief, Payroll Operations Division, Attn: Code: D-2605, Bureau of Reclamation, Administrative Service Center, Department of the Interior, P.O. Box 272030, 7201 West Mansfield Avenue, Denver, CO 80227-9030, (303) 969-7739.
[88 FR 32090, May 19, 2023]
Pt. 591

# PART 591—ALLOWANCES AND DIFFERENTIALS

# Subpart A—Uniform Allowances
Sec.
591.101
Purpose.
591.102
Definitions.
591.103
Governmentwide maximum uniform allowance rate.
591.104
Higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate.

# Subpart B—Cost-of-Living Allowance and Post Differential—Nonforeign Areas
591.201
Definitions.

# Cost-of-Living Allowances and Post Differentials
591.202
Why does the Government pay COLAs?
591.203
Why does the Government pay post differentials?
591.204
Who can receive COLAs and post differentials?
591.205
Which areas are nonforeign areas?

# Cost-of-Living Allowances
591.206
How does OPM establish COLA areas?
591.207
Which areas are COLA areas?
591.208
How does OPM establish COLA rates?
591.209
What is a price index?
591.210
What are weights?
591.211
What are the categories of consumer expenditures?
591.212
How does OPM select survey items?
591.213
What prices does OPM collect?
591.214
How does OPM collect prices?
591.215
Where does OPM collect prices in the COLA and DC areas?
591.216
How does OPM combine survey data for the DC area and for COLA areas with multiple survey areas?
591.217
In which outlets does OPM collect prices?
591.218
How does OPM compute price indexes?
591.219
How does OPM compute shelter price indexes?
591.220
How does OPM calculate energy utility cost indexes?
591.221
How does OPM compute the consumer expenditure weights it uses to combine price indexes?
591.222
How does OPM use the expenditure weights to combine price indexes?
591.223
When does OPM conduct COLA surveys?
591.224
How does OPM adjust price indexes between surveys?
591.225
Which CPIs does OPM use?
591.226
How does OPM apply the CPIs?
591.227
What adjustment factors does OPM add to the price indexes?
591.228
How does OPM convert the price index plus adjustment factor to a COLA rate?
591.229
How does OPM inform agencies and employees of COLA rate changes?

# Post Differentials
591.230
When does OPM establish post differential areas?
591.231
Which areas are post differential areas?
591.232
How does OPM establish and review post differentials?
591.233
Who can receive a post differential?
591.234
Under what circumstances may people recruited locally receive a post differential?

# Program Administration
591.235
When do COLA and post differential payments begin?
591.236
When do COLA and post differential payments end?
591.237
Under what circumstances may employees on leave or travel receive a COLA and/or post differential?
591.238
How do agencies pay COLAs and post differentials?
591.239
How do agencies treat COLAs and post differentials for the purpose of overtime pay and other entitlements?
591.240
How are agency and employee representatives involved in the administration of the COLA and post differential programs?
591.241
What are the key activities of the COLA Advisory Committees?
591.242
What is the tenure of a COLA Advisory Committee?
591.243
How many members are on each COLA Advisory Committee?
591.244
How does OPM select COLA Advisory Committee members?
Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 591—Places and Rates at Which Allowances Are Paid
Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 591—Places and Rates at Which Differentials Are Paid

# Subpart C—Allowance Based on Duty at Remote Worksites
591.301
Purpose.
591.302
Coverage.
591.303
Responsibilities of agencies and the Office of Personnel Management.
591.304
Criteria for determining remoteness.
591.305
Allowance rates.
591.306
Employee eligibility for an allowance.
591.307
Payment of allowance rate.
591.308
Relationship to additional pay payable under other statutes.
591.309
Effective date for payment of allowances.
591.310
Effect of regulations in this subpart on allowances established under previous statutes.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 591—Daily Transportation Allowance Schedule, Commuting Over Land by Private Motor Vehicle to Remote Duty Posts
Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 591—Daily Inconvenience or Hardship Allowance Schedule, Commuting Over Land by Motor Vehicle to Remote Duty Posts

# Subpart D—Separate Maintenance Allowance for Duty at Johnston Island
591.401
Purpose and applicability.
591.402
Definitions.
591.403
Amount of payment.
591.404
Method of payment.
591.405
Responsibilities of agencies.
591.406
Records and reports.

# Subpart A—Uniform Allowances

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5903; E.O. 12748, 3 CFR 1991 Comp., p. 316.

# Source:
59 FR 43705, Aug. 25, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 591.101
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes the regulations authorized by section 5903 of title 5, United States Code, for the payment of uniform allowances.
§ 591.102
Definitions.
Agency
means an “Executive agency,” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.
Employee
means an employee in or under an agency.
Category of employees
means any group of employees designated by an agency that has the same basic uniform requirements.
Head of agency
means the head of an agency or an official who has been delegated the authority to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Uniform
means a specified article or articles of clothing that may include, but is not limited to, such items as shoes, boots, hats, shirts, slacks, skirts, or outerwear an employee is required by an agency to wear to provide a distinctive and easily identifiable appearance in performing his or her job. A “uniform” does not include protective equipment required for the employee's safety under 5 U.S.C. 7903 or normal business or work attire purchased at the discretion of the employee.
Year
means any period of 12 consecutive months designated by an agency
as the basis for applying the maximum uniform allowance rates established under this part.
§ 591.103
Governmentwide maximum uniform allowance rate.
Unless a higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate is payable under § 591.104 to an employee who is required by statute, regulation, or an agency's written administrative procedures to wear a uniform, the head of each agency concerned, out of funds available, shall—
(a) Pay an allowance for a uniform not to exceed $800 a year; or
(b) Furnish a uniform at a cost not to exceed $800 a year.
(c) Any agency which provides a uniform allowance under paragraph (a) of this section must establish policies to administer the uniform allowance program, including uniform standards acceptable to the agency.
[59 FR 43705, Aug. 25, 1994, as amended at 72 FR 20702, Apr. 26, 2007]
§ 591.104
Higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate.
(a) The head of an agency may establish one or more initial maximum uniform allowance rates greater than the Governmentwide maximum uniform allowance rate established under § 591.103.
(b) A higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate established under this section may not exceed the average total uniform cost for the minimum basic uniform for the affected employees and, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, applies only to the year in which the employee becomes subject to a requirement to wear the uniform.
(c) An agency that establishes one or more higher initial maximum uniform allowance rates under this section may divide the cost of the minimum basic uniform and continue a higher initial maximum uniform allowance for the year following the year the employee first becomes subject to the requirement to wear the uniform, provided the agency publishes a notice of its intention to continue such payments in the
Federal Register
for notice and comment.
(d) Before establishing a higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate under this section, an agency shall publish in the
Federal Register
for notice and comment—
(1) A description and justification of the circumstances requiring a higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate;
(2) An estimate of the number of employees affected;
(3) The specific items required for the basic uniform and the average total uniform cost for the affected employees;
(4) The amount of the proposed higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate to be paid during the year the employee first becomes subject to the uniform requirement;
(5) The proposed effective date of the higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate; and,
(6) The intent of the agency (if any) to divide the cost of a minimum basic uniform and continue to make higher initial maximum basic uniform allowance payments in the year following the year the employee first becomes subject to the uniform requirement.
(e) So that OPM can evaluate agencies' use of this authority and provide the Congress and others with information regarding the use of a higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate, each agency concerned shall maintain such other records and submit to OPM such other reports and data as OPM shall require.
(f) When OPM determines that an agency is using this authority inappropriately, OPM may require its prior approval before that agency establishes any future higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate.
(g) An agency may increase a higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate only as a result of an increase in the average total uniform cost for the affected employees. Before effecting an increase under this paragraph, an agency shall follow the notice and comment procedures required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(h) To establish a higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate applicable to the initial year a new style or type of minimum basic uniform is required for a category of employees, an agency shall use the higher initial
maximum uniform allowance procedures provided under this section.

# Subpart B—Cost-of-Living Allowance and Post Differential—Nonforeign Areas

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5941; E.O. 10000, 3 CFR, 1943-1948 Comp., p. 792; and E.O. 12510, 3 CFR, 1985 Comp., p. 338.

# Source:
67 FR 22340, May 3, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to subpart B of part 591 appear at 70 FR 31313, May 31, 2005.
§ 591.201
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Agency
means an Executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, but does not include Government-controlled corporations.
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)
means the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor.
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI)
means the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, which is part of the Guam/CNMI COLA area.
Consumer Expenditure Survey (CES)
means the BLS survey of consumers and their expenditures.
Consumer Price Index (CPI)
means the BLS survey of the change of consumer prices over time.
Cost-of-living allowance (COLA)
means an allowance that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) establishes under 5 U.S.C. 5941 at a location in a nonforeign area where living costs are substantially higher than in the Washington, DC, area.
Cost-of-living allowance area
means a geographic area for which OPM has authorized a COLA. COLA areas are listed in § 591.207.
Detailed Expenditure Category (DEC)
means the lowest level of expenditure shown in tabulated nationwide CES data.
Major Expenditure Group (MEG)
means one of the nine major groups into which OPM categorizes expenditures. These categories are food, shelter and utilities, clothing, transportation, household furnishings and supplies, medical, education and communication, recreation, and miscellaneous.
Nonforeign area
means one of the areas listed in § 591.205.
Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
means the Office of Personnel Management.
Official worksite
means the official location of an employee's position of record as determined under 5 CFR 531.605.
Position of record
means an employee's official position (defined by grade, occupational series, employing agency, law enforcement officer status, and any other condition that determines coverage under a pay schedule (other than official worksite)), as documented on the employee's most recent Notification of Personnel Action (Standard Form 50 or equivalent) and the current position description, excluding any position to which the employee is temporarily detailed. For an employee whose change in official position is followed within 3 workdays by a reduction in force resulting in the employee's separation before he or she is required to report for duty in the new position, the position of record in effect immediately before the position change is deemed to remain the position of record through the date of separation.
Post differential
means an allowance OPM establishes under 5 U.S.C. 5941 at a location in a nonforeign area where conditions of environment differ substantially from conditions of environment in the contiguous United States and warrant its payment as a recruitment incentive.
Post differential area
means a geographic area for which OPM authorizes a post differential. Post differential areas are listed in § 591.231.
Primary Expenditure Group (PEG)
means one of approximately 40 expenditure groups into which OPM categorizes expenditures. A PEG is the first level of categorization under the MEG.
Rate of basic pay
means the rate of pay fixed by statute for the position held by an individual, including any supplement included as part of basic pay under this subpart by law or regulation (e.g., a special rate supplement under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C), before
any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any other kind, such as overtime pay, night differential, extra pay for work on holidays, or other allowances and differentials. For firefighters covered by 5 U.S.C. 5545b, straight-time pay for regular overtime hours is basic pay, as provided in § 550.1305(b) of this chapter.
Washington, DC, area
or
DC area
means the District of Columbia; Montgomery County, MD; Prince Georges County, MD; Arlington County, VA; Fairfax County, VA; Prince William County, VA; and the independent cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, Falls Church, Manassas, and Manassas Park, Virginia; and in the context of certain survey items, includes additional geographic locations beyond these jurisdictions.
[67 FR 22340, May 3, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 59762, Oct. 6, 2004; 70 FR 31314, May 31, 2005]

# Cost-of-Living Allowances and Post Differentials
§ 591.202
Why does the Government pay COLAs?
The Government pays COLAs as additional compensation to certain civilian Federal employees in specified nonforeign areas in consideration of higher living costs in the local area compared with living costs in the Washington, DC, area.
§ 591.203
Why does the Government pay post differentials?
The Government pays post differentials to certain civilian Federal employees in specified nonforeign areas as a recruitment incentive based on conditions of environment in the local area compared with conditions in the continental United States. Post differentials are designed to attract persons from outside the area to work for the Federal Government in the post differential area.
§ 591.204
Who can receive COLAs and post differentials?
(a) Agencies pay COLAs and post differentials authorized under this subpart to civilian Federal employees whose rates of basic pay are fixed by statute. The following pay plans are covered by this subpart:
(1) General Schedule,
(2) Veterans Health Administration (Department of Veterans Affairs),
(3) Foreign Service (including the Senior Foreign Service),
(4) Postal Service (where applicable under title 39, United States Code),
(5) Administrative law judges paid under 5 U.S.C. 5372,
(6) Senior Executive Service (including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration Senior Executive Service),
(7) Senior-level and scientific or professional positions paid under 5 U.S.C. 5376, and
(8) Administrative appeals judges paid under 5 U.S.C. 5372b.
(b) At its sole discretion and consistent with the intent of 5 U.S.C. 5941, an agency may apply this subpart to other positions authorized by specific law.
(c) Agencies pay COLAs to employees covered by paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section and whose official worksite is in a COLA area as defined in § 591.207.
(d) Agencies pay post differentials to employees covered by paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section whose official worksite or detail to temporary duty is in a post differential area as defined in § 591.231 and who are eligible to receive a post differential under § 591.233.
§ 591.205
Which areas are nonforeign areas?
(a) The nonforeign areas are States, commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the United States outside the 48 contiguous United States and any additional areas the Secretary of State designates as being within the scope of Part II of Executive Order 10000, as amended.
(b) The following areas are nonforeign areas:
(1) State of Alaska;
(2) State of Hawaii;
(3) American Samoa (including the island of Tutuila, the Manua Islands, and all other islands of the Samoa group east of longitude 171 degrees west of Greenwich, together with Swains Island);
(4) Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(5) Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands;
(6) Howland, Baker, and Jarvis Islands;
(7) Johnston Atoll;
(8) Kingman Reef;
(9) Midway Atoll;
(10) Navassaa Island;
(11) Palmyra Atoll;
(12) Territory of Guam;
(13) United States Virgin Islands;
(14) Wake Atoll;
(15) Any small guano islands, rocks, or keys that, in pursuance of action taken under the Act of Congress, August 18, 1856, are considered as pertaining to the United States; and
(16) Any other islands outside of the contiguous 48 states to which the U.S. Government reserves claim.

# Cost-of-Living Allowances
§ 591.206
How does OPM establish COLA areas?
(a) OPM designates, within nonforeign areas, areas where agencies pay employees a COLA by virtue of living costs that are substantially higher than those in the Washington, DC, area. In establishing the boundaries of COLA areas, OPM considers—
(1) The existence of a well-defined economic community,
(2) The availability of consumer goods and services,
(3) The concentration of Federal employees covered by this subpart, and
(4) Unique circumstances related to a specific location.
(b) If a department or agency wants OPM to consider establishing or revising the definition of a COLA area, the head of the department or agency or his or her designee must submit a request in writing to OPM.
§ 591.207
Which areas are COLA areas?
OPM has established the following COLA areas:
(a) City of Anchorage, AK, and 80-kilometer (50-mile) radius by shortest route using paved roads when available, as measured from the Federal courthouse to the official duty station;
(b) City of Fairbanks, AK, and 80-kilometer (50-mile) radius by shortest route using paved roads when available, as measured from the Federal courthouse to the official duty station;
(c) City of Juneau, AK, and 80-kilometer (50-mile) radius by shortest route using paved roads when available, as measured from the Federal courthouse to the official duty station;
(d) Rest of the State of Alaska;
(e) City and County of Honolulu, HI;
(f) County of Hawaii, HI;
(g) County of Kauai, HI;
(h) County of Maui (including Kalawao County), HI;
(i) Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(j) Territory of Guam and Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; and
(k) U.S. Virgin Islands.
[67 FR 22340, May 3, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 65245, Nov. 3, 2008]
§ 591.208
How does OPM establish COLA rates?
OPM establishes COLA rates based on price differences between the COLA area and the Washington, DC, area, plus an adjustment factor. OPM expresses price differences as indexes.
(a) OPM computes price indexes for various categories of consumer expenditures.
(b) OPM combines the price indexes using Consumer expenditure weights to produce an overall price index for the COLA area.
(c) To combine overall price indexes for COLA areas with multiple survey areas, OPM uses employment weights to combine overall price indexes by survey area for COLA areas. The COLA areas that have multiple survey areas are listed in § 591.215(b).
(d) OPM adds an adjustment factor to the overall price index for the COLA area.
§ 591.209
What is a price index?
(a) The price index is the COLA area price divided by the DC area price and multiplied by 100.
(b) Example:
COLA Area Average Price for Item A = $1.233
DC Area Average Price for Item A = $1.164
Computation:
$1.233/$1.164 = 1.0592783
1.0592783 × 100 = 105.92783.
(c) In the case of the final index, OPM rounds the index to two decimal places.
§ 591.210
What are weights?
(a) A weight is the relative importance or share of a subpart of a group compared with the total for the group. A weight is frequently expressed as a percentage. For example, in a pie chart, each wedge has a percentage that represents its relative importance or the size of the wedge compared with the whole pie.
(b) OPM uses two kinds of weights: Consumer expenditure weights and employment weights.
(1)
Consumer expenditure weights.
The consumer expenditure weight for a category of expenditures (e.g., Food) is the relative importance or share (often expressed as a percentage) of that category in terms of total consumer expenditures. OPM derives consumer expenditure weights from the tabulated results of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Consumer Expenditure Survey (CES).
(2)
Employment weights.
The employment weight is the relative employment population of the survey area compared with the employment population of the COLA area as a whole. OPM uses the number of General Schedule employees in the survey area to compute employment weights. OPM uses these employment weights as described in § 591.216(b).
§ 591.211
What are the categories of consumer expenditures?
OPM uses three different types of categories: Major expenditure groups, primary expenditure groups, and detailed expenditure categories.
(a)
Major expenditure groups.
OPM groups expenditures into nine major expenditure groups (MEGs). These categories are food, shelter and utilities, clothing, transportation, household furnishings and supplies, medical, education and communication, recreation, and miscellaneous.
(b)
Primary expenditure groups.
OPM subdivides each MEG into primary expenditure groups (PEGs). There are approximately 40 PEGs.
(c)
Detailed expenditure categories.
OPM further subdivides each PEG into other categories down to the detailed expenditure categories (DECs), which are generally equivalent to the most detailed level of tabulated CES categories. OPM classifies each DEC into one of the PEGs to aggregate DECs with similar demand and cost characteristics into PEGs. Alternatively, OPM may remove the DEC entirely from the list of expenditures. Therefore, the classification of the DECs into PEGs and sub-PEGs does not necessarily follow that used in published CES tables.
§ 591.212
How does OPM select survey items?
(a) OPM selects a sufficient number of items to represent PEGs and reduce overall price index variability. In selecting these items, OPM applies the following guidelines. The item should be—
(1) Relatively important (
i.e.,
represent a DEC with a relatively large weight) within the PEG;
(2) Relatively easy to find in both COLA and DC areas;
(3) Relatively common,
i.e.,
what people typically buy;
(4) Relatively stable over time, e.g., not a fad item; and
(5) Subject to similar supply and demand functions.
(b) To the extent practical, the items OPM surveys in the COLA area must be identical to the items that OPM surveys in the DC area or be of closely similar quality and quantity, with quantity adjustments as necessary. An example of a quantity adjustment is converting prices for 10 and 12 oz. packages to a price per pound.
(c) Within any DEC, OPM may specify items that differ in quality and quantity from other items specified for the same DEC. However, when OPM compares prices for such items between the COLA area and the DC area, OPM compares prices of like products.
§ 591.213
What prices does OPM collect?
(a) OPM surveys the price charged to the consumer at the time of the survey. The price includes any sales, excise, or general business tax passed on to the consumer at the time of sale and any discounts, mark-downs, or “sales”
in progress at the time the price was collected.
(b)
Exceptions:
(1) OPM does not collect coupon prices, clearance prices, going-out-of-business prices, or area-wide distress sale prices.
(2) OPM prices automobiles at dealers and obtains the sticker (
i.e.,
non-negotiated) price for the model and specified options. The prices are the manufacturer's suggested retail price (including options), destination charges, additional shipping charges, appropriate dealer-added items or options, dealer mark-up, and taxes.
(3) OPM estimates prices for selected items, such as health insurance and K-12 education, based on employee usage of the item. For example, OPM estimates health insurance prices based on the employee's share of the premium costs and weights reflecting Federal enrollment, as reported in OPM's Central Personnel Data File, in the various plans available to Federal employees in each area.
[67 FR 22340, May 3, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 59762, Oct. 6, 2004]
§ 591.214
How does OPM collect prices?
(a) OPM collects most prices by visiting or calling retail outlets in each survey area and observing or verbally obtaining the item prices.
(b) OPM prices some items by catalog, Internet, or a similar source. Other items, not normally sold within an area, may be priced in a different area. In either case, the price of such items includes any applicable taxes, shipping, and handling charges. When an item is normally sold within an area but is not available at the time of survey, OPM may, on a case-by-case basis, use the price of the item in a neighboring survey or COLA area.
§ 591.215
Where does OPM collect prices in the COLA and DC areas?
(a)
Survey areas.
Each COLA area has one survey area, except Hawaii County, HI, and the U.S. Virgin Islands COLA areas. Hawaii County has two survey areas: the Hilo area and the Kailua Kona/Waimea area. The U.S. Virgin Islands also has two survey areas: the Island of St. Croix and the Islands of St. Thomas and St. John. The Washington, DC, area has three survey areas: the District of Columbia, the Maryland suburbs of the District of Columbia, and the Virginia suburbs of the District of Columbia. OPM collects non-housing data throughout the survey area, and for selected items such as golf, snow skiing, and air travel, OPM collects non-housing data in additional geographic locations. OPM may collect housing data throughout the survey area or in specific housing data collection areas. The following table shows the survey areas:
Survey Areas
COLA and reference areas
Survey areas and geographic coverage
Anchorage
City of Anchorage.
1
Fairbanks
Fairbanks/North Pole area.
1
Juneau
Juneau/Mendenhall/Douglas area.
1
Rest of Alaska
See paragraph (c) of this section.
Honolulu
City and County of Honolulu.
Hawaii County
Hilo area.
1
Kailua Kona/Waimea area.
Kauai
Kauai Island.
Maui
Maui Island.
Guam
CNMI
Guam.
Puerto Rico
San Juan/Caguas area.
2
U.S. Virgin Islands
St. Croix.
St. Thomas/St. John area.
3
Washington, DC-DC
District of Columbia.
1
Washington, DC-MD
Montgomery County and Prince Georges County.
1
Washington, DC-VA
Arlington County, Fairfax County, Prince William County, City of Alexandria, City of Fairfax, City of Falls Church, City of Manassas, and City of Manassas Park.
1
1
For selected items, such as golf, snow skiing, and air travel, these survey areas may include additional geographic locations beyond these jurisdictions.
2
OPM may collect housing data in other areas in Puerto Rico that have a significant concentration of Federal employees stationed in those areas.
3
OPM collects housing data in St. John. OPM also may collect non-housing data from selected outlets in St. John.
(b)
Rest of the State of Alaska COLA area.
OPM may collect survey data onsite, use alternative indicators of relative living costs (e.g., price and cost information published by the University of Alaska), or both. If the use of alternative indicators would result in a COLA rate reduction, OPM will conduct onsite surveys in one or more locations in the Rest of the State of Alaska COLA area, before making a reduction, to ensure that the reduction is warranted.
(c)
Determining Survey Coverage.
To aid OPM in determining survey coverage, OPM may from time to time conduct surveys of Federal employees
in the COLA areas and/or the Washington, DC, area to determine where employees shop and what they spend on certain goods or services and to collect other information related to the price surveys and the calculation of price indexes.
[67 FR 22340, May 3, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 59762, Oct. 6, 2004]
§ 591.216
How does OPM combine survey data for the DC area and for COLA areas with multiple survey areas?
(a)
Washington, DC, area.
For each survey item except shelter, OPM averages separately the prices collected in each of the DC survey areas identified in § 591.215(a) and then averages these average prices together using equal weights to compute an overall average by item for the DC area.
(b)
COLA areas with multiple survey areas.
OPM computes weighted average indexes at the item, PEG, MEG, and/or overall level by using the corresponding indexes and Federal employment weights from each survey area within the COLA area.
[67 FR 22340, May 3, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 59763, Oct. 6, 2004]
§ 591.217
In which outlets does OPM collect prices?
OPM collects prices in popular outlets in each survey area. OPM selects these outlets based on their proximity to the housing data collection areas, accessibility by road, physical size, advertising, and other characteristics that reflect sales volume. To the extent practical, OPM prices like items in the same types of outlets in the COLA areas and the Washington, DC, area. As warranted, OPM also may conduct point-of-purchase surveys and select outlets based on the results of those surveys.
§ 591.218
How does OPM compute price indexes?
Except for shelter and energy utilities, OPM averages by item the prices collected in each survey area. For the Washington, DC, area, OPM computes a simple average for each item based on the average prices from each DC survey area. On an item-by-item basis, OPM divides the COLA survey area average price by the DC average price and produces a price index.
§ 591.219
How does OPM compute shelter price indexes?
(a) In addition to rental and rental equivalence prices and/or estimates, OPM obtains for each unit surveyed information about the important characteristics of the unit, such as size, number of bathrooms, and other amenities that reflect the quality of the unit.
(b) OPM then uses these characteristics and rental prices and/or estimates in hedonic regressions (a type of multiple regression) to compute for each COLA survey area the price index for rental and/or rental equivalent units of comparable quality and size between the COLA survey area and the Washington, DC, area.
[67 FR 22340, May 3, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 59763, Oct. 6, 2004]
§ 591.220
How does OPM calculate energy utility cost indexes?
(a) OPM calculates energy utility cost indexes based on the relative cost of maintaining a standard size dwelling in each area at a given ambient temperature and the cost of other energy uses. Although the dwelling size may vary from one COLA survey area to another, OPM compares the utility cost for the same size dwelling in the COLA survey area and the Washington, DC, area.
(b) OPM applies the following six-step process to compute a cost index(es) for heating and cooling a standard home to a given ambient temperature and to combine the cost index(es) by energy type (e.g., electricity and natural gas) with cost indexes for other energy uses.
(1)
Step 1.
OPM obtains technical information about the requirements by major energy type for heating and cooling a standard size dwelling, built according to current local building practices and codes in each area, given local climatic conditions (e.g., seasonal temperature and humidity). OPM also obtains similar information for use of energy types in other household operations (e.g., hot water, cooking, cleaning, recreation).
(2)
Step 2.
OPM obtains from the shelter survey, a survey of Federal employees, or other appropriate sources, information on dwelling size and the types and prevalence of heating and cooling equipment and energy types (e.g., electricity, gas, and oil) in each area.
(3)
Step 3.
OPM computes estimates of total home energy requirements by energy type attributable to heating and cooling plus all other household energy uses for the COLA survey area and the Washington, DC, area.
(4)
Step 4.
OPM surveys utility prices for each major energy type appropriate to the area.
(5)
Step 5.
OPM combines the above data to produce for each COLA survey area the cost of maintaining the standard size dwelling at a given ambient temperature and the cost of other household energy uses.
(6)
Step 6.
OPM compares the COLA survey area cost with the DC area cost to produce a price index.
§ 591.221
How does OPM compute the consumer expenditure weights it uses to combine price indexes?
OPM uses the following ten-step process to compute consumer expenditure weights:
(a)
Step 1.
OPM obtains the latest BLS tabulated CES data nationwide and for the Washington, DC, area.
(b)
Step 2.
In both the nationwide and DC area tabulated data, OPM replaces the homeowners' expenditures for shelter with estimated rental values of owned homes that are available elsewhere in tabulated CES data. Note: These replacements are consistent with the rental equivalence approach described in § 591.219.
(c)
Step 3.
OPM selects the central income groups in the nationwide CES tabulation.
(d)
Step 4.
OPM calculates the expenditure shares (
i.e.,
percentages) for each central income group by dividing each of its DEC expenditures by total expenditures for the income group. OPM also calculates expenditure shares for total nationwide expenditures by dividing each nationwide DEC expenditure by total nationwide expenditures.
(e)
Step 5.
OPM computes a democratic distribution of expenditure shares by averaging the central income groups' shares at each DEC and higher level of aggregation.
(f)
Step 6.
OPM computes a set of ratios by dividing each expenditure share of the nationwide democratic distribution by the corresponding expenditure share of the total national distribution.
(g)
Step 7.
OPM computes estimated expenditures for Washington DC for each DC DEC and higher level of aggregation that BLS reported by multiplying the reported expenditure by the corresponding ratio derived in Step 6.
(h)
Step 8.
For each DC DEC and higher level of aggregation that BLS did not report, OPM computes expenditures for DC by distributing the DC expenditure calculated in step 7 using the distribution of expenditure shares derived in step 5.
(i)
Step 9.
As described in § 591.211(c), OPM classifies each DEC and aggregate into PEGs.
(j)
Step 10.
OPM computes expenditure weights by dividing each DEC or aggregate by the total expenditure derived from the DC expenditure computed in step 8. Therefore, the sum of the MEGs, PEGs, and DECs, will separately total 100,
i.e.,
so that all consumer expenditures in the original tabulation are accounted for.
§ 591.222
How does OPM use the expenditure weights to combine price indexes?
OPM uses a three-step process to combine price indexes.
(a)
Step 1.
For each DEC represented by one or more items for which OPM could make valid price comparisons (e.g., OPM was able to collect representative prices in both the COLA and DC areas), OPM computes the unweighted geometric average (the
nth
root of the product of
n
numbers) of the price index(es) of all item(s) representing the DEC.
(b)
Step 2.
OPM multiplies the price index for each DEC by its expenditure weight, sums the cross products, and divides by the sum of the weights used in the calculation. This produces a price index for the level of aggregation (e.g., PEG or sub-PEG) in which the DEC is categorized.
(c)
Step 3.
OPM repeats the process described in Step 2 at each level of aggregation within the PEG to produce a price index for the PEG, at the PEG level to produce an index for the MEG, and at the MEG level to produce the overall price index for the COLA area.
[67 FR 22340, May 3, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 59763, Oct. 6, 2004]
§ 591.223
When does OPM conduct COLA surveys?
(a) OPM conducts a survey in each COLA area once every 3 years on a rotational basis and surveys the Washington, DC, area concurrently with each COLA area survey. The order of the COLA area surveys is as follows:
(1)
Year 1.
All COLA areas in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(2)
Year 2.
All COLA areas in the State of Alaska, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(3)
Year 3.
All COLA areas in the State of Hawaii and the Territory of Guam and CNMI.
(b)
Exceptions:
(1) Nothing in this subpart precludes OPM from conducting interim surveys or implementing some other change in response to conditions caused by a natural disaster or similar emergency, provided OPM publishes a notice or rule in the
Federal Register
explaining the change and the reason(s) for it.
(2) As provided in § 591.215(c), OPM does not conduct surveys in the Rest of the State of Alaska COLA area unless COLA rate reductions appear warranted.
§ 591.224
How does OPM adjust price indexes between surveys?
(a) OPM adjusts price indexes between the triennial surveys in each COLA area that is not surveyed in that year. To do this, OPM uses the annual or biennial change in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the COLA area relative to the annual or biennial change in the CPI for the Washington, DC, area. OPM uses the annual change for those areas surveyed the preceding year. OPM uses the biennial change for those areas surveyed 2 years before.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section applies beginning with the effective date of the results of the 2005 survey conducted in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(c) Based on additional housing data that may be collected before the 2005 survey conducted in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, OPM will adjust as warranted the price indexes and COLA rates for Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the COLA areas in the State of Alaska. OPM will implement any such adjustments on a one-time basis on the effective date of the results of the 2004 surveys conducted in Hawaii and Guam/CNMI, and subject to § 591.228. OPM will publish such adjustments as provided in § 591.229.
[67 FR 22340, May 3, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 59763, Oct. 6, 2004]
§ 591.225
Which CPIs does OPM use?
OPM uses the following CPIs:
(a) For the Washington, DC, area—the BLS Consumer Price Index, All Urban Consumers (CPI-U);
(b) For all COLA areas in the State of Alaska—the BLS CPI-U for Anchorage, AK;
(c) For all COLA areas in the State of Hawaii and for Guam and the CNMI—the BLS CPI-U for Honolulu, HI; and
(d) For Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands—the Puerto Rico CPI as produced by the Puerto Rico Department of Work and Human Resources.
§ 591.226
How does OPM apply the CPIs?
(a) OPM uses a three-step process to adjust price indexes by relative annual or biennial changes in the CPIs. For steps 1 and 2, OPM computes the annual change by dividing the CPI from 1 year after the survey by the CPI from the time of the survey. OPM computes the biennial change by dividing the CPI from 2 years after the survey by the CPI from the time of the survey.
(1)
Step 1.
OPM computes the annual or biennial CPI change for the COLA area.
(2)
Step 2.
OPM computes the annual or biennial CPI change for the DC area.
(3)
Step 3.
OPM multiplies the COLA area price index from the last survey by the COLA area CPI change computed in step 1 divided by the DC area CPI change computed in step 2. The adjusted price index is rounded to the second decimal place.
(b)
Example:
2008
2009
COLA Area CPI
172.2
174.7
DC Area CPI
159.7
161.9
COLA Area Survey Index
117.33
(
1
)
COLA Area CPI Adjusted Index
(
2
)
117.42
1
No survey.
2
N/A
Computation:
117.33 × (174.7/172.2)/(161.9/159.7) = 117.4159, which would round to 117.42.
§ 591.227
What adjustment factors does OPM add to the price indexes?
OPM adds to the price index an adjustment factor that reflects differences in need, access to and availability of goods and services, and quality of life in the COLA area relative to the DC area. The following table shows the adjustment factor for each area:
COLA area
Amount
Anchorage, AK
7.0
Fairbanks, AK
9.0
Juneau, AK
9.0
Rest of the State of Alaska
9.0
City and County of Honolulu, HI
5.0
Hawaii County, HI
7.0
Kauai County, HI
7.0
Maui County, HI
7.0
Guam and CNMI
9.0
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
7.0
U.S. Virgin Islands
9.0
1
Amount added to the price index.
§ 591.228
How does OPM convert the price index plus adjustment factor to a COLA rate?
(a) OPM converts the price index plus the adjustment factor to a COLA rate as shown in the following table:
Price index plus adjustment factor
COLA rate subject to paragraph (b) of this section
Equal to or greater than 124.50
25 percent.
Equal to or greater than 102.00 but less than 124.50
Price index plus the adjustment factor, minus 100, expressed to the nearest whole percent.
Less than 102.00
0 percent.
(b) This section is applicable on an area-by-area basis beginning with the effective date of the results of the first survey conducted in each area.
(c) OPM may reduce the COLA rate in any area by no more than 1 percentage point in any 12-month period. Any reduction in the COLA rate for any COLA area cannot be effective until the effective date of the first survey conducted in Hawaii and Guam and CNMI under these regulations.
§ 591.229
How does OPM inform agencies and employees of COLA rate changes?
OPM publishes COLA area survey summary reports, MEG and PEG indexes, and COLA rates in the
Federal Register.
OPM makes survey data and other information available to the public to the extent authorized by the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act.

# Post Differentials
§ 591.230
When does OPM establish post differential areas?
(a) OPM establishes post differential areas in response to agency requests when—
(1) Conditions of environment within the post differential area differ substantially from conditions of environment in the continental United States, and
(2) The major Federal employers within the area believe payment of a post differential is warranted as a recruitment incentive to attract candidates from outside the post differential area to work for the Government in the post differential area.
(b) If a department or agency wants OPM to consider establishing or revising the definition of a post differential area, the head of the department or agency or his or her designee must submit a request in writing to OPM.
§ 591.231
Which areas are post differential areas?
OPM has established the following post differential areas:
(a) American Samoa as defined in § 591.205,
(b) Territory of Guam,
(c) Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
(d) Johnston Atoll (including Sand Island),
(e) Midway Atoll, and
(f) Wake Atoll.
§ 591.232
How does OPM establish and review post differentials?
(a) OPM establishes a post differential by rulemaking if Government
agencies require it for recruitment purposes and if one or more of the following conditions exist:
(1) Extraordinarily difficult living conditions,
(2) Excessive physical hardship, and/or
(3) Notably unhealthful conditions.
(b) OPM periodically reviews with Federal agencies whether conditions of environment have changed in the post differential areas and whether payment of the post differential continues to be warranted as a recruitment incentive.
§ 591.233
Who can receive a post differential?
An employee must meet all of the following conditions to be eligible to receive a post differential:
(a) The employee must be a citizen or national of the United States,
(b) The employee's official worksite or detail to temporary duty must be in the post differential area, and
(c) Immediately prior to being assigned to duty in the post differential area, the employee must have maintained his or her actual place(s) of residence outside the post differential area for an appropriate period of time (generally at least 1 year or more), except as provided in § 591.234.
§ 591.234
Under what circumstances may people recruited locally receive a post differential?
(a) Current residents of the area qualify for a post differential if they were originally recruited from outside the differential area and have been in substantially continuous employment by the United States or by U.S. firms, interests, or organizations.
(b) Examples of persons recruited locally but eligible to receive a post differential include, but are not limited to—
(1) Those who were originally recruited from outside the area and have been in substantially continuous employment by other Federal agencies, contractors of Federal agencies, or international organizations in which the U.S. Government participates and whose conditions of employment provide for their return transportation to places outside the post differential area,
(2) Those who are temporarily present in the post differential area for travel or formal study at the time they are hired and have maintained actual places of residence outside the area for an appropriate period of time, and
(3) Those who are discharged from U.S. military service in the differential area to accept employment with a Federal agency and have maintained actual places of residence outside the differential area for an appropriate period of time.

# Program Administration
§ 591.235
When do COLA and post differential payments begin?
(a) Agencies begin paying an employee a COLA or post differential on the effective date of the change in the employee's official worksite to an official worksite within the COLA or post differential area or, in the case of local recruitment, on the effective date of the appointment.
(b) For an employee detailed to temporary duty in a post differential area and who is otherwise eligible for a post differential, agencies must begin paying a post differential after 42 consecutive calendar days of temporary duty in the post differential area.
§ 591.236
When do COLA and post differential payments end?
Subject to § 591.237(a), agencies stop paying an employee a COLA or post differential on—
(a) Separation,
(b) The effective date of assignment or transfer to a new official worksite outside the COLA or post differential area, or
(c) In the case of an employee on detail to temporary duty in a post differential area, the ending date of the detail.
§ 591.237
Under what circumstances may employees on leave or travel receive a COLA and/or post differential?
(a) An employee on leave or travel may receive a COLA or post differential only if the agency anticipates that the employee will return to duty in the area.
Exceptions:
If the employee does not return to duty in the area, the agency may still pay a COLA and/or a
post differential for the period of leave or travel, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, if the agency determines that—
(1) It is in the public interest not to return the employee to the official worksite, or
(2) The employee will not return because of compelling personal reasons or circumstances over which the employee has no control.
(b)
Post differentials.
Agencies may pay a post differential to an employee only during the employee's first 42 consecutive calendar days of absence from the post differential area.
§ 591.238
How do agencies pay COLAs and post differentials?
(a) Agencies pay COLAs and post differentials as a percentage of an employee's hourly rate of basic pay, including a retained rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 3594(c) or 5363, for those hours during which the employee receives basic pay. This includes all periods of paid leave, detail, or travel status outside the COLA or post differential area.
(b) Agencies pay employees eligible for both a COLA and a post differential the full amount of the COLA, plus so much of the post differential as will not cause the combined total of the COLA and post differential to exceed 25 percent of the hourly rate of basic pay.
§ 591.239
How do agencies treat COLAs and post differentials for the purpose of overtime pay and other entitlements?
(a) Agencies include COLAs in the employee's straight time rate of pay and include COLAs and post differentials in an employee's regular rate of pay for computing overtime pay entitlements for nonexempt employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended.
(b) Agencies may not include a COLA or post differential as part of an employee's rate of basic pay for the purpose of computing entitlements to overtime pay, retirement, life insurance, or any other additional pay, COLA, or post differential under title 5, United States Code.
(c) Payment of a COLA or post differential is not an equivalent increase in pay within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 5335.
§ 591.240
How are agency and employee representatives involved in the administration of the COLA and post differential programs?
(a) OPM may establish a COLA Advisory Committee in each COLA survey area. The committees are composed of agency and employee representatives from the COLA survey area and one or more representatives from OPM.
(b) To the extent practical, the COLA Advisory Committees coordinate and work with the Survey Implementation Committee established pursuant to
Caraballo, et al.
v.
United States,
No. 1997-0027 (D.V.I).
§ 591.241
What are the key activities of the COLA Advisory Committees?
(a) The COLA Advisory Committees may—
(1) Advise and assist OPM in planning living-cost surveys;
(2) Provide or arrange for observers for data collection during living-cost surveys;
(3) Advise and assist OPM in the review of survey data;
(4) Advise OPM on its administration of the COLA program, including survey methodology; and
(5) Assist OPM in disseminating information to affected employees about the living-cost surveys and the COLA program.
(b) The committees also may advise OPM on special situations or conditions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, as they relate to OPM's authority under § 591.223(b) to conduct interim surveys or implement some other change in response to conditions caused by a natural disaster or similar emergency.
§ 591.242
What is the tenure of a COLA Advisory Committee?
OPM may establish a COLA Advisory Committee in each area prior to each living-cost survey conducted in that area. OPM will appoint committee members for 3-year renewable terms. To the extent practical, the committee will continue to exist between surveys, but OPM may periodically review with
the committee whether there is a continuing need for the committee.
§ 591.243
How many members are on each COLA Advisory Committee?
A COLA Advisory Committee has up to 12 members composed of OPM representatives and other agency and employee representatives, unless OPM determines that the committee should be larger. In determining the number of committee members, OPM considers the amount of work the committee is likely to be requested to do (based on the size and complexity of the local living-cost survey) and the availability of employee and agency representatives to participate as committee members.
§ 591.244
How does OPM select COLA Advisory Committee members?
(a) In establishing a COLA Advisory Committee, OPM invites local agencies and employee organizations to nominate committee members. OPM also invites COLA Defense Corporations and the local Federal Executive Board or Federal Executive Association each to nominate committee members. Subject to § 591.243, OPM selects committee members from these nominations in a manner designed to achieve a balanced representation that is reflective of agencies and employee organizations in the area. In consultation with the committee, OPM may select additional nominees to serve as alternates to the primary committee members. OPM designates not more than two OPM representatives to serve on each committee.
(b) Each Executive agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, must cooperate and release appointed employees for committee proceedings and activities unless the agency can demonstrate that exceptional circumstances directly related to accomplishing the mission of the employee's work unit require his or her presence on the job. Executive agency employees serving as committee members are considered to be on official assignment to an interagency function, rather than on leave, and are eligible to receive reimbursement for authorized travel expenses from their respective agencies.
Pt. 591, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 591—Places and Rates at Which Allowances Are Paid
This appendix lists the places approved for a cost-of-living allowance and shows the authorized allowance rate for each area. The allowance rate shown is paid as a percentage of an employee's rate of basic pay. The rates are subject to change based on the results of future surveys.
Geographic coverage
Allowance rate
(percent)
State of Alaska:
City of Anchorage and 80-kilometer (50-mile) radius by road
23
City of Fairbanks and 80-kilometer (50-mile) radius by road
23
City of Juneau and 80-kilometer (50-mile) radius by road
23
Rest of the State
25
State of Hawaii:
City and County of Honolulu
25
Hawaii County, Hawaii
18
County of Kauai
25
County of Maui and County of Kalawao
25
Territory of Guam and Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
25
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
14
U.S. Virgin Islands
25
[74 FR 7777, Feb. 20, 2009]
Pt. 591, Subpt. B, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 591—Places and Rates At Which Differentials Are Paid
This appendix lists the places where a post differential has been approved and shows the differential rate to be paid to eligible employees. The differential percentage rate shown is paid as a percentage of an employee's rate of basic pay.
Geographic coverage
Percentage differential rate
American Samoa (including the island of Tutuila, the Manua Islands, and all other islands of the Samoa group east of longitude 171° west of Greenwich, together with Swains Island)
25.0
Johnston Atoll
25.0
Midway Atoll
25.0
Territory of Guam and Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
20.0
Wake Atoll
25.0

# Subpart C—Allowance Based on Duty at Remote Worksites

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5942; sec. 8, E.O. 11609, 3 CFR 1971-1975 Comp., p. 591; 5 U.S.C. 1104, Pub. L. 95-454, 92 Stat. 1120 and Sec. 3(5) of Pub. L. 95-454; 92 Stat. 1120.

# Source:
44 FR 55134, Sept. 25, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 591.301
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes the regulations required by section 5942 of title 5, United States Code, for the payment of an allowance based on duty at remote worksites.
§ 591.302
Coverage.
(a)
Agencies.
This subpart applies to executive departments as defined in section 101 of title 5, United States Code, and to independent establishments as defined in section 104 of title 5, United States Code, but does not apply to Government corporations as defined in section 103 of title 5, United States Code.
(b)
Employee.
This subpart applies to each employee assigned to a permanent duty station at or within a designated remote duty post, except an employee who is a permanent or temporary resident at the remote duty post, and except foreign nationals employed at remote duty posts in foreign countries.
§ 591.303
Responsibilities of agencies and the Office of Personnel Management.
(a) Each agency is responsible for:
(1) Establishing and subsequently adjusting, in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, an allowance for each remote duty post at which the agency has employees and which meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) of § 591.304, as restricted by paragraph (b) of § 591.304;
(2) Advising the Office of Personnel Management of each establishment or adjustment of an allowance under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and of the basis for such establishment or adjustment;
(3) Submitting a recommendation to the Office of Personnel Management to establish or adjust an allowance for each remote duty post at which the agency has employees and which meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) or paragraph (c) of § 591.304; and
(4) Advising the Office of Personnel Management in a timely manner of any changes in a duty post or commuting conditions or other factors that may affect an allowance that has been authorized by the Office of Personnel Management under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The Office of Personnel Management is responsible for:
(1) Establishing and subsequently adjusting, in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, an allowance for each remote duty post which does not meet the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) of § 591.304, but does meet the criteria in paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) or paragraph (c) of § 591.304;
(2) Reviewing each establishment or adjustment of an allowance by an agency under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to determine if such establishment or adjustment is in accordance with the provisions of this subpart; and
(3) Directing the termination or adjustment of any allowance determined by the Office to be not in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, which termination or adjustment shall be implemented by the agency without delay.
(c) Each allowance which has been authorized by the Office of Personnel Management or the Civil Service Commission on or before February 1, 1979, and which is authorized for a remote duty post which meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) of § 591.304, shall be subject to further adjustment by the agency under paragraph (a)(1) of this section as if such allowance had been initially authorized by the agency under that paragraph.
§ 591.304
Criteria for determining remoteness.
(a) Except as provided by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a duty post shall be determined to be a remote duty post for basic allowance eligibility purposes when:
(1) Normal ground transportation (e.g., automobile, train, bus) is available on a daily basis and the duty post is 80 kilometers (50 miles), or more, one way from the nearest established community or suitable place of residence. Distance shall be computed in road or rail kilometers (miles) over the most direct route traveled from the center of the city, or other appropriate point for large cities or areas; or
(2) Daily commuting is impractical because the location of the duty post
and available transportation are such that agency management requires employees to remain at the duty post for their workweek as a normal and continuing part of the conditions of employment; or
(3) Transportation may be accomplished only by boat, aircraft, or unusual conveyance, or under extraordinary conditions, and the distance, time, and commuting conditions result in expense, inconvenience, or hardship significantly greater than that encountered in metropolitan area commuting. A determination may only be made on an individual location basis.
(b) Except when the criteria in paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section are met, the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are not met:
(1) When the duty post is within the boundary of a metropolitan area, a developed urban area, or community of sufficient size to provide adequate consumer facilities; and
(2) When the duty post is within 80 kilometers (50 miles) of the center of, or other appropriate point for large cities or areas, a metropolitan area, a developed urban area, or community of sufficient size to provide adequate consumer facilities. (This generally excludes a post of duty within 80 kilometers (50 miles) of any city of 5,000 or more population.)
(c) A determination of remoteness for a duty post outside the 50 United States will be made on an individual location basis, taking into consideration the distance, time, and commuting conditions, and the extent to which these factors result in significant expense, inconvenience, or hardship.
[44 FR 55134, Sept. 25, 1979, as amended at 58 FR 32278, June 9, 1993]
§ 591.305
Allowance rates.
(a)
General.
An allowance rate may not exceed $10 a day. An allowance rate shall be established for each post of duty determined to be remote under § 591.304, and shall be terminated or adjusted as warranted. In determining the amount of the allowance rate, the following shall be considered:
(1) Transportation expenses incurred in commuting to the remote post of duty as compared to transportation expenses (including cost of public transportation service) representative of those incurred in metropolitan areas within the United States or overseas as appropriate as periodically determined by the Office of Personnel Management.
(2) Expenses incurred for lodging, meals, other services, and miscellaneous expenses when it is not feasible for an employee to commute daily as at duty posts determined under § 591.304(a)(2).
(3) Inconvenience or hardship associated with commuting to the remote duty post taking into account such factors as travel time, road conditions and terrain, type and quality of vehicle, and climate conditions, and conditions that exist at those duty posts determined by the Office of Personnel Management to meet the criteria in § 591.304(a)(2).
(4) Operational or workload demands, weather conditions, or other situations which require an employee to report to or remain at this post of duty substantially beyond his or her normal arrival or departure time with respect to those duty posts meeting the criteria in § 591.304(a)(2).
(b)
Authorized allowance rates.
Each authorized allowance rate for each duty post may consist of up to three parts, separately stated as appropriate, and the authorized allowance rate shall be paid as provided in § 591.306, but no employee may be paid more than $10 a day. The parts which make up the authorized allowance rate are:
(1)
Transportation allowance
—(i)
Commuting by private motor vehicle.
A transportation allowance schedule showing the daily transportation expense rate to be paid under the distances and conditions described, when commuting by private motor vehicle is set out as appendix A to this subpart and is incorporated in and made part of this section.
(ii)
Travel by commercial or Government-provided transportation.
The transportation allowance shall be limited to the cost of the service less normal cost for public transportation service in metropolitan areas.
(2)
Inconvenience or hardship allowance.
An allowance rate to compensate for hardship or inconvenience may not
be considered unless the travel time normally exceeds one hour one way between the closest established community or suitable place or residence and the remote duty post. An allowance schedule covering land travel by motor vehicle, showing the daily rates to be paid under the time factors and conditions described, for inconvenience or hardship combined, is set out as appendix B to this subpart and is incorporated in and made part of this section.
(3)
Other commuting situations.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, when commuting is by boat, aircraft or an unusual conveyance, or under extraordinary conditions by motor vehicle, or involving factors or conditions unique to the duty post, the Office of Personnel Management shall establish the allowance based on the facts and circumstances of that individual remote duty post.
(4)
Miscellaneous.
When daily commuting is impractical as determined under § 591.304(a)(2):
(i) The Office of Personnel Management may authorize a miscellaneous allowance, the amount to depend on such factors as miscellaneous expenses, living conditions that exist at the duty post, or inconvenience or hardship that may be associated with this type of employment environment. When employees are required to pay a fee for lodging, meals, or other services at the remote duty post, the miscellaneous allowance shall at least equal the amount charged for the use of facilities and services.
(ii) On those days when operational or workload demands, weather conditions, or other situations result in employees reporting to or remaining at the remote duty post substantially beyond normal arrival or departure time, the maximum daily allowance rate of $10 shall be paid.
§ 591.306
Employee eligibility for an allowance.
(a) An authorized allowance rate shall be paid to each employee with a permanent duty station at or within a remote post of duty approved under § 591.304, regardless of type of appointment or work schedule, only (1) when the employee travels the prescribed minimum distance and time, or is subject to prescribed minimum inconvenience or hardship factors, while commuting from the nearest established community or suitable place of residence and the remote duty post, or (2) the employee remains at the worksite at the direction of management because daily commuting is impractical.
(b) An employee shall be paid an authorized allowance rate for those days on which he or she incurs unusual expense in commuting to a remote post of duty or for those days on which he or she is subject to extraordinary inconvenience or hardship during the commuting.
(c) An employee who resides permanently, or temporarily for his or her own convenience at a remote duty post is not eligible for an authorized allowance rate during his or her period of residence.
§ 591.307
Payment of allowance rate.
(a) An authorized allowance rate is earned on a daily basis; however, where appropriate for administrative convenience, the rate may be averaged taking into consideration the number of noncommuting days over a period of time, and paid for each workday, excluding days in a nonpay status and period of extended absence.
(b) The transportation allowance is paid only when expense is incurred and at the lowest rate consistent with available transportation.
(c) The inconvenience or hardship allowance is paid regardless of eligibility for the transportation expense part of the allowance rate when the employee is otherwise eligible.
(d) Except as provided under § 591.305(b)(4)(ii), when the necessity for remaining at the post of duty for the workweek is the basis for the allowance under § 591.304(a)(2), the allowance rate is paid for each full day, or prorated for each part of a day, that the employee remains at the duty post.
(e) The transportation allowance prescribed by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of § 591.305, or other allowance as may be prescribed for commuting by private motor vehicle, may not be paid unless the officially approved work schedule of the employee precludes use of the
transportation services that may be available at lower cost.
(f) An employee, who normally commutes on a daily basis, will not be disqualified from receiving an authorized allowance when he or she is officially required to remain overnight at the remote duty post, for one or more days on a temporary basis, because of the schedule of operations or the nature of assigned work.
(g) When a remote duty post is determined by the Office of Personnel Management under paragraph (a)(3) or (c) of § 591.304 as being basically eligible for an allowance, the Office of Personnel Management will determine the basis for payment of the allowance rate taking into consideration the facts and circumstances associated with commuting to the remote duty post.
§ 591.308
Relationship to additional pay payable under other statutes.
An allowance authorized under this subpart is in addition to any additional pay or allowances payable under other statutes. It shall not be considered part of the employee's rate of basic pay in computing additional pay or allowances payable under other statutes.
§ 591.309
Effective date for payment of allowances.
When an allowance is authorized for a remote duty post, the authorization shall specify the effective date that an agency shall begin paying the allowance to its employees, except that a date earlier than January 8, 1971, may not be specified.
§ 591.310
Effect of regulations in this subpart on allowances established under previous statutes.
Regulations in this subpart do not require a reduction in the allowance rates authorized under previous statutes unless an adjustment is determined to be warranted on the basis of a change in facts and circumstances on which that previous allowance was established.
Pt. 591, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 591—Daily Transportation Allowance Schedule, Commuting Over Land by Private Motor Vehicle to Remote Duty Posts
Schedule I—Effective January 8, 1971, Through July 12, 1975
Round trip distance in excess of 50 miles
Degree A commuting conditions
Degree B commuting conditions
Degree C commuting conditions
up to 9 miles
$0.20
$0.22
$0.24
10 to 19
.70
.77
.84
20 to 29
1.20
1.32
1.44
30 to 39
1.70
1.87
2.04
40 to 49
2.20
2.42
2.64
50 to 59
2.70
2.97
3.24
60 to 69
3.20
3.52
3.84
70 to 79
3.70
4.07
4.44
80 to 89
4.20
4.62
5.04
90 to 99
4.70
5.17
5.64
100 to 109
5.20
5.72
6.24
110 to 119
5.70
6.27
6.84
120 to 129
6.20
6.82
7.44
130 to 139
6.70
7.37
8.04
140 to 149
7.20
7.92
8.64
150 to 159
7.70
8.47
9.24
160 to 169
8.20
9.02
9.84
170 and over
8.70
9.57
1
10.00
1
See footnote at end of Schedule II.
Schedule II—Effective on or after July 13, 1975
Round trip distance in excess of 50 miles
Degree A commuting conditions
Degree B commuting conditions
Degree C commuting conditions
up to 9 miles
$0.30
$0.32
$0.34
10 to 19
1.05
1.12
1.19
20 to 29
1.80
1.92
2.04
30 to 39
2.55
2.72
2.89
40 to 49
3.30
3.52
3.74
50 to 59
4.13
4.32
4.68
60 to 69
4.80
5.12
5.44
70 to 79
5.55
5.92
6.29
80 to 89
6.30
6.72
7.14
90 to 99
7.05
7.52
7.99
100 to 109
7.80
8.32
8.84
110 to 119
8.55
9.12
9.69
120 to 129
9.30
9.92
1
10.00
130 to 139
1
10.00
1
10.00
1
10.00
140 to 149
1
10.00
1
10.00
1
10.00
150 to 159
1
10.00
1
10.00
1
10.00
160 to 169
1
10.00
1
10.00
1
10.00
170 and over
1
10.00
1
10.00
1
10.00
1
Under the statute, $10 a day is the maximum allowance.
Schedule III—Effective on or After December 28, 1980
Round-trip distance in excess of 80 kilometers (50 miles)
Degree A commuting conditions
Degree B commuting conditions
Degree C commuting conditions
Up to 15 km (up to 9 mi)
$0.40
$0.42
$0.44
16 to 31 km (10 to 19 mi)
1.40
1.47
1.54
32 to 47 km (20 to 29 mi)
2.40
2.52
2.64
48 to 63 km (30 to 39 mi)
3.40
3.57
3.74
64 to 79 km (40 to 49 mi)
4.40
4.62
4.84
80 to 95 km (50 to 59 mi)
5.40
5.67
5.94
96 to 111 km (60 to 69 mi)
6.40
6.72
7.04
112 to 127 km (70 to 79 mi)
7.40
7.77
8.14
128 to 144 km (80 to 89 mi)
8.40
8.82
9.24
145 to 160 km (90 to 99 mi)
9.40
9.87
10.00
161 to 176 km (100 to 109 mi)
10.00
10.00
10.00
177 to 192 km (110 to 119 mi)
10.00
10.00
10.00
193 to 208 km (120 to 129 mi)
10.00
10.00
10.00
209 to 224 km (130 to 139 mi)
10.00
10.00
10.00
225 to 240 km (140 to 149 mi)
10.00
10.00
10.00
241 to 256 km (150 to 159 mi)
10.00
10.00
10.00
257 to 272 km (160 to 169 mi)
10.00
10.00
10.00
273 km and over (170 mi and over)
10.00
10.00
10.00
Under the statute, $10 a day is the maximum allowance.

# Degree A Commuting Conditions
Good paved roads; climatic conditions cause intermittent driving difficulty.

# Degree B Commuting Conditions
Roads typically fair but may be good for part of distance or may be unpaved for short distances; climatic conditions during part of a season, in relation to terrain, contribute to additional cost.

# Degree C Commuting Conditions
Fair to poor roads; unpaved for part of distance, or travel over range; hilly or mountainous terrain; climatic conditions during most of a season contribute to additional cost.
[44 FR 55134, Sept. 25, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 76087, Nov. 18, 1980; 58 FR 32278, June 9, 1993]
Pt. 591, Subpt. C, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 591—Daily Inconvenience or Hardship Allowance Schedule, Commuting Over Land by Motor Vehicle to Remote Duty Posts
Round trip distance in excess of 2 hours
Degree A commuting conditions
Degree B commuting conditions
Degree C commuting conditions
up to 15 minutes
$0.50
$0.63
$0.75
16 to 30
1.00
1.25
1.50
31 to 45
1.50
1.88
2.25
46 to 60
2.00
2.50
3.00
61 to 75
2.50
3.13
3.75
76 to 90
3.00
3.75
4.50
91 to 105
3.50
4.38
5.25
106 to 120
4.00
5.00
6.00
121 to 135
4.50
5.63
6.75
136 to 150
5.00
6.25
7.50
151 to 165
5.50
6.88
8.25
166 to 180
6.00
8.13
9.00

# Degree A Commuting Conditions
Good paved roads; climatic conditions, in relation to type and quality of vehicle, cause minimal discomfort during trip.

# Degree B Commuting Conditions
Roads typically fair, but may be good for part of distance and possibly unpaved for short distances; climatic conditions during part of a season, in relation to type and quality of vehicle, result in moderate discomfort during trip.

# Degree C Commuting Conditions
Fair to poor roads, unpaved for part of distance, climatic conditions during most of a season, in combination with such factors as type and quality of vehicle and terrain, result in unusual discomfort during trip.

# Subpart D—Separate Maintenance Allowance for Duty at Johnston Island

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5942a(b); E.O. 12822, 3 CFR, 1992 Comp., p. 325

# Source:
58 FR 51566, Oct. 4, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 591.401
Purpose and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes the regulations required by section 5942a of title 5, United States Code, to
authorize payment of a separate maintenance allowance to assist an employee assigned to Johnston Island to meet the additional expenses of maintaining family members elsewhere who would normally reside with him or her because they cannot accompany the employee to Johnston Island. This subpart provides rules for determining which employees are eligible to receive the separate maintenance allowance, who qualifies as family members under the program, the method of payment, and payment amounts.
(b)
Applicability.
This subpart applies to an employee (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105) in an executive department (as defined in section 101 of title 5, United States Code) or an independent establishment (as defined in section 104 of title 5, United States Code) who is assigned to a post of duty at Johnston Island.
[58 FR 51566, Oct. 4, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 27244, May 31, 1996]
§ 591.402
Definitions.
Adult,
a term used in the Department of State
Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas),
means a family member who is 21 years of age or older.
Domestic partner
means a person in a domestic partnership with an employee or annuitant of the same sex.
Domestic partnership
means a committed relationship between two adults of the same sex in which the partners—
(1) Are each other's sole domestic partner and intend to remain so indefinitely;
(2) Maintain a common residence, and intend to continue to do so (or would maintain a common residence but for an assignment abroad or other employment-related, financial, or similar obstacle);
(3) Are at least 18 years of age and mentally competent to consent to contract;
(4) Share responsibility for a significant measure of each other's financial obligations;
(5) Are not married or joined in a civil union to anyone else;
(6) Are not the domestic partner of anyone else;
(7) Are not related in a way that, if they were of opposite sex, would prohibit legal marriage in the U.S. jurisdiction in which the domestic partnership was formed;
(8) Are willing to certify, if required by the agency, that they understand that willful falsification of any documentation required to establish that an individual is in a domestic partnership may lead to disciplinary action and the recovery of the cost of benefits received related to such falsification, as well as constitute a criminal violation under 18 U.S.C. 1001, and that the method for securing such certification, if required, will be determined by the agency; and
(9) Are willing promptly to disclose, if required by the agency, any dissolution or material change in the status of the domestic partnership.
Family member
means one or more of the following relatives of an employee who would normally reside with the employee except for circumstances warranting the granting of a separate maintenance allowance, but who does not receive from the Government an allowance similar to that granted to the employee and who is not deemed to be a family member of another employee for the purpose of determining the amount of a separate maintenance allowance or similar allowance:
(1) Children who are unmarried and under 21 years of age or who, regardless of age, are incapable of self-support, including natural children, step and adopted children, and those under legal guardianship or custody of the employee, or of the employee's spouse or domestic partner, when they are expected to be under such legal guardianship or custody at least until they reach 21 years of age and when dependent upon and normally residing with the guardian;
(2) Parents (including step and legally adoptive parents) of the employee, or of the employee's spouse or domestic partner, when such parents are at least 51 percent dependent on the employee for support;
(3) Sisters and brothers (including step or adoptive sisters and brothers) of the employee, or of the employee's spouse or domestic partner, when such sisters and brothers are at least 51 percent dependent on the employee for support, unmarried and under 21 years
of age, or regardless of age, are incapable of self-support;
(4) Spouse, excluding a spouse independently entitled to and receiving a similar allowance; or
(5) Domestic partner, excluding a domestic partner independently entitled to and receiving a similar allowance.
Johnston Island,
also called Johnston Atoll, is a possession of the United States located 717 nautical miles southwest of Honolulu, Hawaii.
Separate maintenance allowance
means an allowance to assist an employee assigned to Johnston Island who is compelled by reason of dangerous, notably unhealthful, or excessively adverse living conditions at Johnston Island, or for the convenience of the Government, to meet the additional expense of maintaining family members at a location other than Johnston Island.
[61 FR 27244, May 31, 1996, as amended at 77 FR 42905, July 20, 2012]
§ 591.403
Amount of payment.
(a) The annual rate of the separate maintenance allowance paid to an employee is determined by the number of individuals, including a spouse, a domestic partner, and/or one or more other family members, who are maintained at a location other than Johnston Island.
(b) The annual rates for the separate maintenance allowance paid to employees assigned to Johnston Island shall be the same as the annual rates for the separate maintenance allowance established by the Department of State in its
Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas).
The annual rates shall not vary by location of the separate household.
(c) The annual rates of the separate maintenance allowance shall be adjusted on the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after July 1, 1996 and, subsequently, on the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after the effective date established for adjustment of annual rates for the separate maintenance allowance in the
Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas).
[61 FR 27244, May 31, 1996, as amended at 77 FR 42905, July 20, 2012]
§ 591.404
Method of payment.
(a) Separate maintenance allowance rates are paid from the employee's date of arrival at Johnston Island to the employee's date of departure from Johnston Island. No deductions are necessary for details away from Johnston Island or for partial days. The separate maintenance allowance shall be computed and paid at daily rates as follows:
(1) Divide the annual rate of payment by the number of days in the applicable calendar year to obtain a daily rate (counting one half-cent and over as a whole cent);
(2) Multiply the daily rate by 14 to obtain a biweekly rate; and
(3) Multiply the daily rate by the number of days involved to obtain the rate for any period.
(b) A separate maintenance allowance is not part of an employee's rate of basic pay for any purpose.
(c) The rate for any pay period shall be computed at the daily rate applicable on the first day of that pay period.
§ 591.405
Responsibilities of agencies.
Agencies with employees stationed at Johnston Island may require reasonable verification of relationship and dependency.
[61 FR 27244, May 31, 1996]
§ 591.406
Records and reports.
So that the Office of Personnel Management can evaluate agencies' use of this authority and provide the Congress and others with information regarding the use of a nonforeign separate maintenance allowance, each agency shall maintain such records and submit to the Office of Personnel Management reports and data as requested.
Pt. 595

# PART 595—PHYSICIANS' COMPARABILITY ALLOWANCES
Sec.
595.101
Purpose.
595.102
Who is covered by this program?
595.103
What requirements must agencies establish for determining which physician positions are covered?
595.104
What criteria are used to identify a recruitment and retention problem?
595.105
What criteria must be used to determine the amount of a physicians' comparability allowance?
595.106
What termination and refund provisions are required?
595.107
What are the requirements for implementing a physicians' comparability allowance program?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5948; E.O. 12109, 44 FR 1067, Jan. 3, 1979.

# Source:
44 FR 40876, July 13, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 595.101
Purpose.
Section 5948 of title 5, United States Code, authorizes the payment of allowances to certain eligible Federal physicians who enter into service agreements with their agencies. These allowances are paid only to categories of physicians for which the agency is experiencing recruitment and retention problems and are fixed at the minimum amounts necessary to deal with such problems. The President has delegated regulatory responsibility for this program to the Director of OPM, acting in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget. This part contains the regulations, criteria and conditions which the Director of OPM, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, has prescribed for the administration of the physicians' comparability allowance program. This part supplements and implements 5 U.S.C. 5948 and should be read together with that section of law.
[69 FR 27817, May 17, 2004]
§ 595.102
Who is covered by this program?
(a) This program covers individuals employed as physicians under the Federal pay systems listed in 5 U.S.C. 5948(g)(1), except as provided in 5 U.S.C. 5948(b). For the purposes of this part, an individual is
employed as a physician
only if he or she is serving in a position the duties and responsibilities of which could not be satisfactorily performed by an incumbent who is not a physician.
(b) Section 5948(b) of title 5, United States Code, prohibits the payment of physicians' comparability allowances to certain physicians, including physicians who are reemployed annuitants. For the purpose of applying this prohibition,
reemployed annuitant
means an individual who is receiving or has title to and has applied for an annuity under any retirement program of the Government of the United States, or the government of the District of Columbia, on the basis of service as a civilian employee.
(c) Physicians employed and paid under title 38, United States Code, and Commissioned Corps officers of the Public Health Service under title 42, United States Code, are not eligible for physicians' comparability allowances.
[44 FR 40876, July 13, 1979, as amended at 58 FR 65537, Dec. 15, 1993; 64 FR 72458, Dec. 28, 1999; 69 FR 27817, May 17, 2004]
§ 595.103
What requirements must agencies establish for determining which physician positions are covered?
(a) The head of each agency must determine categories of physician positions for which there is a significant recruitment and retention problem, and physicians' comparability allowances may be paid only to physicians serving in positions in such categories.
(b) In determining categories of physician positions, the head of each agency must, as a minimum, establish as separate categories the following types of positions:
(1) Positions primarily involving the practice of medicine or direct service to patients, involving the performance of diagnostic, preventive, or therapeutic services to patients in hospitals, clinics, public health programs, diagnostic centers, and similar settings, but not including positions described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section;
(2) Positions primarily involving the conduct of medical research and experimental work, including the conduct of medical work pertaining to food, drugs, cosmetics, and devices (or the review or evaluation of such medical research and experimental work), or the identification of causes or sources of disease or disease outbreaks;
(3) Positions primarily involving the evaluation of physical fitness, or the provision of initial treatment of on-
the-job illness or injury, or the performance of preemployment examinations, preventive health screenings, or fitness-for-duty examinations; and
(4) Positions not described by paragraph (b) (1), (2), or (3) of this section, including positions involving disability evaluation and rating, the performance of medicolegal autopsies, training activities, or the administration of medical and health programs, including the administration of patient care or medical research and experimental programs.
(c) The agency head may establish as separate categories any additional subdivisions of these four categories of positions, based on any factors the agency head determines relevant. These may include such factors as the location, grade or level, and medical specialization of the positions, and the level of qualifications sought by the agency for physicians in the category.
[44 FR 40876, July 13, 1979, as amended at 69 FR 27817, May 17, 2004]
§ 595.104
What criteria are used to identify a recruitment and retention problem?
The head of each agency may determine that a significant recruitment and retention problem exists for each category of physician position established under § 595.103 only if the following conditions are met with respect to the category:
(a) Such evidence as vacant positions, an unacceptably high turnover rate, or other positive evidence indicates that the agency is unable to recruit and retain physicians for the category;
(b) The qualification requirements being used as a basis for considering candidates for the vacant positions in the category do not exceed the qualifications that are actually necessary for successful performance of the work of the positions in the category;
(c) The agency has made efforts to recruit qualified candidates for any vacant positions in the category and to retain physicians presently employed in positions in the category; and
(d) A sufficient number of qualified candidates is not available to fill the existing vacancies in the category at the rate of pay the agency may offer if no comparability allowance is paid.
[44 FR 40876, July 13, 1979, as amended at 69 FR 27817, May 17, 2004]
§ 595.105
What criteria must be used to determine the amount of a physicians' comparability allowance?
(a) The amount of the comparability allowance payable for each category of physician positions established under § 595.103 must be the minimum amount necessary to deal with the recruitment and retention problem identified under § 595.104 for that category of positions. In determining this amount, the agency head must consider the relative earnings, responsibilities, expenses, workload, working conditions, conditions of employment, and personnel benefits for physicians in each category and for comparable physicians inside and outside the Federal Government.
(b) Agencies may not pay a physicians' comparability allowance in excess of $14,000 annually to a physician with 24 months or less of service as a Government physician. Agencies may not pay a physicians' comparability allowance in excess of $30,000 annually to a physician with more than 24 months of service as a Government physician.
(c) In determining length of service as a Government physician, agencies must exclude periods of leave without pay. However, agencies may credit any prior service as a Government physician, including—
(1) Prior service as a physician under sections 7401 and 7405 of title 38, United States Code; and
(2) Prior active service as a medical officer in the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service under title II of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. chapter 6A).
(d) A physician who is employed on a regularly scheduled part-time basis of half-time or more is eligible to receive a physicians' comparability allowance, but any such allowance must be prorated according to the proportion of the physicians' work schedule to full-time employment. A physician who is employed on less than a half-time or intermittent basis is excluded from the physicians' comparability allowance program.
(e) A physician who is serving with the Government under a loan repayment program must have the amount of any loan being repaid deducted from any physicians' comparability allowance for which he or she is eligible and may receive only that portion of such allowance which exceeds the amount of the loan being repaid during the period of employment required by the service agreement under the student loan repayment program.
[44 FR 40876, July 13, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 8141, Mar. 14, 1988, and 53 FR 24011, June 27, 1988; 64 FR 72458, Dec. 28, 1999; 69 FR 27817, May 17, 2004]
§ 595.106
What termination and refund provisions are required?
Each service agreement entered into by an agency and a physician under the comparability allowance program must prescribe the terms under which the agreement may be terminated and the amount of allowance, if any, required to be refunded by the physician for each reason for termination. In the case of each service agreement covering a period of service of more than 1 year, the service agreement must include a provision that, if the physician completes more than 1 year of service pursuant to the agreement, but fails to complete the full period of service specified in the agreement either voluntarily or because of misconduct by the physician, the physician must refund the amount of allowance he or she has received under the agreement for the 26 weeks of service immediately preceding the termination (or for a longer period, if specified in the agreement).
[69 FR 27818, May 17, 2004]
§ 595.107
What are the requirements for implementing a physicians' comparability allowance program?
(a) An agency may not enter into any service agreement under 5 U.S.C. 5948 until the agency's plan for implementing the physicians' comparability allowance program has been submitted to and approved by the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with this section and such instructions as the Office of Management and Budget may prescribe.
(b) The agency must submit to the Office of Management and Budget a complete description of its plan for implementing the physicians' comparability allowance program, including the following:
(1) An identification of the categories of physician positions the agency has established under § 595.103, and of the basis for such categories;
(2) An explanation of the determination that a recruitment and retention problem exists for each such category, in accordance with the criteria in § 595.104; and
(3) An explanation of the basis for the amount of comparability allowance determined necessary for each category of physician position under § 595.105.
(c) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) will review each agency's plan for implementing the physicians' comparability allowance program and determine whether the plan is consistent with 5 U.S.C. 5948 and the requirements of this part. The Office of Management and Budget will advise the agency within 45 calendar days after receipt of the plan as to whether the plan is consistent with 5 U.S.C. 5948 and this part or what changes need to be made.
[44 FR 40876, July 13, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 8142, Mar. 14, 1988, and 53 FR 24011, June 27, 1988; 69 FR 27818, May 17, 2004]
Pt. 610

# PART 610—HOURS OF DUTY

# Subpart A—Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work
Sec.
610.101
Coverage.
610.102
Definitions.

# Workweek
610.111
Establishment of workweeks.

# Work Schedules
610.121
Establishment of work schedules.
610.122
Variations in work schedules for educational purposes.
610.123
Travel on official time.

# Subpart B—Holidays
610.201
Identification of holidays.
610.202
Determining the holiday.

# Subpart C—Administrative Dismissals of Daily, Hourly, and Piecework Employees
610.301
Purpose.
610.302
Policy statement.
610.303
Definitions.
610.304
Coverage.
610.305
Standards.
610.306
Supplemental regulations.

# Subpart D—Flexible and Compressed Work Schedules
610.401
General.
610.402
Coverage.
610.403
Definitions.
610.404
Requirement for time-accounting method.
610.405
Holiday for part-time employees on flexible work schedules.
610.406
Holiday for employees on compressed work schedules.
610.407
Premium pay for holiday work for employees on compressed work schedules.
610.408
Use of credit hours.

# Source:
33 FR 12474, Sept. 4, 1968, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 6101; sec. 1(1) of E.O. 11228, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 317.
§ 610.101
Coverage.
This subpart applies to each employee to whom subpart A of part 550 applies and to each employee whose pay is fixed and adjusted from time to time under section 5343 or 5349 of title 5, United States Code, or by a wage board or similar administrative authority serving the same purpose.
[42 FR 3297, Jan. 18, 1977]
§ 610.102
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Administrative workweek
means any period of 7 consecutive 24-hour periods designated in advance by the head of the agency under section 6101 of title 5, United States Code.
Agency
means an Executive agency and a military department as defined by sections 105 and 102 of title 5, United States Code.
Basic workweek,
for full-time employees, means the 40-hour workweek established in accordance with § 610.111.
Employee
means an employee of an agency to whom this subpart applies.
Head of agency
means the head of an agency or an official who has been delegated the authority to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
Regularly scheduled administrative workweek,
for a full-time employee, means the period within an administrative workweek, established in accordance with § 610.111, within which the employee is regularly scheduled to work. For a part-time employee, it means the officially prescribed days and hours within an administrative workweek during which the employee is regularly scheduled to work.
Regularly scheduled
work means work that is scheduled in advance of an administrative workweek under an agency's procedures for establishing workweeks in accordance with § 610.111.
Tour of duty
means the hours of a day (a daily tour of duty) and the days of an administrative workweek (a weekly tour of duty) that constitute an employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek.
(5 U.S.C. 5548 and 6101(c))
[33 FR 12474, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 48 FR 3934, Jan. 28, 1983; 60 FR 67287, Dec. 29, 1995; 64 FR 69182, Dec. 10, 1999]

# Workweek
§ 610.111
Establishment of workweeks.
(a) The head of each agency, with respect to each full-time employee to whom this subpart applies, shall establish by a written agency policy statement:
(1) A basic workweek of 40 hours which does not extend over more than 6 of any 7 consecutive days. Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the written agency policy statement shall specify the days and hours within the administrative workweek that constitute the basic workweek.
(2) A regularly scheduled administrative workweek that consists of the 40-hour basic workweek established in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, plus the period of regular overtime work, if any, required of each employee. Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section,
the written agency policy statement, for purposes of leave and overtime pay administration, shall specify by days and hours of each day the periods included in the regularly scheduled administrative workweek that do not constitute a part of the basic workweek.
(b) When it is impracticable to prescribe a regular schedule of definite hours of duty for each workday of a regularly scheduled administrative workweek, the head of an agency may establish the first 40 hours of duty performed within a period of not more than 6 days of the administrative workweek as the basic workweek. A first 40-hour tour of duty is the basic workweek without the requirement for specific days and hours within the administrative workweek. All work performed by an employee within the first 40 hours is considered regularly scheduled work for premium pay and hours of duty purposes. Any additional hours of officially ordered or approved work within the administrative workweek are overtime work.
(c) (1) When an employee is paid additional pay under section 5545(c)(1) of title 5, United States Code, his regularly scheduled administrative workweek is the total number of regularly scheduled hours of duty a week.
(2) When an employee has a tour of duty which includes a period during which he remains at or within the confines of his station in a standby status rather than performing actual work his regularly scheduled administrative workweek is the total number of regularly scheduled hours of duty a week, including time in a standby status except that allowed for sleep and meals by a written agency policy statement.
(d) When the head of an agency establishes a flexible or compressed work schedule under section 6122 or section 6127 of title 5, United States Code, he or she shall establish a basic work requirement for each employee as defined in section 6121 of title 5, United States Code. A flexible or compressed work schedule is a scheduled tour of duty and all work performed by an employee within the basic work requirement is considered regularly scheduled work for premium pay and hours of duty purposes.
(5 U.S.C. 5548 and 6101(c))
[33 FR 12474, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 48 FR 3934, Jan. 28, 1983; 48 FR 44060, Sept. 27, 1983; 64 FR 69182, Dec. 10, 1999]

# Work Schedules
§ 610.121
Establishment of work schedules.
(a) Except when the head of an agency determines that the agency would be seriously handicapped in carrying out its functions or that costs would be substantially increased, he or she shall provide that—
(1) Assignments to tours of duty are scheduled in advance of the administrative workweek over periods of not less than 1 week;
(2) The basic 40-hour workweek is scheduled on 5 days, Monday through Friday when possible, and the 2 days outside the basic workweek are consecutive;
(3) The working hours in each day in the basic workweek are the same;
(4) The basic nonovertime workday may not exceed 8 hours;
(5) The occurrence of holidays may not affect the designation of the basic workweek; and
(6) Breaks in working hours of more than 1 hour may not be scheduled in a basic workday.
(b)(1) The head of an agency shall schedule the work of his or her employees to accomplish the mission of the agency. The head of an agency shall schedule an employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek so that it corresponds with the employee's actual work requirements.
(2) When the head of an agency knows in advance of an administrative workweek that the specific days and/or hours of a day actually required of an employee in that administrative workweek will differ from those required in the current administrative workweek, he or she shall reschedule the employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek to correspond with those specific days and hours. The head of the agency shall inform the employee of the change, and he or she shall record the change on the employee's
time card or other agency document for recording work.
(3) If it is determined that the head of an agency should have scheduled a period of work as part of the employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek and failed to do so in accordance with paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, the employee shall be entitled to the payment of premium pay for that period of work as regularly scheduled work under subpart A of part 550 of this chapter. In this regard, it must be determined that the head of the agency: (i) Had knowledge of the specific days and hours of the work requirement in advance of the administrative workweek, and (ii) had the opportunity to determine which employee had to be scheduled, or rescheduled, to meet the specific days and hours of that work requirement.
(5 U.S.C. 5548 and 6101(c))
[48 FR 3935, Jan. 28, 1983]
§ 610.122
Variations in work schedules for educational purposes.
(a) Notwithstanding § 610.121, the head of an agency may authorize a special tour of duty of not less than 40 hours to permit an employee to take one or more courses in a college, university, or other educational institution when it is determined that:
(1) The courses being taken are not training under chapter 41 of title 5, United States Code;
(2) The rearrangement of the employee's tour of duty will not appreciably interfere with the accomplishment of the work required to be performed;
(3) Additional costs for personal services will not be incurred; and
(4) Completion of the courses will equip the employee for more effective work in the agency.
(b) The agency may not pay to the employee any premium pay solely because the special tour of duty authorized under this section causes the employee to work on a day, or at a time during the day, for which premium pay would otherwise be payable.
(c) OPM may from time to time request an agency to report on the use of this authority.
§ 610.123
Travel on official time.
Insofar as practicable travel during nonduty hours shall not be required of an employee. When it is essential that this be required and the employee may not be paid overtime under § 550.112(e) of this chapter the official concerned shall record his reasons for ordering travel at those hours and shall, upon request, furnish a copy of his statement to the employee concerned.

# Subpart B—Holidays

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 6101; sec. 1(1) of E.O. 11228, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 317.
§ 610.201
Identification of holidays.
Agencies determine holidays under section 6103 of title 5, United States Code, and Executive Order 11582 of February 11, 1971.
[65 FR 48135, Aug. 7, 2000]
§ 610.202
Determining the holiday.
For purposes of pay and leave, the day to be treated as a holiday is determined as follows:
(a) Except when employees are entitled to a different holiday under 5 U.S.C. 6103(b)(3), an employee's holiday is the day designated by 5 U.S.C. 6103(a) whenever part of the employee's basic workweek (as defined in § 610.102) or basic work requirement (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 6121(3)) is scheduled on that day.
(b) When a holiday falls on a nonworkday outside an employee's basic workweek, the day to be treated as his or her holiday is determined in accordance with sections 6103 (b) and (d) of title 5, United States Code, and Executive Order 11582.
(c) When an agency determines the holiday in accordance with section 6103(d) of title 5, United States Code, for an employee under a compressed work schedule, the agency shall select a workday for the holiday that is in the same biweekly pay period as the date of the actual holiday designated under 5 U.S.C. 6103(a) or in the biweekly pay period immediately preceding or following that pay period.
(d) The provisions of section 6103(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code, on determining holidays for certain employees at duty posts outside the United States
