To the extent that a distribution to the United States shareholder counting toward a minimum distribution from a chain or group consists of earnings and profits distributed to a foreign corporation in the chain or group after the close of the recipient corporation's taxable year but during its distribution period for such year by another foreign corporation in such chain or group, such amount shall be treated as received by the recipient corporation on the last day of such taxable year and shall not be regarded as foreign personal holding company income (within the meaning of section 553(a) or 954(c)) of such corporation for the taxable year in which such amount is actually received. The extent to which a distribution counting toward a minimum distribution consists of earnings and profits distributed to a foreign corporation in a chain or group shall be determined under the ordering rules of paragraph (b)(3) of § 1.963-4 (applied in each instance as though the United States shareholder had not chosen under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of § 1.963-2 to take the tax described therein into account in determining the effective foreign tax rate). However, for such purpose, the amount of foreign income tax, if any, which counts toward the minimum distribution shall be determined without regard to paragraph (b)(2) of this section but in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of § 1.963-4.
(e)
Distribution of current earnings invested in United States property.
A distribution made by a foreign corporation during its distribution period for a taxable year shall, notwithstanding section 959(c), first be attributed to earnings and profits for such year described in section 959(c)(3) and then to other earnings and profits. For such purposes, earnings and profits of such foreign corporation for such year attributable to amounts which would otherwise be included in gross income of the United States shareholder under section 951(a)(1)(B) for such year shall be treated as earnings and profits to which section 959(c)(3) applies, shall not be excluded from gross income under section 959 (a) or (b), and shall count toward a minimum distribution for such year. See paragraph (c)(1)(v) of § 1.960-1 and paragraph (a) of § 1.960-2.
(f)
Cumulative dividends in arrears.
A distribution in satisfaction of arrearages shall be treated as being made out of earnings and profits of the foreign corporation for the taxable year to which the election under section 963 applies only to the extent the dividend is not attributed, under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(
d
) of § 1.963-2, to the earnings and profits of such corporation remaining from prior taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962. The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
For 1963, single first-tier corporation A, which uses the calendar year as the taxable year, has earnings and profits of $50; for 1964, a deficit in earnings and profits of $20; for 1965, earnings and profits of $100; and for 1966, earnings and profits of $240. For each of such years preferred dividends accumulate at the rate of $60; but no dividend is paid until 1966 during which year the current dividend is paid and $180 is distributed toward the arrearages. Of this $180, only $50 ($180−$130) shall be treated as paid from 1966 earnings and profits.
(g)
Distribution period of a foreign corporation
—(1)
General distribution period.
Except as provided by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the distribution period with respect to a foreign corporation for its taxable year shall begin immediately after the close of the distribution period for the preceding taxable year and shall end with the close of the 60th day of the next succeeding taxable year. If no election to secure an exclusion under section 963 applied to the preceding taxable year, the distribution period for the taxable year shall begin with the 61st day of the taxable year.
(2)
Special extended distribution period.
If the United States shareholder of the foreign corporation so elects in statement filed with its return for the taxable year for which the election to secure the exclusion under section 963 is made, the distribution period with respect to such foreign corporation for its taxable year to which the election to secure the exclusion applies shall end with any day which occurs no earlier than the last day of such taxable year of such foreign corporation and no later than the 180th day after the close of such taxable year. The statement shall designate the day so elected as the end of the distribution period.
(h)
Illustrations.
The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
For 1963 domestic corporation M makes a chain election with respect to controlled foreign corporation A, all of whose one class of stock M Corporation directly owns, and controlled foreign corporation B, all of whose one class of stock is directly owned by A Corporation. All such corporations use the calendar year as the taxable year, and the distribution periods of corporations A and B for 1963 coincide. Corporations A and B each have earnings and profits (before distributions) of $100 for 1963. On June 1, 1963, B Corporation distributes earnings and profits of $120, of which $100 is from its earnings and profits for 1963 and $20 is from prior earnings. For 1963, A Corporation pays no income tax and distributes earnings and profits of $150 to M Corporation. Under paragraph (c) of this section, such $150 is allocated to A Corporation's earnings and profits of $200 for 1963, consisting of its total earnings and profits for that year of $220 less the $20 received as a distribution from B Corporation's prior earnings.

# Example 2.
Domestic corporation M directly owns all of the one class of stock of controlled foreign corporation A. Both corporations use the calendar year as the taxable year, and A Corporation's taxable year and its distribution period for 1963 coincide. For 1963, $50 is included in the gross income of M Corporation under section 951(a)(1)(B) as A Corporation's increase in earnings invested for such year in United States property. For 1964, M Corporation makes a first-tier election with respect to A Corporation. For 1964, A Corporation has earnings and profits of $100, including $10 attributable to an increase in earnings invested for such year in United States property. During 1964, A Corporation distributes earnings and profits of $80 to M Corporation. Without regard to paragraph (e) of this section, $10 of this distribution is attributable under section 959(c)(1) to A Corporation's 1964 earnings and profits required to be included in M Corporation's gross income under section 951(a)(1)(D). Pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, however, the entire distribution of $80 counts toward a minimum distribution for 1964 and is considered to be from earnings and profits of A Corporation for 1964 described in section 959(c)(3). Thus the entire distribution of $80 is included in M Corporation's gross income as a dividend and the foreign tax credit in respect of such amount is determined in accordance with section 902 as modified by the regulations under section 963. On the other hand, if A Corporation made no distributions for 1964, no part of the $10 of A Corporation's increase in earnings invested in United States property for such
year would count toward a minimum distribution for any other year but would be included in the gross income for M Corporation for 1964 under section 951(a)(1)(B), and the foreign tax credit in respect of such amount would be determined in accordance with § 1.960-1.

# Example 3.
For 1964 domestic corporation M makes a chain election with respect to controlled foreign corporation A, all the one class of stock of which is owned directly by M Corporation, and controlled foreign corporation B, all the one class of stock of which is owned directly by A Corporation. Corporation M makes no election under section 963 for 1963 or 1965. Corporations M and B use the calendar year as the taxable year, and A Corporation uses for its taxable year a fiscal year ending on September 30. Corporation M elects to have the distribution period for each controlled foreign corporation end on March 29, 1965, such date being the 180th day after the close of A Corporation's taxable year ending on September 30, 1964. Corporation A's distribution period for its taxable year ending on September 30, 1964, begins on November 30, 1963, the 61st day of such taxable year. The distribution period of B Corporation for 1964 begins on March 1, 1964, the 61st day of such taxable year. A distribution counting toward a minimum distribution for 1964 may be made from the earnings and profits of B Corporation only if the amount thereof is distributed by B Corporation to A Corporation, and in turn by A Corporation to M Corporation, during the period of March 1, 1964, through March 29, 1965.

# Example 4.
The facts are the same as in example 3, except that for their taxable years ending in 1964, corporations A and B each have earnings and profits (before distributions) of $100. On March 10, 1965, B Corporation distributes to A Corporation a dividend of $80 upon which A Corporation incurs foreign income tax at the rate of 10 percent. On March 15, 1965, A Corporation distributes to M Corporation a dividend of $50. Corporation M chooses to take into account as gross income for 1964 from such distribution only $40. For purposes of applying this section, the distribution counting toward a minimum distribution is $44.44, consisting of the $40 of earnings and profits actually received by M Corporation plus the $4.44 ($40/$72 × $8) of foreign income tax incurred by A Corporation attributable thereto; A Corporation is deemed to have received $44.44 ($40 ÷ 0.90) of the distribution from B Corporation on September 30, 1964, the last day of the taxable year of A Corporation to which the election relates; and the foreign personal holding company income derived by A Corporation for its taxable year ending in 1965 from the distribution from B is only $35.56 ($80−$44.44). Assuming that no exceptions, exclusions, or exemptions were applicable, subpart F income would be realized by A Corporation for its taxable year ending on September 30, 1965, upon the distribution by B Corporation to A Corporation, but only in the amount of $32 ($35.56 less a deduction under section 954(b)(5) for taxes of $3.56).
[T.D. 7100, 36 FR 10860, June 4, 1971; 36 FR 11924, June 23, 1971, as amended by T.D. 7334, 39 FR 44214, Dec. 23, 1974]
§ 1.963-4—1.963-5
[Reserved]
§ 1.963-6
Deficiency distribution.
(a)
In general.
Section 963(e)(2) and this section provide a method under which, by virtue of a deficiency distribution, a United States shareholder may be relieved from the payment of a deficiency in tax for any taxable year arising by reason of failure to include subpart F income in gross income under section 951(a)(1)(A)(i), when it has been determined that such shareholder has failed to receive a minimum distribution for such year in respect of which it elected to secure the exclusion under section 963. In addition, this section provides rules with respect to a credit or refund of part or all of any such deficiency which has been paid. Under the method provided, the benefit of the exclusion of subpart F income from gross income of the United States shareholder is allowed retroactively for the taxable year in respect of which the election under section 963 applied, but only if the subsequent deficiency distribution meets the requirements of this section. The benefits of the retroactive exclusion will not, however, prevent the assessment of interest, additional amounts, and assessable penalties.
(b)
Requirements for deficiency distribution
—(1)
Distribution made on or after date of determination.
If—
(i) A United States shareholder, in making its return of the tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Code for any taxable year, elects to secure an exclusion under section 963 for such year,
(ii) It is subsequently determined (within the meaning of paragraph (c) of this section) that an exclusion under section 963 of subpart F income with respect to stock to which such election relates does not apply for such taxable year because of the failure of such shareholder to receive a minimum distribution for such year with respect to such stock, and
(iii) Such failure is due to reasonable cause, a deficiency distribution which is received by such shareholder with respect to such stock from a foreign corporation which was the single first-tier corporation, or a corporation in the chain or group, as the case may be, with respect to which the election was made, shall count toward a minimum distribution under section 963 for such year of election if such deficiency distribution is received (except as provided by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) on, or within 90 days after, the date of such determination and prior to the filing of a claim under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Such claim must be filed within 120 days after the date of such determination, and the deficiency distribution must be a dividend of such a nature (except as otherwise provided in this section) as would have permitted it to count toward a minimum distribution for the taxable year of the election if it had been received by the United States shareholder during such year. No distribution shall count as a deficiency distribution under this subparagraph unless a claim therefor is filed under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(2)
Distribution made before date of determination.
A deficiency distribution may also be received by a United States shareholder at any time prior to the date on which the determination required by subparagraph (1) of this paragraph is made. A distribution will count as a deficiency distribution under this subparagraph—
(i) To the extent that such distribution otherwise satisfies the requirements of this section;
(ii) If the United States shareholder files within 90 days after such distribution but before the determination date an advance claim described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section for treatment of such distribution as a deficiency distribution;
(iii) If such shareholder consents in such claim to include such deficiency distribution in gross income for the taxable year of the election to the extent necessary to complete a minimum distribution for such year and under section 6501 to extend the period for the making of assessments, and the bringing of distraint or a proceeding in court for collection, in respect of a deficiency and all interest, additional amounts, and assessable penalties for such taxable year;
(iv) If, when requested by the district director, such shareholder consents under section 6501 in such claim to extend the period for the making of assessments, and the bringing of distraint or a proceeding in court for collection, in respect of a deficiency and all interest, additional amounts and assessable penalties for the year of receipt of such distribution; and
(v) To the extent that such shareholder makes advance payment of tax which would result from the inclusion of such distribution in gross income as a minimum distribution for the year of such deficiency.
To the extent that such distribution is not necesasry under the determination (when made under paragraph (c) of this section) for a deficiency distribution, it shall be included in the United States shareholder's gross income for the taxable year of receipt of such distribution and paragraph (g) of this section shall not apply.
(3)
Earnings and profits of year of election to be first distributed.
If—
(i) In the case of a first-tier election, the United States shareholder's proportionate share of the earnings and profits of the foreign corporation which was the single first-tier corporation, or
(ii) In the case of a chain or group election, any portion of the share of any corporation or corporations (which were in the chain or group) of the consolidated earnings and profits with respect to the United States shareholder,
for the taxable year of the election has not been distributed on the stock with respect to which the election was made, then a distribution, in order to be counted toward a deficiency distribution, must be made by such corporation or corporations and from such earnings and profits to the extent thereof. Once all such earnings and profits of such corporation or corporations have been completely distributed, a deficiency distribution may be made from other earnings and profits of such foreign corporation which was a single first-tier corporation, or of such corporation or corporations which were in
such chain or group, as the case may be.
(4)
Proof of reasonable cause.
Reasonable cause for failure to receive a minimum distribution shall be deemed to exist, in the absence of circumstances demonstrating bad faith, if the electing United States shareholder receives, within the period prescribed by paragraph (a)(1)(i) of § 1.963-3 with respect to the year of election, at least 80 percent of the amount of a minimum distribution (from the earnings and profits to which the election for such year relates) which if received during such period would have satisfied the conditions for the section 963 exclusion to apply to such year. If less than 80 percent of the amount of a minimum distribution is received during such period, the existence of a reasonable cause for failure to receive a minimum distribution must be established by clear and convincing evidence; however, the preceding sentence shall not be taken as a limitation on the establishment of reasonable cause by any other proof of reasonable cause. For example, reasonable cause will exist if a single first-tier corporation for its taxable year makes a distribution which would be a minimum distribution but for a refund of foreign income tax which it has paid in good faith under foreign law but which is found not to be due after the United States income tax return of the United States shareholder has been filed.
(c)
Nature and details of determination.
(1) A determination that the section 963 exclusion does not apply to a United States shareholder for a taxable year due to its failure to receive a minimum distribution for such year shall, for the purposes of this section, be established by—
(i) A decision by the Tax Court or a judgment, decree, or other order by any court of competent jurisdiction, which has become final;
(ii) A closing agreement made under section 7121; or,
(iii) An agreement which is signed by the district director, or such other official to whom authority to sign the agreement is delegated, and by, or on behalf of, such shareholder and which relates to the liability of such shareholder for the tax under chapter 1 of the Code for such year.
(2) The date of determination by a decision of the Tax Court shall be the date upon which such decision becomes final, as prescribed in section 7481.
(3) The date upon which a judgment of a court becomes final shall be determined upon the basis of the facts in the particular case. Ordinarily, a judgment of a United States district court shall become final upon the expiration of the time allowed for taking an appeal, if no such appeal is duly taken within such time; and a judgment of the United States Court of Claims shall become final upon the expiration of the time allowed for filing a petition for certiorari, if no such petition is duly filed within such time.
(4) The date of determination by a closing agreement made under section 7121 shall be the date such agreement is approved by the Commissioner.
(5) The date of a determination made by an agreement which is signed by the district director, or such other official to whom authority to sign the agreement is delegated, shall be the date prescribed by this subparagraph. The agreement shall be sent to the United States shareholder at his last known address by either registered or certified mail. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see § 301.6212-2 of this chapter. If registered mail is used for such purpose, the date of registration shall be treated as the date of determination; if certified mail is used for such purpose, the date of the postmark on the sender's receipt for such mail shall be treated as the date of determination. However, if the deficiency distribution is received by such shareholder before such registration or postmark date but on or after the date the agreement is signed by the district director or such other official to whom authority to sign the agreement is delegated, the date of determination shall be the date on which the agreement is so signed.
(6) The determination under this paragraph shall find that, due to the United States shareholder's failure to receive a minimum distribution, the section 963 exclusion does not apply for the taxable year with respect to stock
to which the election under such section relates. A determination described in subdivision (ii) or (iii) of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall set forth the amount of the deficiency distribution and the amount of additional income tax for which the United States shareholder is liable under Chapter 1 of the Code by reason of not including in gross income for such year the amount of the deficiency distribution. If a determination described in subdivision (i) of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph does not establish the amount of the deficiency distribution and such amount of additional tax, such amounts may be established by an agreement which is signed by the district director, or such other official to whom authority to sign the agreement is delegated.
(d)
Claim for treatment of distribution as a deficiency distribution
—(1)
Claim filed after date of determination.
A claim (including any amendments thereof) for treatment of a deficiency distribution as counting toward a minimum distribution for the taxable year of election shall be filed in duplicate, within 120 days after the date of the determination described in paragraph (c) of this section, with the requisite declaration prescribed by the Commissioner on the appropriate claim form and shall be accompanied by—
(i) A copy of such determination and a description of how it became final;
(ii) If requested by the district director, or by such other official to whom authority to sign the agreement referred to in paragraph (c)(1) or (6) of this section is delegated, a consent by the United States shareholder under section 6501 to extend the period for the making of assessments, and the bringing of distraint or a proceeding in court for collection, in respect of a deficiency and all interest, additional amounts, and assessable penalties for the taxable year of election; and
(iii) Such other information as may be required by the claim form or the district director, or other official, in support of the claim.
(2)
Advance claim.
An advance claim for treatment of a deficiency distribution as counting toward a minimum distribution for the taxable year of election shall be filed in duplicate, within 90 days after such distribution but before the date of determination described in paragraph (c) of this section, and shall satisfy all requirements of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph other than subdivision (i) of such subparagraph. However, within 120 days after the date of the determination described in paragraph (c) of this section, the advance claim shall be completed so that it satisfies all requirements of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph.
(e)
Computation of interest on deficiencies in tax.
If a United States shareholder, for the taxable year of the election under section 963, completes a minimum distribution for such year by receiving a deficiency distribution to which this section applies, the interest on the deficiency in tax due by reason of the failure to include the amount of such deficiency distribution in such shareholder's gross income for such year shall be computed for the period from the last date prescribed for payment of the tax for such year to the date such deficiency in tax is paid. No interest shall be due by reason of the failure to include Subpart F income in gross income for a taxable year in respect of which a minimum distribution under section 963 is completed by a deficiency distribution to which this section applies.
(f)
Claim for credit or refund.
If a deficiency in tax is asserted for any taxable year by reason of failure to include Subpart F income in gross income under section 951(a)(1)(A)(i) and the United States shareholder has paid any portion of such asserted deficiency, such shareholder is entitled to a credit or refund of such payment to the extent that such payment constitutes an overpayment of tax as the result of the receipt of a deficiency distribution to which this section applies. To secure credit or refund of such overpayment of tax, the United States shareholder must file a claim for refund in accordance with § 301.6402-3, in addition to the claim form required under paragraph (d) of this section. No interest shall be allowed on such credit or refund. For other rules applicable to the filing of claims for credit or refund of an overpayment of tax, see section 6402 and the regulations thereunder. For the limitations applicable to the credit or
refund for an overpayment of tax, see section 6511 and the regulations thereunder.
(g)
Effect of deficiency distribution
—(1)
Allocation of distributions.
The deficiency distribution shall be allocated, by applying the rules of § 1.963-3 (and paragraph (b) of § 1.963-4, if applicable for the year of election), as a distribution first from the earnings and profits (to the extent thereof) of the foreign corporation which was the single first-tier corporation, or of the distributing corporation or corporations which were in the chain or group, as the case may be, for the taxable year in respect of which the election was made, and then from earnings and profits (to the extent thereof) described in section 959(c)(3) and determined as provided in section 959 for the most recent taxable year and the first, second, etc., taxable years preceding such recent taxable years, in that order, of the distributing corporation or corporations. In applying the preceding sentence to taxable years other than the taxable year in respect of which the election was made, the deficiency distribution shall first be allocated, in the order of allocation prescribed by such sentence, first to taxable years in respect of which no election under section 963 was made with respect to the stock on which such distribution is received and then to taxable years in respect of which an election under such section was made.
(2)
Year of receipt.
Any deficiency distribution made with respect to a taxable year of the United States shareholder shall be treated, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, as having been received by the shareholder in that year for which such shareholder elected to secure an exclusion under section 963; and, for purposes of the foreign tax credit under section 901, the foreign income taxes paid or accrued, or deemed paid, by the United States shareholder by reason of a distribution of any amount treated as a deficiency distribution for such year shall be treated as paid or accrued, or deemed paid, for such year.
(3)
Year of payment.
A distribution counting toward a deficiency distribution for a taxable year of election shall, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, be treated for purposes of applying paragraph (a) of § 1.963-3, relating to conditions under which earnings and profits are counted toward a minimum distribution, and paragraph (b)(3) of § 1.963-4, relating to rules for distributing through a chain or group, as if it were distributed during the distribution period (as defined in paragraph (g) of § 1.963-3) with respect to the distributing corporation and each foreign corporation through which such distribution is made to the United States shareholder, for the taxable year to which the election under section 963 applies; and the foreign income taxes paid by any foreign corporation by reason of such distribution shall, in the application of section 902 and of the special rules of paragraph (c) of § 1.963-4, be treated as paid or accrued by such foreign corporation for its taxable year to which such election applies. The distribution shall not count toward a minimum distribution for any other taxable year.
(4)
Allocation of reduction in tax credit.
If any portion of a deficiency distribution from a corporation which was in a chain or group is paid from earnings and profits of a taxable year other than that in respect of which the election was made, then the minimum distribution toward which such deficiency distribution counts may not be treated as a pro rata minimum distribution for purposes of § 1.963-4. Moreover, the amount of the overall United States and foreign income tax with respect to such minimum distribution must satisfy the minimum tax requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i), or paragraph (ii), of § 1.963-4, but, if the latter applies, without any reduction and deferral under paragraph (c)(3) of such section of the foreign tax credit allowable under section 901 with respect to the deficiency distribution.
[T.D. 6759, 29 FR 13346, Sept. 25, 1964, as amended by T.D. 6767, 29 FR 14879, Nov. 3, 1964; T.D. 7410, 41 FR 11020, Mar. 16, 1976; T.D. 8939, 66 FR 2819, Jan. 12, 2001]
§ 1.964-1
Determination of the earnings and profits of a foreign corporation.
(a)(1)
In general.
For rules for determining the earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) of a foreign corporation for taxable years beginning
before January 1, 1987, for purposes of sections 951 through 964,
see
26 CFR 1.964-1(a) (revised as of April 1, 2006). For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, except as otherwise provided in the Code and regulations, the earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) of a foreign corporation for its taxable year shall be computed for all Federal income tax purposes substantially as if such corporation were a domestic corporation by—
(i) Preparing a profit and loss statement with respect to such year from the books of account regularly maintained by the corporation for the purpose of accounting to its shareholders.
(ii) Making the adjustments necessary to conform such statement to the accounting principles described in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(iii) Making the further adjustments necessary to conform such statement to the tax accounting standards described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Required adjustments.
The computation described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be made in the foreign corporation's functional currency (determined under section 985 and the regulations under that section) and may be made by following the procedures described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(iii) of this section in an order other than the one listed, as long as the result so obtained would be the same. In determining earnings and profits, or the deficit in earnings and profits, of a foreign corporation under section 964, the amount of an illegal bribe, kickback, or other payment (within the meaning of section 162(c), as amended by section 288 of the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982 in the case of payments made after September 3, 1982, and the regulations issued pursuant to section 964) paid after November 3, 1976, by or on behalf of the corporation during the taxable year of the corporation directly or indirectly to an official, employee, or agent in fact of a government shall not be taken into account to decrease such earnings and profits or to increase such deficit. No adjustment shall be required under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section unless it is material. Whether an adjustment is material depends on the facts and circumstances of the particular case, including the amount of the adjustment, its size relative to the general level of the corporation's total assets and annual profit or loss, the consistency with which the practice has been applied, and whether the item to which the adjustment relates is of a recurring or merely a nonrecurring nature. For the treatment of earnings and profits whose distribution is prevented by restrictions and limitations imposed by a foreign government, see section 964(b) and the regulations issued pursuant to section 964.
(3)
Translation into dollars.
In the case of a foreign corporation with a functional currency other than the United States dollar (dollar), see sections 986(b) and 989(b) for rules regarding the time and manner of translating distributions or inclusions of the foreign corporation's earnings and profits into dollars.
(b)
Accounting adjustments
—(1)
In general.
The accounting principles to be applied in making the adjustments required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section shall be those accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for purposes of reflecting in the financial statements of a domestic corporation the operations of its foreign affiliates, including the following:
(i)
Clear reflection of income.
Any accounting practice designed for purposes other than the clear reflection on a current basis of income and expense for the taxable year shall not be given effect. For example, an adjustment will be required where an allocation is made to an arbitrary reserve out of current income.
(ii)
Physical assets, depreciation, etc.
All physical assets (as defined in paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section), including inventory when reflected at cost, shall be taken into account at historical cost computed either for individual assets or groups of similar assets. The historical cost of such an asset shall not reflect any appreciation or depreciation in its value or in the relative value of the currency in which its cost was incurred. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization allowances shall be based on the historical cost of the underlying asset and no effect shall
be given to any such allowance determined on the basis of a factor other than historical cost. For special rules for determining historical cost where assets are acquired during a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1950, or a majority interest in the foreign corporation is acquired after December 31, 1949, but before October 27, 1964, see subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
(iii)
Valuation of assets and liabilities.
Any accounting practice which results in the systematic undervaluation of assets or overvaluation of liabilities shall not be given effect, even though expressly permitted or required under foreign law, except to the extent allowable under paragraph (c) of this section. For example, an adjustment will be required where inventory is written down below market value. For the definition of market value, see paragraph (a) of § 1.471-4.
(iv)
Income equalization.
Income and expense shall be taken into account without regard to equalization over more than one accounting period; and any equalization reserve or similar provision affecting income or expense shall not be given effect, even though expressly permitted or required under foreign law, except to the extent allowable under paragraph (c) of this section.
(v)
Foreign currency.
If transactions effected in a foreign currency other than that in which the books of the corporation are kept are translated into the foreign currency reflected in the books, such translation shall be made in a manner substantially similar to that as prescribed in section 988 and the regulations under that section for the translation of foreign currency amounts into United States dollars.
(2)
Historical cost.
For purposes of this section, the historical cost of an asset acquired by the foreign corporation during a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1963, shall be determined, if it is so elected by or on behalf of such corporation—
(i) In the event that the foreign corporation became a majority owned subsidiary of a United States person (within the meaning of section 7701(a)(30)) after December 31, 1949, but before October 27, 1964, and the asset was held by such foreign corporation at that time, as though the asset was purchased on the date during such period the foreign corporation first became a majority owned subsidiary at a price equal to its then fair market value, or
(ii) In the event that subdivision (i) of this subparagraph is inapplicable but the asset was acquired by the foreign corporation during a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1950, as though the asset were purchased on the first day of the first taxable year of the foreign corporation beginning after December 31, 1949, at a price equal to the undepreciated cost (cost or other basis minus book depreciation) of that asset as of that date as shown on the books of account of such corporation regularly maintained for the purpose of accounting to its shareholders.
For purposes of this subparagraph, a foreign corporation shall be considered a majority owned subsidiary of a United States person if, taking into account only stock acquired by purchase (as defined in section 334(b)(3)), the United States person owns (within the meaning of section 958(a)) more than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the foreign corporation entitled to vote. The election under this subparagraph shall be made for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, in which the foreign corporation is a controlled foreign corporation (within the meaning of section 957), or for which it is included in a chain or group under section 963(c)(2)(B) or (3)(B) (applied as if section 963 had not been repealed by the Tax Reduction Act of 1975), or has a deficit in earnings and profits sought to be taken into account under section 952(d) or pays a dividend that is included in the foreign base company shipping income of a controlled foreign corporation under § 1.954-6(f). Once made, such an election shall be irrevocable. For the time and manner in which an election may be made on behalf of a foreign corporation, see paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3)
Illustrations.
The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Corporation M is a controlled foreign corporation which regularly maintains books of account for the purpose of accounting to its shareholders in accordance
with the accounting practices prevalent in country X, the country in which it operates. As a consequence of those practices, the profit and loss statement prepared from these books of account reflects an allocation to an arbitrary reserve out of current income and depreciation allowances based on replacement values which are greater than historical cost. Adjustments are necessary to conform such statement to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Assuming these adjustments to be material, the unacceptable practices, will have to be eliminated from the statement, an increase in the amount of profit (or a decrease in the amount of loss) thereby resulting.

# Example 2.
In 1973, Corporation N is a foreign corporation which is not a controlled foreign corporation but which is included in a chain, for minimum distribution purposes, under section 963(c)(2)(B). Corporation N regularly maintains books of account for the purpose of accounting to its shareholders in accordance with the accounting practices of country Y, the country in which it operates. As a consequence of those practices, the profit and loss statement prepared from these books of account reflects the inclusion in income of stock dividends and of corporate distributions representing a return of capital. Adjustments are necessary to conform such statement to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Assuming these adjustments to be material, the unacceptable practices will have to be eliminated from the statement, a decrease in the amount of profit (or increase in the amount of loss) thereby resulting.
(c)
Tax adjustments
—(1)
In general.
The tax accounting standards to be applied in making the adjustments required by paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section shall be the following:
(i)
Accounting methods.
The method of accounting shall reflect the provisions of section 446 and the regulations thereunder.
(ii)
Inventories.
Inventories shall be taken into account in accordance with the provisions of sections 471 and 472 and the regulations thereunder.
(iii)
Depreciation.
Depreciation shall be computed as follows:
(
a
) For any taxable year beginning before July 1, 1972; depreciation shall be computed in accordance with section 167 and the regulations thereunder.
(
b
) If, for any taxable year beginning after June 30, 1972, 20 percent or more of the gross income from all sources of the corporation is derived from sources within the United States, then depreciation shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of § 1.312-15.
(
c
) If, for any taxable year beginning after June 30, 1972, less than 20 percent of the gross income from all sources of the corporation is derived from sources within the United States, then depreciation shall be computed in accordance with section 167 and the regulations thereunder.
(iv)
Elections.
Effect shall be given to any election made in accordance with an applicable provision of the Code and the regulations thereunder and these regulations.
(v)
Taxable years.
The period for computation of taxable income and earnings and profits known as the taxable year shall reflect the provisions of section 441 and the regulations under that section.
(vi)
Applicable requirements.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c) (3) of this section, any requirements imposed by the Code or applicable regulations with respect to making an election or adopting or changing a method of accounting or taxable year must be satisfied by or on behalf of the foreign corporation just as though it were a domestic corporation if such election or such adoption or change of method or taxable year is to be taken into account in the computation of its earnings and profits.
(2)
Adoption or change of method or taxable year.
For the first taxable year of a foreign corporation beginning after April 25, 2006, in which such foreign corporation first qualifies as a controlled foreign corporation (as defined in section 957 or 953) or a noncontrolled section 902 corporation (as defined in section 904(d)(2)(E)), any method of accounting or taxable year allowable under this section may be adopted, and any election allowable under this section may be made, by such foreign corporation or on its behalf notwithstanding that, in previous years, its books or financial statements were prepared on a different basis, and notwithstanding that such election is required by the Code or regulations to be made in a prior taxable year. Any allowable methods adopted or elections made shall be reflected in the computation of the foreign corporation's earnings and
profits for such taxable year, prior taxable years, and (unless the Commissioner consents to a change) subsequent taxable years. However, see section 898 for the rules regarding the taxable year of a specified foreign corporation as defined in section 898(b). Any allowable method of accounting or election that relates to events that first arise in a subsequent taxable year may be adopted or made by or on behalf of the foreign corporation for such year. Adjustments to the appropriate separate category (as defined in § 1.904-5(a)(1)) of earnings and profits and income of the foreign corporation shall be required under section 481 to prevent any duplication or omission of amounts attributable to previous years that would otherwise result from any change in a method of accounting.
See
paragraph (c)(3) of this section for the manner in which a method of accounting or a taxable year may be adopted or changed on behalf of the foreign corporation.
See
paragraph (c)(4) of this section for applicable rules if the amount of the foreign corporation's earnings and profits became significant for United States tax purposes before a method of accounting or taxable year was adopted by the foreign corporation or on its behalf in accordance with the rules of paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
See
paragraph (c)(6) of this section for special rules postponing the time for taking action by or on behalf of a foreign corporation until the amount of its earnings and profits becomes significant for U.S. tax purposes.
See also
§§ 1.985-5, 1.985-6, and 1.985-7 relating to adjustments to earnings and profits of a QBU required when the QBU changes its functional currency or begins to use the dollar approximate separate transactions method of accounting.
(3)
Action on behalf of corporation
—(i)
In general.
An election shall be deemed made, or an adoption or change in method of accounting or taxable year deemed effectuated, on behalf of the foreign corporation only if its controlling domestic shareholders (as defined in paragraph (c)(5) of this section)—
(A) Satisfy for such corporation any requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code or applicable regulations with respect to such election or such adoption or change in method or taxable year (including the provisions of sections 442 and 446 and the regulations under those sections, as well as any operative provisions), such as the filing of forms, the execution of consents, securing the permission of the Commissioner, or maintaining books and records in a particular manner. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A), the books of the foreign corporation shall be considered to be maintained in a particular manner if the controlling domestic shareholders or the foreign corporation regularly keep the records and accounts required by section 964(c) and the regulations under that section in that manner;
(B) File the statement described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, at the time and in the manner prescribed therein; and
(C) Provide the written notice required by paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section at the time and in the manner prescribed therein.
(ii)
Statement required to be filed with a tax return.
The statement required by this paragraph (c)(3)(ii) shall set forth the name, country of organization, and U.S. employer identification number (if applicable) of the foreign corporation, the name, address, stock interests, and U.S. employer identification number of each controlling domestic shareholder (or, if applicable, the shareholder's common parent) approving the action, and the names, addresses, U.S. employer identification numbers, and stock interests of all other domestic shareholders notified of the action taken. Such statement shall describe the nature of the action taken on behalf of the foreign corporation and the taxable year for which made, and identify a designated shareholder who retains a jointly executed consent confirming that such action has been approved by all of the controlling domestic shareholders and containing the signature of a principal officer of each such shareholder (or its common parent). Each controlling domestic shareholder (or its common parent) shall file the statement with, and on or before the due date (including extensions) of, its own tax return (or information return, if applicable) for its taxable year with or within which ends the taxable year of the foreign corporation for
which the election is made or for which the method of accounting or taxable year is adopted or changed. In the case of a controlling domestic shareholder that is the sole shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation, no separate statement need be filed if the information described in this paragraph (c)(3)(ii) is included on Form 5471 and Form 3115 or 1128, as applicable, filed with respect to the controlled foreign corporation with the shareholder's return for such taxable year.
(iii)
Notice.
On or before the filing date described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the controlling domestic shareholders shall provide written notice of the election made or the adoption or change of method or taxable year effected to all other persons known by them to be domestic shareholders who own (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock of the foreign corporation. Such notice shall set forth the name, country of organization and U.S. employer identification number (if applicable) of the foreign corporation, and the names, addresses, and stock interests of the controlling domestic shareholders. Such notice shall describe the nature of the action taken on behalf of the foreign corporation and the taxable year for which made, and identify a designated shareholder who retains a jointly executed consent confirming that such action has been approved by all of the controlling domestic shareholders and containing the signature of a principal officer of each such shareholder (or its common parent). However, the failure of the controlling domestic shareholders to provide such notice to a person required to be notified shall not invalidate the election made or the adoption or change of method or taxable year effected.
(4)
Effect of action or inaction by controlling domestic shareholders
—(i)
In general.
Any election, or adoption or change of method of accounting or taxable year made by the controlling domestic shareholders on behalf of the foreign corporation pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section or any other provision of the regulations (for example, § 1.985-2(c)(2) or (3)) shall be reflected in the computation of the earnings and profits of such corporation under this section to the extent that it bears upon the federal income tax liability of the domestic shareholders of the foreign corporation. Any such action shall bind both the foreign corporation and its domestic shareholders as to the computation of the foreign corporation's earnings and profits for the taxable year of the foreign corporation for which the election is made or for which the method of accounting or taxable year is adopted or changed and in subsequent taxable years unless the Commissioner consents to a change. The preceding sentence shall apply regardless of—
(A) When the action was taken;
(B) Whether the foreign corporation was a controlled foreign corporation or a noncontrolled section 902 corporation at the time the action was taken;
(C) When ownership was acquired; or
(D) Whether the domestic shareholder received the written notice required by paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Inaction or untimely action.
In the event that action by or on behalf of the foreign corporation is not undertaken by the time specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and such failure is shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner to be due to reasonable cause, such action may be undertaken during any period of at least 30 days occurring after such showing is made which the Commissioner may specify as appropriate for this purpose. In the event that action by or on behalf of the foreign corporation is not undertaken by the time specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and such failure is not shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner to be due to reasonable cause, earnings and profits shall be computed as if no elections had been made and any permissible accounting methods not requiring an election and reflected in the books of account regularly maintained by the foreign corporation for the purpose of accounting to its shareholders had been adopted. Accordingly, if the earnings and profits of a noncontrolled section 902 corporation became significant for United States income tax purposes in a taxable year beginning on or before April 25, 2006, the corporation's earnings and
profits shall be computed as if no elections had been made and any permissible accounting methods not requiring an election and reflected in the books of account regularly maintained by the foreign corporation for purposes of accounting to its shareholders had been adopted. Thereafter, any change in a particular accounting method or methods or taxable year may be made by, or on behalf of, the foreign corporation only with the Commissioner's consent.
(iii)
Computation of earnings and profits by a minority shareholder prior to majority election or significant event.
A shareholder of a foreign corporation may be required to compute the foreign corporation's earnings and profits before the foreign corporation or its controlling domestic shareholders make, or are required under this section to make, an election or adopt a method of accounting for federal income tax purposes. In such a case, the shareholder must compute earnings and profits in accordance with this section. Such computation shall be made as if no elections had been made and any permissible accounting methods not requiring an election and reflected in the books of account regularly maintained by the foreign corporation for the purpose of accounting to its shareholders had been adopted. However, a later, properly filed, and timely election or adoption of method by, or on behalf of, the foreign corporation shall not be treated as a change in accounting method.
(5)
Controlling domestic shareholders
—(i)
Controlled foreign corporations.
For purposes of this paragraph (c), the controlling domestic shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation shall be its controlling United States shareholders. The controlling United States shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation shall be those United States shareholders (as defined in section 951(b) or 953(c)) who, in the aggregate, own (within the meaning of section 958(a)) more than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of the stock of such foreign corporation entitled to vote and who undertake to act on its behalf. In the event that the United States shareholders of the controlled foreign corporation do not, in the aggregate, own (within the meaning of section 958(a)) more than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of the stock of such foreign corporation entitled to vote, the controlling United States shareholders of the controlled foreign corporation shall be all those United States shareholders who own (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock of such corporation.
(ii)
Noncontrolled section 902 corporations.
For purposes of this paragraph (c), the controlling domestic shareholders of a noncontrolled section 902 corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation shall be its majority domestic corporate shareholders. The majority domestic corporate shareholders of a noncontrolled section 902 corporation shall be those domestic corporations that meet the ownership requirements of section 902(a) with respect to the noncontrolled section 902 corporation (or to a first-tier foreign corporation that is a member of the same qualified group (as defined in section 902(b)(2)) as the noncontrolled section 902 corporation) that, in the aggregate, own directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of all of the voting stock of the noncontrolled section 902 corporation that is owned directly or indirectly by all domestic corporations that meet the ownership requirements of section 902(a) with respect to the noncontrolled section 902 corporation (or a relevant first-tier foreign corporation).
(6)
Action not required until significant.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph, action by or on behalf of a foreign corporation (other than a foreign corporation subject to tax under section 882) to make an election or to adopt a taxable year or method of accounting shall not be required until the due date (including extensions) of the return for a controlling domestic shareholder's first taxable year with or within which ends the foreign corporation's first taxable year in which the computation of its earnings and profits is significant for United States tax purposes with respect to its controlling domestic shareholders (as defined in § 1.964-1(c)(5)). The filing of the information return required by section 6038 shall not itself constitute a significant event. For taxable years beginning
after April 25, 2006, events that cause a foreign corporation's earnings and profits to have United States tax significance include, without limitation:
(A) A distribution from the foreign corporation to its shareholders with respect to their stock.
(B) An amount is includible in gross income with respect to such corporation under section 951(a).
(C) An amount is excluded from subpart F income of the foreign corporation or another foreign corporation by reason of section 952(c).
(D) Any event making the foreign corporation subject to tax under section 882.
(E) The use by the foreign corporation's controlling domestic shareholders of the tax book value (or alternative tax book value) method of allocating interest expense under section 864(e)(4).
(F) A sale or exchange of the foreign corporation's stock of the controlling domestic shareholders that results in the recharacterization of gain under section 1248.
(7)
Revocation of election.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any election made by or on behalf of a foreign corporation (other than a foreign corporation subject to tax under section 882) may be modified or revoked by or on behalf of such corporation for the taxable year for which made whenever the consent of the Commissioner is secured for such modification or revocation, even though such election would be irrevocable but for this subparagraph.
(8) [Reserved]
(d)
Effective/applicability dates.
Paragraphs (c)(1)(v) through (c)(6) of this section apply to taxable years ending on or after April 20, 2009.
See
26 CFR §§ 1.964-1T(c)(1)(v) through (c)(6) (revised as of April 1, 2009) for rules applicable to taxable years beginning after April 25, 2006, and ending before April 20, 2009. However, taxpayers may choose to apply paragraphs (c)(1)(v) through (c)(6) of this section in their entirety in lieu of 26 CFR §§ 1.964-1T(c)(1)(v) through (c)(6) for periods covered by the temporary regulations, provided that appropriate adjustments are made to eliminate duplicate benefits arising from the application of paragraphs (c)(1)(v) through (c)(6) of this section to taxable years that are not open for assessment.
[T.D. 6764, 29 FR 14628, Oct. 27, 1964]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 1.964-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 1.964-2
Treatment of blocked earnings and profits.
(a)
General rule.
If, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, it is established to the satisfaction of the district director that any amount of the earnings and profits of a controlled foreign corporation for the taxable year (determined under § 1.964-1) was subject to a currency or other restriction or limitation imposed under the laws of any foreign country (within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this section) on its distribution to United States shareholders who own (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock of such corporation, such amount shall not be included in earnings and profits for purposes of sections 952, 955 (as in effect both before and after the enactment of the Tax Reduction Act of 1975), and 956 for such taxable year. For rules governing the treatment of amounts with respect to which such restriction or limitation is removed, see paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Rules of application.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section—
(1)
Period of restriction or limitation.
An amount of earnings and profits of a controlled foreign corporation for any taxable year shall not be included in earnings and profits for purposes of sections 952, 955 (as in effect both before and after the enactment of the Tax Reduction Act of 1975), and 956 only if such amount of earnings and profits is subject to a currency or other restriction or limitation (within the meaning of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) throughout the 150-day period beginning 90 days before the close of the taxable year and ending 60 days after the close of such taxable year.
(2)
Restriction or limitation defined.
Whether earnings and profits of a controlled foreign corporation are subject to a currency or other restriction or
limitation imposed under the laws of a foreign country must be determined on the basis of all the facts and circumstances in each case. Generally, such a restriction or limitation must prevent—
(i) The ready conversion (directly or indirectly) of such currency into United States dollars, or into property of a type normally owned by such corporation in the operation of its business or other money which is readily convertible into United States dollars; or
(ii) The distribution of dividends by such corporation to its United States shareholders.
For purposes of this subparagraph, if a United States shareholder owns (within the meaning of section 958(a)), or is considered as owning by applying the rules of ownership of section 958(b), 80 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a foreign corporation in a chain of ownership described in section 958(a), the distribution of dividends by such corporation to such shareholder will not be considered prevented solely by reason of the existence of a currency or other restriction or limitation at an intermediate tier in such chain if dividends may be distributed directly to such shareholders.
(3)
Foreign laws.
A currency or other restriction or limitation on the distribution of earnings and profits may be imposed in a foreign country by express statutory provisions, executive orders or decrees, rules or regulations of a governmental agency, court decisions, the actions of appropriate officials who are acting within the scope of their authority, or by any similar official action. A currency restriction will not be considered to exist unless export restrictions are also imposed which prevent the exportation of property of a type normally owned by the controlled foreign corporation in the operation of its business which could be readily converted into United States dollars.
(4)
Voluntary restriction or limitation.
A currency or other restriction or limitation arising from the voluntary act of the controlled foreign corporation or its United States shareholders during a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, will not be taken into account. For example, if a controlled foreign corporation—
(i) Issues a stock dividend which has the effect of capitalizing earnings and profits;
(ii) Elects to restrict its earnings and profits or to make certain investments as a means of avoiding current tax or securing a reduced rate of tax; or
(iii) Allocates earnings and profits to an optional or arbitrary reserve; such restriction is voluntary and will not be taken into account.
(5)
Treatment of earnings and profits in cases of certain mandatory reserves
—(i)
In general.
If a controlled foreign corporation is required under the laws of a foreign country to establish a reserve out of earnings and profits for the taxable year, such earnings and profits shall be considered subject to a restriction or limitation by reason of such requirement only to the extent that the amount required to be included in such reserve at the close of the taxable year exceeds the accumulated earnings and profits (determined in accordance with subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph) of such corporation at the close of the preceding taxable year.
(ii)
Determination of earnings and profits.
For purposes of determining the accumulated earnings and profits of a controlled foreign corporation under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, such earnings and profits shall not include any amounts which are attributable to—
(
a
) Amounts which, for any prior taxable year, have been included in the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 951(a) and have not been distributed;
(
b
) Amounts which, for any prior taxable year, have been included in the gross income of a United States shareholder of such foreign corporation under section 551(b) and have not been distributed; or
(
c
) Amounts which become subject to a voluntary restriction or limitation (within the meaning of subparagraph (4) of this paragraph) during a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1963.
The rules of this subdivision apply only in determining the accumulated earnings and profits of a controlled foreign
corporation for purposes of this subparagraph. See section 959 and the regulations thereunder for limitations on the exclusion from gross income of previously taxed earnings and profits.
(6)
Exhaustion of procedures for distributing earnings and profits.
Earnings and profits of a controlled foreign corporation for a taxable year will not be considered subject to a currency or other restriction or limitation on their distribution unless the United States shareholders of such corporation demonstrate either that the available procedures for distributing such earnings and profits have been exhausted or that the use of such procedures will be futile. As a general rule, such procedures will be considered to have been exhausted if the foreign corporation applies for dollars (or foreign currency readily convertible into dollars) at the appropriate rate of exchange and complies with the applicable laws and regulations governing the acquisition and transfer of such currency including submission of the necessary documentation to the exchange authority. The fact that available procedures for distributing earnings and profits were exhausted without success with respect to a prior year is not, of itself, sufficient evidence that such procedures would not be successful with respect to the current taxable year.
(c)
Removal of restriction or limitation
—(1)
In general.
If, during any taxable year, a currency or other restriction or limitation (within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this section) imposed under the laws of a foreign country on the distribution of earnings and profits of a controlled foreign corporation to its United States shareholders is removed—
(i)
Treatment of deferred income.
Each United States shareholder of such corporation on the last day in such year that such corporation is a controlled foreign corporation shall include in his gross income for such taxable year the amounts attributable to such earnings and profits which would have been includible in his gross income under section 951(a) for prior taxable years but for the existence of the currency or other restriction or limitation except that the amounts included under this subdivision (i) shall not exceed his pro rata share of—
(
a
) The earnings and profits upon which the restriction was removed determined on the basis of his stock ownership on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year, and
(
b
) The applicable limitations under paragraph (c) of § 1.952-1, paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.955-1, paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.955A-1, or paragraph (b) of § 1.956-1, determined as of the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year, taking into account the provisions of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.
(ii)
Treatment of earnings and profits.
For purposes of sections 952, 955 (as in effect both before and after the enactment of the Tax Reduction Act of 1975), and 956, the earnings and profits which are no longer subject to a currency or other restriction or limitation shall be treated as included in the corporation's earnings and profits for the year in which such earnings and profits were derived.
Amounts with respect to which a currency or other restriction or limitation is removed shall be translated into United States dollars at the appropriate exchange rate for the translation period during which such currency or other restriction or limitation is removed. See paragraph (d) of § 1.964-1. Amounts with respect to which a currency or other restriction or limitation is removed shall not be taken into account in determining whether a deficiency distribution (within the meaning of § 1.963-6 (applied as if section 963 had not been repealed by the Tax Reduction Act of 1975)) is required to be made for the year in which such earnings and profits were derived.
(2)
Removal of restriction or limitation defined.
An amount of earnings and profits shall be considered no longer subject to a limitation or restriction if and to the extent that—
(i) Money or property in such foreign country is readily convertible into United States dollars, or into other money or property of a type normally owned by such corporation in the operation of its business which is readily convertible into United States dollars;
(ii) Notwithstanding the existence of any laws or regulations forbidding the exchange of money or property into
United States dollars, conversion is actually made into United States dollars, or other money or property of a type normally owned by such corporation in the operation of its business which is readily convertible into United States dollars; or
(iii) A mandatory reserve requirement (described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section) is removed either by a change in law of the foreign country imposing such requirement or by an accumulation of earnings and profits not subject to such requirement.
(3)
Distribution in foreign country.
If, during any taxable year, earnings and profits previously subject to a currency or other restriction or limitation are distributed in a foreign country to one or more United States shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation directly, or indirectly through a chain of ownership described in section 958(a), such earnings and profits shall be considered no longer subject to a restriction or limitation. However, distributed amounts may be excluded from such shareholder's gross income for the taxable year of receipt if such shareholder elects a method of accounting under which the reporting of blocked foreign income is deferred until the income ceases to be blocked.
(4)
Source of distribution.
If, during any taxable year, earnings and profits previously subject to a currency or other restriction or limitation is distributed to one or more United States shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation directly, or indirectly through a chain of ownership described in section 958(a), the source of such distribution shall be determined in accordance with the rules of § 1.959-3.
(5)
Illustration.
The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
(a) M, a United States person, owns all of the only class of stock of A Corporation, a foreign corporation incorporated under the laws of foreign country X on January 1, 1963. Both M and A Corporations use the calendar year as a taxable year and A Corporation is a controlled foreign corporation throughout the period here involved.
(b) During 1963, A Corporation derives income of $100,000 all of which is subpart F income and has earnings and profits of $100,000. Under the laws of X Country, currency cannot be exported without a license. During the last 90 days of 1963 and the first 60 days of 1964, A Corporation can obtain a license to distribute only an amount equivalent to $10,000. M must include $10,000 in his gross income for 1963 under section 951(a)(1)(A)(i) and $90,000 of A Corporation's earnings and profits for 1963 are not taken into account for purposes of sections 952, 955, and 956.
(c) During 1964, A Corporation has no income and no earnings and profits. On June 1, 1964, A Corporation converts an amount equivalent to $20,000 into property of a type normally owned by such corporation in the operation of its business which is readily convertible into United States dollars but does not distribute such amount. Corporation A must include $20,000 in its earnings and profits for 1963 for purposes of sections 952, 955, and 956. M must include $20,000 in his gross income for 1964.
(d) During 1965, A Corporation has no income and no earnings and profits. On December 15, 1965, A Corporation distributes an amount equivalent to $15,000 to M in X Country. Neither M nor A Corporation can obtain a license to export currency from X Country. In his return for the taxable year 1965, M elects a method of accounting under which the reporting of blocked foreign income is deferred until the income ceases to be blocked. Accordingly, M does not include the $15,000 in his gross income for 1965.
(e) During 1966, A Corporation has no income and no earnings and profits. On February 1, 1966, notwithstanding the laws and regulations of X Country which forbid the exchange of X Country's currency into United States dollars, M converts an amount equivalent to $15,000 into a currency which is readily convertible into United States dollars. Since the income has ceased to be blocked, M must include $15,000 in his gross income for 1966.
(d)
Manner of claiming existence of restriction or limitation on distribution of earnings and profits.
A United States shareholder claiming that an amount of the earnings and profits of a controlled foreign corporation for the taxable year was subject to a currency or other restriction or limitation imposed under the laws of a foreign country on its distribution shall file a statement with his return for the taxable year with or within which the taxable year of the foreign corporation ends which shall include—
(1) The name and address of the foreign corporation,
(2) A description of the classes of stock of the foreign corporation and a statement of the number of shares of each class owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)) or considered as
owned (by applying the rules of ownership of section 958(b)) by the United States shareholder,
(3) A description of the currency or other restriction or limitation on the distribution of earnings and profits,
(4) The total earnings and profits of the foreign corporation for the taxable year (before any amount is excluded from earnings and profits under this section) and the United States shareholder's pro rata share of such total earnings and profits,
(5) The United States shareholder's pro rata share of the amount of earnings and profits subject to a restriction or limitation on distribution,
(6) The amounts which would be includible in the United States shareholder's gross income under section 951(a) but for the existence of the currency or other restriction or limitation,
(7) A description of the available procedures for distributing earnings and profits and a statement setting forth the steps taken to exhaust such procedures or a statement setting forth the reasons that the use of such procedures would be futile, and
(8) The amount of distributions made in a foreign country and a statement as to whether a method of accounting has been elected under which the reporting of blocked income is deferred until such income ceases to be blocked, including an identification of the taxable year and place of filing of such election.
In addition, such United States shareholder shall furnish to the district director such other information as he may require to verify the status of a currency or other restriction or limitation.
[T.D. 6892, 31 FR 11142, Aug. 23, 1966, as amended by T.D. 7545, 43 FR 19652, May 8, 1978; T.D. 7893, 48 FR 22510, May 19, 1983]
§ 1.964-3
Records to be provided by United States shareholders.
(a)
Shareholder's responsibility for providing records.
For purposes of verifying his income tax liability in respect of amounts includible in income under section 951 for the taxable year of a controlled foreign corporation each United State shareholder (as defined in section 951(b)) who owns (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock of such corporation shall, within a reasonable time after demand by the district director, provide the district director—
(1) Such permanent books of account or records as are sufficient to satisfy the requirements of section 6001 and section 964(c), or true copies thereof, as are reasonably demanded, and
(2) If such books or records are not maintained in the English language, either (i) an accurate English translation of such books or records or (ii) the services of a qualified interpreter satisfactory to the district director.
If such books or records are being used by another district director, the United States shareholder upon whom the district director has made a demand to provide such books or records shall file a statement of such fact with his district director, indicating the location of such books or records. For the length of time the United States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation must cause such books or records as are under his control to be retained, see paragraph (e) of § 1.6001-1.
(b)
Records to be provided.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the requirements of section 6001 and section 964(c) for record keeping shall be considered satisfied if the books or records produced are sufficient to verify for the taxable year—
(1) The subpart F income of the controlled foreign corporation and, if any part of such income is excluded from the income of the United States shareholder under section 963 or section 970(a), the application of such exclusion,
(2) The previously excluded subpart F income of such corporation withdrawn from investment in less developed countries,
(3) The previously excluded subpart F income of such corporation withdrawn from investment in foreign base company shipping operations,
(4) The previously excluded export trade income of such corporation withdrawn from investment, and
(5) The increase in earnings invested by such corporation in United States property.
(c)
Special rules.
Verification of the subpart F income of the controlled foreign corporation for the taxable year shall not be required if—
(1) It can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the district director that—
(i) The locus and nature of such corporation's activities were such as to make it unlikely that the foreign base company income of such corporation (determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.952-3) exceeded 5 percent of its gross income (determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.952-3) for the taxable year. (For taxable years to which § 1.952-3 does not apply, such amounts shall be determined under 26 CFR § 1.954-1(d)(3)(i) and (ii) (Revised as of April 1, 1975))), and
(ii) If such corporation reinsures or issues insurance or annuity contracts in connection with United States risks, the 5-percent minimum premium requirement prescribed in paragraph (b) of § 1.953-1 has not been exceeded for the taxable year, or
(2) The United States shareholder's pro rata share of such subpart F income is excluded in full from his income under section 963 and the books or records verify the application of such exclusion.
[T.D. 6824, 30 FR 6480, May 11, 1965, as amended by T.D. 7893, 48 FR 22510, May 19, 1983]
§ 1.964-4
Verification of certain classes of income.
(a)
In general.
The provisions of this section shall apply for purposes of determining when books or records are sufficient for purposes of § 1.964-3 to verify the classes of income described in such section.
(b)
Subpart F income.
Books or records sufficient to verify the subpart F income of a controlled foreign corporation must establish for the taxable year—
(1) Its gross income and deductions,
(2) The income derived from the insurance of United States risks (as provided in paragraph (c) of this section),
(3) The foreign base company income (as provided in paragraph (d) of this section), and
(4) In the case of a United States shareholder claiming the benefit of the exclusion provided in section 952(b) or the limitation provided in section 952(c)—
(i) The items of income excluded from subpart F income by paragraph (b) of § 1.952-1 as income derived from sources within the United States, the United States income tax incurred with respect thereto, and the deductions properly allocable thereto and connected therewith, and
(ii) The earnings and profits, or deficit in earnings and profits, of any foreign corporation necessary for the determinations provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 1.952-1.
(c)
Income from insurance of United States risks.
Books or records sufficient to verify the income of a controlled foreign corporation from the insurance of United States risks must establish for the taxable year—
(1) That the 5-percent minimum premium requirement prescribed in paragraph (b) of § 1.953-1 has not been exceeded, or
(2) The taxable income, as determined under § 1.953-4 or § 1.953-5, which is attributable to the reinsuring or the issuing of any insurance or annuity contracts in connection with United States risks, as defined in § 1.953-2 or § 1.953-3.
(d)
Foreign base company income and exclusions therefrom.
Books or records sufficient to verify the income of a controlled foreign corporation which is foreign base company income must establish for the taxable year the following items:
(1)
Foreign personal holding company income.
The foreign personal holding company income to which section 954(c) and § 1.954-2 apply, for which purpose there must be established the gross income from—
(i) All rents and royalties,
(ii) Rents and royalties received in the active conduct of a trade or business from an unrelated person, as determined under section 954(c)(3)(A) and paragraph (d)(1) of § 1.954-2,
(iii) Rents and royalties received from a related person for the use of property in the country of incorporation of the controlled foreign corporation, as determined under section 954(c)(4)(C) and paragraph (e)(3) of § 1.954-2,
(iv) All dividends, interest, and except where the controlled foreign corporation is a regular dealer in stock or securities, all gains and losses from the sale or exchange of stock or securities,
(v) Dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of stock or securities, received in the conduct of a banking, financing, or insurance business from an unrelated person, as determined under section 954(c)(3)(B) and paragraph (d)(2) and (3) of § 1.954-2,
(vi) Dividends and interest received from a related corporation organized in the country of incorporation of the controlled foreign corporation, as determined under section 954(c)(4)(A) and paragraph (e)(1) of § 1.954-2,
(vii) Interest received in the conduct of a banking or other financing business from a related person, as determined under section 954(c)(4)(B) and paragraph (e)(2) of § 1.954-2,
(viii) All annuities,
(ix) All gains from commodities transactions described in section 553(a)(3),
(x) All income from estates and trusts described in section 553(a)(4),
(xi) All income from personal service contracts described in section 553(a)(5), and
(xii) All compensation for the use of corporate property by shareholders described in section 553(a)(6).
(2)
Foreign base company sales income.
The foreign base company sales income to which section 954(d) and § 1.954-3 apply, for which purpose there must be established the gross income from—
(i) All sales by the controlled foreign corporation of its personal property and all purchases or sales of personal property by such corporation on behalf of another person,
(ii) Purchases and/or sales of personal property in connection with transactions not involving related persons (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of § 1.954-1),
(iii) Purchases and/or sales of personal property manufactured, produced, etc., in the country of incorporation of the controlled foreign corporation, as determined under paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.954-3,
(iv) Purchases and/or sales of personal property for use, etc., in the country of incorporation of the controlled foreign corporation, as determined under paragraph (a)(3) of § 1.954-3, and
(v) Sales of personal property manufactured or produced by the controlled foreign corporation, as determined under paragraph (a)(4) of § 1.954-3.
Where an item of income falls within more than one of subdivisions (ii) through (v) of this subparagraph, it shall be sufficient to establish that it falls within any one of them. If a branch or similar establishment is treated as a wholly owned subsidiary corporation through the application of section 954(d)(2) and paragraph (b) of § 1.954-3, the requirements of this subparagraph shall be satisfied separately for each branch or similar establishment so treated and for the remainder of the controlled foreign corporation.
(3)
Foreign base company services income.
The foreign base company services income to which section 954(e) and § 1.954-4 apply, for which purpose there must be established the gross income from—
(i) All services performed by the controlled foreign corporation,
(ii) Services other than those (as determined under paragraph (b) of § 1.954-4) performed for, or on behalf of, a related person,
(iii) Services performed in the country of incorporation of the controlled foreign corporation, as determined under paragraph (c) of § 1.954-4, and
(iv) Services performed in connection with the sale or exchange of, or with an offer or effort to sell or exchange, personal property manufactured, produced, etc., by the controlled foreign corporation, as determined under paragraph (d) of § 1.954-4.
Where an item of income falls within more than one of subdivisions (ii) through (iv) of this subparagraph, it shall be sufficient to establish that it falls within any one of them.
(4)
Foreign base company oil related income.
(i) The foreign base company oil related income described in section 954(g) and § 1.954-8, for which purpose there must be established, with respect to each foreign country, the gross income derived from—
(A) The processing of minerals extracted (by the taxpayer or by any
other person) from oil or gas wells into their primary products, as determined under section 907(c)(2)(A),
(B) The transportation of such minerals or primary products, as determined under section 907(c)(2)(B),
(C) The distribution or sale of such minerals or primary products, as determined under section 907(c)(2)(C),
(D) The disposition of assets used by the taxpayer in a trade or business described in subdivision (A), (B) or (C), as determined under section 907(c)(2)(D),
(E) Dividends, interests, partnership distributions, and other amounts, as determined under section 907(c)(3).
Where an item of income falls within more than one of the listings in paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(A) through (E) of this section, it shall be sufficient to establish that it falls within any one of them.
(ii) If any of the items of income listed in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section arising from sources within a foreign country relates to oil, gas, or a primary product thereof and is described in section 954(g)(1)(A) or (B) and § 1.954-8(a)(1)(i) or (ii) (and, hence, is not foreign base company oil related income), then there must be established facts sufficient to verify the amount of such item of income which is not foreign base company oil related income. In this regard, the total quantities of oil, gas and primary products thereof which gave rise to such item of income and the portions of such quantities which were extracted or sold within the foreign country must be established.
(5)
Qualified investments in less developed countries.
For rules in effect for taxable years of foreign corporations beginning before January 1, 1976, see 26 CFR 1.964-4(d)(4) (Revised as of April 1, 1975).
(6)
Income derived from aircraft or ships.
For rules in effect for taxable years of foreign corporations beginning before January 1, 1976, see CFR § 1.964-4(d)(5) (Revised as of April 1, 1975).
(7)
Foreign base company shipping income.
The foreign base company shipping income to which section 954(f) and § 1.954-6 apply, for which purpose there must be established—
(i) Gross income derived from, or in connection with, the use (or hiring or leasing for use) of any aircraft or vessel in foreign commerce, as determined under § 1.954-6(c),
(ii) Gross income derived from, or in connection with, the performance of services directly related to the use of any aircraft or vessel in foreign commerce, as determined under § 1.954-6(d),
(iii) Gross income incidental to income described in subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph, as determined under § 1.954-6(e),
(iv) Gross income derived from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of any aircraft or vessel used (by the seller or by a person related to the seller) in foreign commerce,
(v) Dividends, interest, and gains described in §§ 1.954-6(f) and 1.954(b) (1)(viii),
(vi) Income described in § 1.954-6(g) (relating to partnerships, trusts, etc.), and
(vii) Exchange gain, to the extent allocable to foreign base company shipping income, as determined under § 1.952-2(c)(2)(v)(
b
).
If the controlled foreign corporation has income derived from or in connection with, the use (or hiring or leasing for use) of any aircraft or vessel in foreign commerce, or derived from, or in connection with, the performance of services directly related to the use of any aircraft or vessel in foreign commerce, it shall be necessary to establish, from the books and records of the controlled foreign corporation, that such aircraft or vessel was used in foreign commerce within the meaning of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of § 1.954-6(b).
(8)
Income on which taxes are not substantially reduced.
The gross income excluded from foreign base company income under section 954(b)(4) and paragraph (b)(3) or (4) of § 1.954-1 in the case of a controlled foreign corporation not availed of to substantially reduce income taxes, the income or similar taxes incurred with respect thereto, and all other factors necessary to verify the application of such exclusion.
(9)
Qualified investments in foreign base company shipping operations.
The foreign base company shipping income that is excluded from foreign base company income under section 954(b)(2) and § 1.954-1(b)(1).
(10)
Special rule for shipping income.
The distributions received through a chain of ownership described in section 958(a) which are excluded from foreign base company income under section 954(b)(6)(B) and § 1.954-1(b)(2).
(11)
Deductions.
The deductions allocable, under paragraph (c) of § 1.954-1, to each of the classes and subclasses of gross income described in subparagraphs (1) through (9) of this paragraph.
(e) [Reserved]
(f)
Exclusion under section 970(a).
Books or records sufficient to verify the application for the taxable year of the exclusion provided by section 970(a) in respect of export trade income which is foreign base company income must establish for such year—
(1) That the controlled foreign corporation is an export trade corporation, as defined in section 971(a) and paragraph (a) of § 1.971-1,
(2) The export trade income, as determined under section 971(b) and paragraph (b) of § 1.971-1, which constitutes foreign base company income,
(3) The export promotion expenses, as determined under section 971(d) and paragraph (d) of § 1.971-1, which are allocable to the excludable export trade income,
(4) The gross receipts, and the gross amount on which is computed compensation included in gross receipts, from property in respect of which the excludable export trade income is derived, as described in section 970(a)(1)(B) and paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of § 1.970-1, and
(5) The increase in investments in export trade assets, as determined under section 970(c)(2) and paragraph (d)(2) of § 1.970-1.
(g-1)
Withdrawal of previously excluded subpart F income from qualified investment in less developed countries.
Books or records sufficient to verify the previously excluded subpart F income of the controlled foreign corporation withdrawn from investment in less developed countries for the taxable year must establish—
(1) The sum of the amounts of income excluded from foreign base company income under section 954(b)(1) and paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.954-1 (as in effect for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976; see 26 CFR 1.954-1(b)(1) (Revised as of April 1, 1975)) for all prior taxable years,
(2) The sum of the amounts of previously excluded subpart F income withdrawn from investment in less developed countries for all prior taxable years, as determined under section 955(a) (as in effect before the enactment of the Tax Reduction Act of 1975) and paragraph (b) of § 1.955-1, and
(3) The amount withdrawn from investment in less developed countries for the taxable year as determined under section 955(a) (as in effect before the enactment of the Tax Reduction Act of 1975) and paragraph (b) of § 1.955-1.
(g-2)
Withdrawal of previously excluded subpart F income from investment in foreign base company shipping operations.
Books or records sufficient to verify the previously excluded subpart F income of the controlled foreign corporation withdrawn from investment in foreign base company shipping operations for the taxable year must establish—
(1) The sum of the amounts of income excluded from foreign base company income under section 954(b)(2) and paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.954-1 for all prior taxable years,
(2) The sum of the amounts of previously excluded subpart F income withdrawn from investment in foreign base company shipping operations for all prior taxable years, as determined under section 955(a) and paragraph (b) of § 1.955A-1,
(3) The amount withdrawn from investment in foreign base company shipping operations for the taxable year as determined under section 955(a) and paragraph (b) of § 1.955A-1, and
(4) If the carryover (as described in § 1.955A-1(b)(3)) of amounts relating to investments in less developed country shipping companies (as described in § 1.995-5(b)) is applicable, (i) the amount of the corporation's qualified investments (determined under § 1.955-2 other than paragraph (b)(5) thereof) in less developed country shipping companies at the close of the last taxable year of the corporation beginning before January 1, 1976, and (ii) the amount of the limitation with respect to previously excluded subpart F income (determined under § 1.955-
1(b)(1)(i)(
b
)) for the first taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1975.
(h)
Withdrawal of previously excluded export trade income from investment.
Books or records sufficient to verify the previously excluded export trade income of the controlled foreign corporation withdrawn from investment for the taxable year must establish the United States shareholder's proportionate share of—
(1) The sum of the amounts by which the subpart F income of such corporation was reduced for all prior taxable years under section 970(a) and paragraph (b) of § 1.970-1,
(2) The sum of the amounts described in section 970(b)(1)(B),
(3) The sum of the amounts of previously excluded export trade income of such corporation withdrawn from investment under section 970(b) and paragraph (c) of § 1.970-1 for all prior taxable years, and
(4) The amount withdrawn from investment under section 970(b) and paragraph (c) of § 1.970-1 for the taxable year.
(i)
Increase in earnings invested in United States property.
Books or records sufficient to verify the increase for the taxable year in earnings invested by the controlled foreign corporations in United States property must establish—
(1) The amount of such corporation's earnings invested in United States property (as defined in section 956(b)(1) and paragraph (a) of § 1.956-2) at the close of the current and preceding taxable years, as determined under paragraph (b) of § 1.956-1,
(2) The amount of excluded property described in section 956(b)(2) and paragraph (b) of § 1.956-2 held by such corporation at the close of such years,
(3) The earnings and profits, to which section 959(c)(1) and paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.959-3 apply, distributed by such corporation during the preceding taxable year, and
(4) The amount of increase in earnings invested by such corporation in United States property which is excluded from the United States shareholder's gross income for the taxable year under section 959(a)(2) and paragraph (c) of § 1.959-1.
[T.D. 6824, 30 FR 6481, May 11, 1965, as amended by T.D. 7211, 37 FR 21436, Oct. 11, 1972; T.D. 7893, 48 FR 22511, May 19, 1983; T.D. 8331, 56 FR 2849, Jan. 25, 1991; T.D. 9849, 84 FR 9237, Mar. 14, 2019]
§ 1.964-5
Effective date of subpart F.
Sections 951 through 964 and §§ 1.951 through 1.964-4 shall apply with respect to taxable years of foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 1962, and to taxable years of United States shareholders within which or with which such taxable years of such corporations end.
[T.D. 7120, 36 FR 10862, June 4, 1971]
§ 1.965-0
Outline of section 965 regulations.
This section lists the headings for §§ 1.965-1 through 1.965-9.

# § 1.965-1 Overview, general rules, and definitions.
(a) Overview.
(1) In general.
(2) Scope.
(b) Section 965(a) inclusion amounts.
(1) Inclusion of the pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount.
(2) Reduction by the allocable share of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit.
(c) Section 965(c) deduction amounts.
(d) Treatment of specified foreign corporation as a controlled foreign corporation.
(e) Special rule for certain controlled domestic partnerships.
(1) In general.
(2) Definition of a controlled domestic partnership.
(f) Definitions.
(1) 8 percent rate amount.
(2) 8 percent rate equivalent percentage.
(3) 15.5 percent rate amount.
(4) 15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage.
(5) Accounts payable.
(6) Accounts receivable.
(7) Accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income.
(8) Aggregate foreign cash position.
(9) Aggregate foreign E
P deficit.
(10) Aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(11) Allocable share.
(12) Bona fide hedging transaction.
(13) Cash-equivalent asset.
(i) In general.
(ii) Specified commodity.
(14) Cash-equivalent asset hedging transaction.
(i) In general.
(ii) Aggregate hedging transactions.
(15) Cash measurement dates.
(16) Cash position.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Fair market value of cash-equivalent assets.
(iii) Measurement of derivative financial instruments.
(iv) Translation of cash position amounts.
(17) Deferred foreign income corporation.
(i) In general.
(ii) Priority rule.
(18) Derivative financial instrument.
(19) Domestic pass-through entity.
(20) Domestic pass-through owner.
(21) Domestic pass-through owner share.
(22) E
P deficit foreign corporation.
(i) In general.
(ii) Determination of deficit in post-1986 earnings and profits.
(23) E
P measurement dates.
(24) Final cash measurement date.
(25) First cash measurement date.
(26) Inclusion year.
(27) Net accounts receivable.
(28) Pass-through entity.
(29) Post-1986 earnings and profits.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Foreign income taxes.
(iii) Deficits in earnings and profits.
(30) Pro rata share.
(31) Second cash measurement date.
(32) Section 958(a) stock.
(33) Section 958(a) U.S. shareholder.
(34) Section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
(35) Section 965 regulations.
(36) Section 965(a) earnings amount.
(37) Section 965(a) inclusion.
(38) Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(39) Section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits.
(40) Section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits.
(41) Section 965(c) deduction.
(42) Section 965(c) deduction amount.
(43) Short-term obligation.
(44) Specified E
P deficit.
(45) Specified foreign corporation.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Special attribution rule.
(A) In general.
(B) Attribution for purposes of the ten percent standard.
(iii) Passive foreign investment companies.
(46) Spot rate.
(47) United States shareholder.
(g) Examples.
(1) Example 1.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(2) Example 2.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(3) Example 3.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(4) Example 4.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(5) Example 5.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Determination of status as a deferred foreign income corporation.
(B) Determination of status as an E
P deficit foreign corporation.
(6) Example 6.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(7) Example 7.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(8) Example 8.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.

# § 1.965-2 Adjustments to earnings and profits and basis.
(a) Scope.
(b) Determination of and adjustments to earnings and profits of a specified foreign corporation for purposes of applying sections 902, 959, 960, and 965.
(c) Adjustments to earnings and profits by reason of section 965(a).
(d) Adjustments to earnings and profits by reason of section 965(b).
(1) Adjustments to earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (c)(3) of deferred foreign income corporations.
(2) Adjustments to earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) of E
P deficit foreign corporations.
(i) Increase in earnings and profits by an amount equal to the portion of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit.
(A) In general.
(B) Reduction of a qualified deficit.
(ii) Determination of portion of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of a specified E
P deficit taken into account.
(A) In general.
(B) Designation of portion of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of a specified E
P deficit taken into account.
(e) Adjustments to basis by reason of section 965(a).
(1) General rule.
(2) Section 962 election.
(f) Adjustments to basis by reason of section 965(b).
(1) In general.
(2) Election to make adjustments to basis to account for the application of section 965(b).
(i) In general.
(ii) Basis adjustments.
(A) Increase in basis with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Limited basis adjustment.
(B) Reduction in basis with respect to an E
P deficit foreign corporation.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Limited basis adjustment.
(C) Section 962 election.
(iii) Rules regarding the election.
(A) Consistency requirement.
(B) Manner of making election.
(
1
) Timing.
(
i
) In general.
(
ii
) Transition rule.
(
2
) Election statement.
(g) Gain reduction rule.
(1) Reduction in gain recognized under section 961(b)(2) by reason of distributions attributable to section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits in the inclusion year.
(i) In general.
(ii) Definition of section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits.
(2) Reduction in basis by an amount equal to the gain reduction amount.
(h) Rules of application for specified basis adjustments.
(1) Timing of basis adjustments.
(2) Netting of basis adjustments.
(3) Gain recognition for reduction in excess of basis.
(4) Adjustments with respect to each share.
(i) Section 958(a) stock.
(ii) Applicable property.
(5) Stock or property for which adjustments are made.
(i) In general.
(ii) Special rule for an interest in a foreign pass-through entity.
(i) Definitions.
(1) Applicable property.
(2) Foreign pass-through entity.
(3) Property.
(j) Examples.
(1) Example 1.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Adjustments to section 959(c) classification of earnings and profits for inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965.
(B) Distributions between specified foreign corporations before January 1, 2018.
(C) Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(
1
) CFC1 section 965(a) earnings amount.
(
2
) CFC2 section 965(a) earnings amount.
(
3
) Effect on earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (3).
(D) Distribution to United States shareholder.
(E) Section 902 and section 960 consequences.
(
1
) Distribution by and inclusions with respect to CFC2.
(
2
) Inclusions with respect to CFC1.
(2) Example 2.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Adjustments to section 959(c) classification of earnings and profits for inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965.
(B) Distributions between specified foreign corporations before January 1, 2018.
(C) Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(
1
) CFC1 section 965(a) earnings amount.
(
2
) CFC2 section 965(a) earnings amount.
(
3
) Effect on earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (3).
(D) Distribution to United States shareholder.
(3) Example 3.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Adjustments to section 959(c) classification of earnings and profits for inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965.
(B) Distributions between specified foreign corporations before January 1, 2018.
(C) Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(
1
) CFC1 section 965(a) earnings amount.
(
2
) CFC2 section 965(a) earnings amount.
(
3
) Effect on earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (3).
(D) Distribution to United States shareholder.
(4) Example 4.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Adjustments to section 959(c) classification of earnings and profits for inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965.
(B) Distributions between specified foreign corporations before January 1, 2018.
(C) Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(
1
) CFC1 section 965(a) earnings amount.
(
2
) CFC2 section 965(a) earnings amount.
(
3
) Effect on earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (3).
(D) Distribution to United States shareholder.
(
1
) Distribution that is a specified payment.
(
2
) Distribution to United States shareholder.
(E) Section 902 and section 960 consequences.
(5) Example 5.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(
1
) CFC section 965(a) earnings amount.
(
2
) Effect on earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (3).
(6) Example 6.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Adjustments to section 959(c) classification of earnings and profits for section 1248 inclusion.
(B) Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(C) Distributions to United States shareholders.
(7) Example 7.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(8) Example 8.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Application of the gain reduction rule.
(B) Adjustments to the basis of CFC1.
(9) Example 9.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Application of the gain reduction rule.
(B) Adjustments to the basis of CFC1 and CFC2.

# § 1.965-3 Section 965(c) deductions.
(a) Scope.
(b) Rules for disregarding certain assets for determining aggregate foreign cash position.
(1) Disregard of certain obligations between related specified foreign corporations.
(2) Disregard of other assets upon demonstration of double-counting.
(3) Disregard of portion of cash position of noncorporate entities treated as specified foreign corporations.
(4) Examples.
(i) Example 1.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(
1
) Loan from CFC1 to CFC2.
(
2
) Account receivable of CFC1 held by CFC2.
(
3
) Loan from CFC1 to CFC3.
(ii) Example 2.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(iii) Example 3.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(iv) Example 4.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(v) Example 5.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(
1
) Treatment of PS1.
(
2
) Treatment of PS2.
(c) Determination of aggregate foreign cash position for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
(1) Single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
(2) Multiple section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion years.
(i) Allocation to first section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
(ii) Allocation to succeeding section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion years.
(3) Estimation of aggregate foreign cash position.
(4) Examples.
(i) Example 1.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(ii) Example 2.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(d) Increase of income by section 965(c) deduction of an expatriated entity.
(1) In general.
(2) Definition of expatriated entity.
(3) Definition of surrogate foreign corporation.
(e) Section 962 election.
(1) In general.
(2) Example.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(f) Treatment of section 965(c) deduction under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
(1) Section 63(d).
(2) Sections 705, 1367, and 1368.
(i) Adjustments to basis.
(ii) S corporation accumulated adjustments account.
(iii) Example.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(3) Section 1411.
(4) Section 4940.
(g) Domestic pass-through entities.

# § 1.965-4 Disregard of certain transactions.
(a) Scope.
(b) Transactions undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element.
(1) General rule.
(2) Presumptions and exceptions for the application of the general rule.
(i) Overview.
(ii) Definitions.
(A) Relatedness.
(B) Transfer.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Indirect transfer.
(iii) Cash reduction transactions.
(A) General rule.
(B) Per se rules for certain distributions.
(iv) E
P reduction transactions.
(A) General rule.
(
1
) Definition of pro rata share reduction transaction.
(
2
) Definition of E
P deficit transaction.
(B) Per se rule for internal group transactions.
(C) Example.
(
1
) Facts.
(
2
) Analysis.
(c) Disregard of certain changes in method of accounting and entity classification elections.
(1) Changes in method of accounting.
(2) Entity classification elections.
(d) Definition of a section 965 element.
(e) Rules for applying paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(1) Determination of whether there is a change in the amount of a section 965 element.
(2) Treatment of domestic pass-through owners as United States shareholders.
(3) Exception for certain incorporation transactions.
(i) In general.
(ii) Aggregate foreign cash position.
(4) Consequences of liquidation.
(i) In general.
(ii) Specified liquidation date.
(f) Disregard of certain transactions occurring between E
P measurement dates.
(1) Disregard of specified payments.
(2) Definition of specified payment.
(3) Non-application of disregard rule.
(4) Examples.
(i) Example 1.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(ii) Example 2.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(iii) Example 3.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(iv) Example 4.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(v) Example 5.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(vi) Example 6.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.

# § 1.965-5 Allowance of credit or deduction for foreign income taxes.
(a) Scope.
(b) Rules for foreign income taxes paid or accrued.
(c) Rules for foreign income taxes treated as paid or accrued.
(1) Disallowed credit.
(i) In general.
(ii) Foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a)(3) (as in effect on December 21, 2017).
(iii) [Reserved]
(2) Disallowed deduction.
(3) Coordination with section 78.
(i) In general.
(ii) Domestic corporation that is a domestic pass-through owner.
(d) Applicable percentage.
(1) In general.
(2) No section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(3) Applicable percentage for domestic pass-through owners.
(4) Applicable percentage with respect to certain distributions of previously taxed earnings and profits.

# § 1.965-6 Computation of foreign income taxes deemed paid and allocation and apportionment of deductions.
(a) Scope.
(b) Computation of foreign income taxes deemed paid.
(1) In general.
(2) Dividend or inclusion in excess of post-1986 undistributed earnings.
(3) Treatment of adjustment under section 965(b)(4)(B).
(4) Section 902 fraction.
(c) Allocation and apportionment of deductions.
(d) Hovering deficits.

# § 1.965-7 Elections, payment, and other special rules.
(a) Scope.
(b) Section 965(h) election.
(1) In general.
(i) Amount of installments.
(ii) Increased installments due to a deficiency or a timely filed or amended return.
(A) In general.
(B) Timing.
(C) Exception for negligence, intentional disregard, or fraud.
(iii) Due date of installments.
(A) In general.
(B) Extension for specified individuals.
(2) Manner of making election.
(i) Eligibility.
(ii) Timing.
(iii) Election statement.
(3) Acceleration of payment.
(i) Acceleration.
(ii) Acceleration events.
(iii) Eligible section 965(h) transferee exception.
(A) In general.
(
1
) Requirement to have a covered acceleration event.
(
2
) Requirement to enter into a transfer agreement.
(B) Transfer agreement.
(
1
) Eligibility.
(
2
) Filing requirements.
(
i
) In general.
(
ii
) Transition rule.
(
3
) Signature requirement.
(
4
) Terms of agreement.
(
5
) Consolidated groups.
(
6
) Leverage ratio.
(C) Consent of Commissioner.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Material misrepresentations and omissions.
(D) Effect of assumption.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Eligible section 965(h) transferor liability.
(E) Qualifying consolidated group member transaction.
(
1
) Definition of qualifying consolidated group member transaction.
(
2
) Definition of qualified successor.
(
3
) Departure of multiple members of a consolidated group.
(c) Section 965(i) election.
(1) In general.
(2) Manner of making election.
(i) Eligibility.
(ii) Timing.
(iii) Election statement.
(3) Triggering events.
(i) In general.
(ii) Triggering events.
(iii) Partial transfers.
(iv) Eligible section 965(i) transferee exception.
(A) In general.
(
1
) Requirement to have a covered triggering event.
(
2
) Requirement to enter into a transfer agreement.
(B) Transfer agreement.
(
1
) Eligibility.
(
2
) Filing requirements.
(
i
) In general.
(
ii
) Transition rule.
(
iii
) Death of eligible section 965(i) transferor.
(
3
) Signature requirement.
(
4
) Terms of agreement.
(
5
) Special rule in the case of death of eligible section 965(i) transferor.
(
6
) Leverage ratio.
(C) Consent of Commissioner.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Material misrepresentations and omissions.
(D) Effect of assumption.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Eligible section 965(i) transferor liability.
(v) Coordination with section 965(h) election.
(A) In general.
(B) Timing for election.
(C) Due date for installment.
(D) Limitation.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Manner of obtaining consent.
(
i
) In general.
(
ii
) Transition rule.
(
3
) Signature requirement.
(
4
) Terms of agreement.
(
5
) Consent of Commissioner.
(
i
) In general.
(
ii
) Material misrepresentations and omissions.
(
6
) Leverage ratio.
(4) Joint and several liability.
(5) Extension of limitation on collection.
(6) Annual reporting requirement.
(i) In general.
(ii) Failure to report.
(d) Section 965(m) election and special rule for real estate investment trusts.
(1) In general.
(2) Inclusion schedule for section 965(m) election.
(3) Manner of making election.
(i) Eligibility.
(ii) Timing.
(iii) Election statement.
(4) Coordination with section 965(h).
(5) Acceleration of inclusion.
(6) Treatment of section 965(a) inclusions of a real estate investment trust.
(e) Section 965(n) election.
(1) In general.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Applicable amount for section 965(n) election.
(iii) Scope of section 965(n) election.
(iv) [Reserved]
(2) Manner of making election.
(i) Eligibility.
(ii) Timing.
(iii) Election statement.
(f) Election to use alternative method for calculating post-1986 earnings and profits.
(1) Effect of election for specified foreign corporations that do not have a 52-53-week taxable year.
(2) Effect of election for specified foreign corporations that have a 52-53-week taxable year.
(3) Computation of post-1986 earnings and profits using alternative method.
(4) Definitions.
(i) 52-53-week taxable year.
(ii) Annualized earnings and profits amount.
(iii) Daily earnings amount.
(iv) Notional measurement date.
(5) Manner of making election.
(i) Eligibility.
(ii) Timing.
(iii) Election statement.
(6) Examples.
(i) Example 1.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(ii) Example 2.
(A) Facts.
(B) Analysis.
(g) Definitions.
(1) Deferred net tax liability.
(2) REIT section 965 amounts.
(3) Section 965(h) election.
(4) Section 965(h) net tax liability.
(5) Section 965(i) election.
(6) Section 965(i) net tax liability.
(7) Section 965(m) election.
(8) Section 965(n) election.
(9) Specified individual.
(10) Total net tax liability under section 965.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Net income tax.
(iii) Foreign tax credits.

# § 1.965-8 Affiliated groups (including consolidated groups).
(a) Scope.
(b) Reduction of E
P net surplus shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of a deferred foreign income corporation by the allocable share of the applicable share of the aggregate unused E
P deficit.
(1) In general.
(2) Consolidated group as part of an affiliated group.
(c) Designation of portion of excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit taken into account.
(1) In general.
(2) Consolidated group as part of an affiliated group.
(d) [Reserved]
(1) [Reserved]
(2) Consolidated groups.
(e) Treatment of a consolidated group as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder or a single person.
(1) In general.
(2) Limitation.
(3) Determination of section 965(c) deduction amount.
(f) Definitions.
(1) Aggregate unused E
P deficit.
(i) In general.
(ii) Reduction with respect to E
P net deficit shareholders that are not wholly owned by the affiliated group.
(2) Allocable share.
(3) Applicable share.
(4) Consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position.
(5) E
P net deficit shareholder.
(6) E
P net surplus shareholder.
(7) Excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit.
(8) Group cash ratio.
(9) Group ownership percentage.
(g) Examples.
(1) Example 1.
(i) Facts.
(A) In general.
(B) Facts relating to section 965.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Section 965(a) inclusion amounts before application of section 965(b)(5).
(B) Application of section 965(b)(5).
(
1
) Determination of E
P net surplus shareholders and E
P net deficit shareholders.
(
2
) Determining section 965(a) inclusion amounts under section 965(b)(5).
(C) Aggregate foreign cash position.
(D) Section 965(c) deduction amount.
(2) Example 2.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(A) Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(
1
) Single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder treatment.
(
2
) Determination of inclusion amount.
(B) Consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position.
(C) Section 965(a) deduction amount.

# § 1.965-9 Applicability dates.
(a) In general.
(b) Applicability dates for rules disregarding certain transactions.
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019, as amended by T.D. 9846, 84 FR 14260, Apr. 10, 2019]
§ 1.965-1
Overview, general rules, and definitions.
(a)
Overview
—(1)
In general.
This section provides general rules and definitions under section 965. Section 1.965-2 provides rules relating to adjustments to earnings and profits and basis to determine and account for the application of section 965 and a rule that limits the amount of gain recognized under section 961(b)(2) by reason of distributions attributable to section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits (as defined in § 1.965-2(g)(1)(ii)) in the inclusion year. Section 1.965-3 provides rules regarding the determination of section 965(c) deductions. Section 1.965-4 sets forth rules that disregard certain transactions for purposes of section 965. Sections 1.965-5 and 1.965-6 provide rules with respect to foreign tax credits. Section 1.965-7 provides rules regarding elections and payments. Section 1.965-8 provides rules regarding affiliated groups, including consolidated groups. Section 1.965-9 provides dates of applicability.
See also
§§ 1.962-1 and 1.962-2 (providing rules regarding the application of section 962) and 1.986(c)-1 (providing rules regarding the application of section 986(c)).
(2)
Scope.
Paragraph (b) of this section provides the general rules concerning section 965(a) inclusion amounts. Paragraph (c) of this section provides the general rule concerning section 965(c) deduction amounts. Paragraph (d) of this section provides a rule for specified foreign corporations that are not controlled foreign corporations. Paragraph (e) of this section treats certain controlled domestic partnerships as foreign partnerships for purposes of section 965. Paragraph (f) of this section provides definitions applicable for the section 965 regulations and §§ 1.962-1, 1.962-2, and 1.986(c)-1. Paragraph (g) of this section contains examples illustrating the general rules and definitions set forth in this section.
(b)
Section 965(a) inclusion amounts
—(1)
Inclusion of the pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount.
For an inclusion year of a deferred foreign income corporation, the subpart F income of the deferred foreign income corporation (as otherwise determined for the inclusion year under section 952 and § 1.952-1) is increased by the section
965(a) earnings amount of the deferred foreign income corporation.
See
section 965(a). Accordingly, a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation generally includes in gross income under section 951(a)(1) for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year its pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of the deferred foreign income corporation, translated (if necessary) into U.S. dollars using the spot rate on December 31, 2017, and subject to reduction under section 965(b), paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and § 1.965-8(b). The amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's inclusion with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation as a result of section 965(a) and this paragraph (b)(1), as reduced under section 965(b), paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and § 1.965-8(b), as applicable, is referred to as the
section 965(a) inclusion amount.
Neither the section 965(a) earnings amount nor the section 965(a) inclusion amount is subject to the rules or limitations in section 952 or limited by the accumulated earnings and profits of the deferred foreign income corporation on the date of the inclusion.
(2)
Reduction by the allocable share of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit.
For purposes of determining a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation, the U.S. dollar amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of the deferred foreign income corporation, translated (if necessary) into U.S. dollars using the spot rate on December 31, 2017, is reduced by the deferred foreign income corporation's allocable share of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate foreign E
P deficit.
See
section 965(b). If the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is a member of a consolidated group, under § 1.965-8(e), all section 958(a) U.S. shareholders that are members of the consolidated group are treated as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder for purposes of this paragraph (b)(2).
(c)
Section 965(c) deduction amounts.
For a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is generally allowed a deduction in an amount equal to the section 965(c) deduction amount.
(d)
Treatment of specified foreign corporation as a controlled foreign corporation.
A specified foreign corporation described in section 965(e)(1)(B) and paragraph (f)(45)(i)(B) of this section that is not otherwise a controlled foreign corporation is treated as a controlled foreign corporation solely for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section and sections 951, 961, and § 1.1411-10.
See
965(e)(2).
(e)
Special rule for certain controlled domestic partnerships
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of the section 965 regulations, a controlled domestic partnership is treated as a foreign partnership for purposes of determining the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of a specified foreign corporation and the section 958(a) stock of the specified foreign corporation owned by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder if the following conditions are satisfied—
(i) Without regard to this paragraph (e), the controlled domestic partnership is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of the specified foreign corporation and thus owns section 958(a) stock of the specified foreign corporation (
tested section 958(a) stock
);
(ii) If the controlled domestic partnership (and all other controlled domestic partnerships in the chain of ownership of the specified foreign corporation) were treated as foreign—
(A) The specified foreign corporation would continue to be a specified foreign corporation; and
(B) At least one United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation—
(
1
) Would be treated as a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of the specified foreign corporation; and
(
2
) Would be treated as owning (within the meaning of section 958(a)) tested section 958(a) stock of the specified foreign corporation through another foreign corporation that is a direct or indirect partner in the controlled domestic partnership.
(2)
Definition of a controlled domestic partnership.
For purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the term
controlled domestic partnership
means a domestic partnership that is controlled
by a United States shareholder described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(B) of this section and persons related to the United States shareholder. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(2), control is determined based on all the facts and circumstances, except that a partnership will be deemed to be controlled by a United States shareholder and related persons if those persons, in the aggregate, own (directly or indirectly through one or more partnerships) more than 50 percent of the interests in the partnership capital or profits. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(2), a related person is, with respect to a United States shareholder, a person that is related (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)) to the United States shareholder.
(f)
Definitions.
This paragraph (f) provides definitions that apply for purposes of the section 965 regulations and §§ 1.962-1, 1.962-2, and 1.986(c)-1. Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts are expressed as positive numbers.
(1)
8 percent rate amount.
The term
8 percent rate amount
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, the excess, if any, of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year over the amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate foreign cash position for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year as determined under § 1.965-3(c).
(2)
8 percent rate equivalent percentage.
The term
8 percent rate equivalent percentage
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, the percentage that would result in the 8 percent rate amount being subject to an 8 percent rate of tax determined by only taking into account a deduction equal to such percentage of such amount and the highest rate of tax specified in section 11 for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year. In the case of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder to which section 15 applies, the highest rate of tax under section 11 before the effective date of the change in rates and the highest rate of tax under section 11 after the effective date of such change will each be taken into account under the preceding sentence in the same proportions as the portion of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year that is before and after such effective date, respectively.
(3)
15.5 percent rate amount.
The term
15.5 percent rate amount
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, the amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate foreign cash position for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year as determined under § 1.965-3(c) to the extent it does not exceed the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
(4)
15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage.
The term
15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage,
with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, has the meaning provided for the term “8 percent rate equivalent percentage” applied by substituting “15.5 percent rate amount” for “8 percent rate amount” and “15.5 percent rate of tax” for “8 percent rate of tax.”
(5)
Accounts payable.
The term
accounts payable
means payables arising from the purchase of property described in section 1221(a)(1) or section 1221(a)(8) or the receipt of services from vendors or suppliers, provided the payables have a term upon issuance of less than one year.
(6)
Accounts receivable.
The term
accounts receivable
means receivables described in section 1221(a)(4) that have a term upon issuance of less than one year.
(7)
Accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income
—(i)
In general.
The term
accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation, the post-1986 earnings and profits of the specified foreign corporation except to the extent such earnings and profits—
(A) Are attributable to income of the specified foreign corporation that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and subject to tax under chapter 1;
(B) If distributed, would, in the case of a controlled foreign corporation, be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959; or
(C) If distributed, would, in the case of a controlled foreign corporation that has shareholders that are not United States shareholders on an E
P measurement date, be excluded from the gross income of such shareholders under section 959 if such shareholders were United States shareholders, determined by applying the principles of Revenue Ruling 82-16, 1982-1 C.B. 106.
(ii)
Earnings and profits attributable to subpart F income in the same taxable year as an E
P measurement date.
For purposes of determining the accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income of a specified foreign corporation as of an E
P measurement date, earnings and profits of the specified foreign corporation that are or would be, applying the principles of Revenue Ruling 82-16, 1982-1 C.B. 106, described in section 959(c)(2) by reason of subpart F income (as defined in section 952 without regard to section 965(a)) are described in section 965(d)(2)(B) and paragraph (f)(7)(i)(B) or (f)(7)(i)(C) of this section only to the extent that such income has been accrued by the specified foreign corporation as of the E
P measurement date. For rules regarding the interaction of sections 951, 956, 959, and 965 generally, see § 1.965-2(b).
(8)
Aggregate foreign cash position
—(i)
In general.
The term
aggregate foreign cash position
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that is not a member of a consolidated group, the greater of—
(A) The aggregate of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the cash position of each specified foreign corporation determined as of the final cash measurement date of the specified foreign corporation; or
(B) One half of the sum of—
(
1
) The aggregate described in paragraph (f)(8)(i)(A) of this section determined as of the second cash measurement date of each specified foreign corporation, plus
(
2
) The aggregate described in paragraph (f)(8)(i)(A) of this section determined as of the first cash measurement date of each specified foreign corporation.
(ii)
Other rules.
For rules for determining the aggregate foreign cash position for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, see § 1.965-3(c). For the rule for determining the aggregate foreign cash position of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that is a member of a consolidated group, see § 1.965-8(e)(3). For rules disregarding certain assets for purposes of determining the aggregate foreign cash position of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, see § 1.965-3(b).
(9)
Aggregate foreign E
P deficit.
The term
aggregate foreign E
P deficit
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, the lesser of—
(i) The aggregate of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit of each E
P deficit foreign corporation, translated (if necessary) into U.S. dollars using the spot rate on December 31, 2017, or
(ii) The aggregate of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of each deferred foreign income corporation, translated (if necessary) into U.S. dollars using the spot rate on December 31, 2017.
(10)
Aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount.
The term
aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, the sum of all of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's section 965(a) inclusion amounts.
(11)
Allocable share.
The term
allocable share
means, with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation and an aggregate foreign E
P deficit of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, the product of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit and the ratio determined by dividing—
(i) The section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of the deferred foreign income corporation, translated (if necessary) into U.S. dollars using the spot rate on December 31, 2017, by
(ii) The amount described in paragraph (f)(9)(ii) of this section with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder.
(12)
Bona fide hedging transaction.
The term
bona fide hedging transaction
means a hedging transaction that meets (or that would meet if the specified foreign corporation were a controlled foreign corporation) the requirements of a bona fide hedging transaction described in § 1.954-2(a)(4)(ii), except that in the case of a specified foreign corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation, the identification requirements of § 1.954-2(a)(4)(ii)(B) do not apply.
(13)
Cash-equivalent asset
—(i)
In general.
The term
cash-equivalent asset
means any of the following assets—
(A) Personal property which is of a type that is actively traded and for which there is an established financial market, other than a specified commodity;
(B) Commercial paper, certificates of deposit, the securities of the Federal government and of any State or foreign government;
(C) Any foreign currency;
(D) A short-term obligation; or
(E) Derivative financial instruments, other than bona fide hedging transactions.
(ii)
Specified commodity.
The term
specified commodity
means a commodity held, or, for purposes of paragraph (f)(18) of this section, to be held, by a specified foreign corporation that, in the hands of the specified foreign corporation, is property described in section 1221(a)(1) or 1221(a)(8). This paragraph (f)(13)(ii) does not apply with respect to commodities held by a specified foreign corporation in its capacity as a dealer or trader in commodities.
(14)
Cash-equivalent asset hedging transaction
—(i)
In general.
The term
cash-equivalent asset hedging transaction
means a bona fide hedging transaction identified on a specified foreign corporation's books and records as hedging a cash-equivalent asset.
(ii)
Aggregate hedging transactions.
For purposes of paragraph (f)(14)(i) of this section, the amount of a bona fide hedging transaction described in § 1.1221-2(c)(3) (an
aggregate hedging transaction
) that is treated as a cash-equivalent asset hedging transaction is the amount that bears the same proportion to the fair market value of the aggregate hedging transaction as the value of the cash-equivalent assets being hedged by the aggregate hedging transaction bears to the value of all assets being hedged by the aggregate hedging transaction.
(15)
Cash measurement dates.
The term
cash measurement dates
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation, the first cash measurement date, the second cash measurement date, and the final cash measurement date, collectively, and each a
cash measurement date.
(16)
Cash position
—(i)
General rule.
The term
cash position
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation, the sum of—
(A) Cash held by the corporation;
(B) The net accounts receivable of the corporation; and
(C) The fair market value of the cash-equivalent assets held by the corporation.
(ii)
Fair market value of cash-equivalent assets.
For purposes of determining the fair market value of a cash-equivalent asset of a specified foreign corporation, the value of the cash-equivalent asset must be adjusted by the fair market value of any cash- equivalent asset hedging transaction with respect to the cash-equivalent asset, but only to the extent that the cash-equivalent asset hedging transaction does not reduce the fair market value of the cash-equivalent asset below zero.
(iii)
Measurement of derivative financial instruments.
The amount of derivative financial instruments taken into account in determining the cash position of a specified foreign corporation is the aggregate fair market value of its derivative financial instruments that constitute cash-equivalent assets, provided such amount is not less than zero.
(iv)
Translation of cash position amounts.
The cash position of a specified foreign corporation with respect to a cash measurement date must be expressed in U.S. dollars. For this purpose, the amounts described in paragraph (f)(16)(i) of this section must be translated (if necessary) into U.S. dollars using the spot rate on the relevant cash measurement date.
(17)
Deferred foreign income corporation
—(i)
In general.
The term
deferred
foreign income corporation
means a specified foreign corporation that has accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income greater than zero as of an E
P measurement date.
(ii)
Priority rule.
If a specified foreign corporation satisfies the definition of a deferred foreign income corporation under section 965(d)(1) and paragraph (f)(17)(i) of this section, it is classified solely as a deferred foreign income corporation and not also as an E
P deficit foreign corporation even if it otherwise satisfies the requirements of section 965(b)(3)(B) and paragraph (f)(22) of this section.
(18)
Derivative financial instrument.
The term
derivative financial instrument
includes a financial instrument that is one of the following—
(i) A notional principal contract,
(ii) An option contract,
(iii) A forward contract, other than a forward contract with respect to a specified commodity (as defined in paragraph (f)(13)(ii) of this section), but solely to the extent that the specified foreign corporation identified, or could have identified, the forward contract as a hedging transaction (within the meaning of § 1.1221-2(b)) with respect to one or more specified commodities held by the specified foreign corporation,
(iv) A futures contract,
(v) A short position in securities or commodities, other than a forward contract with respect to a specified commodity, but solely to the extent that the specified foreign corporation identified, or could have identified, the forward contract as a hedging transaction (within the meaning of § 1.1221-2(b)) with respect to one or more specified commodities held by the specified foreign corporation, or
(vi) Any financial instrument similar to one described in paragraphs (f)(18)(i) through (v) of this section.
(19)
Domestic pass-through entity.
The term
domestic pass-through entity
means a pass-through entity that is a United States person (as defined in section 7701(a)(30)).
(20)
Domestic pass-through owner.
The term
domestic pass-through owner
means, with respect to a domestic pass-through entity, a United States person (as defined in section 7701(a)(30)) that is a partner, shareholder, beneficiary, grantor, or owner, as the case may be, in the domestic pass-through entity. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the term does not include a partner, shareholder, beneficiary, grantor, or owner of the domestic pass-through entity that is itself a domestic pass-through entity but does include any other United States person that is an indirect partner, shareholder, beneficiary, grantor, or owner of the domestic pass-through entity through one or more other pass-through entities.
(21)
Domestic pass-through owner share.
The term
domestic pass-through owner share
means, with respect to a domestic pass-through owner and a domestic pass-through entity, the domestic pass-through owner's share of the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount and the section 965(c) deduction amount, as applicable, of the domestic pass-through entity, including the domestic pass-through owner's share of the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount and section 965(c) deduction amount, as applicable, of a domestic pass-through entity owned indirectly by the domestic pass-through owner through one or more other pass-through entities.
(22)
E
P deficit foreign corporation
—(i)
In general.
The term
E
P deficit foreign corporation
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, a specified foreign corporation, other than a deferred foreign income corporation, if, as of November 2, 2017—
(A) The specified foreign corporation had a deficit in post-1986 earnings and profits,
(B) The corporation was a specified foreign corporation, and
(C) The shareholder was a United States shareholder of the corporation.
(ii)
Determination of deficit in post-1986 earnings and profits.
In the case of a specified foreign corporation that has post-1986 earnings and profits that include earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) or 959(c)(2) (or both) and a deficit in earnings and profits (including hovering deficits, as defined in § 1.367(b)-7(d)(2)(i)), the specified foreign corporation has a deficit in post-1986 earnings and profits described in paragraph (f)(22)(i)(A) of this section only to the extent the deficit in post-1986 earnings and profits exceeds the
aggregate of its post-1986 earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) and 959(c)(2).
(23)
E
P measurement dates.
The term
E
P measurement dates
means November 2, 2017, and December 31, 2017, collectively, and each an
E
P measurement date.
(24)
Final cash measurement date.
The term
final cash measurement date
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation, the close of the last taxable year of the specified foreign corporation that begins before January 1, 2018, and ends on or after November 2, 2017, if any.
(25)
First cash measurement date.
The term
first cash measurement date
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation, the close of the last taxable year of the specified foreign corporation that ends after November 1, 2015, and before November 2, 2016, if any.
(26)
Inclusion year.
The term
inclusion year
means, with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation, the last taxable year of the deferred foreign income corporation that begins before January 1, 2018.
(27)
Net accounts receivable.
The term
net accounts receivable
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation, the excess (if any) of—
(i) The corporation's accounts receivable, over
(ii) The corporation's accounts payable (determined consistent with the rules of section 461).
(28)
Pass-through entity.
The term
pass-through entity
means a partnership, S corporation, or any other person (whether domestic or foreign) other than a corporation to the extent that the income or deductions of the person are included in the income of one or more direct or indirect owners or beneficiaries of the person. For example, if a domestic trust is subject to federal income tax on a portion of its section 965(a) inclusion amount and its domestic pass-through owners are subject to tax on the remaining portion, the domestic trust is treated as a domestic pass-through entity with respect to such remaining portion.
(29)
Post-1986 earnings and profits
—(i)
General rule.
The term
post-1986 earnings and profits
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation and an E
P measurement date, the earnings and profits (including earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) and 959(c)(2)) of the specified foreign corporation (computed in accordance with sections 964(a) and 986, subject to § 1.965-4(f), and by taking into account only periods when the foreign corporation was a specified foreign corporation) accumulated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, and determined—
(A) As of the E
P measurement date, except as provided in paragraph (f)(29)(ii) of this section, and
(B) Without diminution by reason of dividends distributed during the last taxable year of the foreign corporation that begins before January 1, 2018, other than dividends distributed to another specified foreign corporation to the extent the dividends increase the post-1986 earnings and profits of the distributee specified foreign corporation.
(ii)
Foreign income taxes.
For purposes of determining a specified foreign corporation's post-1986 earnings and profits as of the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017, in the case in which foreign income taxes (as defined in section 901(m)(5)) of the specified foreign corporation accrue after November 2, 2017, but on or before December 31, 2017, and during the specified foreign corporation's U.S. taxable year that includes November 2, 2017, the specified foreign corporation's post-1986 earnings and profits as of November 2, 2017, are reduced by the applicable portion of such foreign income taxes. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the applicable portion of the foreign income taxes is the amount of the taxes that are attributable to the portion of the taxable income (as determined under foreign law) that accrues on or before November 2, 2017.
(iii)
Deficits in earnings and profits.
Any deficit related to post-1986 earnings and profits, including a hovering deficit (as defined in § 1.367(b)-7(d)(2)(i)), of a specified foreign corporation is taken into account for purposes of determining the post-1986 earnings and profits (including a deficit) of the specified foreign corporation.
(30)
Pro rata share.
The term
pro rata share
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of a specified foreign corporation, a deferred foreign income corporation, or an E
P deficit foreign corporation, as applicable—
(i) With respect to the section 965(a) earnings amount of a deferred foreign income corporation, the portion of the section 965(a) earnings amount that would be treated as distributed to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder under § 1.951-1(e), determined as of the last day of the inclusion year of the deferred foreign income corporation on which it is a specified foreign corporation;
(ii) With respect to the specified E
P deficit of an E
P deficit foreign corporation, the portion of the specified E
P deficit allocated to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, determined by allocating the specified E
P deficit among the shareholders of the corporation's common stock in proportion to the liquidation value of the common stock held by the shareholders, determined as of the last day of the last taxable year of the E
P deficit foreign corporation that begins before January 1, 2018, provided that—
(A) If the corporation's common stock has a liquidation value of zero and there is at least one other class of equity with a liquidation preference relative to the common stock, then the specified E
P deficit is allocated as if it were distributed in a hypothetical distribution described in § 1.951-1(e)(1)(i) with respect to the most junior class of equity with a positive liquidation value to the extent of such liquidation value, and then to the next most junior class of equity to the extent of its liquidation value, and so on, applying § 1.951-1(e) by substituting “specified E
P deficit” for “subpart F income” each place it appears and treating the amount of current earnings and profits of the corporation for the year as being equal to the specified E
P deficit of the corporation for the year; and
(B) If the corporation's common stock has a liquidation value of zero and there is no other class of equity with a liquidation preference relative to the common stock, the specified E
P deficit is allocated among the common stock using any reasonable method consistently applied; and
(iii) With respect to the cash position of a specified foreign corporation on a cash measurement date, the portion of the cash position that would be treated as distributed to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder under § 1.951-1(e) if the cash position were subpart F income, determined as of the close of the cash measurement date and without regard to whether the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of the specified foreign corporation as of any other cash measurement date of the specified foreign corporation, including the final cash measurement date of the specified foreign corporation.
(31)
Second cash measurement date.
The term
second cash measurement date
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation, the close of the last taxable year of the specified foreign corporation that ends after November 1, 2016, and before November 2, 2017, if any.
(32)
Section 958(a) stock.
The term
section 958(a) stock
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation, a deferred foreign income corporation, or an E
P deficit foreign corporation, as applicable, stock of the corporation owned (directly or indirectly) by a United States shareholder within the meaning of section 958(a).
(33)
Section 958(a) U.S. shareholder.
The term
section 958(a) U.S. shareholder
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation, a deferred foreign income corporation, or an E
P deficit foreign corporation, as applicable, a United States shareholder of such corporation that owns section 958(a) stock of the corporation.
(34)
Section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
The term
section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year
means the taxable year of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder in which or with which the last day of the inclusion year of a deferred foreign income corporation on which it is a specified foreign corporation occurs.
(35)
Section 965 regulations.
The term
section 965 regulations
means the regulations under §§ 1.965-1 through 1.965-9, collectively.
(36)
Section 965(a) earnings amount.
The term
section 965(a) earnings amount
means, with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation, the greater of the accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income of the deferred foreign income corporation as of the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017, or the accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income of the deferred foreign income corporation as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017, determined in each case in the functional currency of the specified foreign corporation. If the functional currency of a specified foreign corporation changes between the two E
P measurement dates, the comparison must be made in the functional currency of the specified foreign corporation as of December 31, 2017, by translating the specified foreign corporation's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of November 2, 2017, into the new functional currency using the spot rate on November 2, 2017.
(37)
Section 965(a) inclusion.
The term
section 965(a) inclusion
means, with respect to a person and a deferred foreign income corporation, an amount included in income by the person by reason of section 965 with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation, whether because the person is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of the deferred foreign income corporation with a section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation or because the person is a domestic pass-through owner with respect to a domestic pass-through entity that is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of the deferred foreign income corporation and the person includes in income its domestic pass-through owner share of the section 965(a) inclusion amount of the domestic pass-through entity with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation.
(38)
Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
The term
section 965(a) inclusion amount
has the meaning provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(39)
Section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits.
The term
section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits
has the meaning provided in § 1.965-2(c).
(40)
Section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits.
The term
section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits
has the meaning provided in § 1.965-2(d).
(41)
Section 965(c) deduction.
The term
section 965(c) deduction
means, with respect to a person, an amount allowed as a deduction to the person by reason of section 965(c), whether because the person is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with a section 965(c) deduction amount or because the person is a domestic pass-through owner with respect to a domestic pass-through entity that is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and the person takes into account its domestic pass-through owner share of the section 965(c) deduction amount of the domestic pass-through entity.
(42)
Section 965(c) deduction amount.
The term
section 965(c) deduction amount
means an amount equal to the sum of—
(i) A section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's 8 percent rate equivalent percentage of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's 8 percent rate amount for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, plus
(ii) The section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's 15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's 15.5 percent rate amount for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
(43)
Short-term obligation.
The term
short-term obligation
means any obligation with a term upon issuance that is less than one year and any loan that must be repaid at the demand of the lender (or that must be repaid within one year of such demand), but does not include any accounts receivable.
(44)
Specified E
P deficit.
The term
specified E
P deficit
means, with respect to an E
P deficit foreign corporation, the amount of the deficit described in paragraph (f)(22)(i)(A) of this section.
(45)
Specified foreign corporation
—(i)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(45)(iii) of this section, the term
specified foreign corporation
means—
(A) A controlled foreign corporation, or
(B) A foreign corporation of which one or more domestic corporations is a United States shareholder.
(ii)
Special attribution rule
—(A)
In general.
Solely for purposes of determining whether a foreign corporation is a specified foreign corporation within the meaning of section 965(e)(1)(B) and paragraph (f)(45)(i)(B) of this section, stock owned, directly or indirectly, by or for—
(
1
) A partner (
tested partner
) will not be considered as being owned by a partnership under sections 958(b) and 318(a)(3)(A) and § 1.958-2(d)(1)(i) if the tested partner owns less than ten percent of the interests in the partnership's capital and profits; and
(
2
) A beneficiary (
tested beneficiary
) will not be considered as being owned by a trust under sections 958(b) and 318(a)(3)(B) and § 1.958-2(d)(1)(ii) if the value of the interest of the tested beneficiary, computed actuarially, whether vested or contingent, current or remainder, is less than ten percent of the value of the trust property, assuming the maximum exercise of discretion in favor of the beneficiary.
(B)
Attribution for purposes of the ten percent standard.
For purposes of paragraph (f)(45)(ii)(A) of this section, an interest in a partnership or trust owned by a partner or beneficiary other than the tested partner or tested beneficiary will be considered as being owned by the tested partner or tested beneficiary under the principles of sections 958(b) and 318, as modified by this paragraph (f)(45)(ii), as if interests in a partnership or trust were stock.
(iii)
Passive foreign investment companies.
A foreign corporation that is a passive foreign investment company (as defined in section 1297) with respect to a United States shareholder and that is not a controlled foreign corporation is not a specified foreign corporation of the United States shareholder.
(46)
Spot rate.
The term
spot rate
has the meaning provided in § 1.988-1(d).
(47)
United States shareholder.
The term
United States shareholder
has the meaning provided in section 951(b).
(g)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the definitions and general rules set forth in this section.
(1)
Example 1. Definition of specified foreign corporation
—(i)
Facts.
A, an individual, owns 1% of the interests in a partnership, PS, and 10% by vote and value of the stock of a foreign corporation, FC. PS owns 100% of the stock of a domestic corporation, DC. A United States citizen, USI, owns an additional 10% by vote and value of the stock of FC. The remaining 80% by vote and value of the stock of FC is owned by non-United States persons that are unrelated to A, USI, DC, and PS.
(ii)
Analysis.
(A) Absent the application of sections 958(b), 318(a)(3)(A), and 318(a)(3)(C), and § 1.958-2(d)(1)(i) and (iii), FC would not be a specified foreign corporation because FC is not a controlled foreign corporation and there would be no domestic corporation that is a United States shareholder of FC. However, under sections 958(b) and 318(a)(3)(A) and § 1.958-2(d)(1)(i), absent the special attribution rule in paragraph (f)(45)(ii) of this section, PS would be treated as owning 10% of the stock of FC. As a result, under sections 958(b), 318(a)(5)(A), and 318(a)(3)(C), and § 1.958-2(f)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(iii), DC would be treated as owning the stock of FC treated as owned by PS, and thus DC would be a United States shareholder with respect to FC, causing FC to be a specified foreign corporation within the meaning of section 965(e)(1)(B) and paragraph (f)(45)(i)(B) of this section. The results would be the same whether A or PS or both are domestic or foreign persons.
(B) Under the special attribution rule in paragraph (f)(45)(ii) of this section, solely for purposes of determining whether a foreign corporation is a specified foreign corporation within the meaning of section 965(e)(1)(B) and paragraph (f)(45)(i)(B) of this section, the stock of FC owned by A is not considered as being owned by PS under sections 958(b) and 318(a)(3)(A) and § 1.958-2(d)(1)(i) because A owns less than 10% of the interests in PS's capital and profits. Accordingly, FC is not a specified foreign corporation within the meaning of section 965(e)(1)(B) and paragraph (f)(45)(i)(B) of this section.
(2)
Example 2. Definition of specified foreign corporation
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph(g)(1)(i) of
this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except that A is a foreign corporation wholly owned by B, a foreign corporation, and B directly owns 9% of the interests in PS.
(ii)
Analysis.
Applying the principles of sections 958(b) and 318, as modified by paragraph (f)(45)(ii) of this section, as if the interest in PS were stock, A is treated as owning the interests in PS owned by B (in addition to the 1% interest in PS that A owns directly), and thus A is not treated as owning less than 10% of the interests in PS's capital and profits. Accordingly, the special attribution rule in paragraph (f)(45)(ii) of this section does not apply, and PS is treated as owning A's stock of FC for purposes of determining whether FC is a specified foreign corporation within the meaning of section 965(e)(1)(B) and paragraph (f)(45)(i)(B) of this section. Accordingly, under the analysis described in paragraph (ii)(A) of
Example 1
of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, FC is a specified foreign corporation within the meaning of section 965(e)(1)(B) and paragraph (f)(45)(i)(B) of this section.
(3)
Example 3. Determination of accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income
—(i)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, and FP, a foreign corporation unrelated to USP, have owned 70% and 30% respectively, by vote and value, of the only class of stock of FS, a foreign corporation, from January 1, 2016, until December 31, 2017. USP and FS both have a calendar year taxable year. FS had no income until its taxable year ending December 31, 2016, in which it had 100u of income, all of which constituted subpart F income, and USP included 70u in income with respect to FS under section 951(a)(1) for such year. FS earned no income in 2017. Therefore, FS's post-1986 earnings and profits are 100u as of both E
P measurement dates.
(ii)
Analysis.
Because USP included 70u in income with respect to FS under section 951(a)(1), 70u of such post-1986 earnings and profits would, if distributed, be excluded from the gross income of USP under section 959. Thus, FS's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income would be reduced by 70u pursuant to section 965(d)(2)(B) and paragraph (f)(7)(i)(B) of this section. Furthermore, under paragraph (f)(7)(i)(C) of this section, the accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income of FS is reduced by amounts that would be excluded from the gross income of FP if FP were a United States shareholder, consistent with the principles of Revenue Ruling 82-16. Accordingly, FS's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income is reduced by the remaining 30u of the 100u of post-1986 earnings and profits to which USP's 70u of section 951(a)(1) income inclusions were attributable. As a result, FS's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income is 0u (100u minus 70u minus 30u).
(4)
Example 4. Determination of status as a deferred foreign income corporation or an E
P deficit foreign corporation; specified foreign corporation is solely a deferred foreign income corporation
—(i)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of FS, a foreign corporation. As of November 2, 2017, FS has a deficit in post-1986 earnings and profits of 150u. As of December 31, 2017, FS has 200u of post-1986 earnings and profits. FS does not have earnings and profits that are attributable to income of the specified foreign corporation that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and subject to tax under chapter 1, or that, if distributed, would be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959 or from the gross income of another shareholder if such shareholder were a United States shareholder.
(ii)
Analysis.
FS's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income is equal to its post-1986 earnings and profits because no adjustment to post-1986 earnings and profits is made under section 965(d)(2) or § 1.965-1(f)(7). Under paragraph (f)(17)(i) of this section, FS is a deferred foreign income corporation because FS has accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income greater than zero as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017. In addition, under paragraph (f)(17)(ii) of this section, because FS is a deferred foreign income corporation, FS is not also an E
P deficit foreign corporation, notwithstanding that FS has a deficit in post-
1986 earnings and profits as of the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017.
(5)
Example 5. Determination of status as a deferred foreign income corporation or an E
P deficit foreign corporation; specified foreign corporation is neither a deferred foreign income corporation nor an E
P deficit foreign corporation
—(i)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of FS, a foreign corporation. As of both November 2, 2017, and December 31, 2017, FS has 100u of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and a deficit of 90u in earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3), all of which were accumulated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, while FS was a specified foreign corporation. Accordingly, as of both November 2, 2017, and December 31, 2017, FS has 10u of post-1986 earnings and profits.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Determination of status as a deferred foreign income corporation.
Under paragraph (f)(17) of this section, for purposes of determining whether FS is a deferred foreign income corporation, a determination must be made whether FS has accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income greater than zero as of either the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017, or the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017. Under section 965(d)(2) and paragraph (f)(7) of this section, FS's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income is its post-1986 earnings and profits, except to the extent such earnings and profits are attributable to income of the specified foreign corporation that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and subject to tax under chapter 1, or that, if distributed, would be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959 or from the gross income of another shareholder if such shareholder were a United States shareholder. Disregarding FS's 100u of post-1986 earnings and profits described in paragraph (f)(7)(i)(B) of this section, FS has a 90u deficit in accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of both E
P measurement dates. Accordingly, FS does not have accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income greater than zero as of either E
P measurement date, and, therefore, FS is not a deferred foreign income corporation.
(B)
Determination of status as an E
P deficit foreign corporation.
Under paragraph (f)(22)(i) of this section, for purposes of determining whether FS is an E
P deficit foreign corporation, a determination must be made whether FS has a deficit in post-1986 earnings and profits as of the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017. Under paragraph (f)(22)(ii) of this section, because the deficit in the earnings and profits of FS described in section 959(c)(3) of 90u does not exceed the earnings and profits of FS described in section 959(c)(2) of 100u, FS does not have a deficit in post-1986 earnings and profits as of the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017, and, therefore, FS is not an E
P deficit foreign corporation. Accordingly, FS is neither a deferred foreign income corporation nor an E
P deficit foreign corporation.
(6)
Example 6. Application of currency translation rules
—(i)
Facts.
As of November 2, 2017, and December 31, 2017, USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, an E
P deficit foreign corporation with the “u” as its functional currency; CFC2, an E
P deficit foreign corporation with the “v” as its functional currency; CFC3, a deferred foreign income corporation with the “y” as its functional currency; and CFC4, a deferred foreign income corporation with the “z” as its functional currency. USP, CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 each have a calendar year taxable year. As of December 31, 2017, 1u=$1, .75v=$1, .50y=$1, and .25z=$1. CFC1 has a specified E
P deficit of 100u, CFC2 has a specified E
P deficit of 120v, CFC3 has a section 965(a) earnings amount of 50y, and CFC4 has a section 965(a) earnings amount of 75z.
(ii)
Analysis.
(A) Under paragraph (f)(38) of this section, for purposes of determining USP's section 965(a) inclusion amounts with respect to CFC3 and CFC4, the section 965(a) earnings amount of each of CFC3 and CFC4 is translated into U.S. dollars at the spot rate on December 31, 2017, which equals $100 (50y at .50y=$1) and $300 (75z at .25z=$1), respectively. Furthermore, USP's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amounts, as translated,
is $100 and $300, respectively, or 100% of each section 965(a) earnings amount.
(B) Under paragraph (f)(9) of this section, for purposes of determining USP's aggregate foreign E
P deficit, the specified E
P deficit of each of CFC1 and CFC2 is translated into U.S. dollars at the spot rate on December 31, 2017, which equals $100 (100u at 1u=$1) and $160 (120v at .75v=$1), respectively. Furthermore USP's pro rata share of each specified E
P deficit, as translated, is $100 and $160, respectively, or 100% of each specified E
P deficit. Therefore, USP's aggregate foreign E
P deficit is $260.
(C) Under section 965(b)(1) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section, for purposes of determining USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to each of CFC3 and CFC4, the U.S. dollar amount of USP's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of each of CFC3 and CFC4 is reduced by each of CFC3 and CFC4's allocable share of USP's aggregate foreign E
P deficit. Under section 965(b)(2) and paragraph (f)(11) of this section, CFC3's allocable share of USP's aggregate foreign E
P deficit of $260 is $65 ($260 × ($100/$400)) and CFC4's allocable share of USP's aggregate foreign E
P deficit is $195 ($260 × ($300/400)). After reduction under section 965(b)(1) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the section 965(a) inclusion amount of USP with respect to CFC3 is $35 ($100−$65) and the section 965(a) inclusion amount of USP with respect to CFC4 is $105 ($300−$195). Under § 1.965-2(c), the section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits of each of CFC3 and CFC4, translated into the respective functional currencies of CFC3 and CFC4 at the spot rate on December 31, 2017, are 17.5y ($35 at .50y=$1) and 26.25z ($105 at .25z=$1), respectively. Under § 1.965-6(b)(1), for purposes of applying section 960(a)(1), the amounts treated as a dividend paid by each of CFC3 and CFC4, translated into the respective functional currencies of CFC3 and CFC4 at the spot rate on December 31, 2017, are 17.5y ($35 at .50y=$1) and 26.25z ($105 at .25z=$1).
(D) For purposes of determining the section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits of each of CFC3 and CFC4 under section 965(b)(4)(A) and § 1.965-2(d)(1) as a result of the reduction to USP's section 965(a) inclusion amounts with respect to CFC3 and CFC4, the amount of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit of USP allocated to each of CFC3 and CFC4 under section 965(b)(2) and paragraph (f)(11) of this section, translated into the respective functional currencies of CFC3 and CFC4 at the spot rate on December 31, 2017, is 32.5y ($65 at .50y=$1) and 48.75z ($195 at .25z=$1), respectively.
(7)
Example 7. Determination of cash measurement dates and pro rata shares of cash positions
—(i)
Facts.
Except as otherwise provided, for all relevant periods, USP, a domestic corporation, has owned directly at least 10% of the stock of CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4, each a foreign corporation. CFC1 and CFC2 have calendar year taxable years. CFC3 and CFC4 have taxable years that end on November 30. No entity has a short taxable year, except as a result of the transactions described below.
(A) USP transferred all of its stock of CFC2 to an unrelated person on June 30, 2016, at which point USP ceased to be a United States shareholder with respect to CFC2.
(B) CFC4 dissolved on December 30, 2010, and, as a result, its final taxable year ended on December 30, 2010.
(ii)
Analysis.
Each of CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 is a specified foreign corporation of USP, subject to the sale of CFC2 on June 30, 2016, and the dissolution of CFC4 on December 30, 2010. Under the definition of aggregate foreign cash position in paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section, the definition of pro rata share of a cash position in paragraph (f)(30)(iii) of this section, and the definitions of the final cash measurement date, second cash measurement date, and first cash measurement date in paragraphs (f)(24), (25), and (31) of this section, the cash measurement dates of the specified foreign corporations to be taken into account by USP in determining its aggregate foreign cash position are summarized in the following table:
Cash Measurement Dates
Final
Second
First
CFC1
December 31, 2017
December 31, 2016
December 31, 2015.
CFC2
N/A
N/A
December 31, 2015.
CFC3
November 30, 2018
November 30, 2016
November 30, 2015.
CFC4
N/A
N/A
N/A.
(8)
Example 8. Determination of section 958(a) U.S. shareholder in case of a controlled domestic partnership
—(i)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1 and CFC2. CFC1 and CFC2 own 60% and 40%, respectively, of the interests in the capital and profits of DPS, a domestic partnership. DPS owns all of the stock of CFC3 and CFC4. This ownership structure has existed since the date of formation of CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4. CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 are each a foreign corporation. USP, DPS, CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 have calendar year taxable years. On both E
P measurement dates, CFC3 has 50u of accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income. On both E
P measurement dates, CFC4 has a deficit in post-1986 earnings and profits of 30u. On all cash measurement dates, CFC1, CFC2, and CFC3 each have a cash position of 0u, and CFC4 has a cash position of 200u.
(ii)
Analysis.
DPS is a controlled domestic partnership with respect to USP within the meaning of paragraph (e)(2) of this section because more than 50% of the interests in its capital and profits are owned by persons related to USP within the meaning of section 267(b), CFC1 and CFC2, and thus DPS is controlled by USP and related persons. Without regard to paragraph (e) of this section, DPS is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of CFC3 and CFC4, each of which is a controlled foreign corporation. If DPS were treated as foreign, CFC3 and CFC4 would each continue to be a controlled foreign corporation, and USP would be treated as a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of each of CFC3 and CFC4, and would be treated as owning (within the meaning of section 958(a)) tested section 958(a) stock of each of CFC3 and CFC4 through CFC1 and CFC2, which are both partners in DPS. Thus, under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, DPS is treated as a foreign partnership for purposes of determining the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of both CFC3 and CFC4 and the section 958(a) stock of both CFC3 and CFC4 owned by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder. Thus, USP's pro rata share of CFC3's section 965(a) earnings amount is 50u, and its pro rata share of CFC4's specified E
P deficit is 30u. USP's aggregate foreign cash position is 200u. DPS is not a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to either CFC3 or CFC4.
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019, as amended by T.D. 9846, 84 FR 14260, Apr. 10, 2019]
§ 1.965-2
Adjustments to earnings and profits and basis.
(a)
Scope.
This section provides rules relating to adjustments to earnings and profits and basis to determine and account for the application of section 965(a) and (b) and § 1.965-1(b) and a rule that limits the amount of gain recognized under section 961(b)(2) by reason of distributions attributable to section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits (as defined in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section) in the inclusion year. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules relating to adjustments to earnings and profits of a specified foreign corporation for purposes of applying sections 902, 959, 960, and 965. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules regarding adjustments to earnings and profits by reason of section 965(a). Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules regarding adjustments to earnings and profits by reason of section 965(b). Paragraph (e) provides rules regarding adjustments to basis by reason of section 965(a). Paragraph (f) of this section provides an election to make certain adjustments to basis corresponding to adjustments to earnings and profits by reason of section 965(b). Paragraph (g) of this section provides rules that limit the amount of gain recognized in connection with the application of section 961(b)(2) and that
require related reductions in basis. Paragraph (h) of this section provides rules regarding basis adjustments. Paragraph (i) of this section provides definitions that apply for purposes of this section. Paragraph (j) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of this section.
(b)
Determination of and adjustments to earnings and profits of a specified foreign corporation for purposes of applying sections 902, 959, 960, and 965.
For the taxable year of a specified foreign corporation in which an E
P measurement date occurs, and the last taxable year of a specified foreign corporation that begins before January 1, 2018, and the taxable year of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder in which or with which any such year ends, the adjustments to earnings and profits described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section apply in sequence. For purposes of determining the consequences under sections 902 and 960 of a distribution or an inclusion under section 951(a)(1), after the application of those paragraphs, the ordering rule in § 1.960-1(i)(2) applies except that section 902 is applied with respect to any distributions from the specified foreign corporation described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section that are not disregarded under § 1.965-4 before section 960 is applied with respect to an inclusion or distribution described in paragraph (b)(3), (b)(4), or (b)(5) of this section.
(1) Each of the subpart F income of the specified foreign corporation and the amount required to be included in income under section 1248, if any, are determined without regard to section 965(a), but taking into account any relevant distributions, and earnings and profits of the specified foreign corporation that are described in section 959(c)(2) with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder are increased to the extent of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965(a) (including to the extent provided in section 959(e)).
(2) The treatment of a distribution by the specified foreign corporation to another specified foreign corporation that is made before January 1, 2018, and, in the case of a taxable year of a specified foreign corporation before its last taxable year that begins before January 1, 2018, any other distribution from the specified foreign corporation made before the relevant E
P measurement date, is determined under section 959.
(3) Each of the post-1986 earnings and profits (including a deficit) of the specified foreign corporation, the accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income of the specified foreign corporation, the section 965(a) earnings amount of the specified foreign corporation, and the section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to the specified foreign corporation, if any, is determined, taking into account the rules of § 1.965-4, and the earnings and profits (including a deficit) of the specified foreign corporation are adjusted as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. For a rule disregarding subpart F income earned after an E
P measurement date for purposes of calculating accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of the E
P measurement date, see § 1.965-1(f)(7)(ii).
(4) The treatment of distributions described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section that are disregarded under § 1.965-4 is redetermined (if necessary) and the treatment of all distributions from the specified foreign corporation other than those described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is determined under section 959.
(5) An amount is determined under section 956 with respect to the specified foreign corporation and the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder; earnings and profits of the specified foreign corporation described in section 959(c)(2) with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder are reclassified as earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder to the extent the amount determined under section 956 would, but for section 959(a)(2), be included by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder under section 951(a)(1)(B); and earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder are further increased to the extent of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(B).
(c)
Adjustments to earnings and profits by reason of section 965(a).
The earnings and profits of a deferred foreign income
corporation described in section 959(c)(2) with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder are increased by an amount equal to the section 965(a) inclusion amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation, if any, translated (if necessary) into the functional currency of the deferred foreign income corporation using the spot rate on December 31, 2017, provided the section 965(a) inclusion amount is included in income by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder. For purposes of the section 965 regulations, the earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by reason of this paragraph (c) and the earnings and profits initially described in section 959(c)(2) by reason of this paragraph (c) but subsequently reclassified as earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1), if any, are referred to as
section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits.
Furthermore, the earnings and profits (including a deficit) of the deferred foreign income corporation that are described in section 959(c)(3) (or that would be described in section 959(c)(3) but for the application of section 965(a) and the section 965 regulations) are reduced (or, in the case of a deficit, increased) by an amount equal to the section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits.
(d)
Adjustments to earnings and profits by reason of section 965(b)
—(1)
Adjustments to earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (c)(3) of deferred foreign income corporations.
The earnings and profits of a deferred foreign income corporation described in section 959(c)(2) with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder are increased by an amount equal to the reduction to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of the deferred foreign income corporation under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), and § 1.965-8(b), as applicable, translated (if necessary) into the functional currency of the deferred foreign income corporation using the spot rate on December 31, 2017, provided the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder includes the section 965(a) inclusion amount (if any) with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation in income. For purposes of the section 965 regulations, the earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by reason of this paragraph (d) and the earnings and profits initially described in section 959(c)(2) by reason of this paragraph (d) but subsequently reclassified as earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) are referred to as
section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits,
and are treated as having been previously included in the gross income of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder under section 951 for purposes of section 1248(d)(1). Furthermore, the earnings and profits (including a deficit) described in section 959(c)(3) of the deferred foreign income corporation (or that would be described in section 959(c)(3) but for the application of section 965(b) and the section 965 regulations) are reduced (or, in the case of a deficit, increased) by an amount equal to the section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits.
(2)
Adjustments to earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) of E
P deficit foreign corporations
—(i)
Increase in earnings and profits by an amount equal to the portion of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit taken into account
—(A)
In general.
For an E
P deficit foreign corporation's last taxable year that begins before January 1, 2018, the earnings and profits of the E
P deficit foreign corporation described in section 959(c)(3) are increased by an amount equal to the portion of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit of the E
P deficit foreign corporation taken into account under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), and § 1.965-8(b), as determined under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, translated (if necessary) into the functional currency of the E
P deficit foreign corporation using the spot rate on December 31, 2017. For purposes of section 316, the earnings and profits of the E
P deficit foreign corporation attributable to the increase described in the preceding sentence are not treated as earnings and profits of the taxable year described in section 316(a)(2). See also § 1.965-6(b)(3) for the timing of this adjustment for purposes of determining foreign taxes deemed paid under sections 902 and 960.
(B)
Reduction of a qualified deficit.
For purposes of section 952, a section 958(a)
U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the earnings and profits of an E
P deficit foreign corporation is increased by an amount equal to the portion of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit of the E
P deficit foreign corporation taken into account under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), or § 1.965-8(b), as applicable, as determined under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, translated (if necessary) into the functional currency of the E
P deficit foreign corporation using the spot rate on December 31, 2017, and such increase is attributable to the same activity to which the deficit so taken into account was attributable.
(ii)
Determination of portion of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of a specified E
P deficit taken into account
—(A)
In general.
The portion of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of a specified E
P deficit of an E
P deficit foreign corporation taken into account under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), or § 1.965-8(b), as applicable, is 100 percent of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit if either of the following conditions is satisfied:
(
1
) The section 958(a) U.S. shareholder (including a consolidated group of which the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is a member) does not have an excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit (as defined in § 1.965-8(f)(7)(i)), or
(
2
) If the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is a member of an affiliated group in which not all members are members of the same consolidated group, the amount described in § 1.965-8(f)(1)(i)(B) with respect to the affiliated group is equal to or greater than the amount described § 1.965-8(f)(1)(i)(A).
(B)
Designation of portion of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of a specified E
P deficit taken into account.
If neither the condition in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A)(
1
) nor the condition in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A)(
2
) is satisfied with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, then the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder must designate the portion taken into account by reporting to each E
P deficit foreign corporation of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, and maintaining, in its books and records, a statement setting forth the following information—
(
1
) The portion of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit of the E
P deficit foreign corporation taken into account under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), or § 1.965-8(b), as designated under § 1.965-8(c), as applicable, and
(
2
) In the case of an E
P deficit foreign corporation that has a qualified deficit (as determined under section 952 and § 1.952-1), the portion (if any) of the section 958(a) shareholder's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit of the E
P deficit foreign corporation taken into account under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section that is attributable to a qualified deficit, including the qualified activities to which such portion is attributable.
(e)
Adjustments to basis by reason of section 965(a)
—(1)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's basis in section 958(a) stock of a deferred foreign income corporation, or a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's basis in applicable property with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation, is increased by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation included in income by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder.
See
section 961(a).
(2)
Section 962 election.
In the case of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder who has made an election under section 962 for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's inclusion year, the increase in basis in the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's section 958(a) stock of, or applicable property with respect to, a deferred foreign income corporation cannot exceed an amount equal to the amount of tax paid under chapter 1 of the Code with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation, taking into account any section 965(h) election made by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder.
(f)
Adjustments to basis by reason of section 965(b)
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, no adjustments to basis of stock or property are made under section 961
(or any other provision of the Code) to take into account the reduction to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of a deferred foreign income corporation under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), or § 1.965-8(b), as applicable.
(2)
Election to make adjustments to basis to account for the application of section 965(b)
—(i)
In general.
If a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder makes the election as provided in this paragraph (f)(2), the adjustments to basis described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section are made with respect to each deferred foreign income corporation and each E
P deficit foreign corporation in which the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder owns section 958(a) stock.
(ii)
Basis adjustments
—(A)
Increase in basis with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation
—(
1
)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii)(A)(
2
) and (C) of this section, a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's basis in section 958(a) stock of a deferred foreign income corporation, or a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's basis in applicable property with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation, is increased by an amount equal to the section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits of the deferred foreign income corporation with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, translated (if necessary) into U.S. dollars using the spot rate on December 31, 2017.
(
2
)
Limited basis adjustment.
A section 958(a) U.S. shareholder may, in lieu of applying paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A)(
1
) of this section, designate the amount by which it increases its basis in section 958(a) stock of, or applicable property with respect to, a deferred foreign income corporation, provided that—
(
i
) The increase does not exceed the section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits of the deferred foreign income corporation with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, translated (if necessary) into U.S. dollars using the spot rate on December 31, 2017; and
(
ii
) The aggregate amount of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's increases in basis with respect to stock or applicable property pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A)(
2
) of this section does not exceed the aggregate amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's reductions in basis pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section subject to the limitation under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section.
(B)
Reduction in basis with respect to an E
P deficit foreign corporation
—(
1
)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
) and (f)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's basis in section 958(a) stock of an E
P deficit foreign corporation, or a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's basis in applicable property with respect to an E
P deficit foreign corporation, is reduced by an amount equal to the portion of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit of the E
P deficit foreign corporation taken into account under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), and § 1.965-8(b), as applicable, as determined under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, translated (if necessary) into U.S. dollars using the spot rate on December 31, 2017. For rules requiring gain recognition, see paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(
2
)
Limited basis adjustment.
If a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder adjusts its basis in section 958(a) stock of, or applicable property with respect to, one or more deferred foreign income corporations under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A)(
2
) of this section, the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate reductions in basis in section 958(a) stock of, or applicable property with respect to, an E
P deficit foreign corporation pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section on a day may not exceed the amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's basis in the section 958(a) stock of, or applicable property with respect to, such E
P deficit foreign corporation, determined without taking into account specified basis adjustments to the section 958(a) stock of, or applicable property with respect to, such E
P deficit foreign corporation.
(C)
Section 962 election.
In the case of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder who has made an election under section 962 for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's inclusion year, the adjustments provided in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section do not apply.
(iii)
Rules regarding the election
—(A)
Consistency requirement.
In order for the election described in this paragraph (f)(2) to be effective, a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and each section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of an E
P deficit foreign corporation or of a deferred foreign income corporation with respect to which the second section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount is reduced under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), or § 1.965-8(b) that is related to the first section 958(a) U.S. shareholder must make the election described in this paragraph (f)(2). For purposes of this paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A), a person is treated as related to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder if the person bears a relationship to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder described in section 267(b) or 707(b).
(B)
Manner of making election
—(
1
)
Timing
—(
i
)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(B)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section, the election provided in this paragraph (f)(2) must be made no later than the due date (taking into account extensions, if any) for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's return for the first taxable year that includes the last day of the last taxable year of a deferred foreign income corporation or E
P deficit foreign corporation of the shareholder that begins before January 1, 2018. Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or 301.9100-3 to file a late election. Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(B)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section, the election provided in this paragraph (f)(2) is irrevocable.
(
ii
)
Transition rule.
If the due date referred to in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(B)(
1
)(
i
) of this section occurs before May 6, 2019, the election must be made by May 6, 2019. In the case of an election made before February 5, 2019, the election may be revoked by attaching a statement, signed under penalties of perjury, to an amended return filed by May 6, 2019. The statement must contain the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's name and taxpayer identification number and a statement that the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and all related persons, as defined in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, that are section 958(a) U.S. shareholders of E
P deficit foreign corporations or of deferred foreign income corporations with respect to which the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount is reduced under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), or § 1.965-8(b) revoke the election provided in this paragraph (f)(2).
(
2
)
Election statement.
Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, to make the election provided in this paragraph (f)(2), a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder must attach a statement, signed under penalties of perjury consistent with the rules for signatures applicable to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholders return, to its return for the first taxable year that includes the last day of the last taxable year of a deferred foreign income corporation or E
P deficit foreign corporation of the shareholder that begins before January 1, 2018. The statement must include the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's name, taxpayer identification number, and a statement that the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and all related persons, as defined in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, that are section 958(a) U.S. shareholders of E
P deficit foreign corporations or of deferred foreign income corporations with respect to which the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount is reduced under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), or § 1.965-8(b) make the election provided in this paragraph (f)(2). If the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder increases its basis in stock or applicable property under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A)(
2
) of this section and decreases its basis in stock or applicable property pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section subject to the limitation under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section, the election statement must so indicate. The attachment of an unsigned copy of the election statement to the timely-filed return for the relevant taxable year satisfies the signature requirement of this paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(B)(
2
) if the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder retains the original signed election statement in the manner specified by § 1.6001-1(e).
(g)
Gain reduction rule
—(1)
Reduction in gain recognized under section 961(b)(2) by reason of distributions attributable to
section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits in the inclusion year
—(i)
In general.
If a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder receives a distribution from a deferred foreign income corporation (including through a chain of ownership described under section 958(a)) during the inclusion year of the deferred foreign income corporation that is attributable to section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits of the deferred foreign income corporation, then the amount of gain that otherwise would be recognized under section 961(b)(2) by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's section 958(a) stock of the deferred foreign income corporation or interest in applicable property with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation is reduced (but not below zero) by an amount equal to the section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits of the deferred foreign income corporation with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, translated (if necessary) into U.S. dollars at the spot rate on December 31, 2017.
(ii)
Definition of section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits.
For purposes of paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, the term
section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits
means, with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation and a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, the sum of the section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits of the deferred foreign income corporation with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, and, if the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder has made the election described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits of the deferred foreign income corporation with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder.
(2)
Reduction in basis by an amount equal to the gain reduction amount.
If a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder does not recognize gain under section 961(b)(2) by reason of paragraph (g)(1) of this section with respect to a distribution from a deferred foreign income corporation (including through a chain of ownership described under section 958(a)), the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's basis in the section 958(a) stock of the deferred foreign income corporation, or the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's basis in the applicable property with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation, is reduced by the amount of gain that would otherwise be recognized by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder without regard to paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(h)
Rules of application for specified basis adjustments.
This paragraph (h) applies for purposes of making any adjustment to the basis of section 958(a) stock or applicable property with respect to a specified foreign corporation described in paragraph (e), (f)(2), or (g)(2) of this section (collectively,
specified basis adjustments,
and each a
specified basis adjustment
).
(1)
Timing of basis adjustments.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a specified basis adjustment to section 958(a) stock or applicable property with respect to a specified foreign corporation is made as of the last day of the last taxable year of the specified foreign corporation that begins before January 1, 2018, on which it is a specified foreign corporation.
(2)
Netting of basis adjustments.
If one or more specified basis adjustments occur on the same day with respect to the same section 958(a) stock or applicable property, a single basis adjustment is made as of the close of such day with respect to such stock or applicable property in an amount equal to the net amount, if any, of the increase or reduction, as applicable.
(3)
Gain recognition for reduction in excess of basis.
The excess (if any) of a net reduction in basis with respect to section 958(a) stock or applicable property of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder by reason of one or more specified basis adjustments over the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's basis in such stock or applicable property without regard to the specified basis adjustments is treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property.
(4)
Adjustments with respect to each share
—(i)
Section 958(a) stock.
If a specified basis adjustment is made with respect to section 958(a) stock, the specified basis adjustment is made with respect to each share of the section 958(a) stock in a manner consistent with the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro
rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount or specified E
P deficit, as applicable, by reason of such share.
(ii)
Applicable property.
If a specified basis adjustment is made with respect to applicable property, the adjustment is made with respect to the applicable property in a manner consistent with the application of paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section.
(5)
Stock or property for which adjustments are made
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (h)(5)(ii) of this section, a specified basis adjustment is made solely with respect to section 958(a) stock owned by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder within the meaning of section 958(a)(1)(A) or applicable property owned directly by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder.
(ii)
Special rule for an interest in a foreign pass-through entity.
If the applicable property of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder described in paragraph (h)(5)(i) of this section is an interest in a foreign pass-through entity, then, for purposes of determining the foreign pass-through entity's basis in section 958(a) stock or applicable property, as applicable, with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, a specified basis adjustment is made with respect to section 958(a) stock or applicable property of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder owned through the foreign pass-through entity in the same manner as if the section 958(a) stock or applicable property were owned directly by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder. In the case of tiered foreign pass-through entities, this paragraph (h)(5)(ii) applies with respect to each foreign pass-through entity.
(i)
Definitions.
This paragraph (i) provides definitions that apply for purposes of this section.
(1)
Applicable property.
The term
applicable property
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and a specified foreign corporation, property owned by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder (including through one or more foreign pass-through entities) by reason of which the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is considered under section 958(a)(2) as owning section 958(a) stock of the specified foreign corporation.
(2)
Foreign pass-through entity.
The term
foreign pass-through entity
means a foreign partnership or a foreign estate or trust (as defined in section 7701(a)(31)) (including a controlled domestic partnership treated as a foreign partnership pursuant to § 1.965-1(e)).
(3)
Property.
The term
property
has the meaning provided in § 1.961-1(b)(1).
(j)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this section.
(1)
Example 1. Determination of accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income with subpart F income earned before E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017
—(i)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, a foreign corporation, which owns all of the stock of CFC2, also a foreign corporation. USP, CFC1, and CFC2 all have taxable years ending December 31, 2017. As of January 1, 2017, CFC1 has no earnings and profits, and CFC2 has 100u of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) that were accumulated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, while CFC2 was a specified foreign corporation, and $21x of post-1986 foreign income taxes. None of CFC2's earnings and profits are attributable to income treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States. On March 1, 2017, CFC1 earns 30u of subpart F income (as defined in section 952), and CFC2 earns 20u of subpart F income. No foreign income tax is imposed on CFC1's or CFC2's subpart F income. For purposes of section 904, the post-1986 undistributed earnings, subpart F income, and post-1986 foreign income taxes are in the general category. On July 1, 2017, CFC2 distributes 40u to CFC1. On November 1, 2017, CFC1 distributes 60u to USP. USP does not have an aggregate foreign E
P deficit. USP includes in gross income all amounts that it is required to include under section 951. No foreign income tax is imposed or withheld on the distribution by CFC2 to CFC1 or the distribution by CFC1 to USP.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Adjustments to section 959(c) classification of earnings and profits for inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965.
The distribution from CFC2 to CFC1 does not give rise to subpart F income
to CFC1 due to the application of section 954(c)(6). Accordingly, USP's inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965(a) is 30u with respect to CFC1 and 20u with respect to CFC2 for their taxable years ending December 31, 2017. As a result of the inclusions under section 951(a)(1)(A), CFC1 and CFC2 increase their earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by 30u and 20u, respectively.
(B)
Distributions between specified foreign corporations before January 1, 2018.
The distribution of 40u from CFC2 to CFC1 is treated as a distribution of 20u out of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) (attributable to inclusions under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965(a)) and 20u out of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3).
(C)
Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
USP determines whether CFC1 and CFC2 are deferred foreign income corporations and, if so, determines its section 965(a) inclusion amounts with respect to CFC1 and CFC2. CFC1 and CFC2 are specified foreign corporations, and CFC1 and CFC2 each have accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income greater than zero as of an E
P measurement date. Accordingly, CFC1 and CFC2 are deferred foreign income corporations. USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to each of CFC1 and CFC2, respectively, equals the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 and CFC2, respectively.
(
1
)
CFC1 section 965(a) earnings amount.
The section 965(a) earnings amount with respect to CFC1 is 20u, the amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of both November 2, 2017, and December 31, 2017, which is equal to 70u of post-1986 earnings and profits (30u earned and 40u attributable to the CFC2 distribution) reduced by 50u of such post-1986 earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) (30u earned and 20u attributable to the CFC2 distribution) under section 965(d)(2)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(7)(i)(B). Under section 965(d)(3)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(29)(i)(B), the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC1 are not reduced by the 60u distribution to USP.
(
2
)
CFC2 section 965(a) earnings amount.
The section 965(a) earnings amount with respect to CFC2 is 80u, the amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of both November 2, 2017, and December 31, 2017, which is equal to the amount of CFC2's post-1986 earnings and profits of 80u. CFC2's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income is equal to its post-1986 earnings and profits because CFC2 does not have earnings and profits that are attributable to income of the specified foreign corporation that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and subject to tax under chapter 1, or that, if distributed, would be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959 or from the gross income of another shareholder if such shareholder were a United States shareholder, and, therefore, no adjustment is made under section 965(d)(2) or § 1.965-1(f)(7). CFC2's 80u of post-1986 earnings and profits consists of 120u of earnings and profits that it earned, reduced by the 40u distribution to CFC1 under section 965(d)(3)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(29)(i)(B). The amount of the reduction to the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC2 for the 40u distribution is not limited by § 1.965-1(f)(29)(i)(B) because CFC1's post-1986 earnings and profits are increased by 40u as a result of the distribution. Furthermore, because the 40u distribution was made on July 1, 2017, which is before the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017, § 1.965-4(f) is not relevant.
(
3
)
Effect on earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (3).
CFC1 and CFC2 increase their earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by USP's section 965(a) inclusion amounts with respect to CFC1 and CFC2, 20u and 80u, respectively, and reduce their earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) by an equivalent amount.
(D)
Distribution to United States shareholder.
The distribution from CFC1 to USP is treated as a distribution of 60u out of the earnings and profits of CFC1 described in section 959(c)(2), which include earnings and profits attributable to the section 965(a) inclusion amount taken into account by USP.
(E)
Section 902 and section 960 consequences
—(
1
)
Distribution by and inclusions with respect to CFC2.
Under section 960, USP is deemed to pay $3.50x
($21x × (20u/120u)) of CFC2's post-1986 foreign income taxes as a result of its inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965(a) with respect to CFC2. As a result of the distribution from CFC2 to CFC1, CFC2's post-1986 foreign income taxes are reduced, and CFC1's post-1986 foreign income taxes are increased, by the foreign income taxes deemed paid by CFC1 under section 902 of $3.50x (($21x−$3.50x) × (20u/120u−20u)). Under section 960, USP is deemed to pay $14x (($21x−$3.50x−$3.50x) × 80u/(120u−40u)) of CFC2's post-1986 foreign income taxes as a result of its section 965(a) inclusion with respect to CFC2. The taxes deemed paid by USP as a result of its section 965(a) inclusion with respect to CFC2 are subject to the applicable percentage disallowance under section 965(g).
(
2
)
Inclusions with respect to CFC1.
As determined in paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(E)(
1
) of this
section (paragraph (E)(
1
) in the analysis in this Example 1),
as a result of the distribution from CFC2 to CFC1, CFC1 is deemed under section 902 to pay $3.50x of CFC2's post-1986 foreign income taxes. Under section 960, USP is deemed to pay $2.10x ($3.50x × (30u/(30u + 20u))) of CFC1's post-1986 foreign income taxes as a result of its inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965(a) with respect to CFC1. Under section 960, USP is deemed to pay $1.40x (($3.50x−$2.10x) × 20u/(30u + 20u−30u)) of CFC1's post-1986 foreign income taxes as a result of its section 965(a) inclusion with respect to CFC1. The taxes deemed paid by USP as a result of its section 965(a) inclusion with respect to CFC1 are subject to the applicable percentage disallowance under section 965(g).
(2)
Example 2. Determination of accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income with subpart F income earned after E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except that on December 1, 2017, CFC1 earns an additional 50u of subpart F income (as defined in section 952), and neither CFC1 nor CFC2 has any post-1986 foreign income taxes.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Adjustments to section 959(c) classification of earnings and profits for inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965.
USP determines its inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965(a), which is 80u with respect to CFC1 and 20u with respect to CFC2 for their taxable years ending December 31, 2017. As a result of the inclusions under section 951(a)(1)(A), CFC1 and CFC2 increase their earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by 80u and 20u, respectively.
(B)
Distributions between specified foreign corporations before January 1, 2018.
The analysis is the same as in paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(B) of this section (paragraph (B) in the analysis in
Example 1
).
(C)
Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
USP determines whether CFC1 and CFC2 are deferred foreign income corporations and, if so, determines its section 965(a) inclusion amounts with respect to CFC1 and CFC2. CFC1 and CFC2 are specified foreign corporations, and CFC1 and CFC2 each have accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income greater than zero as of an E
P measurement date. Accordingly, CFC1 and CFC2 are deferred foreign income corporations. USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to each of CFC1 and CFC2, respectively, equals the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 and CFC2, respectively.
(
1
)
CFC1 section 965(a) earnings amount.
The section 965(a) earnings amount with respect to CFC1 is 20u, the greater of—
(
i
) The amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of November 2, 2017, 20u, which is equal to 70u of post-1986 earnings and profits (30u earned and 40u attributable to the CFC2 distribution) reduced by 50u of such post-1986 earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) without regard to the subpart F income earned after November 2, 2017 (30u earned and 20u attributable to the CFC2 distribution) under section 965(d)(2)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(7)(i)(B) and (ii), and
(
ii
) The amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of December 31, 2017, 20u, which is equal to 120u of post-1986 earnings and profits (80u earned and 40u attributable to the CFC2 distribution) reduced by 100u of such post-1986 earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) with regard
to the subpart F income earned on or before December 31, 2017 (80u earned and 20u attributable to the CFC2 distribution) under section 965(d)(2)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(7)(i)(B) and (ii).
(
2
)
CFC2 section 965(a) earnings amount.
The analysis is the same as in paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(C)(
2
) of this section (paragraph (C)(
2
) in the analysis in
Example 1
)).
(
3
)
Effect on earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (3).
The analysis is the same as in paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(C)(
3
) of this section (paragraph (C)(
3
) in the analysis in
Example 1
).
(D)
Distribution to United States shareholder.
The analysis is the same as in paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(D) of this section (paragraph (D) in the analysis in
Example 1
).
(3)
Example 3. Determination of accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income with subpart F income earned after E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017, but previously taxed earnings and profits attributable to the subpart F income distributed before E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except that on December 1, 2017, CFC2 earns an additional 50u of subpart F income (as defined in section 952), and neither CFC1 nor CFC2 has any post-1986 foreign income taxes.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Adjustments to section 959(c) classification of earnings and profits for inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965.
USP determines its inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965(a), which is 30u with respect to CFC1 and 70u with respect to CFC2 for their taxable years ending December 31, 2017. As a result of the inclusions under section 951(a)(1)(A), CFC1 and CFC2 increase their earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by 30u and 70u, respectively.
(B)
Distributions between specified foreign corporations before January 1, 2018.
The distribution of 40u from CFC2 to CFC1 is treated as a distribution of 40u out of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) (attributable to inclusions under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965(a)).
(C)
Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
USP determines whether CFC1 and CFC2 are deferred foreign income corporations, and, if so, determines its section 965(a) inclusion amounts with respect to CFC1 and CFC2. Because USP wholly owns CFC1 and CFC2 under section 958(a) and USP does not have an aggregate foreign E
P deficit, USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to each of CFC1 and CFC2, respectively, equals the section 965(a) earnings amount, if any, of CFC1 and CFC2, respectively.
(
1
)
CFC1 section 965(a) earnings amount.
CFC1 is not a deferred foreign income corporation and does not have a section 965(a) earnings amount because the amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of both November 2, 2017, and December 31, 2017, is 0u, which is equal to 70u of post-1986 earnings and profits (30u earned and 40u attributable to the CFC2 distribution) reduced by 70u of such post-1986 earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) (30u earned and 40u attributable to the CFC2 distribution) under section 965(d)(2)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(7)(i)(B).
(
2
)
CFC2 section 965(a) earnings amount.
The section 965(a) earnings amount with respect to CFC2 is 100u, the greater of the amounts in paragraph (j)(3)(ii)(C)(2)(
i
) and (
ii
) of this section (paragraph (C)(2)(
i
) and (
ii
) in the analysis in this
Example 3
)—
(
i
) The amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of November 2, 2017, 80u. CFC2's 80u of accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of November 2, 2017, is equal to its 80u of post-1986 earnings and profits because no adjustment is made under section 965(d)(2) or § 1.965-1(f)(7), as CFC2 does not have earnings and profits that are attributable to income of the specified foreign corporation that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and subject to tax under chapter 1, or that, if distributed, would be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959 or from the gross income of another shareholder if such shareholder were a United States shareholder, without regard to the subpart F income earned after November 2, 2017. CFC2's 80u of post-1986 earnings and profits consists of 120u of earnings
and profits that it earned, reduced by the 40u distribution to CFC1 under section 965(d)(3)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(29)(i)(B). The amount of the reduction to the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC2 for the 40u distribution is not limited by § 1.965-1(f)(29)(i)(B) because CFC1's post-1986 earnings and profits are increased by 40u as a result of the distribution. Furthermore, because the 40u distribution was made on July 1, 2017, which is before any E
P measurement date, § 1.965-4(f) is not relevant.
(
ii
) The amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of December 31, 2017, 100u, which is equal to 130u of post-1986 earnings and profits reduced by 30u of such post-1986 earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) with regard to the subpart F income earned before December 31, 2017, under section 965(d)(2)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(7)(i)(B) and (ii). CFC2's 130u of post-1986 earnings and profits consists of 170u of earnings and profits that it earned, reduced by the 40u distribution to CFC1 under section 965(d)(3)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(29)(i)(B).
(
3
)
Effect on earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (3).
CFC2 increases its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC2, 100u, and reduces its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) by an equivalent amount.
(D)
Distribution to United States shareholder.
The analysis is the same as in paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(D) of this section (paragraph (D) in the analysis in
Example 1
).
(4)
Example 4. Determination of accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income with distribution made after E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017
—(i)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, a foreign corporation, which owns all of the stock of CFC2, also a foreign corporation. USP, CFC1, and CFC2 all have taxable years ending December 31, 2017. As of January 1, 2017, CFC1 has 10u of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) that were accumulated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, while CFC1 was a specified foreign corporation, and $2x of post-1986 foreign income taxes; and CFC2 has 100u of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) that were accumulated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, while CFC2 was a specified foreign corporation and $10x of post-1986 foreign income taxes. For purposes of section 904, the post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes are in the general category. None of CFC1's or CFC2's earnings and profits are attributable to income treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States. On December 1, 2017, CFC2 distributes 100u to CFC1, and CFC1 distributes 10u to USP. USP does not have an aggregate foreign E
P deficit. USP includes in gross income all amounts that it is required to include under section 951. No foreign income tax is imposed or withheld on the distribution by CFC2 to CFC1 or the distribution by CFC1 to USP. USP does not apply § 1.965-4(f)(3) to determine the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC1 and CFC2.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Adjustments to section 959(c) classification of earnings and profits for inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965.
The distribution from CFC2 to CFC1 does not give rise to subpart F income to CFC1 due to the application of section 954(c)(6). Accordingly, USP does not have an inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) without regard to section 965(a) with respect to CFC1 or CFC2 for their taxable years ending December 31, 2017. As a result, neither CFC1 nor CFC2 has earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2).
(B)
Distributions between specified foreign corporations before January 1, 2018.
The distribution of 100u from CFC2 to CFC1 is initially treated as a distribution out of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3).
(C)
Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
USP determines whether CFC1 and CFC2 are deferred foreign income corporations, and, if so, determines its section 965(a) inclusion amounts with respect to CFC1 and CFC2. CFC1 and CFC2 are specified foreign corporations, and CFC1 and CFC2 each have accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income greater than zero as of an E
P measurement date. Accordingly, CFC1 and CFC2 are deferred foreign income
corporations. USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to each of CFC1 and CFC2, respectively, equals the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 and CFC2, respectively.
(
1
)
CFC1 section 965(a) earnings amount.
The section 965(a) earnings amount with respect to CFC1 is 10u, the amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of both November 2, 2017, and December 31, 2017, which is equal to the amount of CFC1's post-1986 earnings and profits of 10u. CFC1's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income is equal to its post-1986 earnings and profits because CFC1 does not have earnings and profits that are attributable to income of the specified foreign corporation that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and subject to tax under chapter 1, or that, if distributed, would be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959 or from the gross income of another shareholder if such shareholder were a United States shareholder, and therefore no adjustment is made under section 965(d)(2) or § 1.965-1(f)(7). But for § 1.965-4(f), CFC1's post-1986 earnings and profits as of December 31, 2017, would be 110u, but because the distribution from CFC2 is a specified payment, it is disregarded in determining CFC1's post-1986 earnings and profits as of December 31, 2017, under § 1.965-4(f). Under section 965(d)(3)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(29)(i)(B), the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC1 are not reduced by the 10u distribution to USP.
(
2
)
CFC2 section 965(a) earnings amount.
The section 965(a) earnings amount with respect to CFC2 is 100u, the amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of both November 2, 2017, and December 31, 2017, which is equal to the amount of CFC2's post-1986 earnings and profits of 100u. CFC2's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income is equal to its post-1986 earnings and profits because CFC2 does not have earnings and profits that are attributable to income of the specified foreign corporation that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and subject to tax under chapter 1, or that, if distributed, would be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959 or from the gross income of another shareholder if such shareholder were a United States shareholder, and therefore no adjustment is made under section 965(d)(2) or § 1.965-1(f)(7). But for § 1.965-4(f), CFC2's post-1986 earnings and profits as of December 31, 2017, would be 0u, but because the distribution to CFC1 is a specified payment, it is disregarded in determining CFC2's post-1986 earnings and profits as of December 31, 2017, under § 1.965-4(f).
(
3
)
Effect on earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (3).
CFC1 and CFC2 increase their earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by USP's section 965(a) inclusion amounts with respect to CFC1 and CFC2, 10u and 100u, respectively, and reduce their earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) by an equivalent amount.
(D)
Distributions
—(
1
)
Distribution that is a specified payment.
The distribution from CFC2 to CFC1 is recharacterized as a distribution of 100u out of the earnings and profits of CFC2 described in section 959(c)(2), which include earnings and profits attributable to the section 965(a) inclusion amount taken into account by USP.
(
2
)
Distribution to United States shareholder.
The distribution from CFC1 to USP is treated as a distribution of 10u out of the earnings and profits of CFC1 described in section 959(c)(2), which include earnings and profits attributable to the section 965(a) inclusion amount taken into account by USP.
(E)
Section 902 and section 960 consequences.
Under section 960, USP is deemed to pay $10x ($10x × (100u/100u)) of CFC2's post-1986 foreign income taxes as a result of its section 965(a) inclusion with respect to CFC2 and $2x ($2x × (10u/10u) of CFC1's post-1986 foreign income taxes as a result of its section 965(a) inclusion with respect to CFC1. Such taxes are subject to the applicable percentage disallowance under section 965(g).
(5)
Example 5. Determination of accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income with section 951(a)(1)(B) inclusion after E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017
—(i)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC,
a foreign corporation. USP has a taxable year ending December 31, 2017, and CFC has a taxable year ending November 30, 2017. As of December 1, 2016, CFC has 110u of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) that were accumulated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, while CFC was a specified foreign corporation. CFC holds 150u of United States property throughout its taxable year ending November 30, 2017, but disposes of it on December 1, 2017, recognizing no gain or loss on the property. Between December 1, 2017, and December 31, 2017, CFC earns an additional 10u of income that does not constitute subpart F income or income treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States that gives rise to 10u of earnings and profits. USP includes in income all amounts that it is required to include under section 951.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
USP determines whether CFC is a deferred foreign income corporation, and, if so, determines its section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC. CFC is a specified foreign corporation, and CFC has accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income greater than zero as of an E
P measurement date. Accordingly, CFC is a deferred foreign income corporation. USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC equals the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC.
(
1
)
CFC section 965(a) earnings amount.
The section 965(a) earnings amount with respect to CFC is 110u, the greater of the amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of November 2, 2017, which is 110u, and the amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of December 31, 2017, which is 10u. CFC's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of November 2, 2017, is equal to its 110u of post-1986 earnings and profits, which are not reduced by the 110u of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) as a result of USP's section 951(a)(1)(B) inclusion with respect to CFC as of December 31, 2017, because such amounts would not be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959 under section 965(d)(2) or § 1.965-1(f)(7) if distributed on November 2, 2017. CFC's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of December 31, 2017, is equal to its 120u of post-1986 earnings and profits reduced by the 110u of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) as a result of USP's section 951(a)(1)(B) inclusion with respect to CFC as of December 31, 2017, which would be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959 under section 965(d)(2) or § 1.965-1(f)(7) if distributed on December 31, 2017.
(
2
)
Effect on earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) and (3).
In USP's taxable year ending December 31, 2018, CFC increases its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC, 110u, and reduces its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) by an equivalent amount.
(B)
Section 956 inclusion.
In USP's taxable year ending December 31, 2017, USP increases its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) by USP's amount included under sections 951(a)(1)(B) and 956 with respect to CFC, 110u, and reduces its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) by an equivalent amount.
(6)
Example 6. Section 1248 inclusion
—(i)
Facts.
USP1, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC, a foreign corporation, until it sells all of such stock to USP2, a domestic corporation, on December 1, 2017, in a sale on which USP1 recognizes $100x of gain. Throughout 2017, 1u=$1x. USP1, USP2, and CFC all have taxable years ending December 31, 2017. As of January 1, 2017, CFC has 100u of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) that were accumulated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, while CFC was wholly owned by USP1. On March 1, 2017, CFC distributes 20u to USP1. None of CFC's earnings and profits are attributable to income treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States. USP2 does not have an aggregate foreign E
P deficit. USP1 and USP2 include in income all amounts that they are required to include under sections 951 and 1248.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Adjustments to section 959(c) classification of earnings and profits for section 1248 inclusion.
USP1's inclusion under section 1248 with respect to CFC is $80x ($100x−$20x). As a result of the inclusion under section 1248, under section 959(e), CFC increases its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by 80u.
(B)
Section 965(a) inclusion amount.
USP2 determines whether CFC is a deferred foreign income corporation and, if so, determines its section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC. CFC is a specified foreign corporation, and CFC has accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income greater than zero as of an E
P measurement date. Accordingly, CFC is a deferred foreign income corporation. USP2's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC equals the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC. The section 965(a) earnings amount with respect to CFC is 20u, the amount of its accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income as of both November 2, 2017, and December 31, 2017, which is equal to 100u of post-1986 earnings and profits reduced by 80u of such post-1986 earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) under section 965(d)(2)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(7)(i)(B). CFC increases its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) by USP2's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC, 20u, and reduces its earnings and profits that would be described in section 959(c)(3) but for the application of section 965(a) by an equivalent amount.
(C)
Distributions to United States shareholders.
The distributions from CFC to USP1 (including the deemed dividend under section 1248) are treated as distributions out of the earnings and profits of CFC described in section 959(c)(3).
(7)
Example 7. Distribution attributable to section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits
—(i)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, a specified foreign corporation that has no post-1986 earnings and profits (or deficit in post-1986 earnings and profits), and CFC1 owns all the stock of CFC2, a deferred foreign income corporation. USP is a calendar year taxpayer. CFC1's last taxable year beginning before January 1, 2018, ends on November 30, 2018; CFC2 has an inclusion year that ends on November 30, 2018. The functional currency of CFC1 and CFC2 is the U.S. dollar. USP's adjusted basis in the stock of CFC1 is zero. On January 1, 2018, CFC2 distributes $100x to CFC1, and CFC1 distributes $100x to USP. USP has a section 965(a) inclusion amount of $100x with respect to CFC2 that is taken into account for USP's taxable year ending December 31, 2018. CFC2 has no earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) or (2) other than section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits.
(ii)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (c) of this section, CFC2 has $100x of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits with respect to USP. USP receives a distribution from CFC2 through a chain of ownership described in section 958(a) during the inclusion year of CFC2 that is attributable to the $100x of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits of CFC2. Under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the amount of gain that USP otherwise would recognize with respect to the stock of CFC1 under section 961(b)(2) is reduced (but not below zero) by $100x, the amount of CFC2's section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits with respect to USP. As of the close of November 30, 2018, USP's basis in CFC1 is increased under paragraph (e) of this section by USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC2 ($100x), and is reduced under paragraph (g)(2) of this section by the amount of gain that would have been recognized by USP under section 961(b)(2) but for the application of paragraph (g)(1) of this section ($100x).
(8)
Example 8. Distribution attributable to section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits; parent-subsidiary
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (j)(7)(i) of this section (the facts in
Example 7
), except that CFC1 has a specified E
P deficit of $100x. Because of the specified E
P deficit of CFC1, USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC2 is reduced to zero pursuant to section 965(b)(1) and § 1.965-1(b)(2). USP makes the election described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Application of the gain reduction rule.
Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, CFC2 has $100x of
section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits with respect to USP, and, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, CFC1's earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) are increased by $100x to $0. USP receives a distribution from CFC2 through a chain of ownership described in section 958(a) during the inclusion year of CFC2 that is attributable to the $100x of section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits of CFC2. Under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the amount of gain that USP otherwise would recognize with respect to the stock of CFC1 under section 961(b)(2) is reduced (but not below zero) by $100x, the amount of CFC2's section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits with respect to USP under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(B)
Adjustments to the basis of CFC1.
Because USP makes the election described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, as of the close of November 30, 2018, USP's basis in CFC1 is increased under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section by an amount equal to CFC2's section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits with respect to USP under paragraph (d)(1) of this section ($100x), reduced under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section by an amount equal to the portion of the specified E
P deficit of CFC1 taken into account in determining USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC2 ($100x), and reduced under paragraph (g)(2) of this section by the amount of gain that would have been recognized by USP with respect to the stock of CFC1 under section 961(b)(2) but for the application of paragraph (g)(1) of this section ($100x). Under paragraph (h)(2) and (3) of this section, the excess of the net reduction from the adjustments under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section over USP's basis in the stock of CFC1 (in this case, $100x) is treated as gain recognized by USP from the sale or exchange of property.
(9)
Example 9. Distribution attributable to section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits; brother-sister
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (j)(8)(i) of this section (the facts in
Example 8
), except that USP owns all the stock of CFC2, USP's adjusted basis in the stock of CFC2 is zero, CFC1 made no distributions, and on January 1, 2018, CFC2 distributes $100x to USP.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Application of the gain reduction rule.
Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, CFC2 has $100x of section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits with respect to USP, and, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, CFC1's earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) (deficit of $100x) are increased by $100x to $0. USP receives a distribution from CFC2 during the inclusion year of CFC2 that is attributable to the $100x of section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits of CFC2. Under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the amount of gain that USP otherwise would recognize with respect to the stock of CFC2 under section 961(b)(2) is reduced (but not below zero) by $100x, the amount of CFC2's section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits with respect to USP under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(B)
Adjustments to the basis of CFC1 and CFC2.
Because USP makes the election described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, as of the close of November 30, 2018, USP's basis in the stock of CFC2 is increased under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section by the amount of CFC2's section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits with respect to USP under paragraph (d)(1) of this section ($100x) and reduced under paragraph (g)(2) of this section by the amount of gain that would have been recognized by USP with respect to the stock of CFC2 under section 961(b)(2) but for the application of paragraph (g)(1) of this section ($100x). As of the close of November 30, 2018, USP's basis in CFC1 is reduced under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section by an amount equal to the portion of USP's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit of CFC1 taken into account in determining USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC2 ($100x). Under paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the excess of the reduction under paragraph (f) of this section over USP's basis in the stock of CFC1 (in this case, $100x) is treated as gain recognized by USP from the sale or exchange of property.
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019, as amended by T.D. 9846, 84 FR 14260, Apr. 10, 2019]
§ 1.965-3
Section 965(c) deductions.
(a)
Scope.
This section provides rules regarding section 965(c) deductions and section 965(c) deduction amounts. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules for disregarding certain assets for purposes of determining the aggregate foreign cash position of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for determining the aggregate foreign cash position for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year. Paragraph (d) of this section provides a rule regarding certain expatriated entities. Paragraph (e) of this section provides a rule for the treatment of section 965(c) deductions in connection with an election under section 962. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules regarding the treatment of a section 965(c) deduction under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Paragraph (g) of this section provides a rule for domestic pass-through entities.
(b)
Rules for disregarding certain assets for determining aggregate foreign cash position
—(1)
Disregard of certain obligations between related specified foreign corporations.
In determining the aggregate foreign cash position of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, any account receivable, account payable, short-term obligation, or derivative financial instrument between a specified foreign corporation with respect to which the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder owns section 958(a) stock and a related specified foreign corporation on corresponding cash measurement dates is disregarded to the extent of the smallest of the product of the amount of the item on such corresponding cash measurement dates of each specified foreign corporation and the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's ownership percentage of section 958(a) stock of the specified foreign corporation owned by the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder on such dates. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(i), a specified foreign corporation is treated as a related specified foreign corporation with respect to another specified foreign corporation if, as of the cash measurement date referred to in the preceding sentence of each specified foreign corporation, the specified foreign corporations are related persons within the meaning of section 954(d)(3), substituting the term “specified foreign corporation” for “controlled foreign corporation” in each place that it appears.
(2)
Disregard of other assets upon demonstration of double-counting.
For purposes of determining the aggregate foreign cash position of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the cash position of a specified foreign corporation on a cash measurement date is reduced by amounts of net accounts receivable, actively traded property, and short-term obligations to the extent such amounts are attributable to amounts taken into account in determining the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the cash position of another specified foreign corporation on the corresponding cash measurement date of such other specified corporation and to the extent not disregarded pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section. However, the preceding sentence applies only if the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder attaches a statement containing the information outlined in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section to its timely filed return (taking into account extensions, if any) for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, or, if the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder has multiple section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion years, the later of such years. Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or 301.9100-3 to allow late filing of the statement. The statement must contain the following information with respect to each specified foreign corporation for which the cash position is reduced under this paragraph (b)(2)—
(i) A description of the asset that would be taken into account with respect to both specified foreign corporations,
(ii) A statement of the amount by which its pro rata share of the cash position of one specified foreign corporation is reduced,
(iii) A detailed explanation of why there would otherwise be double-counting, including the computation of the amount taken into account with respect to the other specified foreign corporation, and
(iv) An explanation of why paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to disregard such amount.
(3)
Disregard of portion of cash position of noncorporate entities treated as specified foreign corporations.
If an entity is treated as a specified foreign corporation of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder pursuant to section 965(c)(3)(E), for purposes of determining the aggregate foreign cash position of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the cash position of the entity (determined taking into account paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section) is reduced by the amount of the pro rata share attributable to deemed stock of the entity not owned (within the meaning of section 958(a), applied by treating domestic pass-through entities as foreign) by a specified foreign corporation of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder (determined without taking into account section 965(c)(3)(E)).
(4)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (b).
(i)
Example 1
—(A)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, a foreign corporation. CFC1 owns 95% of the only class of stock of CFC2, also a foreign corporation, and 40% of the only class of stock of CFC3, also a foreign corporation. The remaining 5% of the only class of stock of CFC2 is owned by a person unrelated to USP, CFC1, and CFC2; and the remaining 60% of the only class of stock of CFC3 is owned by a person unrelated to USP and CFC1. USP, CFC1, and CFC3 have calendar year taxable years. CFC2 has a taxable year ending on November 30. On November 15, 2015, CFC1 makes a loan of $100x to CFC2, which is required to be and is, in fact, repaid on January 1, 2016. On November 15, 2016, CFC2 sells inventory to CFC1 in exchange for an account receivable of $200x, which is required to be and is, in fact, repaid on December 15, 2016. On August 1, 2017, CFC1 makes a loan of $300x to CFC3, which is required to be and is, in fact, repaid on January 31, 2018.
(B)
Analysis
—(
1
)
Loan from CFC1 to CFC2.
For purposes of determining the aggregate foreign cash position of USP, a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of CFC1, under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, because CFC1 and CFC2 are related within the meaning of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the short-term obligation of CFC2 held by CFC1 outstanding on the first cash measurement date of each specified foreign corporation, November 30, 2015, and December 31, 2015, respectively, is disregarded to the extent of 95%, the smallest ownership percentage of section 958(a) stock of CFC1 and CFC2 owned by USP on such first cash measurement dates. Accordingly, USP only takes into account $5 ($100−95% of $100) of the short-term obligation in determining CFC1's cash position for purposes of determining its aggregate foreign cash position.
(
2
)
Account receivable of CFC1 held by CFC2.
Because the account receivable of CFC1 held by CFC2 on its second cash measurement date, November 30, 2016, is not outstanding on CFC1's second cash measurement date, December 31, 2016, paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to disregard any portion of such account receivable.
(
3
)
Loan from CFC1 to CFC3.
Because CFC3 is not related to CFC1 within the meaning of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to disregard any portion of such short-term obligation.
(ii)
Example 2
—(A)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except that on December 1, 2015, CFC1 sells 5% of the stock of CFC2 to an unrelated person.
(B)
Analysis.
The analysis is the same as in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section (the analysis in
Example 1
), except that the short-term obligation of CFC2 held by CFC1 outstanding on both of their first cash measurement dates, November 30, 2015, and December 31, 2015, respectively, is disregarded under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the extent of 90%, the smallest ownership percentage of section 958(a) stock of CFC1 and CFC2 by USP on such first cash measurement dates. Accordingly, USP takes into account $10 ($100−90% of $100) of the short-term obligation in determining CFC1's cash position for purposes of determining its aggregate foreign cash position.
(iii)
Example 3
—(A)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, a foreign corporation, which owns 45% of the only class of stock of CFC2, also a foreign corporation. The remainder of the CFC2 stock is actively traded on an established financial market but is not owned by any person related to USP or CFC1. USP, CFC1, and CFC2 have calendar year taxable years. The value of the CFC2 stock owned by CFC1 is $500x on each of the cash measurement dates. Also on each of the cash measurement dates, CFC2 has $300x of assets described in section 965(c)(3)(B) and § 1.965-1(f)(16) that are taken into account in determining its cash position.
(B)
Analysis.
For purposes of determining USP's aggregate foreign cash position, USP's pro rata share of the cash position of CFC1 on each cash measurement date may be reduced by the amount of the stock of CFC2 to the extent attributable to amounts taken into account in determining USP's pro rata share of the cash position of CFC2 on such cash measurement date (that is, to the extent of the $135x taken into account with respect to CFC2), provided USP attaches a statement to its timely filed return (taking into account extensions, if any) containing the following: A description of the CFC2 stock and the assets of CFC2 taken into account in determining its cash position; a statement that USP's pro rata share of the cash position of CFC1 is being reduced by $135x; the computation of the $135x taken into account with respect to CFC2; and an explanation of why paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to disregard such amount.
(iv)
Example 4
—(A)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1 and CFC2, each a foreign corporation. USP, CFC1, and CFC2 have calendar year taxable years. CFC1 buys goods on credit from a third party for $100x and thus has an account payable of $100x. CFC1 modifies the goods and sells to CFC2 for $105x in exchange for an account receivable of $105x. CFC2 modifies the goods and sells to another third party for $110x in exchange for an account receivable of $110x. All of the accounts payable and accounts receivable are outstanding on the final cash measurement date.
(B)
Analysis.
For purposes of determining USP's aggregate foreign cash position, on the final cash measurement date, CFC1 has net accounts receivable of $0 because, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, CFC1's account receivable from CFC2 is disregarded, and CFC2 has net accounts receivable of $110x because, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, CFC2's account payable to CFC1 is disregarded. USP cannot rely on the rule in paragraph (b)(2) of this section because no amounts attributable to CFC2's net accounts receivable are taken into account with respect to another specified foreign corporation.
(v)
Example 5
—(A)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1 and CFC2, each a foreign corporation. USP and CFC1 own 60% and 40%, respectively, of the interests in the capital and profits of PS1, a partnership. PS1 and CFC2 own 70% and 30%, respectively, of the interests in the capital and profits of PS2, a partnership. On each cash measurement date, PS1's cash position of $100x consists entirely of cash, and PS2's cash position of $200x includes a $50x short-term obligation of CFC2.
(B)
Analysis
—(
1
)
Treatment of PS1.
Because an interest in PS1 is held by CFC1, a specified foreign corporation of USP, and PS1 would be a specified foreign corporation of USP if it were a foreign corporation, PS1 is treated as a specified foreign corporation of USP for purposes of determining USP's aggregate foreign cash position. Without regard to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, USP must take into account $100x, its pro rata share of PS1's cash position, for purposes of determining its aggregate foreign cash position. However, 60% of that amount is attributable to deemed stock of PS1 that is not owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)) by a specified foreign corporation of USP. Accordingly, pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the amount of PS1's cash position that USP must take into account for purposes of determining its aggregate foreign cash position is reduced by $60x (60% of $100x) to $40x ($100x−$60x).
(
2
)
Treatment of PS2.
Because an interest in PS2 is held by CFC2, a specified foreign corporation of USP, and PS2 would be a specified foreign corporation of USP if it were a foreign corporation, PS2 is treated as a specified foreign corporation of USP for purposes of determining USP's aggregate foreign cash position. USP, CFC1, CFC2, PS1, and PS2 all have calendar year taxable years. For purposes of determining the aggregate foreign cash position of USP, a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of PS2, under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the short-term obligation of CFC2 held by PS2 outstanding on each cash measurement date of each specified foreign corporation is disregarded on such cash measurement dates. Accordingly, without regard to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, USP must take into account $150x ($200x−$50x) of PS2's cash position for purposes of determining its aggregate foreign cash position. However, 42% (60% × 70%) of that amount is attributable to deemed stock of PS2 that is not owned (within the meaning of section 958(a), applied by treating PS1 as foreign if it is a domestic pass-through entity) by a specified foreign corporation of USP (determined without taking into account section 965(c)(3)(E)). Accordingly, pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the amount of PS2's cash position that USP must take into account for purposes of determining its aggregate foreign cash position is reduced by $63x (42% of $150x) to $87x ($150x−$63x).
(c)
Determination of aggregate foreign cash position for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year
—(1)
Single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
If a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder has a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, then the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate foreign cash position for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year is equal to the aggregate foreign cash position of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder.
(2)
Multiple section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion years.
If a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder has multiple section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion years, then the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate foreign cash position for each section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year is determined by allocating the aggregate foreign cash position to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i)
Allocation to first section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
A portion of the aggregate foreign cash position of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is allocated to the first section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year in an amount equal to the lesser of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate foreign cash position or the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
(ii)
Allocation to succeeding section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion years.
The amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate foreign cash position allocated to any succeeding section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year equals the lesser of the excess, if any, of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate foreign cash position over the aggregate amount of its aggregate foreign cash position allocated to preceding section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion years under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section and this paragraph (c)(2)(ii) or the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount for such succeeding section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
(3)
Estimation of aggregate foreign cash position.
For purposes of determining the aggregate foreign cash position of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder may assume that its pro rata share of the cash position of any specified foreign corporation whose last taxable year beginning before January 1, 2018, ends after the date the return for such section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year (the
estimated section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year
) is timely filed (taking into account extensions, if any) is zero as of the cash measurement date with which the taxable year of such specified foreign corporation ends. If a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the cash position of a specified foreign corporation is treated
as zero pursuant to the preceding sentence, the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(8)(i)(A) with respect to such section 958(a) U.S. shareholder in fact exceeds the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(8)(i)(B) with respect to such section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, and the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount for the estimated section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year exceeds the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(8)(i)(B) with respect to such section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, interest and penalties will not be imposed if such section 958(a) U.S. shareholder amends the return for the estimated section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year to account for the correct aggregate foreign cash position for the year. The amended return must be filed by the due date (taking into account extensions, if any) for the return for the year after the estimated section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
(4)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (c).
(i)
Example 1. Estimation of aggregate foreign cash position for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year
—(A)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, a foreign corporation, which owns all of the stock of CFC2, also a foreign corporation. USP is a calendar year taxpayer. CFC1 has a taxable year ending on December 31, and CFC2 has a taxable year ending on November 30. The cash position of CFC1 on each of December 31, 2015, December 31, 2016, and December 31, 2017, is $100x. The cash position of CFC2 on each of November 30, 2015, and November 30, 2016, is $200x. USP has a section 965(a) inclusion amount of $300x with respect to CFC1.
(B)
Analysis.
In determining its aggregate foreign cash position for its 2017 taxable year, USP may assume that its pro rata share of the cash position of CFC2 will be zero as of November 30, 2018, for purposes of filing its return due on April 18, 2018 (or due on October 15, 2018, with extension). Therefore, USP's aggregate foreign cash position is treated as $300x, which is the greater of (a) $300x, 50% of the sum of USP's pro rata shares of the cash position of CFC1 as of December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2016, and of the cash position of CFC2 as of November 30, 2015, and November 30, 2016, and (b) $100x, USP's pro rata share of the cash position of CFC1 as of December 31, 2017. If USP's pro rata share of the cash position of CFC2 as of November 30, 2018, in fact exceeds $200x, USP must amend its return for its 2017 taxable year to reflect the correct aggregate foreign cash position by the due date for its return for its 2018 taxable year, April 15, 2019 (or October 15, 2019, with extension).
(ii)
Example 2. Allocation of aggregate foreign cash position among section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion years
—(A)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except that the cash position of each of CFC1 and CFC2 on all relevant cash measurement dates is $200x, with the result that USP has an aggregate foreign cash position determined under § 1.965-1(f)(8)(i) of $400x. For its 2017 taxable year, USP has a section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC1 of $300x, and for its 2018 taxable year, USP has a section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC2 of $300x.
(B)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, USP's aggregate foreign cash position for 2017 is $300x, which is the lesser of USP's aggregate foreign cash position determined under § 1.965-1(f)(8)(i) ($400x) or the section 965(a) inclusion amount ($300x) that USP takes into account in 2017. Under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the amount of USP's aggregate foreign cash position for 2018 is $100x, USP's aggregate foreign cash position determined under § 1.965-1(f)(8)(i) ($400x) reduced by the amount of its aggregate foreign cash position for 2017 ($300x) under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(d)
Increase of income by section 965(c) deduction of an expatriated entity
—(1)
In general.
If a person is allowed a section 965(c) deduction and the person (or a successor) first becomes an expatriated entity, with respect to a surrogate foreign corporation, at any time during the 10-year period beginning on December 22, 2017, then the tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code is increased for the first taxable year in which such person becomes an expatriated entity by an amount equal to 35
percent of the person's section 965(c) deductions, and no credits are allowed against such increase in tax. The preceding sentence applies only if the surrogate foreign corporation first becomes a surrogate foreign corporation on or after December 22, 2017.
(2)
Definition of expatriated entity.
For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the term
expatriated entity
has the same meaning given such term under section 7874(a)(2), except that such term does not include an expatriated entity if the surrogate foreign corporation with respect to the expatriated entity is treated as a domestic corporation under section 7874(b).
(3)
Definition of surrogate foreign corporation.
For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the term
surrogate foreign corporation
has the meaning given such term in section 7874(a)(2)(B).
(e)
Section 962 election
—(1)
In general.
In the case of an individual (including a trust or estate) that makes an election under section 962, any section 965(c) deduction taken into account under § 1.962-1(b)(1)(i)(B) in determining taxable income as used in section 11 is not taken into account for purposes of determining the individual's taxable income under section 1.
(2)
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of the rule in this paragraph (e).
(i)
Facts.
USI, a United States citizen, owns 10% of the capital and profits of USPRS, a domestic partnership that has a calendar year taxable year, the remainder of which is owned by foreign persons unrelated to USI or USPRS. USPRS owns all of the stock of FS, a foreign corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation with a calendar year taxable year. USPRS has a section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to FS of $1,000x and has a section 965(c) deduction amount of $700x. FS has no post-1986 foreign income taxes. USI makes a valid election under section 962 for 2017.
(ii)
Analysis.
USI's “taxable income” described in § 1.962-1(b)(1)(i) equals $100x (USI's domestic pass-through owner share of USPRS's section 965(a) inclusion amount) minus $70x (USI's domestic pass-through owner share of USPRS's section 965(c) deduction amount), or $30x. No other deductions are allowed in determining this amount. USI's tax on the $30x section 965(a) inclusion will be equal to the tax that would be imposed on such amount under section 11 if USI were a domestic corporation. Under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, USI cannot deduct $70x for purposes of determining USI's taxable income that is subject to tax under section 1.
(f)
Treatment of section 965(c) deduction under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
—(1)
Sections 62(a) and 63(d).
A section 965(c) deduction is treated as a deduction described in section 62(a) and is not treated as an itemized deduction for any purpose of the Internal Revenue Code.
(2)
Sections 705, 1367, and 1368
—(i)
Adjustments to basis.
In the case of a domestic partnership or S corporation—
(A) The aggregate amount of its section 965(a) inclusions net of the aggregate amount of its section 965(c) deductions is treated as a separately stated item of net income solely for purposes of calculating basis under section 705(a) and § 1.705-1(a) and section 1367(a)(1) and § 1.1367-1(f), and
(B) The aggregate amount of its section 965(a) inclusions equal to the aggregate amount of its section 965(c) deductions is treated as income exempt from tax solely for purposes of calculating basis under sections 705(a)(1)(B), 1367(a)(1)(A), and § 1.1367-1(f).
(ii)
S corporation accumulated adjustments account.
In the case of an S corporation, the aggregate amount of its section 965(a) inclusions equal to the aggregate amount of its section 965(c) deductions is treated as income not exempt from tax solely for purposes of determining whether an adjustment is made to an accumulated adjustments account under section 1368(e)(1)(A) and § 1.1368-2(a)(2).
(iii)
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (f)(2).
(A)
Facts.
USI, a United States citizen, owns all of the stock of S Corp, an S corporation, which owns all of the stock of FS, a foreign corporation. S Corp has a section 965(a) inclusion of $1,000x with respect to FS and has a $700x section 965(c) deduction.
(B)
Analysis.
As a result of the application of paragraph (f)(2)(i)(A) of this
section, solely for purposes of calculating basis under section 1367(a)(1) and § 1.1367-1(f), USI treats as a separately stated item of net income $300x (its pro rata share of the net of S Corp's $1,000x aggregate section 965(a) inclusion and S Corp's $700x aggregate section 965(c) deduction). Accordingly, USI's basis in S Corp is increased under section 1367(a)(1) by $300x. As a result of the application of paragraph (f)(2)(i)(B) of this section, an amount of S Corp's aggregate section 965(a) inclusion equal to its aggregate section 965(c) deduction, $700x, is treated as tax exempt income solely for purposes of calculating basis under section 1367(a)(1)(A) and § 1.1367-1(f), and accordingly, USI's basis in S Corp is further increased by its pro rata share of such amount, $700x. S Corp's accumulated adjustments account (“AAA”) is increased under section 1368(e)(1)(A) by the $1,000x section 965(a) inclusion taken into account and reduced by the $700x section 965(c) deduction taken into account. In addition, as a result of the application of paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, S Corp's AAA is further increased by an amount of S Corp's aggregate section 965(a) inclusion equal to its aggregate section 965(c) deduction, $700x, which is not treated as tax-exempt income for purposes of § 1.1368-2(a)(2).
(3)
Section 1411.
For purposes of section 1411 and § 1.1411-4(f)(6), a section 965(c) deduction is not treated as being properly allocable to any section 965(a) inclusion.
(4)
Section 4940.
For purposes of section 4940(c)(3)(A), a section 965(c) deduction is not treated as an ordinary and necessary expense paid or incurred for the production or collection of gross investment income.
(g)
Domestic pass-through entities.
For purposes of determining a domestic pass-through owner share, a section 965(c) deduction amount of a domestic pass-through entity must be allocated to a domestic pass-through owner in the same proportion as an aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of the domestic pass-through entity for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year is allocated to the domestic pass-through owner.
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 1.965-4
Disregard of certain transactions.
(a)
Scope.
This section provides rules that disregard certain transactions for purposes of applying section 965 to a United States shareholder. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules that disregard transactions undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules that disregard certain changes in method of accounting and entity classification elections that would otherwise change the amount of a section 965 element. Paragraph (d) of this section defines the term section 965 element. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules of application concerning paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules that disregard certain transactions occurring between E
P measurement dates. Paragraph (g) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of this section.
(b)
Transactions undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element
—(1)
General rule.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, a transaction is disregarded for purposes of determining the amounts of all section 965 elements of a United States shareholder if each of the following conditions is satisfied with respect to any section 965 element of the United States shareholder—
(i) The transaction occurs, in whole or in part, on or after November 2, 2017 (the
specified date
);
(ii) The transaction is undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of the United States shareholder; and
(iii) The transaction would, without regard to this paragraph (b)(1), change the amount of the section 965 element of the United States shareholder.
(2)
Presumptions and exceptions for the application of the general rule
—(i)
Overview.
Under paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) through (v) of this section, certain transactions are presumed to be undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this
section. The presumptions described in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) through (v) of this section may be rebutted only if facts and circumstances clearly establish that the transaction was not undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder. A taxpayer that takes the position that the presumption is rebutted must attach a statement to its return for its taxable year in which or with which the relevant taxable year of the relevant specified foreign corporation ends disclosing that it has rebutted the presumption. In the case of a transaction described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) or (iv) of this section, if the presumption does not apply because the transaction occurs in the ordinary course of business, whether the transaction was undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder must be determined under all the facts and circumstances. Under paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) through (v) of this section, certain transactions are treated per se as being undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder, and, therefore, such transactions are disregarded under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the conditions of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (iii) of this section are satisfied. Further, under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, certain distributions are treated per se as not being undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder and therefore are not disregarded under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(ii)
Definitions
—(A)
Relatedness.
For purposes of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) through (v) of this section, a person is treated as related to a United States shareholder if, either immediately before or immediately after the transaction (or series of related transactions), the person bears a relationship to the United States shareholder described in section 267(b) or section 707(b).
(B)
Transfer
—(
1
)
In general.
For purposes of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) and (v) of this section, the term
transfer
includes any disposition of stock or property, including a sale or exchange, contribution, distribution, issuance, redemption, recapitalization, or loan of stock or property, and includes an indirect transfer of stock or property.
(
2
)
Indirect transfer.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section, the term
indirect transfer
includes a transfer of property or stock owned by an entity through a transfer of an interest in such entity (or an interest in an entity that has a direct or indirect interest in such entity), and a transfer of property or stock to a person through a transfer of property or stock to a pass-through entity of which such person is a direct or indirect owner.
(iii)
Cash reduction transactions
—(A)
General rule.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a cash reduction transaction is presumed to be undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder. For this purpose, the term
cash reduction transaction
means a transfer of cash, accounts receivable, or cash-equivalent assets by a specified foreign corporation to a United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation or a person related to a United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation, or an assumption by a specified foreign corporation of an account payable of a United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation or a person related to a United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation, if such transfer or assumption would, without regard to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, reduce the aggregate foreign cash position of the United States shareholder. The presumption described in this paragraph (b)(2)(iii) does not apply to a cash reduction transaction that occurs in the ordinary course of business.
(B)
Per se rules for certain distributions.
Notwithstanding the presumption described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, except in the case of a specified distribution, a cash reduction transaction that is a distribution by a specified foreign corporation to a United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation is treated per se as not being undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount
of a section 965 element of the United States shareholder for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A specified distribution is treated per se as being undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(B), the term
specified distribution
means a cash reduction transaction that is a distribution by a specified foreign corporation of a United States shareholder if and to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, there was a plan or intention for the distributee to transfer cash, accounts receivable, or cash-equivalent assets to any specified foreign corporation of the United States shareholder or a distribution that is a non pro rata distribution to a foreign person that is related to the United States shareholder. For purposes of the preceding sentence, there is no plan or intention for the distributee to transfer cash, accounts receivable, or cash-equivalent assets to any specified foreign corporation of the United States shareholder if the transfer is pursuant to a legal obligation entered into before November 2, 2017. A taxpayer that takes the position that a cash reduction transaction is not a specified distribution because a transfer of cash, accounts receivable, or cash-equivalent asset is pursuant to a legal obligation entered into before November 2, 2017, must attach a statement to its return for its taxable year in which or with which the relevant taxable year of the relevant specified foreign corporation ends disclosing the position.
(iv)
E
P reduction transactions
—(A)
General rule.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an E
P reduction transaction is presumed to be undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(iv), the term
E
P reduction transaction
means a transaction between a specified foreign corporation and any of a United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation, another specified foreign corporation of a United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation, or any person related to a United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation, if the transaction would, without regard to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, reduce either the accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income or the post-1986 undistributed earnings (as defined in section 902(c)(1)) of the specified foreign corporation or another specified foreign corporation of any United States shareholder of such specified foreign corporation. The presumption described in this paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) does not apply to an E
P reduction transaction that occurs in the ordinary course of business.
(B)
Per se rule for specified transactions.
A specified transaction is treated per se as being undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term
specified transaction
means an E
P reduction transaction that involves one or more of the following: A complete liquidation of a specified foreign corporation to which section 331 applies; a sale or other disposition of stock by a specified foreign corporation; or a distribution by a specified foreign corporation that reduces the earnings and profits of the specified foreign corporation pursuant to section 312(a)(3).
(v)
Pro rata share transactions
—(A)
General rule.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a pro rata share transaction is presumed to be undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder. For this purpose, the term
pro rata share transaction
means either a pro rata share reduction transaction or an E
P deficit transaction.
(
1
)
Definition of pro rata share reduction transaction.
For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(v)(A), the term
pro rata share reduction transaction
means a transfer of the stock of a specified foreign corporation by either a United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation or a person related to a United States shareholder of the specified foreign corporation (including by the specified foreign corporation itself) to a person related to the United
States shareholder if the transfer would, without regard to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, reduce the United States shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of the specified foreign corporation, reduce the United States shareholder's pro rata share of the cash position of the specified foreign corporation, or both.
(
2
)
Definition of E
P deficit transaction.
For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(v)(A), the term
E
P deficit transaction
means a transfer to either a United States shareholder or a person related to the United States shareholder of the stock of an E
P deficit foreign corporation by a person related to the United States shareholder (including by the E
P deficit foreign corporation itself) if the transfer would, without regard to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, increase the United States shareholder's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit of the E
P deficit foreign corporation.
(B)
Per se rule for internal group transactions.
An internal group transaction is treated per se as being undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term
internal group transaction
means a pro rata share transaction if, immediately before or after the transfer, the transferor of the stock of the specified foreign corporation and the transferee of such stock are members of an affiliated group in which the United States shareholder is a member. For this purpose, the term
affiliated group
has the meaning set forth in section 1504(a), determined without regard to paragraphs (1) through (8) of section 1504(b), and the term
members of an affiliated group
means entities included in the same affiliated group. For purposes of identifying an affiliated group and the members of such group, each partner in a partnership, as determined without regard to this sentence, is treated as holding its proportionate share of the stock held by the partnership, as determined under the rules and principles of sections 701 through 777, and if one or more members of an affiliated group own, in the aggregate, at least 80 percent of the interests in a partnership's capital or profits, the partnership will be treated as a corporation that is a member of the affiliated group.
(C)
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of the rules in this paragraph (b)(2)(v).
(
1
)
Facts.
FP, a foreign corporation, owns all of the stock of USP, a domestic corporation. USP owns all of the stock of FS, a foreign corporation. USP has a calendar year taxable year; FS's taxable year ends November 30. On January 2, 2018, USP transfers all of the stock of FS to FP in exchange for cash. On January 3, 2018, FS makes a distribution with respect to the stock transferred to FP. USP treats the transaction as a taxable sale of the FS stock and claims a dividends received deduction under section 245A with respect to its deemed dividend under section 1248(j) as a result of the sale. FS has post-1986 earnings and profits as of December 31, 2017, and no post-1986 earnings and profits that are attributable to income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and subject to tax under chapter 1 or that, if distributed, would be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959.
(
2
)
Analysis.
The transfer of the stock of FS is a pro rata share reduction transaction and thus a pro rata share transaction because such transfer is by USP, a United States shareholder, to FP, a person related to USP, and the transfer would, without regard to the rule in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, reduce USP's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of FS. Because USP and FP are also members of an affiliated group within the meaning of paragraph (b)(2)(v)(B) of this section, the transfer of the stock of FS is also an internal group transaction and is treated per se as being undertaken with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of USP. Accordingly, because the transfer occurs after the specified date and reduces USP's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to FS, the transfer is disregarded for purposes of determining any section 965 element of USP with the result that, among other
things, USP's pro rata share of FS's section 965(a) earnings amount is determined as if USP owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)) 100% of the stock of FS on the last day of FS's inclusion year and no other person received a distribution with respect to such stock during such year.
See
section 951(a)(2)(A) and (B).
(c)
Disregard of certain changes in method of accounting and entity classification elections
—(1)
Changes in method of accounting.
Any change in method of accounting made for a taxable year of a specified foreign corporation that ends in 2017 or 2018 is disregarded for purposes of determining the amounts of all section 965 elements with respect to a United States shareholder if the change in method of accounting would, without regard to this paragraph (c)(1), change the amount of any section 965 element described in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section with respect to the United States shareholder, or change the amount of the section 965 element described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section other than by reason of an increase in a section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to the specified foreign corporation, regardless of whether the change in method of accounting is made with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element with respect to the United States shareholder. The rule described in the preceding sentence applies regardless of whether the change in method of accounting was made in accordance with the procedures described in Rev. Proc. 2015-13, 2015-5 I.R.B. 419 (or successor), and regardless of whether the change in method of accounting was properly made, but it does not apply to a change in method of accounting for which the original and/or duplicate copy of any Form 3115, “Application for Change in Accounting Method,” requesting the change was filed before the specified date (as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section).
(2)
Entity classification elections.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, an election under § 301.7701-3 to change the classification of an entity that is filed on or after the specified date (as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) is disregarded for purposes of determining the amounts of all section 965 elements of a United States shareholder if the election would, without regard to this paragraph (c)(2), change the amount of any section 965 element of the United States shareholder, regardless of whether the election is made with a principal purpose of changing the amount of a section 965 element of the United States shareholder. An election filed on or after the specified date is subject to the preceding sentence even if the election was filed with an effective date that is before the specified date.
(d)
Definition of a section 965 element.
For purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the term
section 965 element
means, with respect to a United States shareholder, any of the following amounts (collectively,
section 965 elements
)—
(1) The United States shareholder's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to a specified foreign corporation;
(2) The aggregate foreign cash position of the United States shareholder; or
(3) The amount of foreign income taxes of a specified foreign corporation deemed paid by the United States shareholder under section 960 as a result of a section 965(a) inclusion.
(e)
Rules for applying paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section
—(1)
Determination of whether there is a change in the amount of a section 965 element.
For purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, there is a change in the amount of a section 965 element of a United States shareholder as a result of a transaction, change in accounting method, or election to change an entity's classification, if, without regard to paragraph (b)(1), (c)(1), or (c)(2) of this section, the transaction, change in accounting method, or change in entity classification would—
(i) Reduce the amount described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section,
(ii) Reduce the amount described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, but only if such amount is less than the United States shareholder's aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount, or
(iii) Increase the amount described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(2)
Treatment of domestic pass-through owners as United States shareholders.
For purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, if a domestic pass-through entity is a United States shareholder, then a domestic pass-through owner with respect to the domestic pass-through entity that is not otherwise a United States shareholder is treated as a United States shareholder.
(3)
Exception for certain incorporation transactions
—(i)
In general.
Paragraphs (b) and (c)(2) of this section do not apply to disregard a transfer of stock of a specified foreign corporation by a United States shareholder to a domestic corporation (for this purpose, including an S corporation), provided that—
(A) The transferee's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to the transferred stock of the specified foreign corporation is no lower than the transferor's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to the transferred stock of the specified foreign corporation, determined without regard to the transfer; and
(B) The transferee and the transferor determine their aggregate foreign cash position under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Aggregate foreign cash position.
In the case of a transfer described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, in order to rely on the exception in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section—
(A) The transferee must treat its pro rata share of the cash position of a specified foreign corporation as of a cash measurement date as of which it did not own the transferred stock of the specified foreign corporation as including the transferor's pro rata share of the cash position of the specified foreign corporation with respect to the transferred stock of the specified foreign corporation as of such cash measurement date for purposes of determining its aggregate foreign cash position; and
(B) The transferor must treat its pro rata share of the cash position of a specified foreign corporation as of a cash measurement date as of which it did not own the transferred stock of the specified foreign corporation as including the transferee's pro rata share of the cash position of the specified foreign corporation with respect to the transferred stock of the specified foreign corporation as of such cash measurement date for purposes of determining its aggregate foreign cash position.
(4)
Consequences of liquidation
—(i)
In general.
In the case of a liquidation of a specified foreign corporation that is disregarded for purposes of determining the section 965 elements of a United States shareholder pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c)(2) of this section, for purposes of determining the amounts of the section 965 elements of the United States shareholder, the date that is treated as the last day of the taxable year of the specified foreign corporation is the later of—
(A) The date of the liquidation; and
(B) The specified liquidation date, if any.
(ii)
Specified liquidation date.
The term
specified liquidation date
means, in the case of a liquidation of a specified foreign corporation pursuant to an entity classification election that is disregarded for purposes of determining the section 965 elements of a United States shareholder—
(A) November 30, 2017, with respect to a United States shareholder that must include in income under § 1.367(b)-3 as a deemed dividend the all earnings and profits amount with respect to the United States shareholder's stock of the liquidating specified foreign corporation; or
(B) The date of filing of the entity classification election, with respect to all other United States shareholders.
(f)
Disregard of certain transactions occurring between E
P measurement dates
—(1)
Disregard of specified payments.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, a specified payment made by a specified foreign corporation (
payor specified foreign corporation
) to another specified foreign corporation (
payee specified foreign corporation
) is disregarded for purposes of determining the post-1986 earnings and profits of each of the payor specified foreign corporation and the payee specified foreign corporation as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017.
(2)
Definition of specified payment.
For purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the term
specified payment
means any amount paid or accrued by the payor specified foreign corporation, including a distribution by the payor specified foreign corporation with respect to its stock, if each of the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) Immediately before or immediately after the payment or accrual of the amount, the payor specified foreign corporation and the payee specified foreign corporation are related within the meaning of section 954(d)(3), substituting the term “specified foreign corporation” for “controlled foreign corporation” in each place that it appears;
(ii) The payment or accrual of the amount occurs after November 2, 2017, and on or before December 31, 2017; and
(iii) The payment or accrual of the amount would, without regard to the application of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, reduce the post-1986 earnings and profits of the payor specified foreign corporation as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017.
(3)
Non-application of disregard rule.
A section 958(a) U.S. shareholder may determine the post-1986 earnings and profits of a specified foreign corporation without regard to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, provided that it and every section 958(a) U.S. shareholder related to the first section 958(a) U.S. shareholder determines the post-1986 earnings and profits of each of its specified foreign corporations without regard to paragraph (f)(1) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(3), a person is treated as related to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder if the person bears a relationship to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder described in section 267(b) or 707(b).
(4)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of the rules in this paragraph (f).
(i)
Example 1. Deductible payment between wholly owned specified foreign corporations is a specified payment
—(A)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, a foreign corporation, which owns all of the stock of CFC2, also a foreign corporation. USP, CFC1, and CFC2 have calendar year taxable years. On November 2, 2017, each of CFC1 and CFC2 has post-1986 earnings and profits of 100u. Neither CFC1 nor CFC2 has post-1986 earnings and profits that are attributable to income of the specified foreign corporation that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and subject to tax under chapter 1 or that, if distributed, would be excluded from the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 959 or from the gross income of another shareholder if such shareholder were a United States shareholder; therefore, no adjustment is made under section 965(d)(2) or § 1.965-1(f)(7), and each of CFC1's and CFC2's accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income is equal to such corporation's post-1986 earnings and profits. On November 3, 2017, CFC2 makes a deductible payment of 10u to CFC1. The payment does not constitute subpart F income. CFC1 and CFC2 have no other items of income or deduction.
(B)
Analysis.
The payment from CFC2 to CFC1 is a specified payment because (
1
) CFC1 and CFC2 are related specified foreign corporations; (
2
) the payment occurs after November 2, 2017, and on or before December 31, 2017; and (
3
) the payment would, without regard to the application of the rule in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, reduce the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC2 as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017. Under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the payment is disregarded, and CFC1 and CFC2 each have post-1986 earnings and profits of 100u as of December 31, 2017. Accordingly, the section 965(a) earnings amount of each of CFC1 and CFC2 is 100u.
(ii)
Example 2. Distribution is a specified payment
—(A)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(4)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except instead of a deductible payment to CFC1, CFC2 makes a 10u distribution on November 3, 2017, that, without regard to paragraph (f)(1) of this section would reduce the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC2 as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017, and increase the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC1 as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017, by 10u.
(B)
Analysis.
The distribution is a specified payment because (
1
) CFC1 and CFC2 are related specified foreign corporations; (
2
) the distribution occurs after November 2, 2017, and on or before December 31, 2017; and (
3
) the distribution would, without regard to the application of the rule in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, reduce the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC2 as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017. Under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the distribution is disregarded with the result that CFC1 and CFC2 each have post-1986 earnings and profits of 100u as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017, and a section 965(a) earnings amount of 100u.
(iii)
Example 3. Deductible payment between related (but not wholly owned) specified foreign corporations is a specified payment
—(A)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(4)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except that CFC1 owns only 51% of the only class of stock of CFC2, the remainder of which is owned by USI, a United States citizen unrelated to USP, CFC1, and CFC2.
(B)
Analysis.
The analysis is the same as in paragraph (f)(4)(i)(B) of this section (the analysis in
Example 1
); thus, the payment is disregarded with the result that CFC1 and CFC2 each have post-1986 earnings and profits of 100u as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017, and a section 965(a) earnings amount of 100u.
(iv)
Example 4. Deductible payment between unrelated specified foreign corporations is not a specified payment
—(A)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(4)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except that CFC1 owns only 50% of the only class of stock of CFC2, the remainder of which is owned by USI, a United States citizen unrelated to USP, CFC1, and CFC2.
(B)
Analysis.
Paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply because CFC1 and CFC2 are not related. Thus, the payment is taken into account with the result that CFC1 has post-1986 earnings and profits of 110u as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017, and a section 965(a) earnings amount of 110u.
(v)
Example 5. Deductible payment and income accrued from unrelated persons are not specified payments
—(A)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(4)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except that CFC2 does not make a deductible payment to CFC1, and, between E
P measurement dates, CFC2 accrues gross income of 20u from a person that is not related to CFC2, and CFC1 incurs a deductible expense of 20u to a person that is not related to CFC1.
(B)
Analysis.
Paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply because neither the deductible expense of CFC1 nor the income accrual by CFC2 are attributable to a specified payment.
(vi)
Example 6. Deductible payment and income accrued with respect to unrelated persons are not specified payments; deductible payment between wholly specified foreign corporations is a specified payment
—(A)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(4)(v)(A) of this section (the facts in
Example 5
), except that CFC2 also makes a deductible payment of 10u to CFC1 on November 3, 2017.
(B)
Analysis.
The deductible payment is a specified payment because (
1
) CFC1 and CFC2 are related specified foreign corporations; (
2
) the payment occurs after November 2, 2017, and on or before December 31, 2017; and (
3
) the deductible payment would, without regard to the application of the rule in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, reduce the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC2 as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017. Accordingly, under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the deductible payment is disregarded with the result that CFC1 and CFC2 have 80u and 120u of post-1986 earnings and profits as of the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017, respectively. Accordingly, CFC1 and CFC2 have section 965(a) earnings amounts of 100u and 120u, respectively.
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 1.965-5
Allowance of credit or deduction for foreign income taxes.
(a)
Scope.
This section provides rules for the allowance of a credit or deduction for foreign income taxes in connection with the application of section
965. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules under section 965(g) for the allowance of a credit or deduction for foreign income taxes paid or accrued. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for the allowance of a credit or deduction for foreign income taxes treated as paid or accrued in connection with the application of section 965. Paragraph (d) of this section defines the term applicable percentage.
(b)
Rules for foreign income taxes paid or accrued—
(1)
In general.
Neither a deduction (including under section 164) nor a credit under section 901 is allowed for the applicable percentage of any foreign income taxes paid or accrued with respect to any amount for which a section 965(c) deduction is allowed for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year. Neither a deduction (including under section 164) nor a credit under section 901 is allowed for the applicable percentage of any foreign income taxes attributable to a distribution of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits. Accordingly, for example, no deduction or credit is allowed for the applicable percentage of any withholding taxes imposed on a United States shareholder by the jurisdiction of residence of the distributing foreign corporation with respect to a distribution of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits. Similarly, for example, no deduction or credit is allowed for the applicable percentage of foreign income taxes imposed on a United States citizen by the citizen's jurisdiction of residence upon receipt of a distribution of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits.
(2)
Attributing taxes to section 959(a) distributions of section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, foreign income taxes are attributable to a distribution of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits if such taxes would be allocated and apportioned to a distribution of such previously taxed earnings and profits under the principles of § 1.904-6(a)(1)(iv), regardless of whether an actual distribution is made or recognized for Federal income tax purposes. Therefore, for example, a credit or deduction for the applicable percentage of foreign income taxes imposed on a United States shareholder that pays foreign tax on a distribution that is not recognized for Federal income tax purposes (for example, in the case of a consent dividend or stock dividend upon which a withholding tax is imposed) is not allowed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the extent it is attributable to a distribution of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits under the principles of § 1.904-6(a)(1)(iv). For taxable years of foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 2019, in lieu of applying the principles of § 1.904-6 under this paragraph (b)(2), the rules in § 1.861-20 apply by treating the portion of a distribution attributable to section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits and the portion of a distribution attributable to section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits each as a statutory grouping, and the portion of the distribution that is attributable to other earnings and profits as the residual grouping. See § 1.861-20(g)(7) (
Example 6
).
(c)
Rules for foreign income taxes treated as paid or accrued
—(1)
Disallowed credit
—(i)
In general.
A credit under section 901 is not allowed for the applicable percentage of any foreign income taxes treated as paid or accrued with respect to any amount for which a section 965(c) deduction is allowed for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year. For purposes of the preceding sentence, taxes treated as paid or accrued include foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a)(1) with respect to a section 965(a) inclusion, foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a)(3) (as in effect on December 21, 2017) or section 960(b) (as applicable to taxable years of controlled foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 2017)
with respect to distributions of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits, foreign income taxes allocated to an entity under § 1.901-2(f)(4),
and a distributive share of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by a partnership.
(ii)
Foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a)(3) (as in effect on December 21, 2017).
Foreign income taxes deemed paid by a domestic corporation under section 960(a)(3) with respect to a distribution of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits include only the foreign income taxes paid or accrued by an upper-tier foreign corporation with respect to a distribution of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits from a lower-tier foreign corporation. No credit is allowed under section 960(a)(3) or any other section for foreign income taxes that would have been deemed paid under section 960(a)(1) with respect to the portion of a section 965(a) earnings amount that is reduced under § 1.965-1(b)(2) or § 1.965-8(b).
(iii)
Foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(b) (as applicable to taxable years of controlled foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 2017, and to taxable years of United States persons in which or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations end).
Paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section applies to foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(b) (as in effect for a taxable year of a controlled foreign corporation beginning after December 31, 2017, and a taxable year of a United States person in which or with which such controlled foreign corporation's taxable year ends) only if such taxes are deemed paid under § 1.960-3(b)(1) with respect to distributions to a domestic corporation of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits.
See also
§ 1.960-3(c)(2)(i), (ii), (vi), or (vii). Foreign income taxes that would have been deemed paid under section 960(a)(1) (as in effect on December 21, 2017) with respect to the portion of a section 965(a) earnings amount that was reduced under § 1.965-1(b)(2) or § 1.965-8(b) are not eligible to be deemed paid under section 960(b) and § 1.960-3(b) or any other section of the Code.
(2)
Disallowed deduction.
No deduction (including under section 164) is allowed for the applicable percentage of any foreign income taxes treated as paid or accrued with respect to any amount for which a section 965(c) deduction is allowed. Such taxes include foreign income taxes allocated to an entity under § 1.901-2(f)(4) and a distributive share of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by a partnership.
(3)
Coordination with section 78
—(i)
In general.
With respect to foreign income taxes deemed paid by a domestic corporation with respect to its section 965(a) inclusion amount for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, section 78 applies only to so much of such taxes as bears the same proportion to the amount of such taxes as—
(A) The excess of—
(
1
) The section 965(a) inclusion amount for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, over
(
2
) The section 965(c) deduction amount allowable with respect to such section 965(a) inclusion amount, bears to
(B) Such section 965(a) inclusion amount.
(ii)
Domestic corporation that is a domestic pass-through owner.
With respect to foreign income taxes deemed paid by a domestic corporation attributable to such corporation's domestic pass-through owner share of a section 965(a) inclusion amount of a domestic pass-through entity, section 78 applies only to so much of such taxes as bears the same proportion to the amount of such taxes as the proportion determined under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section as applied to the domestic pass-through entity's section 965(a) inclusion amount for a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year.
(d)
Applicable percentage
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section, the term
applicable percentage
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, the amount (expressed as a percentage) equal to the sum of—
(i) 0.771 multiplied by the ratio of—
(A) The section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's 8 percent rate amount for the
section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, divided by
(B) The sum of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's 8 percent rate amount for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year plus the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's 15.5 percent rate amount for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year; plus
(ii) 0.557 multiplied by the ratio of—
(A) The section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's 15.5 percent rate amount for the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, divided by
(B) The amount described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(2)
No section 965(a) inclusion amount.
If a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder does not have an aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount, the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's applicable percentage is 55.7 percent.
(3)
Applicable percentage for domestic pass-through owners.
In the case of a domestic pass-through owner with respect to a domestic pass-through entity, the domestic pass-through owner's applicable percentage that is applied to foreign income taxes attributable to the domestic pass-through owner share of the section 965(a) inclusion amount or of distributions of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits is equal to the applicable percentage determined under paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, with respect to the domestic pass-through entity.
(4)
Applicable percentage with respect to certain distributions of previously taxed earnings and profits.
In the case of a distribution of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits (other than with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section), the applicable percentage that is applied to foreign income taxes attributable to the distribution is the applicable percentage that applied with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder and the section 958(a) U.S. inclusion year in which, or with which, the inclusion year of the relevant deferred foreign income corporation ends. For this purpose, the relevant deferred foreign income corporation is the deferred foreign income corporation with respect to which the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder had the section 965(a) inclusion as a result of which the section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits first arose (as described in § 1.965-2(c)) or the section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits first arose (as described in § 1.965-2(d)).
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019, as amended by T.D. 9882, 84 FR 69120, Dec. 17, 2019; T.D. 9922, 85 FR 72072, Nov. 12, 2020]
§ 1.965-6
Computation of foreign income taxes deemed paid and allocation and apportionment of deductions.
(a)
Scope.
This section provides rules for the computation of foreign income taxes deemed paid and the allocation and apportionment of deductions. Paragraph (b) of this section provides the general rules for the computation of foreign income taxes deemed paid under sections 902 and 960. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for allocation and apportionment of expenses. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules for foreign income taxes associated with hovering deficits.
(b)
Computation of foreign incomes taxes deemed paid
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of determining foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a)(1) with respect to a section 965(a) inclusion attributable to a deferred foreign income corporation that is a member of a qualified group (as defined in section 902(b)(2)), section 902 applies as if the section 965(a) inclusion, translated (if necessary) into the functional currency of the deferred foreign income corporation using the spot rate on December 31, 2017, were a dividend paid by the deferred foreign income corporation. For purposes of computing the amount of foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a)(1), §§ 1.965-2(b), 1.965-5, sections 902 and 960, the regulations under those sections, and this section apply.
(2)
Dividend or inclusion in excess of post-1986 undistributed earnings.
When the denominator of the section 902 fraction is positive but less than the numerator of such fraction, the section 902 fraction is one. When the denominator of the section 902 fraction is zero
or less than zero, the section 902 fraction is zero, and no foreign taxes are deemed paid.
(3)
Treatment of adjustment under section 965(b)(4)(B).
For purposes of section 902(c)(1), the post-1986 undistributed earnings of an E
P deficit foreign corporation are increased under section 965(b)(4)(B) and § 1.965-2(d)(2)(i)(A) as of the first day of the foreign corporation's first taxable year following the E
P deficit foreign corporation's last taxable year that begins before January 1, 2018.
(4)
Section 902 fraction.
The term
section 902 fraction
means, with respect to either a deferred foreign income corporation or an E
P deficit foreign corporation, the fraction that is—
(i) The dividends paid by, or the inclusion under section 951(a)(1) (including a section 965(a) inclusion) with respect to, the foreign corporation, as applicable (the
numerator
), divided by
(ii) The foreign corporation's post-1986 undistributed earnings or pre-1987 accumulated profits, as applicable (the
denominator
).
(c)
Allocation and apportionment of deductions.
For purposes of allocating and apportioning expenses, a section 965(c) deduction does not result in any gross income, including a section 965(a) inclusion, being treated as exempt, excluded, or eliminated income within the meaning of section 864(e)(3) or § 1.861-8T(d). Similarly, a section 965(c) deduction does not result in the treatment of stock as an exempt asset within the meaning of section 864(e)(3) or § 1.861-8T(d). In addition, consistent with the general inapplicability of § 1.861-8T(d)(2) to earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1) or 959(c)(2), neither section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits nor section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits are treated as giving rise to gross income that is exempt, excluded, or eliminated income. Similarly, the asset that gives rise to a section 965(a) inclusion, section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits, or section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits is not treated as a tax-exempt asset.
(d)
Hovering deficits.
In the last taxable year that begins before January 1, 2018, of a deferred foreign income corporation that is also a foreign surviving corporation, as defined in § 1.367(b)-7(a), solely for purposes of determining the amount of related taxes that are included in post-1986 foreign income taxes under § 1.367(b)-7(d)(2)(iii)—
(1) The post-transaction earnings described in § 1.367(b)-7(d)(2)(ii) that can be offset by a hovering deficit include any post-transaction earnings earned in that year that were not considered accumulated because they were included in income under section 965 and § 1.965-1(b)(1) by a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder; and
(2) Any offset for purposes of § 1.367(b)-7(d)(2)(ii) is treated as occurring on the last day of the foreign surviving corporation's inclusion year.
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 1.965-7
Elections, payment, and other special rules.
(a)
Scope.
This section provides rules regarding certain elections and payments. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules regarding the section 965(h) election. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules regarding the section 965(i) election. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules regarding the section 965(m) election and a special rule for real estate investment trusts. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules regarding the section 965(n) election. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules regarding the election to use the alternative method for calculating post-1986 earnings and profits. Paragraph (g) of this section provides definitions that apply for purposes of this section.
(b)
Section 965(h) election
—(1)
In general.
Any person with a section 965(h) net tax liability (that is, a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder or a domestic pass-through owner with respect to a domestic pass-through entity that is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, but not a domestic pass-through entity itself) may elect under section 965(h) and this paragraph (b) to pay its section 965(h) net tax liability in eight installments. This election may be revoked only by paying the full amount of the remaining unpaid section 965(h) net tax liability.
(i)
Amount of installments.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, if a person makes a section 965(h) election, the amounts of the installments are—
(A) Eight percent of the section 965(h) net tax liability in the case of each of the first five installments;
(B) Fifteen percent of the section 965(h) net tax liability in the case of the sixth installment;
(C) Twenty percent of the section 965(h) net tax liability in the case of the seventh installment; and
(D) Twenty-five percent of the section 965(h) net tax liability in the case of the eighth installment.
(ii)
Increased installments due to a deficiency or a timely filed or amended return
—(A)
In general.
If a person makes a section 965(h) election, except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, any deficiency or additional liability will be prorated to the installments described under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if any of the following occur:
(
1
) A deficiency is assessed with respect to the person's section 965(h) net tax liability;
(
2
) The person files a return by the due date of the return (taking into account extensions, if any) increasing the amount of its section 965(h) net tax liability beyond that taken into account in paying the first installment described under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; or
(
3
) The person files an amended return that reflects an increase in the amount of its section 965(h) net tax liability.
(B)
Timing.
If the due date for the payment of an installment to which the deficiency is prorated has passed, the amount prorated to such installment must be paid on notice and demand by the Secretary, or, in the case of an additional liability reported on a return increasing the amount of the section 965(h) net tax liability after payment of the first installment or on an amended return, with the filing of the return. If the due date for the payment of an installment to which the deficiency or additional liability is prorated has not passed, then such amount will be due at the same time as, and as part of, the relevant installment.
(C)
Exception for negligence, intentional disregard, or fraud.
If a deficiency or additional liability is due to negligence, intentional disregard of rules and regulations, or fraud with intent to evade tax, the proration rule of this paragraph (b)(1)(ii) will not apply, and the deficiency or additional liability (as well as any applicable interest and penalties) must be paid on notice and demand by the Secretary or, in the case of an additional liability reported on a return increasing the amount of the section 965(h) net tax liability after payment of the first installment or on an amended return, with the filing of the return.
(iii)
Due date of installments
—(A)
In general.
If a person makes a section 965(h) election, the first installment payment is due on the due date (without regard to extensions) for the return for the relevant taxable year. For purposes of this paragraph (b), the term
relevant taxable year
means, in the case in which the person is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder inclusion year, or, in the case in which the person is a domestic pass-through owner, the taxable year in which the person has the section 965(a) inclusion to which the section 965(h) net tax liability is attributable. Each succeeding installment payment is due on the due date (without regard to extensions) for the return for the taxable year following the taxable year with respect to which the previous installment payment was made.
(B)
Extension for specified individuals.
If a person is a specified individual with respect to a taxable year within which an installment payment is due pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, then, for purposes of determining the due date of an installment payment under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, the due date of the return (without regard to extensions) due within the taxable year will be treated as the fifteenth day of the sixth month following the close of the prior taxable year. This paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) is applicable regardless of whether the person is a specified individual with respect to the relevant taxable year.
(2)
Manner of making election
—(i)
Eligibility.
Any person with a section 965(h) net tax liability may make the section 965(h) election, provided that, with respect to the person, none of the acceleration events described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section has occurred before the election is made. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a person that would be eligible to make the section 965(h) election but for the occurrence of an event described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section may make the section 965(h) election if the exception described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) of this section applies.
(ii)
Timing.
A section 965(h) election must be made no later than the due date (taking into account extensions, if any, or any additional time that would have been granted if the person had made an extension request) for the return for the relevant taxable year. Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or § 301.9100-3 to file a late election.
(iii)
Election statement.
Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, to make a section 965(h) election, a person must attach a statement, signed under penalties of perjury consistent with the rules for signatures applicable to the person's return, to its return for the relevant taxable year. The statement must include the person's name, taxpayer identification number, total net tax liability under section 965, section 965(h) net tax liability, section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to which a section 965(i) election is effective (if applicable), and the anticipated amounts of each installment described under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. The statement must be filed in the manner prescribed in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance. The attachment of an unsigned copy of the election statement to the timely-filed return for the relevant taxable year satisfies the signature requirement of this paragraph (b)(2)(iii) if the person making the election retains the original signed election statement in the manner specified by § 1.6001-1(e).
(3)
Acceleration of payment
—(i)
Acceleration.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, if a person makes a section 965(h) election and an acceleration event described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section subsequently occurs, then, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the unpaid portion of the remaining installments will be due on the date of the acceleration event (or in the case of a title 11 or similar case, the day before the petition is filed).
(ii)
Acceleration events.
The following events are acceleration events for purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section with respect to a person that has made a section 965(h) election—
(A) An addition to tax is assessed for the failure to timely pay an installment described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(B) A liquidation, sale, exchange, or other disposition of substantially all of the assets of the person (including in a title 11 or similar case, or, in the case of an individual, by reason of death);
(C) In the case of a person that is not an individual, a cessation of business by the person;
(D) Any event that results in the person no longer being a United States person, including a resident alien (as defined in section 7701(b)(1)(A)) becoming a nonresident alien (as defined in section 7701(b)(1)(B));
(E) In the case of a person that was not a member of any consolidated group, the person becoming a member of a consolidated group;
(F) In the case of a consolidated group, the group ceasing to exist (including by reason of the acquisition of a consolidated group within the meaning of § 1.1502-13(j)(5)) or the group otherwise discontinuing in the filing of a consolidated return; or
(G) A determination by the Commissioner described in the second sentence of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(C)(
2
) of this section.
(iii)
Eligible section 965(h) transferee exception
—(A)
In general.
Paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section does not apply (such that the unpaid portion of all remaining installments will not be due as of the date of the acceleration event) to a person with respect to which an acceleration event occurs if the requirements described in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section are satisfied. A person with respect to which an acceleration event described
in this paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) occurs is referred to as an
eligible section 965(h) transferor.
(
1
)
Requirement to have a covered acceleration event.
The acceleration event satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
) if it is described in—
(
i
) Paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, and the acceleration event is a qualifying consolidated group member transaction within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(E) of this section;
(
ii
) Paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section (other than, in the case of an individual, an acceleration event caused by reason of death) in a transaction that is not a qualifying consolidated group member transaction;
(
iii
) Paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(E) of this section;
(
iv
) Paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(F) of this section, and the acceleration event results from the acquisition of a consolidated group within the meaning of § 1.1502-13(j)(5), and the acquired consolidated group members join a different consolidated group as of the day following the acquisition;
(
v
) Paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(F) of this section, and the group ceases to exist as a result of the transfer of all of the assets of one or more members of the consolidated group to other members with only one entity remaining (the
successor entity
); or
(
vi
) Paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(F) of this section, and the group ceases to exist as a result of the termination of the subchapter S election pursuant to section 1362(d) of a shareholder of the common parent of the consolidated group and, for the shareholder's taxable year immediately following the termination, the shareholder joins in the filing of a consolidated return as a consolidated group that includes all of the former members of the former consolidated group.
(
2
)
Requirement to enter into a transfer agreement.
An eligible section 965(h) transferor and an eligible section 965(h) transferee (as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section) must enter into an agreement with the Commissioner that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.
(B)
Transfer agreement
—(
1
)
Eligibility.
A transfer agreement that satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) must be entered into by an eligible section 965(h) transferor and an eligible section 965(h) transferee. For this purpose, the term
eligible section 965(h) transferee
refers to a single United States person that is not a domestic pass-through entity and that—
(
i
) With respect to an acceleration event described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
)(
i
) of this section, is a departing member (as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(E)(
1
)(
i
) of this section) or its qualified successor (as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(E)(
2
) of this section);
(
ii
) With respect to an acceleration event described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section, acquires substantially all of the assets of an eligible section 965(h) transferor;
(
iii
) With respect to an acceleration event described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
)(
iii
) of this section, is the agent (within the meaning of § 1.1502-77) of the consolidated group that the eligible section 965(h) transferor joins;
(
iv
) With respect to an acceleration event described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
)(
iv
) of this section, is the agent (within the meaning of § 1.1502-77) of the surviving consolidated group;
(
v
) With respect to an acceleration event described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
)(
v
) of this section, is the successor entity (within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
)(
v
) of this section); or
(
vi
) With respect an acceleration event described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
)(
vi
) of this section, is the agent (within the meaning of § 1.1502-77) of the consolidated group that includes the shareholder whose subchapter S election was terminated and all of the former members of the former consolidated group.
(
2
)
Filing requirements
—(
i
)
In general.
A transfer agreement must be timely filed. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B)(
2
)(
ii
) of this section, a transfer agreement is considered timely filed only if the transfer agreement is filed within 30 days of the date that the acceleration event occurs. The transfer agreement must be filed in accordance with the rules provided in
publications forms, instructions, or other guidance. In addition, a duplicate copy of the transfer agreement must be attached to the returns of both the eligible section 965(h) transferee and the eligible section 965(h) transferor for the taxable year during which the acceleration event occurs filed by the due date for such returns (taking into account extensions, if any). Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or 301.9100-3 to file a transfer agreement late.
(
ii
)
Transition rule.
If an acceleration event occurs on or before February 5, 2019, the transfer agreement must be filed by March 7, 2019, to be considered timely filed.
(
3
)
Signature requirement.
The transfer agreement that is filed within 30 days of the acceleration event or by the due date specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B)(
2
)(
ii
) of this section must be signed under penalties of perjury by a person who is authorized to sign a return on behalf of the eligible section 965(h) transferor and a person who is authorized to sign a return on behalf of the eligible section 965(h) transferee.
(
4
)
Terms of agreement.
A transfer agreement under this paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) must be entitled “Transfer Agreement Under Section 965(h)(3)” and must contain the following information and representations—
(
i
) A statement that the document constitutes an agreement by the eligible section 965(h) transferee to assume the liability of the eligible section 965(h) transferor for any unpaid installment payments of the eligible section 965(h) transferor under section 965(h);
(
ii
) A statement that the eligible section 965(h) transferee (and, if the eligible section 965(h) transferor continues in existence immediately after the acceleration event, the eligible section 965(h) transferor) agrees to comply with all of the conditions and requirements of section 965(h) and paragraph (b) of this section, as well as any other applicable requirements in the section 965 regulations;
(
iii
) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the eligible section 965(h) transferor and the eligible section 965(h) transferee;
(
iv
) The amount of the eligible section 965(h) transferor's section 965(h) net tax liability remaining unpaid, as determined by the eligible section 965(h) transferor, which amount is subject to adjustment by the Commissioner;
(
v
) A copy of the eligible section 965(h) transferor's most recent Form 965-A or Form 965-B, as applicable, if the eligible section 965(h) transferor has been required to file a Form 965-A or Form 965-B;
(
vi
) A detailed description of the acceleration event that led to the transfer agreement;
(
vii
) A representation that the eligible section 965(h) transferee is able to make the remaining payments required under section 965(h) and paragraph (b) of this section with respect to the section 965(h) net tax liability being assumed;
(
viii
) If the eligible section 965(h) transferor continues to exist immediately after the acceleration event, an acknowledgement that the eligible section 965(h) transferor and any successor to the eligible section 965(h) transferor will remain jointly and severally liable for any unpaid installment payments of the eligible section 965(h) transferor under section 965(h), including, if applicable, under § 1.1502-6;
(
ix
) A statement as to whether the leverage ratio of the eligible section 965(h) transferee and all subsidiary members of its affiliated group immediately after the acceleration event exceeds three to one, which ratio may be modified as provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance;
(
x
) A certification by the eligible section 965(h) transferee stating that the eligible section 965(h) transferee waives the right to a notice of liability and consents to the immediate assessment of the portion of the section 965(h) net tax liability remaining unpaid; and
(
xi
) Any additional information, representation, or certification required by the Commissioner in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.
(
5
)
Consolidated groups.
For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B), in the case of a consolidated group, the terms “eligible section 965(h) transferor” and “eligible section 965(h) transferee” each refer to a consolidated group that is a party to a covered acceleration event described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
) of this section. In such a
case, any transfer agreement under this paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) must be entered into by the agent (as defined in § 1.1502-77) of the relevant consolidated group.
(
6
)
Leverage ratio.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B)(4)(
ix
) of this section, and except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, the term
leverage ratio
means the ratio that the total indebtedness of the eligible section 965(h) transferee bears to the sum of its money and all other assets reduced (but not below zero) by such total indebtedness. For this purpose, the amount taken into account with respect to any asset is the adjusted basis thereof for purposes of determining gain, and the amount taken into account with respect to any indebtedness with original issue discount is its issue price plus the portion of the original issue discount previously accrued as determined under the rules of section 1272 (determined without regard to subsection (a)(7) or (b)(4) thereof).
(C)
Consent of Commissioner
—(
1
)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, if an eligible section 965(h) transferor and an eligible section 965(h) transferee file a transfer agreement in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, the eligible section 965(h) transferor and the eligible section 965(h) transferee will be considered to have entered into an agreement described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
2
) of this section with the Commissioner for purposes of section 965(h)(3) and paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section. If the Commissioner determines that additional information is necessary (for example, additional information regarding the ability of the eligible section 965(h) transferee to fully pay the remaining section 965(h) net tax liability), the eligible section 965(h) transferee must provide such information upon request.
(
2
)
Material misrepresentations and omissions.
If the Commissioner determines that an agreement filed by an eligible section 965(h) transferor and an eligible section 965(h) transferee contains a material misrepresentation or material omission, or if the eligible section 965(h) transferee does not provide the additional information requested under paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(C)(
1
) of this section within a reasonable timeframe communicated by the Commissioner to the eligible section 965(h) transferee, then the Commissioner may reject the transfer agreement (effective as of the date of the related acceleration event). In the alternative, on the date that the Commissioner determines that the transfer agreement includes a material misrepresentation or material omission, the Commissioner may determine that an acceleration event has occurred with respect to the eligible section 965(h) transferee as of the date of the determination, such that any unpaid installment payments of the eligible section 965(h) transferor that were assumed by the eligible section 965(h) transferee become due on the date of the determination.
(D)
Effect of assumption
—(
1
)
In general.
If the exception in this paragraph (b)(3)(iii) applies with respect to an eligible section 965(h) transferor and an eligible section 965(h) transferee, the eligible section 965(h) transferee assumes all of the outstanding obligations and responsibilities of the eligible section 965(h) transferor with respect to the section 965(h) net tax liability as though the eligible section 965(h) transferee had included the section 965(a) inclusion in income. Accordingly, the eligible section 965(h) transferee is responsible for making payments and reporting with respect to any unpaid installment payments. In addition, for example, if an acceleration event described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section occurs with respect to an eligible section 965(h) transferee, any unpaid installment payments of the eligible section 965(h) transferor that were assumed by the eligible section 965(h) transferee will become due on the date of such event, subject to any applicable exception in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
(
2
)
Eligible section 965(h) transferor liability.
An eligible section 965(h) transferor (or a successor) remains jointly and severally liable for any unpaid installment payments of the eligible section 965(h) transferor that were assumed by the eligible section 965(h) transferee, as well as any penalties, additions to tax, or other additional
amounts attributable to such net tax liability.
(E)
Qualifying consolidated group member transaction
—(
1
)
Definition of qualifying consolidated group member transaction.
For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), the term
qualifying consolidated group member transaction
means a transaction in which—
(
i
) A member of a consolidated group (the
departing member
) ceases to be a member of the consolidated group (including by reason of the distribution, sale, or exchange of the departing member's stock);
(
ii
) The transaction results in the consolidated group (which is treated as a single person for this purpose under § 1.965-8(e)(1)) being treated as transferring substantially all of its assets for purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; and
(
iii
) The departing member either continues to exist immediately after the transaction or has a qualified successor.
(
2
)
Definition of qualified successor.
For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), the term
qualified successor
means, with respect to a departing member described in this paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(E), another domestic corporation (or consolidated group) that acquires substantially all of the assets of the departing member (including in a transaction described in section 381(a)(2)).
(
3
)
Departure of multiple members of a consolidated group.
Multiple members that deconsolidate from the same consolidated group as a result of a single transaction are treated as a single departing member to the extent that, immediately after the transaction, they become members of the same (second) consolidated group, which would be treated as a single person under § 1.965-8(e)(1).
(c)
Section 965(i) election
—(1)
In general.
Each shareholder of an S corporation (including a person listed in § 1.1362-6(b)(2) with respect to a trust or estate, but not a domestic pass-through entity itself) that is a United States shareholder of a deferred foreign income corporation may elect under section 965(i) and this paragraph (c) to defer the payment of the shareholder's section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to the S corporation until the shareholder's taxable year that includes a triggering event described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. This election may be revoked only by paying the full amount of the unpaid section 965(i) net tax liability.
(2)
Manner of making election
—(i)
Eligibility.
Each shareholder with a section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to an S corporation may make the section 965(i) election with respect to such S corporation, provided that, with respect to the shareholder, none of the triggering events described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section have occurred before the election is made. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a shareholder that would be eligible to make the section 965(i) election but for the occurrence of an event described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section may make the section 965(i) election if an exception described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section applies.
(ii)
Timing.
A section 965(i) election must be made no later than the due date (taking into account extensions, if any) for the shareholder's return for each taxable year that includes the last day of the taxable year of the S corporation in which the S corporation has a section 965(a) inclusion to which the shareholder's section 965(i) net tax liability is attributable. Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or 301.9100-3 to make a late election.
(iii)
Election statement.
Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, to make a section 965(i) election, a shareholder must attach a statement, signed under penalties of perjury consistent with the rules for signatures applicable to the person's return, to its return for the taxable year that includes the last day of a taxable year of the S corporation in which the S corporation has a section 965(a) inclusion to which the shareholder's section 965(i) net tax liability is attributable. The statement must include the shareholder's name, taxpayer identification number, the name and taxpayer identification number of the S corporation with respect to which the election is made, the amount described in paragraph (g)(10)(i)(A) of this section as modified by paragraph
(g)(6) of this section for purposes of determining the section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to the S corporation, the amount described in paragraph (g)(10)(i)(B) of this section, and the section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to the S corporation. The statement must be filed in the manner prescribed in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance. The attachment of an unsigned copy of the election statement to the timely-filed return for the relevant taxable year satisfies the signature requirement of this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) if the shareholder retains the original signed election statement in the manner specified by § 1.6001-1(e).
(3)
Triggering events
—(i)
In general.
If a shareholder makes a section 965(i) election with respect to an S corporation, the shareholder defers payment of its section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to the S corporation until the shareholder's taxable year that includes the occurrence of a triggering event described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section with respect to the section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to the S corporation. If a triggering event described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section with respect to an S corporation occurs, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section, the shareholder's section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to the S corporation will be assessed as an addition to tax for the shareholder's taxable year that includes the triggering event.
(ii)
Triggering events.
The following events are considered triggering events for purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section with respect to a shareholder's section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to an S corporation—
(A) The corporation ceases to be an S corporation (determined as of the first day of the first taxable year that the corporation is not an S corporation);
(B) A liquidation, sale, exchange, or other disposition of substantially all of the assets of the S corporation (including in a title 11 or similar case), a cessation of business by the S corporation, or the S corporation ceasing to exist;
(C) The transfer of any share of stock of the S corporation by the shareholder (including by reason of death or otherwise) that results in a change of ownership for federal income tax purposes; or
(D) A determination by the Commissioner described in the second sentence of paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(C)(
2
) of this section.
(iii)
Partial transfers.
If an S corporation shareholder transfers less than all of its shares of stock of the S corporation, the transfer will be a triggering event only with respect to the portion of a shareholder's section 965(i) net tax liability that is properly allocable to the transferred shares.
(iv)
Eligible section 965(i) transferee exception
—(A)
In general.
Paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section will not apply (such that a shareholder's section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to an S corporation will not be assessed as an addition to tax for the shareholder's taxable year that includes the triggering event) if the requirements described in paragraphs (c)(3)(iv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section are satisfied. A shareholder with respect to which a triggering event described in this paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(A) occurs is referred to as an
eligible section 965(i) transferor.
(
1
)
Requirement to have a covered triggering event.
The triggering event satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(A)(
1
) if it is described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.
(
2
)
Requirement to enter into a transfer agreement.
The shareholder with respect to which a triggering event occurs and an eligible section 965(i) transferee (as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section) must enter into an agreement with the Commissioner that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B) of this section.
(B)
Transfer agreement
—(
1
)
Eligibility.
A transfer agreement that satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B) may be entered into by an eligible section 965(i) transferor and an eligible section 965(i) transferee. For this purpose, the term
eligible section 965(i) transferee
refers to a single United States person that becomes a shareholder of the S corporation (including a person listed in § 1.1362-6(b)(2) with respect to a trust or estate, but not a domestic pass-through entity itself). In the case of a transfer that consists of multiple partial transfers (as described
in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section), a transfer agreement that satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B) may be entered into by an eligible section 965(i) transferor and an eligible section 965(i) transferee for each partial transfer.
(
2
)
Filing requirements
—(
i
)
In general.
A transfer agreement must be timely filed. Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
2
)(
ii
) and (
iii
) of this section, a transfer agreement is considered timely filed only if the transfer agreement is filed within 30 days of the date that the triggering event occurs. The transfer agreement must be filed in accordance with the rules provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance. In addition, a duplicate copy of the transfer agreement must be attached to the returns of both the eligible section 965(i) transferee and the eligible section 965(i) transferor for the taxable year during which the triggering event occurs filed by the due date (taking into account extensions, if any) for such returns. Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or 301.9100-3 to file a transfer agreement late.
(
ii
)
Transition rule.
If a triggering event occurs on or before February 5, 2019, the transfer agreement must be filed by March 7, 2019, to be considered timely filed.
(
iii
)
Death of eligible section 965(i) transferor.
If the triggering event is the death of the eligible section 965(i) transferor, the transfer agreement must be filed by the later of the unextended due date for the eligible section 965(i) transferor's final income tax return or March 7, 2019.
(
3
)
Signature requirement.
The transfer agreement that is filed within 30 days of the triggering event or by the due date specified in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
2
)(
ii
) or (
iii
) of this section must be signed under penalties of perjury by a person who is authorized to sign a return on behalf of the eligible section 965(i) transferor and a person who is authorized to sign a return on behalf of the eligible section 965(i) transferee.
(
4
)
Terms of agreement.
A transfer agreement under this paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B) must be entitled “Transfer Agreement Under Section 965(i)(2)” and must contain the following information and representations:
(
i
) A statement that the document constitutes an agreement by the eligible section 965(i) transferee to assume the liability of the eligible section 965(i) transferor for the unpaid portion of the section 965(i) net tax liability, or, in the case of a partial transfer, for the unpaid portion of the section 965(i) net tax liability attributable to the transferred stock;
(
ii
) A statement that the eligible section 965(i) transferee agrees to comply with all of the conditions and requirements of section 965(i) and paragraph (c) of this section, including the annual reporting requirement, as well as any other applicable requirements in the section 965 regulations;
(
iii
) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the eligible section 965(i) transferor and the eligible section 965(i) transferee;
(
iv
) The amount of the eligible section 965(i) transferor's unpaid section 965(i) net tax liability or, in the case of a partial transfer, the unpaid portion of the section 965(i) net tax liability attributable to the transferred stock, each as determined by the eligible section 965(i) transferor, which amount is subject to adjustment by the Commissioner;
(
v
) A copy of the eligible section 965(i) transferor's most recent Form 965-A, if the eligible section 965(i) transferor has been required to file a Form 965-A;
(
vi
) A detailed description of the triggering event that led to the transfer agreement, including the name and taxpayer identification number of the S corporation with respect to which the section 965(i) election was effective;
(
vii
) A representation that the eligible section 965(i) transferee is able to pay the section 965(i) net tax liability being assumed;
(
viii
) An acknowledgement that the eligible section 965(i) transferor and any successor to the eligible section 965(i) transferor will remain jointly and severally liable for the section 965(i) net tax liability being assumed by the eligible section 965(i) transferee;
(
ix
) A statement as to whether the leverage ratio of the eligible section 965(i) transferee immediately after the
triggering event exceeds three to one, which ratio may be modified as provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance;
(
x
) Any additional information, representation, or certification required by the Commissioner in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.
(
5
)
Special rule in the case of death of eligible section 965(i) transferor.
Except in the case of transfers to trusts, if the triggering event is the death of the eligible section 965(i) transferor, and the identity of the beneficiary or beneficiaries (in the case of multiple partial transfers) is determined as of the due date for the transfer agreement described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
2
)(
iii
) of this section, then the transfer may be treated as a transfer directly between the eligible 965(i) transferor and the beneficiary or beneficiaries. If, however, the identity of the beneficiary or beneficiaries is not determined as of the due date for the transfer agreement described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
2
)(
iii
) of this section, then the transfer must be treated first as a transfer between the eligible section 965(i) transferor and his or her estate at the time of death and second as a transfer between the estate and the beneficiary or beneficiaries when the shares are actually transferred to the beneficiary or beneficiaries. Separate transfer agreements must be filed for each transfer. The transfer from the eligible section 965(i) transferor to his or her estate is a transfer resulting from a triggering event that is the death of the eligible section 965(i) transferor, and the transfer agreement is subject to the timing rules in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
2
)(
iii
) of this section. The transfer from the estate to the beneficiary or beneficiaries is not a transfer resulting from a triggering event that is the death of the eligible section 965(i) transferor, and the transfer agreement is subject to the timing rules in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
2
)(
i
) and (
ii
) of this section.
(
6
)
Leverage ratio.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(4)(
ix
) of this section, and except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, the term
leverage ratio
means the ratio that the total indebtedness of the eligible section 965(i) transferee bears to the sum of its money and all other assets reduced (but not below zero) by such total indebtedness. For this purpose, the amount taken into account with respect to any asset is the adjusted basis thereof for purposes of determining gain, and the amount taken into account with respect to any indebtedness with original issue discount is its issue price plus the portion of the original issue discount previously accrued as determined under the rules of section 1272 (determined without regard to subsection (a)(7) or (b)(4) thereof).
(C)
Consent of Commissioner
—(
1
)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, if an eligible section 965(i) transferor and an eligible section 965(i) transferee file a transfer agreement in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B) of this section, the eligible section 965(i) transferor and the eligible section 965(i) transferee will be considered to have entered into an agreement with the Commissioner for purposes of section 965(i)(2) and paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section. If the Commissioner determines that additional information is necessary (for example, additional information regarding the ability of the eligible section 965(i) transferee to pay the eligible section 965(i) transferor's unpaid section 965(i) net tax liability), the eligible section 965(i) transferee must provide such information upon request.
(
2
)
Material misrepresentations and omissions.
If the Commissioner determines that an agreement filed by an eligible section 965(i) transferor and an eligible section 965(i) transferee contains a material misrepresentation or material omission, or if the eligible section 965(i) transferee does not provide the additional information requested under paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(C)(
1
) of this section within a reasonable timeframe communicated by the Commissioner to the eligible section 965(i) transferee, then the Commissioner may reject the transfer agreement (effective as of the date of the related triggering event). In the alternative, on the date that the Commissioner determines that the transfer agreement includes a material misrepresentation or material
omission, the Commissioner may determine that a triggering event has occurred with respect to the eligible section 965(i) transferee as of the date of the determination, such that the unpaid section 965(i) net tax liability of the eligible section 965(i) transferor that was assumed by the eligible section 965(i) transferee becomes due on the date of the determination.
(D)
Effect of assumption
—(
1
)
In general.
When the exception in this paragraph (c)(3)(iv) applies with respect to an eligible section 965(i) transferor and an eligible section 965(i) transferee, the eligible section 965(i) transferee assumes all of the outstanding obligations and responsibilities of the eligible section 965(i) transferor with respect to the section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to the S corporation as though the eligible section 965(i) transferee had included the section 965(a) inclusion in income. Accordingly, the eligible section 965(i) transferee is responsible for making payments and reporting with respect to any unpaid section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to the S corporation. In addition, for example, if a triggering event described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section occurs with respect to an eligible section 965(i) transferee, any unpaid portion of the section 965(i) net tax liability of the eligible section 965(i) transferor that was assumed by the eligible section 965(i) transferee becomes due on the date of such event, subject to any applicable exception in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) or (v) of this section.
(
2
)
Eligible section 965(i) transferor liability.
An eligible section 965(i) transferor remains jointly and severally liable for any unpaid installment payments of the eligible section 965(i) transferor that were assumed by the eligible section 965(i) transferee, as well as any penalties, additions to tax, or other additional amounts attributable to such net tax liability.
(v)
Coordination with section 965(h) election
—(A)
In general.
Subject to the limitation described in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section, a shareholder that has made a section 965(i) election with respect to an S corporation, upon the occurrence of a triggering event with respect to such S corporation, may make a section 965(h) election with respect to the portion of the shareholder's section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to such S corporation that is assessed as an addition to tax for the shareholder's taxable year that includes the triggering event pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section as if such portion were a section 965(h) net tax liability.
(B)
Timing for election.
A section 965(h) election made pursuant to section 965(i)(4) and paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A) of this section must be made no later than the due date (taking into account extensions, if any) for the shareholder's return for the taxable year in which the triggering event with respect to the S corporation occurs. Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or § 301.9100-3 to make a late election.
(C)
Due date for installment.
If a shareholder makes a section 965(h) election pursuant to section 965(i)(4) and paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A) of this section, the payment of the first installment (as described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) must be made no later than the due date (without regard to extensions) for the shareholder's return of tax for the taxable year in which the triggering event with respect to the S corporation occurs.
(D)
Limitation
—(
1
)
In general.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A) of this section, if the triggering event with respect to an S corporation is a triggering event described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, then the section 965(h) election may only be made with the consent of the Commissioner.
(
2
)
Manner of obtaining consent
—(
i
)
In general.
In order to obtain the consent of the Commissioner as required by paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D)(
1
) of this section, the shareholder intending to make the section 965(h) election must file the agreement described in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D)(
4
) of this section within 30 days of the occurrence of the triggering event, except as described in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D)(
2
)(
ii
) of this section. The agreement must be filed in accordance with the rules provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance. In addition, a duplicate copy of the agreement must be filed, with the shareholder's timely-filed return for
the taxable year during which the triggering event occurs (taking into account extensions, if any), along with the election statement described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section. Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or § 301.9100-3 to file an agreement late.
(
ii
)
Transition rule.
If a triggering event occurs on or before February 5, 2019, the agreement must be filed by March 7, 2019, in order to be considered timely filed.
(
3
)
Signature requirement.
The agreement that is filed within 30 days of the triggering event or by the due date specified in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D)(
2
)(
ii
) of this section must be signed under penalties of perjury by the shareholder.
(
4
)
Terms of agreement.
The agreement under this paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) must be entitled “Consent Agreement Under Section 965(i)(4)(D)” and must contain the following information and representations—
(
i
) A statement that the shareholder agrees to comply with all of the conditions and requirements of section 965(h) and paragraph (b) of this section, as well as any other applicable requirements in the section 965 regulations;
(
ii
) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the shareholder;
(
iii
) The amount of the section 965(i) net tax liability under section 965 remaining unpaid with respect to which the section 965(h) election is made pursuant to section 965(i)(4)(D) and paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A) of this section, as determined by the shareholder, which amount is subject to adjustment by the Commissioner; and
(
iv
) A representation that the shareholder is able to make the payments required under section 965(h) and paragraph (b) of this section with respect to the portion of the total net tax liability under section 965 remaining unpaid described in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D)(
4
)(
iii
) of this section.
(
v
) A statement as to whether the leverage ratio of the shareholder and all subsidiary members of its affiliated group immediately following the triggering event exceeds three to one; and
(
vi
) Any additional information, representation, or certification required by the Commissioner in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.
(
5
)
Consent of Commissioner
—(
i
)
In general.
If a shareholder files an agreement in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) of this section, the shareholder will be considered to have obtained the consent of the Commissioner for purposes of section 965(i)(4)(D) and paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D)(
1
) of this section. However, if the Commissioner reviews the agreement and determines that additional information is necessary, the shareholder must provide such information upon request.
(
ii
)
Material misrepresentations and omissions.
If the Commissioner determines that an agreement filed by a shareholder in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D) contains a material misrepresentation or material omission, or if the shareholder does not provide the additional information requested under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D)(
5
)(
i
) of this section within a reasonable timeframe communicated by the Commissioner to the shareholder, then the Commissioner may reject the agreement (effective as of the date of the related triggering event).
(
6
)
Leverage ratio.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(v)(D)(4)(
v
) of this section, and except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, the term
leverage ratio
means the ratio that the total indebtedness of the shareholder bears to the sum of its money and all other assets reduced (but not below zero) by such total indebtedness. For this purpose, the amount taken into account with respect to any asset is the adjusted basis thereof for purposes of determining gain, and the amount taken into account with respect to any indebtedness with original issue discount is its issue price plus the portion of the original issue discount previously accrued as determined under the rules of section 1272 (determined without regard to subsection (a)(7) or (b)(4) thereof).
(4)
Joint and several liability.
If any shareholder of an S corporation makes a section 965(i) election, the S corporation is jointly and severally liable for the payment of the shareholder's section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to the S corporation, as well as any
penalties, additions to tax, or other additional amounts attributable to such net tax liability.
(5)
Extension of limitation on collection.
If an S corporation shareholder makes a section 965(i) election with respect to its section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to an S corporation, any limitation on the time period for the collection of the net tax liability shall not begin before the date of the triggering event with respect to the section 965(i) net tax liability.
(6)
Annual reporting requirement
—(i)
In general.
A shareholder that makes a section 965(i) election with respect to its section 965(i) net tax liability with respect to an S corporation is required to report the amount of its deferred net tax liability on its return of tax for the taxable year in which the election is made and on the return of tax for each subsequent taxable year until such net tax liability has been fully assessed.
(ii)
Failure to report.
If a shareholder fails to report the amount of its deferred net tax liability as required with respect to any taxable year by the due date (taking into account extensions, if any) for the return of tax for that taxable year, five percent of such deferred net tax liability will be assessed as an addition to tax for such taxable year.
(d)
Section 965(m) election and special rule for real estate investment trusts
—(1)
In general.
A real estate investment trust may elect under section 965(m) and this paragraph (d) to defer the inclusion in gross income (for purposes of the computation of real estate investment trust taxable income under section 857(b)) of its REIT section 965 amounts and include them in income according to the schedule described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. This election is revocable only by including in gross income (for purposes of the computation of real estate investment trust taxable income under section 857(b)) the full amount of the REIT section 965 amounts.
(2)
Inclusion schedule for section 965(m) election.
If a real estate investment trust makes the section 965(m) election, the REIT section 965 amounts will be included in the real estate investment trust's gross income as follows—
(i) Eight percent of the REIT section 965 amounts in each taxable year in the five-taxable year period beginning with the taxable year the amount would otherwise be included;
(ii) Fifteen percent of the REIT section 965 amounts in the first year following the five year period described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section;
(iii) Twenty percent of the REIT section 965 amounts in the second year following the five year period described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section; and
(iv) Twenty-five percent of the REIT section 965 amounts in the third year following the five year period described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
(3)
Manner of making election
—(i)
Eligibility.
A real estate investment trust with section 965(a) inclusions may make the section 965(m) election.
(ii)
Timing.
A section 965(m) election must be made no later than the due date (taking into account extensions, if any) for the return for the first year of the five year period described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or § 301.9100-3 to make a late election.
(iii)
Election statement.
Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, to make a section 965(m) election, a real estate investment trust must attach a statement, signed under penalties of perjury consistent with the rules for signatures applicable to the person's return, to its return for the taxable year in which it would otherwise be required to include the REIT section 965 amounts in gross income. The statement must include the real estate investment trust's name, taxpayer identification number, REIT section 965 amounts, and the anticipated amounts of each portion of the REIT section 965 amounts described under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and the statement must be filed in the manner prescribed in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance. The attachment of an unsigned copy of the election statement to the timely-filed return for the relevant taxable year satisfies the signature requirement of this paragraph (d)(3)(iii) if the real estate investment trust retains the original signed election statement in the manner specified by § 1.6001-1(e).
(4)
Coordination with section 965(h).
A real estate investment trust that makes the section 965(m) election may not also make a section 965(h) election for any year with respect to which a section 965(m) election is in effect.
(5)
Acceleration of inclusion.
If a real estate investment trust makes a section 965(m) election and subsequently there is a liquidation, sale, exchange, or other disposition of substantially all of the assets of the real estate investment trust (including in a title 11 or similar case), or a cessation of business by the real estate investment trust, any amount not yet included in gross income (for purposes of the computation of real estate investment trust taxable income under section 857(b)) as a result of the section 965(m) election will be so included as of the day before the date of the event. The unpaid portion of any tax liability with respect to such inclusion will be due on the date of the event (or in the case of a title 11 or similar case, the day before the petition is filed).
(6)
Treatment of section 965(a) inclusions of a real estate investment trust.
Regardless of whether a real estate investment trust has made a section 965(m) election, and regardless of whether it is a United States shareholder of a deferred foreign income corporation, any section 965(a) inclusions of the real estate investment trust are not taken into account as gross income of the real estate investment trust for purposes of applying paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 856(c) for any taxable year for which the real estate investment trust takes into account a section 965(a) inclusion, including pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(e)
Section 965(n) election
—(1)
In general
—(i)
General rule.
A person may elect to not take into account the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section in determining its net operating loss under section 172 for the taxable year or in determining the amount of taxable income for such taxable year (computed without regard to the deduction allowable under section 172) that may be reduced by net operating loss carryovers or carrybacks to such taxable year under section 172. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, the election for each taxable year is irrevocable. If the section 965(n) election creates or increases a net operating loss under section 172 for the taxable year, then the taxable income of the person for the taxable year cannot be less than the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section. The amount of deductions equal to the amount by which a net operating loss is created or increased for the taxable year by reason of the section 965(n) election (the
deferred amount
) is not taken into account in computing taxable income or the separate foreign tax credit limitations under section 904 for that year. The source and separate category (as defined in § 1.904-5(a)(4)(v)) components of the deferred amount are determined in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section.
(ii)
Applicable amount for section 965(n) election.
If a person makes a section 965(n) election, the amount referred to in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section is the sum of—
(A) The person's section 965(a) inclusions for the taxable year reduced by the person's section 965(c) deductions for the taxable year, and
(B) In the case of a domestic corporation, the taxes deemed paid under section 960(a)(1) for the taxable year with respect to the person's section 965(a) inclusions that are treated as dividends under section 78.
(iii)
Scope of section 965(n) election.
If a person makes a section 965(n) election, the election applies to both net operating losses for the taxable year for which the election is made and the net operating loss carryovers or carrybacks to such taxable year, each in their entirety. Any section 965(n) election made by the agent (within the meaning of § 1.1502-77) of a consolidated group applies to all net operating losses available to the consolidated group, including all components of the consolidated net operating loss deduction (as defined in § 1.1502-21(a)).
(iv)
Effect of section 965(n) election
—(A)
In general.
The section 965(n) election for a taxable year applies solely for purposes of determining the amount of net operating loss under section 172 for the taxable year and determining the amount of taxable income for the taxable year (computed without
regard to the deduction allowable under section 172) that may be reduced by net operating loss carryovers or carrybacks to such taxable year under section 172. Paragraph (e)(1)(iv)(B) of this section provides a rule for coordinating the section 965(n) election's effect on section 172 with the computation of the separate foreign tax credit limitations under section 904.
(B)
Ordering rule for allocation and apportionment of deductions for purposes of the section 904 limitation.
The effect of a section 965(n) election with respect to a taxable year on the computation of the separate foreign tax credit limitations under section 904 is computed as follows and in the following order.
(
1
) Deductions, including those that create or increase a net operating loss for the taxable year by reason of the section 965(n) election, are allocated and apportioned under §§ 1.861-8 through 1.861-17 to the relevant statutory and residual groupings, taking into account the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section. The source and separate category of the net operating loss carryover or carryback to the taxable year, if any, is determined under the rules of § 1.904(g)-3(b), taking into account the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section. Therefore, if the amount of the net operating loss carryover or carryback to the taxable year (as reduced by reason of the section 965(n) election) exceeds the U.S. source loss component of the net operating loss that is carried over under § 1.904(g)-3(b)(3)(i), but such excess is less than the potential carryovers (or carrybacks) of the separate limitation losses that are part of the net operating loss, the potential carryovers (or carrybacks) are proportionately reduced as provided in § 1.904(g)-3(b)(3)(ii) or (iii), as applicable.
(
2
) If a net operating loss is created or increased for the taxable year by reason of the section 965(n) election, the deferred amount (as defined in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section) is not allowed as a deduction for the taxable year. See paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. The deferred amount (which is the corresponding addition to the net operating loss for the taxable year) comprises a ratable portion of the deductions (including the deduction allowed under section 965(c)) allocated and apportioned to each statutory and residual grouping under paragraph (e)(1)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section. Such ratable portion equals the deferred amount multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the deductions allocated and apportioned to the statutory or residual grouping under paragraph (e)(1)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section and the denominator of which is the total deductions described in paragraph (e)(1)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section. Accordingly, the fraction described in the previous sentence takes into account the deferred amount.
(
3
) Taxable income and the separate foreign tax credit limitations under section 904 for the taxable year are computed without taking into account any deferred amount. Deductions allocated and apportioned to the statutory and residual groupings under paragraph (e)(1)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section, to the extent deducted in the taxable year rather than deferred to create or increase a net operating loss, are combined with income in the statutory and residual groupings to which those deductions are assigned in order to compute the amount of separate limitation income or loss in each separate category and U.S. source income or loss for the taxable year. Section 904(b), (f), and (g) are then applied to determine the applicable foreign tax credit limitations for the taxable year.
(2)
Manner of making election
—(i)
Eligibility.
A person with a section 965(a) inclusion may make the section 965(n) election.
(ii)
Timing
—(A)
In general.
A section 965(n) election must be made no later than the due date (taking into account extensions, if any) for the person's return for the taxable year to which the election applies. Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or § 301.9100-3 of this chapter to make a late election.
(B)
Transition rule.
In the case of a section 965(n) election made before June 21, 2019, the election may be revoked by attaching a statement, signed under penalties of perjury, to an amended return for the taxable year to which the election applies (the
election year
). The statement must include the person's name, taxpayer identification
number, and a statement that the person revokes the section 965(n) election. The amended return to which the statement is attached must be filed by—
(
1
) In the case of a revocation with respect to an election due before February 5, 2019, the due date (taking into account extensions, if any, or any additional time that would have been granted if the person had made an extension request) for the return for the taxable year following the election year; or
(
2
) In the case of a revocation with respect to an election due on or after February 5, 2019, the due date (taking into account extensions, if any, or any additional time that would have been granted if the person had made an extension request) for the return for the election year.
(iii)
Election statement.
Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, to make a section 965(n) election, a person must attach a statement, signed under penalties of perjury consistent with the rules for signatures applicable to the person's return, to its return for the taxable year to which the election applies. The statement must include the person's name, taxpayer identification number, the amounts described in section 965(n)(2)(A) and paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and section 965(n)(2)(B) and paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, and the sum thereof, and the statement must be filed in the manner prescribed in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance. The attachment of an unsigned copy of the election statement to the timely-filed return for the relevant taxable year satisfies the signature requirement of this paragraph (e)(2)(iii) if the person making the election retains the original signed election statement in the manner specified by § 1.6001-1(e).
(3)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section.
(i)
Example 1: Net operating loss in inclusion year
—(A)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, has a section 965(a) inclusion of $100x and has a section 965(c) deduction of $70x for its taxable year ending December 31, 2017. USP also includes in gross income the amount treated as dividends under section 78 of $50x (the foreign taxes deemed paid under section 960(a) for the taxable year with respect to USP's section 965(a) inclusion). The section 965(a) inclusion and the section 78 dividends are foreign source general category income. During the 2017 taxable year, USP also has U.S. source gross income of $150x and other deductions of $210x, comprising $60x of interest expense and $150x of other deductible expenses that are not definitely related to any gross income. USP's total tax book value of its assets, as determined under §§ 1.861-9(g)(2) and 1.861-9T(g)(3), is divided equally between assets that generate foreign source general category income and assets that generate U.S. source income. USP elects under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section to not take into account the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section in determining its net operating loss under section 172 for the taxable year. Before taking into account the section 965(n) election, USP's total deductions are $280x ($210x + $70x) and USP's taxable income is $20x ($100x + $50x + $150x−$70x−$210x).
(B)
Analysis
. (
1
) The amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section is $80x ($100x section 965(a) inclusion−$70x section 965(c) deduction + $50x section 78 dividends). Not taking into account the $80x creates a net operating loss under section 172 of $60x ($20x taxable income without regard to the section 965(n) election−$80x) for the taxable year (the “deferred amount”). Under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, the deferred amount of $60x constitutes a net operating loss and is not allowed as a deduction for the taxable year. USP's taxable income for the year is $80x ($100x + $50x + $150x−($280x−$60x)).
(
2
) Under paragraph (e)(1)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section, deductions are allocated and apportioned under §§ 1.861-8 through 1.861-17 to the relevant statutory and residual groupings, taking into account the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section. Under § 1.861-8(b), USP's section 965(c) deduction is definitely related to the section 965(a) inclusion, and, therefore, is allocated solely to foreign source general category income. Under § 1.861-
9T, based on USP's asset values, the interest expense of $60x is ratably apportioned $30x to foreign source general category income and $30x to U.S. source income. Under § 1.861-8(c)(3), based on $150x of gross U.S. source income and $150x of gross foreign source general category income, the other expenses of $150x are ratably apportioned $75x to foreign source general category income and $75x to U.S. source income. Therefore, USP's deductions allocated and apportioned to foreign source general category income are $175x ($70x + $30x + $75x) and its deductions allocated and apportioned to U.S. source income are $105x ($30x + $75x).
(
3
) Under paragraph (e)(1)(iv)(B)(
2
) of this section, the deferred amount of $60x comprises a ratable portion of the allocated and apportioned deductions. Therefore, $37.5x ($60x × $175x/$280x) of the deferred amount comprises deductions allocated and apportioned to foreign source general category income, and $22.5x ($60x × $105x/$280x) comprises deductions allocated and apportioned to U.S. source income.
(
4
) Under paragraph (e)(1)(iv)(B)(
3
) of this section, for purposes of the separate foreign tax credit limitation under section 904, foreign source general category income for the taxable year is computed without taking into account the $37.5x of the deferred amount that is attributable to the deductions allocated and apportioned to the foreign source general category. Therefore, for the 2017 taxable year, foreign source general category income is $12.5x ($100x section 965(a) inclusion + $50x section 78 dividends−($175x deductions−$37.5x deferred amount). The remaining taxable income of $67.5x is U.S. source income.
(ii)
Example 2: Net operating loss carryover to the inclusion year
—(A)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation, has a section 965(a) inclusion of $100x and has a section 965(c) deduction of $60x for its taxable year ending December 31, 2017. USP also includes in gross income the amount treated as dividends under section 78 of $40x (the foreign taxes deemed paid under section 960(a) for the taxable year with respect to USP's section 965(a) inclusion). The section 965(a) inclusion and the section 78 dividends are foreign source general category income. USP also has U.S. source gross income of $200x, foreign source passive category gross income of $100x, and other deductions of $140x. Under § 1.861-8(b), USP's $60x section 965(c) deduction is definitely related to the section 965(a) inclusion, and, therefore, is allocated solely to foreign source general category income. Under §§ 1.861-8 through 1.861-17, USP allocates and apportions the other $140x of deductions as follows: $40x to foreign source general category income, $40x to foreign source passive category income, and $60x to U.S. source income. USP has a net operating loss of $260x for the 2016 taxable year consisting of a $120x U.S. source loss, a $75x general category separate limitation loss, and a $65x passive category separate limitation loss. Under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, USP elects to not take into account the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the amount of taxable income that may be reduced by net operating loss carryovers and carrybacks to the taxable year under section 172. USP's taxable income before taking into account the section 965(n) election and any net operating loss carryover deduction is $240x:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
e)(3)(ii
)(A)
General
Passive
U.S.
Total
Section 965(a) inclusion
$100x
$100x
Section 78 dividend
40x
40x
Other gross income
100x
200x
300x
Section 965(c) deduction
(60x)
(60x)
Other deductions
(40x)
(40x)
(60x)
(140x)
Net Income
40x
60x
140x
240x
(B)
Analysis
—(
1
) The amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section is $80x ($100x section 965(a) inclusion−$60x section 965(c) deduction + $40x section 78 dividends). As a result of the section 965(n) election, the net operating loss deduction allowed in the 2017 taxable year is reduced from $240x to $160x (the amount of USP's taxable income reduced by the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section).
(
2
) Under paragraph (e)(1)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section, the source and separate category of the net operating loss deduction allowed in the 2017 taxable year is determined under the rules of § 1.904(g)-3(b), taking into account the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section. Under § 1.904(g)-3(b)(3)(i), first the $120x U.S. source component of the net operating loss is allocated to U.S. source income for the 2017 taxable year. Because the total tentative carryover under § 1.904(g)-3(b)(3)(ii) of $100x ($40x in the general category and $60x in the passive category) exceeds the remaining net operating loss deduction of $40x ($160x−$120x), the tentative carryover amount from each separate category is reduced proportionately, to $16x ($40x × $40x/$100x) for the general category and $24x ($40x × $60x/$100x) for the passive category. Accordingly, $16x of the general category component of the net operating loss is carried forward, and $24x of the passive category component of the net operating loss is carried forward and combined with income in the same respective categories for the 2017 taxable year. After allocation of the net operating loss carryover from 2016, USP's taxable income for the 2017 taxable year is as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
e)(3)(ii
)(B)(
2
)
General
Passive
U.S.
Total
Net income before NOL deduction
$40x
$60x
$140x
$240x
NOL deduction
(16x)
(24x)
(120x)
(160x)
Net income after NOL deduction
24x
36x
20x
80x
(f)
Election to use alternative method for calculating post-1986 earnings and profits
—(1)
Effect of election for specified foreign corporations that do not have a 52-53-week taxable year.
If an election is made under this paragraph (f) with respect to a specified foreign corporation that does not have a 52-53-week taxable year, the amount of the post-1986 earnings and profits (including a deficit) as of the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017, is determined under paragraph (f)(3) of this section. The election described in this paragraph (f) is irrevocable. A specified foreign corporation that does not have a 52-53-week taxable year may not use the alternative method of determination in paragraph (f)(3) of this section for purposes of determining its post-1986 earnings and profits on the E
P measurement date on December 31, 2017.
(2)
Effect of election for specified foreign corporations that have a 52-53-week taxable year.
If an election is made under this paragraph (f) with respect to a specified foreign corporation that has a 52-53-week taxable year, the amount of the post-1986 earnings and profits (including a deficit) as of both E
P measurement dates is determined under paragraph (f)(3) of this section. The election described in this paragraph (f) is irrevocable.
(3)
Computation of post-1986 earnings and profits using alternative method.
With respect to an E
P measurement date, the post-1986 earnings and profits of a specified foreign corporation for which an election is properly made equals the sum of—
(i) The specified foreign corporation's post-1986 earnings and profits (including a deficit) determined as of the notional measurement date, as if it were an E
P measurement date, plus
(ii) The specified foreign corporation's annualized earnings and profits amount with respect to the notional measurement date.
(4)
Definitions
—(i)
52-53-week taxable year.
The term
52-53-week taxable year
means a taxable year described in § 1.441-2(a)(1).
(ii)
Annualized earnings and profits amount.
The term
annualized earnings and profits amount
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation, an E
P measurement date, and a notional measurement date, the amount equal to the product of the number of days between the notional measurement date and the E
P measurement date (not including the former, but including the latter) multiplied by the daily earnings amount of the specified foreign corporation. The annualized earnings and profits amount is expressed as a negative number if the E
P measurement date precedes the notional measurement date.
(iii)
Daily earnings amount.
The term
daily earnings amount
means, with respect to a specified foreign corporation and a notional measurement date, the post-1986 earnings and profits (including a deficit) of the specified foreign corporation determined as of the close of the notional measurement date that were earned (or incurred) during the specified foreign corporation's taxable year that includes the notional measurement date, divided by the number of days that have elapsed in such taxable year as of the close of the notional measurement date.
(iv)
Notional measurement date.
The term
notional measurement date
means—
(A) With respect to an E
P measurement date of a specified foreign corporation with a 52-53-week taxable year, the closest end of a fiscal month to such E
P measurement date, and
(B) With respect to the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017, of all specified foreign corporations not described in paragraph (f)(4)(iv)(A) of this section, October 31, 2017.
(5)
Manner of making election
—(i)
Eligibility.
An election with respect to a specified foreign corporation to use the alternative method of calculating post-1986 earnings and profits as of an E
P measurement date pursuant to this paragraph (f) must be made on behalf of the specified foreign corporation by a controlling domestic shareholder (as defined in § 1.964-1(c)(5)) pursuant to the rules of § 1.964-1(c)(3), except that the controlling domestic shareholder is not required to file the statement described in § 1.964-1(c)(3)(ii).
(ii)
Timing.
An election under this paragraph (f) must be made no later than the due date (taking into account extensions, if any) for the person's return for the first taxable year in which the person has a section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to the specified foreign corporation or in which the person takes into account a specified E
P deficit with respect to the specified corporation for purposes of computing a section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to another specified foreign corporation. Relief is not available under § 301.9100-2 or § 301.9100-3 to make a late election.
(iii)
Election statement.
Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, to make an election under this paragraph (f), a person must attach a statement, signed under penalties of perjury consistent with the rules for signatures applicable to the person's return, to the person's return for the taxable year described in paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section. The statement must include the person's name, taxpayer identification number, and the name and taxpayer identification number, if any, of each of the specified foreign corporations with respect to which the election is made, and the statement must be filed in the manner prescribed in instructions or other guidance. The attachment of an unsigned copy of the election statement to the timely-filed return for the relevant taxable year satisfies the signature requirement of this paragraph (f)(5)(iii) if the person making the election retains the original signed election statement in the manner specified by § 1.6001-1(e).
(6)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (f).

# Example 1.
(i)(A)
Facts.
FS, a foreign corporation, has a calendar year taxable year, and as of October 31, 2017, FS has post-1986 earnings and profits of 10,000u, 3,040u of which were earned during the taxable year that includes October 31, 2017. An election is properly made under paragraph (f)(5) of this section with respect to FS, allowing FS to determine its post-1986 earnings and profits under the alternative method with respect to its E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017.
(B)
Analysis.
As of the close of October 31, 2017, the notional measurement date with respect to the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017, 304 days have elapsed in the taxable year of FS that includes October 31, 2017. Therefore, FS's daily earnings amount is 10u (3,040u divided by 304), and FS's annualized earnings and profits amount is 20u (10u multiplied by 2 (the number of days between the notional measurement date on October 31, 2017, and the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017)). Accordingly, FS's post-1986 earnings and profits as of November 2, 2017, are 10,020u (its post-1986 earnings and profits as of October 31, 2017 (10,000u), plus its annualized earnings and profits amount (20u)).

# Example 2.
(ii)(A)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(6)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except that a deficit of 3,040u was incurred during the taxable year that includes October 31, 2017.
(B)
Analysis.
The analysis is the same as in paragraph (f)(6)(i)(B) of this section (the analysis in
Example 1
), except that FS's daily earnings amount is (10u) ((3,040u) divided by 304), and FS's annualized earnings and profits amount is (20u) ((10u) multiplied by 2 (the number of days between the notional measurement date on October 31, 2017, and the E
P measurement date on November 2, 2017)). Accordingly, FS's post-1986 earnings and profits as of November 2, 2017, are 9,980u (its post-1986 earnings and profits as of October 31, 2017 (10,000u), plus its annualized earnings and profits amount ((20u))).
(g)
Definitions.
This paragraph (g) provides definitions that apply for purposes of this section.
(1)
Deferred net tax liability.
The term
deferred net tax liability
means, with respect to any taxable year of a person, the amount of the section 965(i) net tax liability the payment of which has been deferred under section 965(i) and paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
REIT section 965 amounts.
The term
REIT section 965 amounts
means, with respect to a real estate investment trust and a taxable year of the real estate investment trust, the aggregate amount of section 965(a) inclusions and section 965(c) deductions that would (but for section 965(m)(1)(B) and paragraph (d) of this section) be taken into account in determining the real estate investment trust's income for the taxable year.
(3)
Section 965(h) election.
The term
section 965(h) election
means the election described in section 965(h)(1) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(4)
Section 965(h) net tax liability.
The term
section 965(h) net tax liability
means, with respect to a person that has made a section 965(h) election, the total net tax liability under section 965 reduced by the aggregate amount of the person's section 965(i) net tax liabilities, if any, with respect to which section 965(i) elections are effective.
(5)
Section 965(i) election.
The term
section 965(i) election
means the election described in section 965(i)(1) and paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(6)
Section 965(i) net tax liability.
The term
section 965(i) net tax liability
means, with respect to an S corporation and a shareholder of the S corporation, in the case in which a section 965(i) election is made, the amount determined pursuant to paragraph (g)(10)(i) of this section by adding before the word “over” in (g)(10)(i)(A) of this section “determined as if the only section 965(a) inclusions included in income by the person are domestic pass-through entity shares of section 965(a) inclusions by the S corporation with respect to deferred foreign income corporations of which the S corporation is a United States shareholder.”
(7)
Section 965(m) election.
The term
section 965(m) election
means the election described in section 965(m)(1)(B) and paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(8)
Section 965(n) election.
The term
section 965(n) election
means the election described in section 965(n)(1) and paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section.
(9)
Specified individual.
The term
specified individual
means, with respect to a taxable year, a person described in § 1.6081-5(a)(5) or (6) who receives an extension of time to file and pay under § 1.6081-5(a) for the taxable year.
(10)
Total net tax liability under section 965
—(i)
General rule.
The term
total net tax liability under section 965
means, with respect to a person, the excess (if any) of—
(A) The person's net income tax for the taxable year in which the person includes a section 965(a) inclusion in income, over—
(B) The person's net income tax for the taxable year determined—
(
1
) Without regard to section 965, and
(
2
) Without regard to any income, deduction, or credit properly attributable to a dividend received (directly or
through a chain of ownership described in section 958(a)) by the person (or, in the case of a domestic pass-through owner, by the person's domestic pass-through entity) from, or an inclusion under sections 951(a)(1)(B) and 956 with respect to, a deferred foreign income corporation and paid during, or included with respect to, the deferred foreign income corporation's inclusion year.
(ii)
Net income tax.
For purposes of this paragraph (g)(10), the term
net income tax
means the regular tax liability (as defined in section 26(b)) reduced by the credits allowed under subparts A, B, and D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code.
(iii)
Foreign tax credits.
The foreign tax credit disregarded in determining net income tax determined under paragraph (g)(10)(i)(B) of this section includes the credit for foreign income taxes deemed paid with respect to section 965(a) inclusions or foreign income taxes deemed paid with respect to a dividend, including a distribution that would have been treated as a dividend in the absence of section 965. The foreign tax credit disregarded under paragraph (g)(10)(i)(B) of this section also includes the credit for foreign income taxes imposed on distributions of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits or 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits made in the taxable year in which the person includes a section 965(a) inclusion in income.
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019, as amended by T.D. 9846, 84 FR 14261, Apr. 10, 2019; T.D. 9866, 84 FR 29365, June 21, 2019; T.D. 9882, 84 FR 69120, Dec. 17, 2019]
§ 1.965-8
Affiliated groups (including consolidated groups).
(a)
Scope.
This section provides rules for applying section 965 and the section 965 regulations to members of an affiliated group (as defined in section 1504(a)), including members of a consolidated group (as defined in § 1.1502-1(h)). Paragraph (b) of this section provides guidance regarding the application of section 965(b)(5) to determine the section 965(a) inclusion amounts of a member of an affiliated group. Paragraph (c) of this section provides guidance for designating the source of aggregate unused E
P deficits. Paragraph (d) provides rules regarding earning and profits and stock basis adjustments. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules that treat members of a consolidated group as a single person for certain purposes. Paragraph (f) of this section provides definitions that apply for purposes of this section. Paragraph (g) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of this section.
(b)
Reduction of E
P net surplus shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of a deferred foreign income corporation by the allocable share of the applicable share of the aggregate unused E
P deficit
—(1)
In general.
This paragraph (b) applies after the application of § 1.965-1(b)(2) for purposes of determining the section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that is both an E
P net surplus shareholder and a member of an affiliated group in which not all members are members of the same consolidated group. If this paragraph (b) applies, the U.S. dollar amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of the deferred foreign income corporation is further reduced (but not below zero) by the deferred foreign income corporation's allocable share of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's applicable share of the affiliated group's aggregate unused E
P deficit.
(2)
Consolidated group as part of an affiliated group.
If some, but not all, members of an affiliated group are members of a consolidated group, then the consolidated group is treated as a single member of the affiliated group for purposes of § 1.965-1(b)(2) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Designation of portion of excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit taken into account
—(1)
In general.
This paragraph (c) provides rules for designating the source of an aggregate unused E
P deficit of an affiliated group that is not also a consolidated group taken into account under section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section if the amount described in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) of this section with respect to the affiliated group exceeds the
amount described in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B) of this section with respect to the affiliated group. If this paragraph (c)(1) applies, each member of the affiliated group that is an E
P net deficit shareholder must designate by maintaining in its books and records a statement (identical to the statement maintained by all other such members) setting forth the portion of the excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit of the E
P net deficit shareholder taken into account under section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section. See § 1.965-2(d)(2)(ii)(B) for a rule for designating the portion of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of a specified E
P deficit of an E
P deficit foreign corporation taken into account under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), and paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable.
(2)
Consolidated group as part of an affiliated group.
If some, but not all, members of an affiliated group are properly treated as members of a consolidated group, then the consolidated group is treated as a single member of the affiliated group for purposes of applying paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Adjustments to earning and profits and stock basis.
(1) [Reserved]
(2)
Consolidated groups.
See § 1.1502-33(d)(1) for adjustments to members' earnings and profits and § 1.1502-32(b)(3) for adjustments to members' basis.
(e)
Treatment of a consolidated group or other affiliated group as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder or a single person
—(1)
In general.
All members of a consolidated group that are section 958(a) U.S. shareholders of a specified foreign corporation are treated as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder for purposes of section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), and § 1.965-3. Furthermore, all members of a consolidated group are treated as a single person for purposes of paragraphs (h), (k), and (n) of section 965 and § 1.965-7. In addition, all members of an affiliated group that are section 958(a) U.S. shareholders of a specified foreign corporation are treated as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder for purposes of § 1.965-2(f). Thus, for example, any election governed by section 965(h) and § 1.965-7(b) must be made by the agent (within the meaning of § 1.1502-77) of the group as a single election on behalf of all members of the consolidated group. Similarly, the determination of whether the transfer of assets by one member to a non-member of the consolidated group would constitute an acceleration event under § 1.965-7(b)(3)(ii)(B) takes into account all of the assets of the consolidated group, which for purposes of this determination, includes all of the assets of each consolidated group member. In analyzing issues relating to the transfer of assets of a consolidated group, appropriate adjustments are made to prevent the duplication of assets or asset value.
(2)
Limitation.
Paragraph (e)(1) of this section does not apply to treat all members of a consolidated group as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder or a single person, as applicable, for purposes of determining the amount of any member's inclusion under section 951 (including a section 965(a) inclusion), the foreign income taxes deemed paid with respect to a section 965(a) inclusion (see sections 960 and 902), or any purpose other than those specifically listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section or another provision of the section 965 regulations.
(3)
Determination of section 965(c) deduction amount.
For purposes of determining the section 965(c) deduction amount of any section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that is a member of a consolidated group, the aggregate foreign cash position of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is equal to the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder multiplied by the group cash ratio of the consolidated group.
(f)
Definitions.
This paragraph (f) provides definitions that apply for purposes of applying the section 965 regulations to members of an affiliated group, including members of a consolidated group.
(1)
Aggregate unused E
P deficit
—(i)
General rule.
The term
aggregate unused E
P deficit
means, with respect to an affiliated group, the lesser of—
(A) The sum of the excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit with respect to each E
P net deficit shareholder that is a member of the affiliated group, or
(B) The amount determined under paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Reduction with respect to E
P net deficit shareholders that are not wholly owned by the affiliated group.
If the group ownership percentage of an E
P net deficit shareholder is less than 100 percent, the amount of the excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit with respect to the E
P net deficit shareholder that is taken into account under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section is the product of the group ownership percentage multiplied by the excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit.
(2)
Allocable share.
The term
allocable share
means, with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation and an E
P net surplus shareholder's applicable share of an aggregate unused E
P deficit of an affiliated group, the product of the E
P net surplus shareholder's applicable share of the affiliated group's aggregate unused E
P deficit and the ratio described in § 1.965-1(f)(11) with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation.
(3)
Applicable share.
The term
applicable share
means, with respect to an E
P net surplus shareholder and an aggregate unused E
P deficit of an affiliated group, the amount that bears the same proportion to the affiliated group's aggregate unused E
P deficit as—
(i) The product of—
(A) The E
P net surplus shareholder's group ownership percentage, multiplied by
(B) The amount that would (but for section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section) constitute the E
P net surplus shareholder's aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount, bears to
(ii) The aggregate amount determined under paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section with respect to all E
P net surplus shareholders that are members of the group.
(4)
Consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position.
The term
consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position
means, with respect to a consolidated group, the aggregate foreign cash position (as defined in § 1.965-1(f)(8)(i)) determined by treating each member of the consolidated group that is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(5)
E
P net deficit shareholder.
The term
E
P net deficit shareholder
means a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that has an excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit.
(6)
E
P net surplus shareholder.
The term
E
P net surplus shareholder
means a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that would (but for section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section) have an aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount greater than zero.
(7)
Excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit.
The term
excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, the amount, if any, by which the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(i) with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder exceeds the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(ii) with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder.
(8)
Group cash ratio.
The term
group cash ratio
means, with respect to a consolidated group, the ratio of—
(i) The consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position, to
(ii) The sum of the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amounts of all members of the consolidated group.
(9)
Group ownership percentage.
The term
group ownership percentage
means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that is a member of an affiliated group, the percentage of the value of the stock of the United States shareholder which is held by other includible corporations in the affiliated group. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the group ownership percentage of the common parent of the affiliated group is 100 percent. Any term used in this paragraph (f)(9) that is also used in section 1504 has the same meaning as when used in such section. Additionally, if the term is used in the context of a rule for which all members of a consolidated group are treated as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, then the group ownership percentage is determined solely with respect to the value of the stock of the common parent of the consolidated group held by other includible corporations that are not members of the consolidated group.
(g)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this section.

# Example 1.
(1)
Application of affiliated group rule
—(i)
Facts
—(A)
In general.
USP owns all of the stock of USS1, USS2, and USS3. Each of USP, USS1, USS2, and USS3 is a domestic corporation and is a member of an affiliated group of which USP is the common parent (the “USP Group”). The USP Group has not elected to file a consolidated federal income tax return. USS1 owns all of the stock of CFC1 and CFC2, USS2 owns all of the stock of CFC3, and USS3 owns all of the stock of CFC4. Each of CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 is a controlled foreign corporation within the meaning of section 957(a), and, therefore, each is a specified foreign corporation under section 965(e) and § 1.965-1(f)(45). Each of USP, USS1, USS2, USS3, CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 has the calendar year as its taxable year.
(B)
Facts relating to section 965.
CFC1 and CFC3 are deferred foreign income corporations with section 965(a) earnings amounts of $600x and $300x, respectively. CFC1 and CFC3 have cash positions of $0x and $50x, respectively, on each of their cash measurement dates. CFC2 and CFC4 are E
P deficit foreign corporations with specified E
P deficits of $400x and $100x, respectively. CFC2 and CFC4 have cash positions of $100x and $50x, respectively, on each of their cash measurement dates. The cash positions all consist solely of cash. CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 all use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Section 965(a) inclusion amounts before application of section 965(b)(5).
USS1 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to CFC1 and CFC2; USS2 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to CFC3; and USS3 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to CFC4. USS1's pro rata share of CFC1's section 965(a) earnings amount is $600x. Under section 965(b)(3)(A) and § 1.965-1(f)(9), USS1's aggregate foreign E
P deficit is $400x, the lesser of the aggregate of USS1's pro rata share of the specified E
P deficit of each E
P deficit foreign corporation ($400x) and the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(ii) with respect to USS1 ($600x). Under section 965(b) and § 1.965-1(b)(2), in determining its section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC1, USS1 reduces its pro rata share of the U.S. dollar amount of section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 by CFC1's allocable share of USS1's aggregate foreign E
P deficit. CFC1's allocable share of USS1's aggregate foreign E
P deficit is $400x, which is the product of USS1's aggregate foreign E
P deficit ($400x) and 1, which is the ratio determined by dividing USS1's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 ($600x), by the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(ii) with respect to USS1 ($600x). Accordingly, under section 965(b) and § 1.965-1(b)(2) (before applying section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section), USS1's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC1 would be $200x (USS1's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 of $600x reduced by CFC1's allocable share of USS1's aggregate foreign E
P deficit of $400x). Under section 965(b) and § 1.965-1(b)(2) (before applying section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section), USS2's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC3 would be $300x (USS2's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC3).
(B)
Application of section 965(b)(5)
—(
1
)
Determination of E
P net surplus shareholders and E
P net deficit shareholders.
USS1 is an E
P net surplus shareholder because it would have an aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of $200x but for the application of section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section. USS2 is also an E
P net surplus shareholder because it would have an aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of $300x but for the application of section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section. USS3 is an E
P net deficit shareholder because it has an excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit of $100x.
(
2
)
Determining section 965(a) inclusion amounts under section 965(b)(5).
Under section 965(b) and paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of determining the section 965(a) inclusion amount of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation, if, after applying § 1.965-1(b)(2), the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is an E
P net surplus shareholder, then the U.S. dollar amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of the deferred foreign income corporation is further reduced (but not below zero) by the deferred foreign income corporation's allocable share of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's applicable share of the affiliated group's aggregate unused E
P deficit. USS3 is the only E
P net deficit shareholder in the USP Group, and, therefore, the aggregate unused E
P deficit of the USP Group is equal to USS3's excess aggregate foreign E
P deficit ($100x). The applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E
P deficit of each of USS1 and USS2, respectively, is an amount that bears the same proportion to the USP Group's aggregate unused E
P deficit as the product of the group ownership percentage of USS1 and USS2, respectively, multiplied by the amount that would (but for section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section) constitute the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of USS1 and USS2, respectively, bears to the aggregate of such amounts with respect to both USS1 and USS2. Therefore, USS1's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E
P deficit is $40 ($100x ×
($200x/($200x + $300x))) and USS2's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E
P deficit is $60x ($100x × ($300x/($200x + $300x))). Because USS1 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to only one deferred foreign income corporation, the entire $40x of USS1's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E
P deficit is treated as CFC1's allocable share of USS1's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E
P deficit, and thus USS1's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC1 is reduced to $160x ($200x−$40x). Because USS2 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to only one deferred foreign income corporation, the entire $60x of USS2's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E
P deficit is treated as CFC3's allocable share of USS2's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E
P deficit, and thus USS2's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC3 is reduced to $240x ($300x−$60x).
(C)
Aggregate foreign cash position.
Under section 965(c) and § 1.965-1(c), a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that includes a section 965(a) inclusion amount in income is allowed a deduction equal to the section 965(c) deduction amount. The section 965(c) deduction amount is computed by taking into account the aggregate foreign cash position of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder. Under § 1.965-1(f)(8)(i), the aggregate foreign cash position of USS1 is $100x, and the aggregate foreign cash position of USS2 is $50x.
(D)
Section 965(c) deduction amount.
The section 965(c) deduction amount of USS1 is $102x, which is equal to (i) USS1's 8 percent rate equivalent percentage (77.1428571%) of its 8 percent rate amount for USS1's 2017 year ($60x ($160x−$100x)), plus USS1's 15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage (55.7142857%) of its 15.5 percent rate amount for USS1's 2017 year ($100x). The section 965(c) deduction amount of USS2 is $174.43x, which is equal to (i) USS2's 8 percent rate equivalent percentage (77.1428571%) of its 8 percent rate amount for USS2's 2017 year ($190x ($240x−$50x)), plus USS2's 15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage (55.7142857%) of its 15.5 percent rate amount for USS2's 2017 year ($50x). Because USS3 has no section 965(a) inclusion amount, it has no section 965(c) deduction amount and therefore is not allowed a section 965(c) deduction.

# Example 2
—(2)
Application to members of a consolidated group
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section (the facts in
Example 1
), except that the USP Group has elected to file a consolidated return.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Section 965(a) inclusion amount
—(
1
)
Single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder treatment.
Because each of USS1, USS2, and USS3 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of a specified foreign corporation and is a member of a consolidated group, paragraph (e)(1) of this section applies to treat USS1, USS2, and USS3 as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder for purposes of section 965(b) and § 1.965-1(b)(2).
(
2
)
Determination of inclusion amount.
The single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder composed of USS1, USS2, and USS3 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4. Under § 1.965-1(b)(2), in determining USS1's section 965(a) inclusion amount, the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder decreases its pro rata share of the U.S. dollar amount of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 by CFC1's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder. CFC1's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit is $333.33x, which is the product of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($500x ($400x + $100x)) and .67, which is the ratio determined by dividing its pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 ($600x) by the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(ii) with respect to the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($900x ($600x + $300x)). Therefore, USS1's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC1 is $266.67 (its pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 ($600) less CFC1's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($333.33x)). Similarly, under § 1.965-1(b)(2), in determining the section 965(a) inclusion amount of USS2, the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder decreases its pro rata share of the U.S. dollar amount of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC3 by CFC3's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder. CFC3's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit is $166.67x, which is the product of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($500x) and .33, which is the ratio determined by dividing its pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC3 ($300x) by the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(ii) with respect to the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($900x ($600x + $300x)). Therefore, USS2's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC3 is $133.33x (its pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC3 ($300x) less CFC3's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E
P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($166.67x)).
(B)
Consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position.
Because USS1 and USS2 are members of a consolidated group, the aggregate foreign cash position of each of USS1 and USS2 is determined under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the aggregate foreign cash position of each of USS1 and USS2 is equal to the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of USS1 and USS2, respectively, multiplied by
the group cash ratio of the USP Group, as determined pursuant to paragraph (f)(8) of this section. The group cash ratio of the USP Group is .50, which is the ratio of the USP Group's consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position ($200x ($50x + $100x + $50x)) and the sum of the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amounts of all members of the USP Group ($400x ($266.67x + $133.33x)). Therefore, under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the aggregate foreign cash positions of USS1 and USS2 are, respectively, $133.34x ($266.67x × ($200x/$400x)) and $66.67 ($133.33x × ($200x/400x)).
(C)
Section 965(c) deduction amount.
The section 965(c) deduction amount of USS1 is $177.14x, which is equal to (i) USS1's 8 percent rate equivalent percentage (77.1428571%) of its 8 percent rate amount for USS1's 2017 year ($133.33x ($266.67x−$133.34x)), plus USS1's 15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage (55.7142857%) of its 15.5 percent rate amount for USS1's 2017 year ($133.34x). The section 965(c) deduction amount of USS2 is $88.56x, which is equal to (i) USS2's 8 percent rate equivalent percentage (77.1428571%) of its 8 percent rate amount for USS2's 2017 year ($66.66x ($133.33x−$66.67x)), plus USS2's 15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage (55.7142857%) of its 15.5 percent rate amount for USS2's 2017 year ($66.67x). Because USS3 has no section 965(a) inclusion amount, it has no section 965(c) deduction amount and therefore is not allowed a section 965(c) deduction.
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019, as amended by T.D. 9846, 84 FR 14261, Apr. 10, 2019]
§ 1.965-9
Applicability dates.
(a)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, §§ 1.965-1 through 1.965-8 apply beginning the last taxable year of a foreign corporation that begins before January 1, 2018, and with respect to a United States person, beginning the taxable year in which or with which such taxable year of the foreign corporation ends.
(b)
Applicability dates for rules disregarding certain transactions.
Section 1.965-4 applies regardless of whether, with respect to a foreign corporation, the transaction, effective date of a change in method of accounting, effective date of an entity classification election, or specified payment described in § 1.965-4 occurred before the first day of the foreign corporation's last taxable year that begins before January 1, 2018, or, with respect to a United States person, the transaction, effective date of a change in method of accounting, effective date of an entity classification election, or specified payment described in § 1.965-4 occurred before the first day of the taxable year of the United States person in which or with which the taxable year of the foreign corporation ends.
(c)
Applicability date for certain portions of § 1.965-5.
Paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of § 1.965-5 applies to taxable years of foreign corporations that both begin after December 31, 2017, and end on or after December 4, 2018, and with respect to a United States person, to the taxable years in which or with which such taxable years of the foreign corporations end. Section 1.965-5(b)(2) applies to taxable years of foreign corporations that end on or after December 16, 2019, and with respect to a United States person, to the taxable years in which or with which such taxable years of the foreign corporations end.
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019, as amended by T.D. 9882, 84 FR 69120, Dec. 17, 2019; T.D. 9922, 85 FR 72072, Nov. 12, 2020]

# export trade corporations
§ 1.970-1
Export trade corporations.
(a)
In general.
Sections 970 through 972 provide in general that if a controlled foreign corporation is an export trade corporation for any taxable year, the subpart F income of such corporation shall, subject to limitations provided by section 970(a) and paragraph (b) of this section, be reduced by so much of such corporation's export trade income as constitutes foreign base company income. To the extent subpart F income of an export trade corporation is reduced under section 970 and this section, an amount is required by section 970(b) and paragraph (c) of this section to be included in gross income of United States shareholders of the corporation if there is a subsequent decrease in such corporation's investments in export trade assets. See section 971(a) and paragraph (a) of § 1.971-1 for definition of the term “export trade corporation”, section 971(b) and paragraph (b) of § 1.971-1 for definition of the term “export trade income”, and section 971(c) and paragraph (c) of § 1.971-1 for definition of the term “export trade assets”.
(b)
Amount by which export trade income shall reduce subpart F income
—(1)
Deductible amount.
The subpart F income, determined as provided in section 952 and the regulations thereunder but without regard to section 970 and this paragraph, of a controlled foreign corporation which is an export trade corporation for its taxable year shall be reduced by an amount equal to so much of its export trade income as constitutes foreign base company income for such taxable year, but only to the extent that such amount of export trade income does not exceed the limitation determined under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph for such taxable year. See section 972 and § 1.972-1 for rules relating to the consolidation of export trade corporations for purposes of determining the limitations described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
(2)
Limitation on the amount of export trade income deductible from subpart F income.
The amount by which subpart F income of an export trade corporation may be reduced for any taxable year under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may not exceed whichever of the following limitations is the smallest:
(i) The amount which is equal to 150 percent of the export promotion expenses, as defined in section 971(d) and paragraph (d) of § 1.971-1, of the export trade corporation paid or incurred during the taxable year which are properly allocable to the receipt or the production of so much of its export trade income as constitutes foreign base company income for such taxable year;
(ii) The amount which is equal to 10 percent of the gross receipts (other than from commissions, fees, or other compensation for services), plus 10 percent of the gross amount upon the basis of which are computed commissions, fees, or other compensation for services included in gross receipts, of the export trade corporation received or accrued during the taxable year from, or in connection with, the sale, installation, operation, maintenance, or use of property in respect of which such corporation derives export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income for such taxable year; or
(iii) The amount which bears the same ratio to the increase in investments in export trade assets, as defined in section 970(c)(2) and paragraph (d)(2) of this section, of the export trade corporation for its taxable year as the export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income of such corporation for such taxable year bears to the entire export trade income of the corporation for such year.
Under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, in the case of minimum or maximum fee arrangements, the determination shall be made on the basis of the actual gross amounts with respect to which such fees are paid, rather than on the basis of the amounts upon which such minimum or maximum fees are computed. All determinations of limitations under this subparagraph shall be made on an aggregate basis and not with respect to separate items or categories of income described in paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.971-1.
(3)
Determination of export promotion expense limitation.
For purposes of determining the limitation contained in subparagraph (2)(i) of this paragraph for any taxable year of the export trade corporation, there shall be taken into account with respect to those items or categories of export trade income which constitute foreign base company income the entire amount of those export promotion expenses which are directly related to such items or categories of income and a ratable part of any other export promotion expenses which are indirectly related to such items or categories of income, except that no export promotion expense shall be allocated to an item or category of income to which it clearly does not apply and no deduction allowable to such corporation under section 882(c) and the regulations thereunder shall be taken into account.
(4)
Application of section 482.
The limitations provided in section 970(a) and subparagraph (2) of this paragraph shall not affect the authority of the district director to apply the provisions of section 482 and the regulations thereunder, relating to allocation of income and deductions among taxpayers.
(5)
Illustrations.
The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Foreign corporation A is a wholly owned subsidiary of domestic corporation M. Both corporations use the calendar year
as the taxable year. For 1963, A Corporation's subpart F income determined under section 952 and the regulations thereunder is $35, the total of its gross receipts and gross amounts referred to in subparagraph (2)(ii) of this paragraph is $310, its export promotion expenses properly allocable to its export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income are $18, its increase in investments in export trade assets is $32, and its export trade income is $40, of which $30 constitutes foreign base company income and $10 does not constitute foreign base company income. The subpart F income of A Corporation for 1963 as reduced under section 970(a) is $11, determined as follows:
(i) Subpart F income
$35
(ii) Less: $30 export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income, but deduction not to exceed the smallest of the following limitations (smallest of (
a
), (
b
), or (
c
)):
(
a
) 150 percent of allocable export promotion expenses referred to in subparagraph (2)(i) of this paragraph (150% of $18)
$27
(
b
) 10 percent of gross receipts and gross amounts referred to in subparagraph (2)(ii) of this paragraph (10% of $310)
$31
(
c
) Amount which bears to the increase in investments in export trade assets ($32) the same ratio as the export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income ($30) bears to total export trade income ($40) (75% [$30/$40] of $32)
$24
$24
(iii) Subpart F income as reduced under section 970(a)
11

# Example 2.
The facts are the same as in example 1, except that A Corporation's export promotion expenses properly allocable to export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income are $14 instead of $18. The applicable limitation on the amount deductible from A Corporation's subpart F income for 1963 is $21 (150% of $14) instead of $24. The subpart F income as reduced under section 970(a) is $14 ($35 less $21).

# Example 3.
The facts are the same as in example 1, except that the total amount of A Corporation's gross receipts and gross amounts referred to in subparagraph (2)(ii) of this paragraph is $200 instead of $310. The applicable limitation on the amount deductible from A Corporation's subpart F income for 1963 is $20 (10 percent of $200) instead of $24. The subpart F income as reduced under section 970(a) is $15 ($35 less $20).

# Example 4.
The facts are the same as in example 1, except that A Corporation derives its export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income of $30 in a service arrangement with M Corporation under which it receives as a fee 5 percent of the gross receipts from M Corporation's sales or a minimum fee of $30. Such gross receipts are $220. The gross amounts taken into account in determining the limitation under subparagraph (2)(ii) of this paragraph are $220. The applicable limitation on the amount deductible from A Corporation's subpart F income for 1963 is $22 (10 percent of $220) instead of $24. The subpart F income as reduced under section 970(a) is $13 ($35 minus $22).

# Example 5.
The facts are the same as in example 1, except that A Corporation derives its export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income of $30 in a service arrangement with M Corporation under which it receives as a fee 9 percent of the gross receipts from M Corporation's sales or a maximum fee of $30. Such gross receipts are $400. In such instance, the limitation under (ii)(
b
) of example 1 is $40 (10 percent of $400) instead of $31. The applicable limitation on the amount deductible from A Corporation's subpart F income for 1963 is $24, the smallest of the three limitations. The subpart F income as reduced under section 970(a) is $11 ($35 less $24).
(c)
Withdrawal of previously excluded export trade income
—(1)
Inclusion of withdrawal in income of United States shareholders.
If—
(i) A controlled foreign corporation was an export trade corporation for any taxable year,
(ii) Such corporation in any such taxable year derived subpart F income which, under the provisions of section 970(a) and paragraph (b) of this section, was reduced, and
(iii) Such corporation has in a subsequent taxable year a decrease in investments in export trade assets,
every person who is a United States shareholder, as defined in section 951(b), of such corporation on the last day of such subsequent taxable year on which such corporation is a controlled foreign corporation shall include in his gross income, under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) and the regulations thereunder as an amount to which section 955 (as in effect before the enactment of the Tax Reduction Act of 1975) applies, his pro rata share of the amount of such decrease in investments but only to the extent that such pro rata share does not exceed the limitations determined under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. A United States shareholder's pro rata share of a controlled foreign corporation's decrease for any taxable year in investments in export trade assets shall be his pro rata share of such corporation's decrease for
such year determined under section 970(c)(3) and paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(2)
Limitations applicable in determining amount includible in income
—(i)
General.
A United States shareholder's pro rata share of a controlled foreign corporation's decrease in investments in export trade assets for any taxable year of such corporation shall, for purposes of determining an amount to be included in the gross income for any taxable year of such shareholder, not exceed the lesser of the limitations determined under (
a
) and (
b
) of this subdivision:
(
a
) Such shareholder's pro rata share of the sum of the controlled foreign corporation's earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) for the taxable year, computed as of the close of the taxable year without diminution by reason of any distributions made during the taxable year, plus his pro rata share of the sum of its earnings and profits (or deficits in earnings and profits) accumulated for prior taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962, or
(
b
)(
1
) Such shareholder's pro rata share of the sum of the amounts by which the subpart F income of such controlled foreign corporation for prior taxable years was reduced under section 970(a) and paragraph (b) of this section, plus
(
2
) Such shareholder's pro rata share of the sum of the amounts which were not included in the subpart F income of such controlled foreign corporation for such prior taxable years by reason of the application of section 972 and § 1.972-1, minus
(
3
) Such shareholder's pro rata share of the sum of the amounts which were previously included in his gross income for prior taxable years under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) and this paragraph with respect to such controlled foreign corporation.
The net amount determined under (
b
) of this subdivision with respect to any stock owned by the United States shareholder shall be determined without taking into account any amount attributable to a period prior to the date on which such shareholder acquired such stock. See section 1248 and the regulations thereunder for rules governing the treatment of gain from sales or exchanges of stock in certain foreign corporations.
(ii)
Treatment of earnings and profits.
For purposes of determining earnings and profits of a controlled foreign corporation under subdivision (i) (
a
) of this subparagraph, such earnings and profits shall be considered not to include any amounts which are attributable to—
(
a
) Amounts which are, or have been, included in the gross income of a United States shareholder of such controlled foreign corporation under section 951(a) (other than an amount included in the gross income of a United States shareholder under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) or section 951(a)(1)(B) for the taxable year) and have not been distributed, or
(
b
)(
1
) Amounts which for the current taxable year, are included in the gross income of a United States shareholder of such controlled foreign corporation under section 551(b) or would be so included under such section but for the fact that such amounts were distributed to such shareholder during the taxable year, or
(
2
) Amounts which, for any prior taxable year, have been included in the gross income of a United States shareholder of such controlled foreign corporation under section 551(b) and have not been distributed.
The rules of this subdivision apply only in determining the limitation on a United States shareholder's pro rata share of a controlled foreign corporation's decrease in investments in export trade assets. See section 959 and the regulations thereunder for limitations on the exclusion of previously taxed earnings and profits.
(iii)
Rules of application.
The determinations made under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph for purposes of determining the United States shareholder's pro rata share of a controlled foreign corporation's decrease in investments in export trade assets for any taxable year shall be made on the basis of the stock such shareholder owns, within the meaning of section 958(a) and the regulations thereunder, in the controlled foreign corporation on the last day in the taxable year on
which such corporation is a controlled foreign corporation even though such shareholder owned more or less stock in such corporation prior to that date. See section 972 and paragraph (b)(3) of § 1.972-1 for rules relating to the allocation of a decrease in investments in export trade assets of export trade corporations in a consolidated chain of such corporations. See section 951(a)(3) and the regulations thereunder for an additional limitation upon the amount of a United States shareholder's pro rata share determined under this paragraph.
(3)
Illustrations.
The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Foreign corporation A, which has one class of stock outstanding, is a wholly owned subsidiary of domestic corporation M throughout 1963 and 1964. Both corporations use the calendar year as the taxable year. For 1963, A Corporation qualifies as an export trade corporation and its subpart F income, determined in accordance with the provisions of section 952 and the regulations thereunder, is reduced by $20 under the provisions of section 970(a) and paragraph (b) of this section. Section 972 is assumed not to apply to A Corporation. For 1964, A Corporation has a decrease of $8 in investments in export trade assets. For 1963 and 1964, A Corporation has earnings and profits of $30 (determined under the provisions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph). Corporation M's pro rata share of A Corporation's decrease in investments in export trade assets for 1964 which is includible in M Corporation's gross income for 1964 under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) is $8, determined as follows:
(i) Corporation M's pro rata share of A Corporation's decrease in investments in export trade assets for 1964 (100% of $8)
$8
(ii) Limitation on amount includible in gross income of M Corporation for 1964 (smaller of (
a
) or (
b
)):
(
a
) Corporation M's pro rata share of A Corporation's earnings and profits for 1963 and 1964 determined under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (100% of $30)
$30
(
b
) Corporation M's pro rata share of amounts by which the subpart F income of A Corporation for 1963 was reduced under section 970(a) (100% of $20)
$20
Plus: Corporation M's pro rata share of amounts which were not included in subpart F income of A Corporation for 1963 by reason of the application of section 972
0
Total
20
Less: Corporation M's pro rata share of the sum of amounts which were previously included in gross income of M Corporation under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) with respect to A Corporation
0
20
(iii) Corporation M's pro rata share includible in gross income for 1964 under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) (smaller of (i) or (ii))
8

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example 1, except that on February 14, 1965, M Corporation sells 25 percent of its stock in A Corporation to N Corporation. Corporation N is a domestic corporation which also uses the calendar year as a taxable year. For 1965, A Corporation has a decrease of $16 in investments in export trade assets. Corporation A's earnings and profits for 1963 and 1964 (determined under the provisions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) are $22 ($30 minus $8). Corporation A's earnings and profits for 1965 are $6 (determined under the provisions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph). For 1965, M Corporation's pro rata share of A Corporation's decrease in investments in export trade assets which is includible in M Corporation's gross income under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) is $9, and N Corporation's pro rata share includible in gross income under such section is $0, determined as follows:
M Corporation
(i) Corporation M's pro rata share of A Corporation's decrease in investments in export trade assets for 1965 (75% of $16)
$12
(ii) Limitation on amount includible in gross income of M Corporation for 1965 (smaller of (
a
) or (
b
)):
(
a
) Corporation M's pro rata share of A Corporation's earnings and profits for 1963, 1964, and 1965 determined under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (75% of $28)
$21
(
b
) Corporation M's pro rata share of amounts by which the subpart F income of A Corporation for 1963 was reduced under section 970(a) (75% of $20)
$15
Plus: Corporation M's pro rata share of amounts which were not included in subpart F income of A Corporation for 1963 and 1964 by reason of the application of section 972
0
Total
$15
Less: Corporation M's pro rata share of the sum of amounts which were previously included in gross income of M Corporation under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) with respect to A Corporation (75% of $8)
6
9
(iii) Corporation M's pro rata share includible in gross income for 1965 under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) (smaller of (i) or (ii))
9
N Corporation
(i) Corporation N's pro rata share of A Corporation's decrease in investments in export trade assets for 1965 (25% of $16)
0
(ii) Limitation on amount includible in gross income of N Corporation for 1965 (smaller of (
a
) or (
b
)):
(
a
) Corporation N's pro rata share of A Corporation's earnings and profits for 1963, 1964, and 1965 determined under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (25% of $28)
07
(
b
) Corporation N's pro rata share of amounts by which the subpart F income of A Corporation for 1963 was reduced under section 970(a) (amounts prior to 2/14/65 not being taken into account)
0
Plus: Corporation N's pro rata share of amounts which were not included in subpart F income of A Corporation for 1963 and 1964 by reason of the application of section 972 (amounts prior to 2/14/65 not being taken into account)
0
Total
0
Less: Corporation N's pro rata share of the sum of amounts which were previously included in gross income of N Corporation under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) with respect to A Corporation (amounts prior to 2/14/65 not being taken into account)
0
0
(iii) Corporation N's pro rata share includible in gross income for 1965 under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) (smaller of (i) or (ii))
0
(d)
Investments in export trade assets
—(1)
Amount of investments.
For purposes of sections 970 through 972 and §§ 1.970-1 to 1.972-1, inclusive, export trade assets shall be taken into account on the following bases:
(i)
Working capital.
Working capital to which section 971(c)(1) applies shall be taken into account at the adjusted basis of current assets, determined as of the applicable determination date, less any current liabilities (except as provided in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph).
(ii)
Other export trade assets.
Inventory to which section 971(c)(2) applies, facilities to which section 971(c)(3) applies, and evidences of indebtedness to which section 971(c)(4) applies, shall be taken into account at their adjusted bases as of the applicable determination date, reduced by any liabilities (except as provided in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph) to which such property is subject on such date. To be taken into account under this subparagraph, a liability must constitute a specific charge against the property involved. Thus, a liability evidenced by an open account or a liability secured only by the general credit of the controlled foreign corporation will not be taken into account. On the other hand, if a liability constitutes a specific charge against several items of property and cannot definitely be allocated to any single item of property, the liability shall be apportioned against each of such items of property in that ratio which the adjusted basis of such item on the applicable determination date bears to the adjusted basis of all such items on such date. A liability in excess of the adjusted basis of the property which is subject to such liability will not be taken into account for the purpose of reducing the adjusted basis of other property which is not subject to such liability. See paragraph (c)(6) of § 1.971-1 for treatment of export trade assets which constitute working capital to which section 971(c)(1) applies and which also constitute inventory to which section 971(c)(2) applies or evidences of indebtedness to which section 971(c)(4) applies.
(iii)
Treatment of certain liabilities.
For purposes of subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph, a current liability, or a specific charge created with respect to any item of property, principally for the purpose of artificially increasing or decreasing the amount of a controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets shall be taken into account in such a manner as to properly reflect the controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets; whether a specific charge or current liability is
created principally for such purpose will depend upon all the facts and circumstances of each case. One of the factors that will be considered in making such a determination with respect to a loan is whether the loan is from a related person, as defined in section 954(d)(3) and paragraph (e) of § 1.954-1.
(iv)
Statement required.
If for purposes of this section a United States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation reduces the adjusted basis of property which constitutes an export trade asset on the ground that such property is subject to a liability, he shall attach to his return a statement setting forth the adjusted basis of the property before the reduction and the amount and nature of the reduction.
(2)
Increase in investments in export trade assets.
For purposes of section 970(a) and paragraph (b) of this section, the amount of increase in investments in export trade assets of a controlled foreign corporation for a taxable year shall be, except as provided in § 1.970-2, the amount by which—
(i) The amount of its investments in export trade assets at the close of such taxable year, exceeds
(ii) The amount of its investments in export trade assets at the close of the preceding taxable year.
(3)
Decrease in investments in export trade assets.
For purposes of section 970(b) and paragraph (c) of this section, the amount of the decrease in investments in export trade assets of a controlled foreign corporation for a taxable year shall be, except as provided in § 1.970-2, the amount by which—
(i) The amount of its investments in export trade assets at the close of the preceding taxable year, minus
(ii) An amount equal to the excess of recognized losses over recognized gains on sales, exchanges, involuntary conversions, assets or other dispositions, of export trade during the taxable year, exceeds
(iii) The amount of its investments in export trade assets at the close of the taxable year.
For purposes of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, recognized losses include a write-down of inventory to lower of cost or market in accordance with a method of inventory valuation established or adopted by or on behalf of such foreign corporation under paragraph (c) of § 1.964-1.
[T.D. 6755, 29 FR 12704, Sept. 9, 1964, as amended by T.D. 6795, 30 FR 947, Jan. 29, 1965; T.D. 6892, 31 FR 11144, Aug. 23, 1966; T.D. 7293, 38 FR 32802, Nov. 28, 1973; T.D. 7893, 48 FR 22511, May 19, 1983]
§ 1.970-2
Elections as to date of determining investments in export trade assets.
(a)
Nature of elections
—(1)
In general.
In lieu of determining the increase under the provisions of paragraph (d)(2) of § 1.970-1, or the decrease under the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of § 1.970-1, in a controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets for a taxable year in the manner provided in such provisions, a United States shareholder of such corporation may elect, under the provisions of section 970(c)(4) and this section, to determine such increase or decrease in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph or, in the case of export trade assets which are facilities described in section 971(c)(3), in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph. Separate elections may be made under subparagraph (2) and/or (3) of this paragraph with respect to each controlled foreign corporation with respect to which a person is a United States shareholder, within the meaning of section 951(b).
(2)
Election of 75-day rule.
A United States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation may elect with respect to a taxable year of such corporation to make the determinations under subparagraphs (2)(i) and (3)(iii) of paragraph (d) of § 1.970-1 of the amount of such corporation's investments in export trade assets as of the 75th day after the close of the taxable year referred to in such subparagraphs of paragraph (d) of § 1.970-1. The election provided by this subparagraph may be made with respect to export trade assets other than facilities described in section 971(c)(3) or with respect to export trade assets which are facilities or with respect to both types of export trade assets (but the election under this paragraph with respect to export trade assets which are facilities or with respect to both types of export trade assets may be made only if the election
provided by subparagraph (3) of this paragraph is not made). If the election provided by this subparagraph is made, the amount of export trade assets with respect to which such election is made at the close of the preceding taxable year which is described in subparagraphs (2)(ii) and (3)(i) of paragraph (d) of § 1.970-1 shall be the amount of export trade assets which was considered by application of the 75-day rule to be the amount of export trade assets at the close of such preceding taxable year; except that for the first taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation for which the 75-day rule is elected the amount of investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election is made at the close of such preceding year described in subparagraphs (2)(ii) and (3)(i) of paragraph (d) of § 1.970-1 shall be the amount of investments in export trade assets at the actual close of such preceding year. In the case of a taxable year of such corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, and before December 31, 1963, the amount of investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election is made alternatively may be determined by the United States shareholder as of the 75th day after the close of the preceding taxable year referred to in subparagraphs (2)(ii) and (3)(i) of paragraph (d) of § 1.970-1 rather than as of the close of such preceding taxable year.
(3)
Election for export trade assets which are facilities.
A United States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation may elect with respect to a taxable year of such corporation to make the determinations under subparagraphs (2)(i) and (3)(iii) of paragraph (d) of § 1.970-1 of the amount of such corporation's investments in export trade assets which are facilities described in section 971(c)(3) as of the close of such corporation's taxable year following the taxable year referred to in such subparagraphs of paragraph (d) of § 1.970-1. The election provided by this subparagraph may be made only if the United States shareholder does not elect the 75-day rule of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph with respect to export trade assets which are facilities. If the election provided by this subparagraph is made, the amount of investments in export trade assets which are facilities at the close of the preceding taxable year which is described in subparagraphs (2)(ii) and (3)(i) of paragraph (d) of § 1.970-1 shall be the amount of export trade assets which are facilities which was considered, by reason of the application of the following-year rule provided in this subparagraph with respect to such preceding taxable year, to be the amount of export trade assets which are facilities at the close of such preceding taxable year; except that for the first taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation for which such following-year rule is elected the amount of investments in export trade assets which are facilities at the close of the preceding taxable year described in subparagraphs (2)(ii) and (3)(i) of paragraph (d) of § 1.970-1 shall be the amount of investments in export trade assets which are facilities at the actual close of such preceding taxable year.
(b)
Time and manner of making elections
—(1)
Without consent.
A United States shareholder may, with respect to any controlled foreign corporation, make one or both of the elections described in paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section without the consent of the Commissioner by filing a statement to such effect with his return for his taxable year in which or with which ends the first taxable year of such corporation in which—
(i) Such shareholder owns, within the meaning of section 958(a), or is considered as owning, by applying the rules of section 958(b), 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of such corporation, and
(ii) Such corporation realizes subpart F income which is reduced under section 970(a) and paragraph (b) of § 1.970-1.
The statement shall contain the name and address of the controlled foreign corporation, identification of such first taxable year of such corporation, and an indication as to which election or elections described in paragraph (a) of this section the United States shareholder is making. If such return has been filed on or before the 90th day after the date these regulations are published in the
Federal Register,
such United States shareholder shall file such statement with the district director with which the return was filed on or before such 90th day.
(2)
With consent.
A United States shareholder may make one or both of the elections described in paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section with respect to any controlled foreign corporation at any time with the consent of the Commissioner. Consent will not be granted unless the shareholder and the Commissioner agree to the terms, conditions, and adjustments under which the election will be effected. The application for consent to elect shall be made by the shareholder's mailing a letter for such purpose to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC 20224. The application shall be mailed before the close of the first taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation with respect to which the shareholder desires to determine an exclusion under section 970(a) in accordance with one or both of the elections provided in paragraph (a) of this section. The application shall include the following information:
(i) The name, address, and taxable year of the United States shareholder;
(ii) The name, address, and taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation;
(iii) A statement indicating which of the elections the shareholder desires to make;
(iv) The amount of the foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets (by a category which includes export trade assets other than facilities and a category which includes only export trade assets which are facilities) at the close of its preceding taxable year;
(v) The shareholder's pro rata share of the sum of the amounts by which the subpart F income of the foreign corporation, for all prior taxable years during which such shareholder was a United States shareholder of such corporation, was reduced under section 970(a) and paragraph (b) of § 1.970-1;
(vi) The shareholder's pro rata share of the sum of the amounts which were not included in the subpart F income of the foreign corporation, for all prior taxable years during which such shareholder was a United States shareholder of such corporation, by reason of the application of section 972 and § 1.972-1; and
(vii) The shareholder's pro rata share of the sum of the amounts which were previously included in his gross income, for all prior taxable years during which such shareholder was a United States shareholder of such corporation, under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) and paragraph (b) of § 1.970-1 to the foreign corporation.
(c)
Effect of elections
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this paragraph, an election made under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a controlled foreign corporation shall be binding on the United States shareholder and—
(i) In the case of the election described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall apply to all investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election is made acquired, or disposed of, by such corporation during the 75-day period following its taxable year for which subpart F income is first computed under the election and during all succeeding corresponding 75-day periods of such corporation, or
(ii) In the case of the election described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, shall apply to all investments in export trade assets which are facilities acquired, or disposed of, by such corporation during the taxable year following its taxable year for which subpart F income is first computed under the election and during all succeeding corresponding taxable years of such corporation.
(2)
Returns.
Any return of a United States shareholder required to be filed before the completion of a period with respect to which determinations are to be made as to a controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets for purposes of computing such shareholder's taxable income shall be filed on the basis of an estimate of the amount of such corporation's investments in export trade assets at the close of the period. If the actual amount of such investments is not the same as the amount of the estimate, the shareholder shall immediately notify the Commissioner. The Commissioner will thereupon redetermine the
amount of such shareholder's tax for the year or years with respect to which the incorrect amount was taken into account. The amount of tax, if any, due upon such redetermination shall be paid by the shareholder upon notice and demand by the district director. The amount of tax, if any, shown by such redetermination to have been overpaid shall be credited or refunded to the shareholder in accordance with the provisions of sections 6402 and 6511 and the regulations thereunder.
(3)
Revocation
—(i)
In general
—(
a
)
Consent required.
Upon application by the United States shareholder, an election made under paragraph (a) of this section may, subject to the approval of the Commissioner, be revoked. Approval will not be granted unless the shareholder and the Commissioner agree to the terms, conditions, and adjustments under which the revocation will be effected.
(
b
)
Revocation of 75-day rule.
In the case of the revocation of an election described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the change in the controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election was made for its first taxable year for which subpart F income or a decrease in investments in export trade assets is computed without regard to the election previously made shall, unless the agreement with the Commissioner provides otherwise, be considered to be the amount by which—
(
1
) Such corporation's investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election was made at the close of such taxable year exceeds or, if applicable, is exceeded by
(
2
) Such corporation's investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election was made at the close of the 75th day after the close of the preceding taxable year of such corporation.
(
c
)
Revocation of following-year rule.
In the case of the revocation of an election described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the change in the controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets which are facilities for its first taxable year for which subpart F income or a decrease in investments in export trade assets is computed without regard to the election previously made shall, unless the agreement with the Commissioner provides otherwise, be considered to be zero.
(ii)
Time and manner of applying for consent to revocation
—(
a
)
Application to Commissioner.
The application for consent to revocation of an election shall be made by the United States shareholder's mailing a letter for such purpose to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC, 20224. The application shall be mailed before the close of the first taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation with respect to which the shareholder desires to determine an exclusion under section 970(a) or an inclusion under section 970(b) without regard to such election.
(
b
)
Information required.
The application shall include the following information:
(
1
) The name, address, and taxable year of the United States shareholder;
(
2
) The name, address, and taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation;
(
3
) A statement indicating the election the shareholder desires to revoke under this subparagraph;
(
4
) The information required under subdivisions (iv) through (vii) of paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(
5
) In the case of an application for consent to revocation of an election made under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the amount of the foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election was made at the close of the 75th day after the close of such corporation's taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year of such corporation; and
(
6
) The reasons for the request for consent to revocation.
(4)
Transfer of stock
—(i)
Election of 75-day rule in force.
(
a
) If during any taxable year of a controlled foreign corporation—
(
1
) A United States shareholder who has made the election described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section with respect to such corporation sells, exchanges, or otherwise disposes of all or part of his stock in such corporation, and
(
2
) The foreign corporation is a controlled foreign corporation immediately after the sale, exchange, or other disposition,
then, with respect to the stock so sold, exchanged, or disposed of, the successor in interest shall consider the controlled foreign corporation's change during the first 75 days of such taxable year in investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election is made to be zero.
(
b
) If the United States shareholder's successor in interest makes an election under paragraph (a)(2) of this section in order to determine an exclusion under section 970(a) for the taxable year of such corporation in which the acquires such stock, the amount of the controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election is made at the close of its preceding taxable year shall be considered, with respect to the stock so acquired, to be the amount of such corporation's investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election is made at the close of the 75th day after the close of such preceding taxable year.
(
c
) If the United States shareholder's successor in interest makes an election under paragraph (a)(2) of this section in order to determine an exclusion under section 970(a) for a taxable year of such corporation subsequent to the taxable year in which he acquired the stock, the amount of the controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets with respect to which such election is made at the close of its taxable year immediately preceding such subsequent taxable year shall, with respect to the stock so acquired, be the amount of such corporation's investments in such assets at the actual close of such preceding taxable year.
(ii)
Election in force with respect to export trade assets which are facilities
—(
a
) If during any taxable year of a controlled foreign corporation—
(
1
) A United States shareholder who has made the election described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section with respect to such corporation sells, exchanges, or otherwise disposes of all or part of his stock in such corporation, and
(
2
) The foreign corporation is a controlled foreign corporation immediately after the sale, exchange or other disposition,
then, with respect to the stock so sold, exchanged, or disposed of, the successor in interest shall consider the controlled foreign corporation's change for such taxable year in investments in export trade assets which are facilities to be zero.
(
b
) If the United States shareholder's successor in interest makes an election under paragraph (a)(3) of this section in order to determine an exclusion under section 970(a) for the taxable year of such corporation in which he acquires such stock, the amount of the controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets which are facilities at the close of its preceding taxable year shall be considered, with respect to the stock so acquired, to be the amount of such corporation's investments in export trade assets which are facilities at the close of the taxable year in which such stock is acquired.
(
c
) If the United States shareholder's successor in interest makes an election under paragraph (a)(3) of this section in order to determine an exclusion under section 970(a) for a taxable year of such corporation subsequent to the taxable year in which he acquired the stock, the amount of the controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets which are facilities at the close of its taxable year immediately preceding such subsequent taxable year shall, with respect to the stock so acquired, be the amount of such corporation's investments in such assets at the actual close of such preceding taxable year.
(d)
Illustrations.
The principles contained in this section are illustrated by the examples set forth in paragraph (d) of § 1.955.3.
[T.D. 6755, 29 FR 12707, Sept. 9, 1964]
§ 1.970-3
Effective date of subpart G.
Sections 970 through 972 and §§ 1.970-1 through 1.972-1 shall apply with respect to taxable years of foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 1962, and to taxable years of United States shareholders within which or
with which such taxable years of such corporations end.
[T.D. 6755, 29 FR 12709, Sept. 9, 1964]
§ 1.971-1
Definitions with respect to export trade corporations.
(a)
Export trade corporations
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of sections 970 through 972 and §§ 1.970-1 to 1.972-1, inclusive, the term “export trade corporation” means a controlled foreign corporation which for the period specified in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph satisfies the conditions specified in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph. However, no controlled foreign corporation may qualify as an export trade corporation for any taxable year beginning after October 31, 1971, unless it qualified as an export trade corporation for any taxable year beginning before such date. In addition, if a corporation fails to qualify as an export trade corporation for a period of any 3 consecutive taxable years beginning after October 31, 1971, then for any taxable year beginning after such 3-year period, such corporation shall not be included within the term “export trade corporation”.
(2)
Three-year period.
The period referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph is the 3-year period ending with the close of the controlled foreign corporation's current taxable year, or such part of such 3-year period as occurs on and after the beginning of the corporation's first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, whichever period is shorter.
(3)
Gross income requirements.
The conditions referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph are that the controlled foreign corporation derives—
(i) 90 percent or more of its gross income from sources without the United States, and
(ii)(
a
) 75 percent of more of its gross income from transactions, activities, or interest described in section 971(b) and paragraph (b) of this section, or
(
b
) 50 percent or more of its gross income from transactions, activities, or interest described in section 971(b) and paragraph (b) of this section in respect of agricultural products grown in the United States.
(4)
Determination of sources of gross income.
The sources of gross income of a controlled foreign corporation shall be determined for purposes of subparagraph (3)(i) of this paragraph in accordance with the rules for determining sources of gross income set forth in sections 861 through 864 and the regulations thereunder.
(b)
Export trade income
—(1)
General rule.
For purposes of sections 970 through 972 and §§ 1.970-1 to 1.972-1, inclusive, the term “export trade income” means the gross export trade income of a controlled foreign corporation derived from transactions, activities, or interest described in subdivisions (i) through (vii) of this subparagraph, less deductions allowed under subdivision (viii) of this subparagraph.
(i)
Sale of export property.
Gross export trade income of a controlled foreign corporation includes gross income it derives from the sale of export property (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section) which it purchases, if the sale is made to an unrelated person for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States. See section 971(b)(1). As a general rule, property will be presumed to have been sold for use, consumption, or disposition in the country of destination of the sale. However, if at the time of the sale the controlled foreign corporation knows, or should have known from the facts and circumstances surrounding the sales transaction, that the property will probably be used, consumed, or disposed of in the United States, such property will be presumed to have been sold for use, consumption, or disposition in the United States unless the controlled foreign corporation establishes that such property was used, consumed, or disposed of outside the United States. For purposes of this subdivision, export property must be sold by a controlled foreign corporation in essentially the same form in which such property is purchased. Whether export property sold is in essentially the same form in which such property is purchased shall be determined on the basis of all the facts and circumstances in each case. Storage, handling, transportation, packaging, or servicing of property will be considered not to alter the form in which property is purchased. However, manufacture or production, within the meaning of
paragraph (a)(4) of § 1.954-3, will be considered to alter the form in which property is purchased and no part of the gross income from the sale of such property will be treated as export trade income. The application of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Controlled foreign corporation A, incorporated under the laws of foreign country Y, purchases articles manufactured in the United States from domestic corporation M and sells them in the form in which purchased to foreign corporation B, unrelated to A Corporation, for use in foreign countries, X, Y, and Z. The gross income of A Corporation from the purchase and sale of the articles constitutes gross export trade income.
(ii)
Commissions and other income derived in connection with the sale of export property.
Gross export trade income of a controlled foreign corporation includes gross commissions, fees, compensation, or other income derived by such corporation from the performance for any person of commercial, industrial, financial, technical, scientific, managerial, engineering, architectural, skilled, or other services in respect of a sale by such corporation in a transaction described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph or in respect of the sale by any other person of export property to a person unrelated to the controlled foreign corporation for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States. Such gross export trade income includes payments received for surveys made prior to, and in connection with, the sale of such export property (whether or not such sales are ultimately consummated). See section 971(b)(1). The term “any person” or “any other person” as used in this subdivision includes a related person as defined in section 954(d)(3) and paragraph (e) of § 1.954-1. The application of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Controlled foreign corporation A, incorporated under the laws of foreign country X, receives from M Corporation a commission equal to 6 percent of the gross selling price of all personal property shipped by M Corporation as a result of services performed by A Corporation in soliciting orders in foreign countries X, Y, and Z. In fulfillment of such orders, M Corporation ships products manufactured by it in the United States. Corporation A does not assume title to the property sold. Gross commissions received by A Corporation from M Corporation in connection with the sale of such property to persons unrelated to A Corporation for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States constitute gross export trade income.

# Example 2.
Foreign corporation B, incorporated under the laws of foreign country X, is a wholly owned subsidiary of domestic corporation N. Corporation N, is engaged in the business of manufacturing heavy duty electrical equipment in the United States. By contract, N Corporation engages B Corporation for the purpose of conducting engineering, technical, and financial studies required by N Corporation in the preparation of bids to supply foreign country Y with electrical equipment for a construction project to be undertaken by such country. Corporation N pays B Corporation a fee for the services, all of which are performed in country Y, which is based upon the number of hours of work performed without regard to whether a sale is ultimately consummated. Corporation N does not receive a contract from country Y on its bid to supply equipment. Income derived by B Corporation from performance of the service contract constitutes gross export trade income.
(iii)
Commissions and other income derived in connection with the installation or maintenance of export property.
Gross export trade income of a controlled foreign corporation includes gross commissions, fees, compensation, or other income derived by such corporation from the performance for any person of commercial, industrial, financial, technical, scientific, managerial, engineering, architectural, skilled, or other services in respect of the installation or maintenance of export property which has been sold by such corporation in a transaction described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph or by any other person to a person unrelated to the controlled foreign corporation for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States. See section 971(b)(1). The term “any person” or “any other person” as used in this subdivision includes a related person as defined in section 954(d)(3) and paragraph (e) of § 1.954-1.
(iv)
Commissions and other income derived in connection with the use of patents, copyrights, and other like property.
Gross export trade income of a controlled foreign corporation includes gross commissions, fees, compensation,
or other income derived by such corporation from the performance for any person of commercial, industrial, financial, technical, scientific, managerial, engineering, architectural, skilled, or other services in connection with the use outside of the United States by an unrelated person of patents, copyrights, secret processes and formulas, goodwill, trademarks, trade brands, franchises, and other like property, including gross income derived from obtaining licensees for patents, but only if the patent, copyright, or other like property is acquired, or developed, and owned by the manufacturer, producer, grower, or extractor of any export property, in respect of which the controlled foreign corporation also derives gross export trade income within the meaning of subdivision (i), (ii), or (iii) of this subparagraph. See section 971(b)(2). The application of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Foreign corporation A incorporated under the laws of foreign country X, is a wholly owned subsidiary of domestic corporation M. Corporation M, the owner of a patent registered in foreign country X, grants B Corporation, a corporation unrelated to A Corporation, the right to use such patent in foreign country Y in exchange for payment of a royalty. By a separate contract with B Corporation, A Corporation agrees for a gross fee of $100,000 to furnish, by maintaining a staff of technical representatives at the offices of B Corporation, technical services to B Corporation in connection with B Corporation's use of the patent. Corporation A also derives export trade income from the sale of export property which it purchases from M Corporation, the manufacturer of such property, and sells to C Corporation, an unrelated person, for use in country Y by C Corporation. The gross fee of $100,000 received by A Corporation for the furnishing of technical services in connection with B Corporation's use of M Corporation's patent constitutes gross export trade income since the service for which the fee is paid is performed in connection with the use outside the United States by an unrelated person (B Corporation) of a patent owned by a manufacturer (M Corporation) of export property in respect of which the controlled foreign corporation (A Corporation) derives gross export trade income from the sale to an unrelated person (C Corporation) for use outside the United States of export property purchased by it from the manufacturer (M Corporation).
(v)
Income attributable to use of export property by an unrelated person.
Gross export trade income of a controlled foreign corporation includes gross commissions, fees, rents, compensation, or other income which is received by such corporation from an unrelated person and is attributable to the use of export property by such unrelated person. See section 971(b)(3). The application of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Foreign corporation A, incorporated under the laws of foreign country X, is a wholly owned subsidiary of domestic corporation M. Corporation A acquires by purchase bottling machines manufactured in the United States and leases the machines to B Corporation, a corporation unrelated to A Corporation, for use by B Corporation in foreign country Y. Gross rental income of A Corporation from the lease of the machines to B Corporation constitutes gross export trade income.
(vi)
Income attributable to the use of export property in the rendition of technical, scientific, or engineering services
—(
a
)
General.
Gross export trade income of a controlled foreign corporation includes gross commissions, fees, compensation, or other income which is received by such corporation from an unrelated person and is attributable to the use of export property in the performance of technical, scientific, or engineering services to such unrelated person. See section 971(b)(3).
(
b
)
Rule of apportionment.
If a commission, fee, or other income received by a controlled foreign corporation from an unrelated person under a contract or arrangement for the performance of technical, scientific, or engineering services is not solely attributable to the use of export property in the performance of such services and the amount of the gross income attributable to such use of export property cannot be established by reference to transactions between other unrelated persons, such gross income shall be an amount which bears the same ratio to total gross income from the contract or arrangement as the cost of the export property consumed in the performance of such services, including a reasonable allowance for depreciation with respect to the export property so used, bears to the total costs and expenses attributable to the production
of income under the contract or arrangement.
(
c
)
Illustration.
The application of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Foreign corporation A, incorporated under the laws of foreign country X, is a wholly owned subsidiary of domestic corporation M. Corporation A is engaged in the seismograph service business in foreign country X. In an effort to establish the probable existence of oil in a concession area it owns in foreign country Y, B Corporation which is unrelated to A Corporation enters into a contract with A Corporation whereby A Corporation is required to make seismographic tests of the area in country Y for a fixed fee of $100,000. In performance of the contract, A Corporation hires a skilled crew to carry out the contract and utilizes equipment and supplies (for example, trucks, seismographic equipment, etc.) which constitute export property. Corporation A cannot establish by reference to transactions between other unrelated persons, the income attributable to the use of the export property in the performance of the contract. Corporation A's total costs and expenses (for example, salaries of the crew, administrative expenses, all supplies, total depreciation on property used in performance of the contract, etc.) incurred in performance of the contract are $80,000. The cost of export property consumed in performance of the contract (for example, dynamite, motor oil, and other supplies which were produced in the United States, reasonable depreciation on trucks and seismographic equipment manufactured in the United States and used in performance of the contract, etc.) is $30,000. Corporation A's gross export trade income from the contract is $37,500, that is, the amount which bears the same ratio to total gross income from the contract ($100,000) as the cost of the export property consumed in the rendition of the services ($30,000) bears to total costs and expenses attributable to the contract ($80,000).
(vii)
Interest from export trade assets.
Gross export trade income of a controlled foreign corporation includes interest derived by it from export trade assets described in section 971(c)(4) and paragraph (c)(5) of this section. See section 971(b)(4).
(viii)
Deductions to be taken into account.
Export trade income of a controlled foreign corporation for any taxable year shall be the amount determined by deducting from the items or categories of gross income described in subdivisions (i) through (vii) of this subparagraph the entire amount of those expenses, taxes, and other deductions properly allocable to such items or categories of income. For purposes of this section, expenses, taxes, and other deductions shall first be allocated to items or categories of gross income to which they directly relate; then, expenses, taxes, and other deductions which cannot definitely be allocated to some item or category of gross income shall be ratably apportioned among all items or categories of gross income, except that no expense, tax, or other deduction shall be allocated to an item or category of income to which it clearly does not apply and no deduction allowable to such controlled foreign corporation under section 882(c) and the regulations thereunder shall be taken into account.
(2)
Cross reference.
For rules governing the determination of gross income and taxable income of a foreign corporation, see § 1.952-2.
(c)
Export trade assets
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of sections 970 through 972 and §§ 1.970-1 to 1.972-1, inclusive, the term “export trade assets” means—
(i) Working capital reasonably necessary for the production of export trade income,
(ii) Inventory of export property held for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States,
(iii) Facilities located outside the United States for the storage, handling, transportation, packaging, servicing, sale, or distribution of export property, and
(iv) Evidences of indebtedness executed by unrelated persons in connection with payment for purchases of export property for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States, or in connection with the payment for services described in section 971(b)(2) or (3) and paragraph (b)(1)(iv), (v), or (vi) of this section.
(2)
Working capital.
For purposes of subparagraph (1)(i) of this paragraph, working capital of a controlled foreign corporation is the excess of its current assets over its current liabilities. Liabilities maturing in one year or less shall be considered current liabilities. A determination of the amount of working capital of a controlled foreign corporation which is reasonably necessary for the production of export
trade income will depend upon the nature and volume of the activities of the controlled foreign corporation which produce export trade income as they exist on the applicable determination date. In determining working capital which is reasonably necessary for the production of export trade income, the anticipated future needs of the business will be taken into account to the extent that such needs relate to the year of the controlled foreign corporation following the applicable determination date; anticipated future needs relating to a later period will not be taken into account unless it is clearly established that such needs are reasonably related to the production of export trade income as of the applicable determination date.
(3)
Inventory of export property.
For purposes of subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph, the inclusion of items in inventory shall be determined in accordance with rules applicable to domestic corporations. See §§ 1.471-1 through 1.471-9. Inventory of export property of a controlled foreign corporation includes export property held for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States regardless of where it is located on the applicable determination date. Thus, such property may be physically located in the United States on such date. However, for property physically located in the United States to constitute export property, it must have been acquired by the controlled foreign corporation with a clear intent that it would dispose of the property for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States. As a general rule, if during the year following the applicable determination date export property which was physically located in the United States on such date is actually exported for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States, such property will be deemed held for such purpose on the applicable determination date. On the other hand, the indefinite warehousing of export property in the United States by the controlled foreign corporation, or the subsequent sale of export property by such corporation for use, consumption, or disposition in the United States, will evidence a lack of intent by such corporation on the applicable determination date to hold such property for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States.
(4)
Facilities located outside the United States
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of subparagraph (1)(iii) of this paragraph, a facility, as defined in subdivision (ii)(
a
) of this subparagraph, will be considered an export trade asset only—
(
a
) If such facility is located outside the United States, and
(
b
) To the extent that such facility is used, within the meaning of subdivision (ii)(
c
) of this subparagraph, by the controlled foreign corporation for the storage, handling, transportation, packaging, servicing, sale, or distribution of export property in essentially the same form in which such property is acquired by such corporation.
Thus, a facility in which property is manufactured or produced, even though export property is used or consumed in the production or becomes a component part of the manufactured article, will not qualify as an export trade asset.
(ii)
Special rules
—(
a
)
Facility defined.
For purposes of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, the term “facility” includes any asset or group of assets used for the storage, handling, transportation, packaging, servicing, sale, or distribution of export property. Thus, such term includes warehouse, storage, or sales facilities (for example, sales office equipment), transportation equipment (for example, motor trucks, vessels, etc.), and machinery and equipment (for example, packaging equipment, servicing equipment, cranes, forklift trucks used in warehouses, etc.).
(
b
)
Determination of location of transportation facilities.
A transportation facility shall be considered to be located outside the United States for purposes of subdivision (i)(
a
) of this subparagraph if such property is predominantly located outside the United States. As a general rule, on an applicable determination date a transportation facility will be considered to be predominantly located outside the United States if 70 percent or more of the miles traversed (during the 12-month period immediately preceding such determination date or for such part of such period as such facility is
owned by the controlled foreign corporation) in the use of such facility are traversed outside the United States or if such facility is located outside the United States at least 70 percent of the time during such period or such part thereof.
(
c
)
Determination of use.
For purposes of subdivision (i)(
b
) of this subparagraph, the extent to which a facility is used in carrying on the activities described in such subdivision depends on the use made of the facility for the 12-month period immediately preceding the applicable determination date or for such part of such period as such facility is owned by the controlled foreign corporation. The method of measuring such use will depend upon the facts and circumstances in each case. However, such determinations of use will generally be made for a facility as a whole and not on the basis of individual items used in the operation of a facility. Thus, a determination as to the use of a warehouse facility will generally be made with respect to the entire facility and not separately for the items used in such warehouse, such as forklift trucks, storage bins, etc.
(5)
Evidences of indebtedness.
For purposes of subparagraph (1)(iv) of this paragraph, the term “evidence of indebtedness” shall mean a note, installment sales contract, a time bill of exchange evidencing a sale on credit, or similar written instrument executed by an unrelated person which evidences the obligation of an unrelated person to pay for export property which an unrelated person purchases for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States or to pay for services described in section 971(b)(2) or (3) and paragraph (b)(1)(iv), (v), or (vi) of this section which are performed for an unrelated person. Receivables which arise out of the delivery of export property, or the performance of services, which are evidenced by invoices, bills of lading, bills of exchange which do not evidence a sale on credit, sales slips, and similar documents created by the unilateral act of a creditor shall not be considered evidences of indebtedness for purposes of section 971(c)(4).
(6)
Duplication of treatment and priority of application.
No asset which constitutes an export trade asset shall be taken into account more than once in determining the investments in export trade assets of a controlled foreign corporation. Assets which constitute working capital and also constitute inventory to which section 971(c)(2) applies or evidences of indebtedness to which section 971(c)(4) applies shall be taken into account in determining whether the amount of working capital of the controlled foreign corporation is reasonably necessary for the production of export trade income. However, to the extent that the amount of inventory to which section 971(c)(2) applies or evidences of indebtedness to which section 971(c)(4) applies is not included in working capital to which section 971(c)(1) applies on the ground that such amount is not reasonably necessary for the production of export trade income, the amount shall be included under section 971(c)(2) or 971(c)(4), as the case may be, in a controlled foreign corporation's investments in export trade assets.
(d)
Export promotion expenses
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of sections 970 through 972 and §§ 1.970-1 to 1.972-1, inclusive, the term “export promotion expenses” means, subject to the provisions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, all the ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred during the taxable year by the controlled foreign corporation which are reasonably allocable to the receipt or production of export trade income including—
(i) A reasonable allowance for salaries or other compensation for personal services actually rendered for such purpose,
(ii) Rentals or other payments for the use of property actually used for such purpose, and
(iii) A reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear, or obsolescence of property actually used for such purpose.
In determining for purposes of this subparagraph whether expenses are reasonably allocable to the receipt or production of export trade income, consideration shall be given to the facts and circumstances of each case. As a general rule, if export trade income results from the sale of export property, export promotion expenses allocable to such income shall include warehousing,
advertising, selling, billing, collection, other administrative, and similar costs properly allocable to the marketing activity, but shall not include cost of goods sold, income or similar tax, any expense which does not advance the distribution or sale of export property for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States, or any expense for which the controlled foreign corporation is reimbursed. If export trade income results from the rental of export property, export promotion expenses allocable to such income shall include a reasonable allowance for depreciation and servicing of such property, and the administrative and similar costs properly allocable to the rental activity. If export trade income results from the performance of services, export promotion expenses shall include a reasonable allowance for compensation of the persons performing services for the controlled foreign corporation in the execution of the service contract or arrangement and administrative expenses reasonably allocable to the service activity. In no case shall income taxes be included in export promotion expenses.
(2)
Expenses incurred within the United States.
No expense incurred within the United States shall be treated as an export promotion expense for purposes of section 971(d) and subparagraph (1) of this paragraph unless at least—
(i) 90 percent of all salaries and other personal service compensation incurred in the receipt or the production of export trade income,
(ii) 90 percent of rents and other payments for the use of property used in the receipt or the production of export trade income,
(iii) 90 percent of the allowances for the exhaustion, wear and tear, or obsolescence of property used in the receipt or the production of export trade income, and
(iv) 90 percent of all other ordinary and necessary expenses reasonably allocable to the receipt or the production of export trade income,
is incurred outside the United States. For this purpose, personal service compensation will be considered incurred at the place where the service is performed (for example, salaries will be considered incurred at the place where the employee works; payments for art work will be considered incurred at the place where the art work is prepared, etc.); rent, depreciation, and other expenses related to real or personal property will be considered incurred at the place where the property is located; and expenses for media advertising will be considered incurred at the place where the advertising is consumed. For such purpose, newspaper or periodical advertising will be considered consumed where the newspaper or periodical is principally distributed, and television and radio advertising will be considered consumed at the place where the audience is primarily located. Technicalities of contract or payment, for example, the place where a contract is executed or the location of a bank account from which payment is made, shall not be determinative of the place where an expense is incurred.
(e)
Export property.
For purposes of sections 970 through 972 and §§ 1.970-1 to 1.972-1, inclusive, the term “export property” means property, or any interest in property, which is manufactured, produced, grown, or extracted in the United States. Whether property will be considered manufactured or produced in the United States will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. As a general rule, if—
(1) The property sold, serviced, used, or rented by the controlled foreign corporation is substantially transformed in the United States prior to its export from the United States, or
(2) The operations conducted in the United States with respect to the property sold, serviced, used, or rented by the controlled foreign corporation, whether performed in the United States by one person or a series of persons in a chain of distribution, are substantial in nature and are generally considered to constitute the manufacture or production of property,
then the property sold, serviced, used, or rented will be considered to have been manufactured or produced in the United States. The rules under paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of § 1.954-3, relating to the substantial transformation of property, and paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of such section, dealing with a substantive test for determining whether property will
be treated as having been manufactured or produced, shall apply for purposes of making determinations under this paragraph.
(f)
Unrelated person.
For purposes of sections 970 through 972 and §§ 1.970-1 to 1.972-1, inclusive, the term “unrelated person” means a person other than a related person as defined in section 954(d)(3) and paragraph (e) of § 1.954-1.
[T.D. 6755, 29 FR 12710, Sept. 9, 1964, as amended by T.D. 7293, 38 FR 32802, Nov. 28, 1973; T.D. 7533, 43 FR 6603, Feb. 15, 1978]
§ 1.972-1
Consolidation of group of export trade corporations.
(a)
Election to consolidate
—(1)
In general.
One or more United States shareholders (as defined in section 951(b)) owning (within the meaning of section 958(a)) or who are considered as owning by applying the rules of ownership of section 958(b) more than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of an export trade corporation, which is the top-tier corporation in a chain (within the meaning of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) of export trade corporations, may, subject to the provisions of this section, elect to consolidate such chain for purposes of determining—
(i) The limitations, described in section 970(a) and paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.970-1, on the amount by which subpart F income of an export trade corporation in such chain shall be reduced as provided in section 970(a) and paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.970-1, and
(ii) The amount includible in gross income of such shareholders under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) with respect to such a corporation's decrease in investments in export trade assets to which section 970(b) applies as described in paragraph (c) of § 1.970-1.
(2)
“Chain” defined.
A chain of export trade corporations shall include—
(i) The top-tier export trade corporation referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph which is the first export trade corporation in a chain of ownership described in section 958(a);
(ii) All export trade corporations 80 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of which is owned directly by such top-tier export trade corporation on the last day of its taxable year; and
(iii) All export trade corporations 80 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of which is owned directly by the export trade corporations described in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph on the last day of the taxable year of the export trade corporation described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph.
For purposes of this section, a reference to a top-tier corporation shall mean an export trade corporation described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, a reference to a second-tier corporation shall mean an export trade corporation described in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, and a reference to a third-tier corporation shall mean an export trade corporation described in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph.
(3)
Inclusion requirement.
If an election is made by a United States shareholder under this paragraph with respect to a chain of export trade corporations (as defined in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph), all export trade corporations which are included in the chain must be included in the consolidation. If such an election is made, the determinations under section 970 shall be made on a consolidated basis with respect to the entire interest which the electing United States shareholder owns in each of the export trade corporations in the chain, including any minority interests owned directly or indirectly by such shareholder in second-tier and third-tier corporations in the chain. A United States shareholder may elect to consolidate his interest in export trade corporations in one chain of such corporations without electing to consolidate his interest in export trade corporations in other chains.
(4)
Conditions for making initial election
—(i)
Without consent.
The initial election to consolidate a chain of export trade corporations may be made without the consent of the Commissioner only if, immediately before the election to consolidate, each of the export trade corporations to be included in the consolidation is using the same taxable year and has the same elections under section 970(c)(4) and § 1.970-
2 in force, or not in force, as the case may be. The election shall be made by the electing shareholder or shareholders with respect to the taxable year in which or with which ends the first taxable year of the top-tier corporation to which the election to consolidate applies and at the time of filing such shareholders' returns for such taxable year or within 90 days after final regulations under this section are published in the
Federal Register,
whichever date occurs later. Each United States shareholder making such an election shall attach to his return a statement showing:
(
a
) The name, address, and taxable year of each export trade corporation in the chain of such corporations for which an election is made,
(
b
) The amount and percentage of each class of stock owned by such shareholder (within the meaning of section 958), corporation by corporation, in each of such export trade corporations, and
(
c
) A list of the names and addresses, and a description of the ownership interests, of all other United States shareholders, if any, who are making the same election to consolidate and a statement that such shareholders are also making the election.
(ii)
With consent.
If, immediately before the election to consolidate, each of the export trade corporations in a chain of such corporations does not use the same taxable year or does not have the same elections under section 970(c)(4) and § 1.970-2 in force, or not in force, as the case may be, the initial election to consolidate such chain may be exercised by the electing shareholder or shareholders only with the consent of the Commissioner. Consent will not be granted unless each electing United States shareholder and the Commissioner agree to the terms, conditions, and adjustments under which such consolidation is to be effected and unless, subject to such terms, conditions, and adjustments as the Commissioner may prescribe, each of the export trade corporations in the chain adopts a common taxable year and has the same elections under section 970(c)(4) and § 1.970-2 in force, or not in force, as the case may be. The application for consent to consolidate shall be made by mailing a letter, signed by each of the electing United States shareholders, to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC 20224. The application shall be mailed before the close of the first taxable year of the top-tier corporation with respect to which the electing shareholder or shareholders desire to make a consolidation or before the close of the 90th day after final regulations under this section are published in the
Federal Register,
whichever date occurs later, and shall include the statement described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph.
(5)
Effect of election.
If an election to consolidate a chain of export trade corporations is made for a taxable year of a United States shareholder, such election shall, except as provided in subparagraph (6) of this paragraph, be binding on such shareholder for such taxable year and for all succeeding taxable years. If, in a subsequent taxable year of the United States shareholder, an export trade corporation for the first time qualifies as a second-tier or third-tier corporation in such chain on the last day of the taxable year of the top-tier corporation which ends in or with the subsequent taxable year of such shareholder, the shareholder's interest in such export trade corporation shall be included in the consolidation to which the election applies, but only if such export trade corporation as of such last day uses the same taxable year and has the same elections under section 970(c)(4) and § 1.970-2 in force, or not in force, as the case may be, as such top-tier corporation. The United States shareholder shall, with respect to such additional export trade corporation, submit with his return for such subsequent taxable year the statement described in subparagraph (4)(i) of this paragraph.
(6)
Termination of election.
An election under this paragraph to consolidate a chain of export trade corporations shall terminate for the first taxable year of the foreign corporation which during the period of consolidation is a top-tier corporation—
(i) At the close of which any foreign corporation which was included in such consolidation for the preceding taxable year ceases to qualify as an export
trade corporation or to be eligible under this paragraph for inclusion in such chain,
(ii) At the close of which an export trade corporation for the first time qualifies as a second-tier or third-tier corporation in such chain but does not as of such close of the year use the same taxable year or have the same elections under section 970(c)(4) and § 1.970-2 in force, or not in force, as the case may be, as such top-tier corporation, or
(iii)(
a
) In respect of which the Commissioner, upon application made by a United States shareholder who made the election to consolidate, or his successor in interest, consents to a termination of the election. Approval will not be granted unless the United States shareholder and the Commissioner agree to the terms, conditions, and adjustments under which the termination will be effected.
(
b
) The application for consent to termination shall be made by the United States shareholder's mailing a letter for such purpose to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC 20224. The application shall be mailed before the close of the taxable year of the foreign corporations with respect to which the shareholder desires to terminate the consolidation and shall include the following information:
(
1
) The name, address, and taxable year of each export trade corporation in the chain of such corporations for which the election was made,
(
2
) The amount and percentage of each class of stock owned by such shareholder (within the meaning of section 958), corporation by corporation, in each of such export trade corporations, and
(
3
) A list of the names and addresses, and a description of the ownership interests, of all other United States shareholders, if any, who participated in making the election with such United States shareholder, or their successors in interest, and a statement whether such other persons are or are not terminating the election.
(7)
Election subsequent to initial election.
If a United States shareholder elects under subparagraph (4) of this paragraph to consolidate his interest in a chain of export trade corporations and the election to consolidate such corporations terminates under the provisions of subparagraph (6) of this paragraph, such shareholder may not thereafter elect under this section to consolidate his interest in any corporation which was in that chain of export trade corporations unless he receives the consent of the Commissioner to do so. Application to obtain such consent of the Commissioner shall be made by a letter mailed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC, 20224, before the close of the first taxable year of the top-tier corporation of the chain of export trade corporations in which the election to include such interest is to apply. Such application for consent shall include a statement showing:
(i) With respect to such chain, the information required to be shown in the statement described in subparagraph (4)(i) of this paragraph, and
(ii) The United States shareholder's interest in such chain which was previously included in a consolidation, the taxable years of such previous consolidation, and the manner in which such previous consolidation was terminated.
(8)
Illustration.
The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Domestic corporation M owns 60 percent of the only class of stock of foreign corporation A, and 100 percent of the only class of stock of foreign corporation F, respectively. Corporation A owns 80 percent of the only class of stock of foreign corporations B and C, respectively. Corporation M also owns 20 percent of the stock of B Corporation. Corporation B owns 80 percent of the only class of stock of foreign corporation D. Corporations B and C each own 50 percent of the only class of stock of foreign corporation E. Corporation F owns 100 percent of the only class of stock of foreign corporation G, which owns 100 percent of the only class of stock of foreign corporation H. Corporation F also owns 20 percent of the stock of C Corporation. Domestic corporations N and R own 30 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of the stock of A Corporation. All corporations use the calendar year as a taxable year, and all foreign corporations qualify as export trade corporations for 1963. Corporation M may elect for 1963 to consolidate its interest in the chain (the “A” chain) of export trade corporations which includes corporations A, B, C, D, and E; and Corporation M need not, but may, elect to consolidate its interest in the chain (the “F” chain) of export trade
corporations which includes corporations F, G, and H. Consolidation of M Corporation's interest in the “A” chain with its interest in the “F” chain is not permitted. If M Corporation elects to consolidate the “A” chain, M Corporation must include in the consolidation its 20 percent directly owned interest in B Corporation and its 20 percent indirectly owned (through F Corporation) interest in C Corporation. Either N Corporation or R Corporation, or both, may join M Corporation in electing to consolidate their interests in the “A” chain. However, neither N Corporation nor R Corporation may elect to consolidate the “A” chain unless M Corporation also agrees to so elect, because corporations N and R, neither jointly nor separately, own more than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of A Corporation. If corporations M, N, and R elect to consolidate the “A” chain, the determinations specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph will be made on a consolidated basis with respect to such corporations' respective interest in the chain as shown in the following tabulation:
A %
B %
C %
D
%
E %
M Corporation's interest:
Direct interest
60
(60% × 80%) + 20% direct interest
68
(60% × 80%) + 20% indirect interest
68
(68% × 80%)
54.4
(68% × 50%) + (68% × 50%)
68
N Corporation's interest:
Direct interest
30
(30% × 80%)
24
(30% × 80%)
24
(24% × 80%)
19.2
(24% × 50%) + (24% × 50%)
24
R Corporation's interest:
Direct interest
10
(10% × 80%)
8
(10% × 80%)
8
(8% × 80%)
6.4
(8% × 50%) + (8% × 50%)
8
Total interests to which consolidation applies
100
100
100
80
100
(b)
Effect of consolidation
—(1)
Determination of subpart F income, export trade income, etc.
An election under paragraph (a) of this section to consolidate export trade corporations in a chain of such corporations shall have no effect on the determination of the character of income as subpart F income or on the determination of export trade income, export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income, or earnings and profits of the individual export trade corporations in the chain. Thus, the consolidation of export trade corporations under this section shall not have the effect of reducing earnings and profits of such corporations or of changing the characterization of income from that which is, for example, foreign base company income to that which is not. The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Corporation A, incorporated under the laws of foreign country X, and corporation B, incorporated under the laws of foreign country Y, are both wholly owned subsidiaries of domestic corporation M. Corporations A and B both qualify under section 971(a) as export trade corporations. Corporation A purchases personal property produced in the United States from an unrelated person and sells the property to B Corporation for use outside of country X. Corporation B resells the property to an unrelated person for use in foreign country Z. Corporations A and B each derive foreign base company sales income described in § 1.954-3 from the purchase and sale transactions. Consolidation of Corporations A and B under this section does not result in the two transactions being treated as one transaction which is a purchase of property from an unrelated person and a sale of property to an unrelated person or the nonrecognition of gain on the sale of export property by A Corporation to B Corporation.
(2)
Determination of amount by which consolidated subpart F income is reduced
—(i)
In general.
In determining the amount by which the subpart F income of each export trade corporation includible in a consolidation of export trade corporations shall be reduced as provided in section 970(a) and paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.970-1 for any taxable year of consolidation, the limitations provided by section 970(a) and paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.970-1 on such amount for each such export trade corporation shall be determined on the basis of such corporation's separate share of—
(
a
) Amounts included in the total export promotion expense,
(
b
) The total gross receipts from the sale, installation, operation, maintenance, or use of property in respect of which each such corporation derives such export trade income as is properly allocable to the export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income, and
(
c
) The total increase in investments in export trade assets,
of all export trade corporations to which the consolidation applies for the taxable year.
(ii)
Limitations not effective.
If for any taxable year each of the limitations under paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.970-1, determined on a consolidated basis, equals or exceeds the total export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income of all corporations includible in the consolidation of export trade corporations, the subpart F income of each includible corporation shall be reduced under section 970(a) for such year by its separate export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income.
(iii)
Limitation effective.
If for any taxable year one of the limitations under paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.970-1, determined on a consolidated basis, is less than the total export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income of all corporations includible in the consolidation of export trade corporations, the amount by which the subpart F income of each includible corporation shall be reduced under section 970(a) for such year shall be an amount which bears the same ratio to the amount by which the subpart F income may be reduced on a consolidated basis as the export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income of each includible corporation bears to the total export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income of all export trade corporations includible in the consolidation of export trade corporations.
(iv)
Illustration.
The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
(a) Domestic corporation M owns 100 percent of the only class of stock of controlled foreign corporation A, which, in turn, owns 100 percent of the only class of stock of controlled foreign corporation B. All corporations use the calendar year as the taxable year, and corporations A and B are export trade corporations throughout the period here involved. Corporation M elects under this section to consolidate corporations A and B for the entire period here involved. Corporation M elects under paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.970-2 for 1963 to determine both A Corporation's and B Corporation's investments in export trade assets as of the close of the 75th day after the close of such corporations' taxable year.
(b) The following amounts are applicable to corporations A and B for 1964:
Corporation A
Corporation B
Subpart F income
$100
$200
Export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income
25
75
Other export trade income
10
15
Export promotion expenses allocable to export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income
10
80
Gross receipts from the sale of property in respect of which export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income is derived
400
600
Increase in investments in export trade assets for period beginning with March 16, 1964, and ending with March 16, 1965
35
120
(c) The amount by which subpart F income of corporations A and B is reduced for 1964 on a separate-company basis without regard to section 972 may be determined as set forth in items (i) through (vii) below, and the results of the consolidation of corporations A and B for 1964 are set forth in items (viii) through (x). Assuming an alternative case in which for 1964 the facts are the same as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this example except that B Corporation incurs export promotion expenses of $50 (rather than $80) which are allocable to the export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income, the results of the consolidation of corporations A and B for such year (a case where one of the limitations under paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.970-1 is effective) are set forth in items (xi) through (xiii):
A Corporation (1)
B Corporation (2)
Total (3)
(i) Subpart F income
$100
$200
$300
(ii) Export trade income which constitutes foreign base company income
25
75
100
(iii) Other export trade income
10
15
25
(iv) Total export trade income
35
90
125
(v) Limitations under § 1.970-1(b)(2):
(
a
) Increase in export trade assets limitation:
($35 × $25/$35)
25
($120 × $75/$90)
100
([$35 + $120] × $100/ $125)
124
(
b
) Gross receipts limitation:
(10% of $400)
40
(10% of $600)
60
(10% of $1,000)
100
(
c
) Export promotion expenses limitation:
(150% of $10)
15
(150% of $80)
120
(150% of $90)
135
(
d
) Export promotion expenses limitation (alternative case):
(150% of $10)
15
(150% of $50)
75
(150% of $60)
90
(vi) Reduction in subpart F income on a separate company basis determined without regard to section 972 (item (ii), but not to exceed smallest of items (v) (
a
), (
b
), and (
c
), in columns (1) and (2))
15
60
75
(vii) Subpart F income as reduced on a separate company basis (item (i) minus item (vi))
85
140
225
(viii) Reduction in subpart F income on a consolidated basis determined under section 972 (item (ii), but not to exceed smallest of items (v) (
a
), (
b
), and (
c
), in column (3))
100
(ix) Apportionment of reduction in subpart F income (item (ii))
25
75
100
(x) Subpart F income as reduced on a consolidated basis (item (i) minus item (ix))
75
125
200
Alternative Case
(xi) Reduction in subpart F income on a consolidated basis determined under section 972 (item (ii) but not to exceed smallest of items (v) (
a
), (
b
), and (
d
), in column (3))
9
(xii) Apportionment of reduction in subpart F income (item (xi) times [item (ii) of column (1) over item (ii) of column (3)] and item (xi) times [item (ii) of column (2) over item (ii) of column (3)]); ($90 × $25/$100)
$22.50
($90 × $75/$100)
$67.50
90
(xiii) Subpart F income as reduced on a consolidated basis (item (i) minus item (xii))
77.50
132.50
210
(3)
Determination of pro rata share of consolidated withdrawal of previously excluded export trade income
—(i)
In general.
If, for any taxable year, there is a decrease in investments in export trade assets under section 970(b) and paragraph (c)(1) of § 1.970-1, determined on a consolidated basis, of export trade corporations includible in a consolidated chain of such corporations, each United States shareholder who has elected under paragraph (a) of this section to consolidate his interest in such chain of corporations shall include in his gross income, under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) and the regulations thereunder as an amount to which section 955 (as in effect before the enactment of the Tax Reduction Act of 1975) applies, his pro rata share of the amount of such consolidated decrease in investments but only to the extent such pro rata share does not exceed the lesser of the limitations provided by section 970(b) and paragraph (c)(2) of § 1.970-1 with respect to such shareholder determined on a consolidated basis. The consolidated decrease in investments and the consolidated limitations shall be determined by aggregating the applicable amounts determined under paragraph (c) of § 1.970-1 with respect to such shareholder's interest in each corporation includible in the consolidation.
(ii)
Allocation of pro rata share of consolidated decrease in investments in export trade assets.
For purposes of determining the amount referred to in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(
b
)(
3
) of § 1.970-1 for a subsequent taxable year, a United States shareholder's pro rata share of a consolidated decrease in investments determined under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph for the current taxable year shall be allocated to such shareholder's interest in each of the export trade corporations includible in the consolidation in that ratio which—
(
a
) The net amount determined under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(
b
) of § 1.970-1 with respect to such shareholder's interest in such corporation for all prior taxable years (whether or not a taxable year occurring during the period of consolidation) bears to
(
b
) The total of the net amounts determined under paragraph (c)(2)(i) (
b
) of § 1.970-1 with respect to such shareholder's interests in all export trade corporations includible in such consolidation for all prior taxable years (whether or not a taxable year occurring during the period of consolidation).
(iii)
Illustration.
The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
(a) Domestic corporation M owns 60 percent of the only class of stock of controlled foreign corporation A, which, in turn, owns 100 percent of the only class of stock of controlled foreign corporation B. All corporations use the calendar year as a taxable year, and corporations A and B are export trade corporations throughout the period here involved. Corporation M elects to consolidate corporations A and B for the entire period here involved.
(b) The following amounts are applicable to corporations A and B for 1964:
A (1)
B (2)
Consolidated (3)
(i) Consolidated decrease in investments in export trade assets (determined before application of § 1.970-1(c)(2))
$100
(ii) M Corporation's pro rata share of consolidated decrease (60%)
60
(iii) M Corporation's pro rata share of earnings and profits for 1963 and 1964 (§ 1.970-1(c) (2)(i)(
a
)
$120
$90
210
(iv) M Corporation's pro rata share of net amount determined under § 1.970-1(c)(2)(i)(
b
) for 1963
180
60
240
(v) Amount includible in M Corporation's gross income for 1964 (smallest of items (ii), (iii), and (iv) in column (3))
60
Corporation M must include $60 in its gross income for 1964 under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) as its pro rata share of the consolidated decrease in investments in export trade assets; and, for purposes of determining the amount under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(
b
)(3) of § 1.970-1 with respect to M Corporation's interest in each of corporations A and B for a subsequent taxable year, such consolidated decrease for 1964 is allocated as follows: to M Corporation's interest in A Corporation, $45 ($60 times $180/$240); and to its interest in B Corporation, $15 ($60 times $60/$240).
(c) The following amounts are applicable to corporations A and B for 1965:
A(1)
B(2)
Consolidated (3)
(i) Consolidated decrease in investments in export trade assets (determined before application of § 1.970-1(c)(2))
$150
(ii) M Corporation's pro rata share of consolidated decrease (60%)
90
(iii) M Corporation's pro rata share of earnings and profits (and deficits in earnings and profits) for 1963, 1964, and 1965 (§ 1.970-1(c)(2)(i)(
a
))
$100
($20)
80
(iv) M Corporation's pro rata share of the net amount determined under § 1.970-1(c)(2)(i)(
b
) for 1963 and 1964
($180−$45)
135
($60−$15)
45
Total
180
(v) Amount includible in M Corporation's gross income for 1965 (smallest of items (ii), (iii), and (iv) in column (3)).
80
Corporation M must include $80 in its gross income for 1965 under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii) by reason of the application of section 970(b) as its pro rata share of the consolidated decrease in investments in export trade assets; and, for purposes of determining the amount under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(
b
)(3) of § 1.970-1 with respect to M Corporation's interest in each of corporations A and B for a subsequent taxable year, such consolidated decrease for 1965 is allocated as follows: to M Corporation's interest in A Corporation, $60 ($80 times $135/$180); and to its interest in B Corporation, $20 ($80 times $45/$180).
(d) The following amounts are applicable to corporations A and B for 1966:
A(1)
B(2)
Consolidated (3)
(i) Consolidated decrease in investments in export trade assets (determined before application of § 1.970-1(c)(2))
$200
(ii) M Corporation's pro rata share of consolidated decrease (60%)
120
(iii) M Corporation's pro rata share of earnings and profits (and deficits in earnings and profits) for 1963, 1964, 1965, and 1966 (§ 1.970-1(c)(2)(i)(
a
))
$120
$50
170
(iv) M Corporation's pro rata share of the net amount determined under § 1.970-1(c)(2)(i)(b) for 1963, 1964, and 1965
($180 minus [$45 + $60])
75
($60−[$15 + $20])
25
Total
100
(v) Amount includible in M Corporation's gross income for 1966 (smallest of items (ii), (iii), and (iv) in column (3))
100
Corporation M must include $100 in its gross income for 1966 under section 951(a)(1)(A)(ii)
by reason of the application of section 970(b) as its pro rata share of the consolidated decrease in investments in export trade assets; and, for purposes of determining the amount under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(b)(3) of § 1.970-1 with respect to M Corporation's interest in each of corporations A and B for a subsequent taxable year, such consolidated decrease for 1966 is allocated as follows: to M Corporation's interest in A Corporation, $75 ($100 times $75/$100); and to its interest in B Corporation, $25 ($100 times $25/$100).
[T.D. 6754, 29 FR 12714, Sept. 9, 1964, as amended by T.D. 7893, 48 FR 22512, May 19, 1983]
§ 1.981-0
Repeal of section 981; effective dates.
The provisions of section 981 are not effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976. For the treatment of the community income of aliens and their spouses for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976, see section 879 and the regulations thereunder.
[T.D. 7670, 45 FR 6929, Jan. 31, 1980]
§ 1.981-1
Foreign law community income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966, and before January 1, 1977.
(a)
Election for special treatment
—(1)
In general.
An individual citizen of the United States who meets the requirements of section 981(a)(1) and subparagraph (2) of this paragraph for any open taxable year beginning after December 31, 1966, and before January 1, 1977, may make a binding election with his nonresident alien spouse to have section 981(b) and paragraph (b) of this section apply to their income for such year which is treated as community income under the applicable community property laws of a foreign country or countries. Generally, the community property laws of a foreign country operate upon land situated within its jurisdiction and upon personal property owned by spouses domiciled therein. If the election is made for any taxable year, it shall also apply for all subsequent open taxable years of such citizen and his nonresident alien spouse for which all the requirements of section 981(a)(1) and subparagraph (2) of this paragraph are met, unless the Director of International Operations consents, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, to a termination of the election. An election under section 981(a) and this section has no effect for any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1967, for which a separate election, if made, must be made under section 981(c)(1) and § 1.981-2. For the definition of “open taxable year” see section 981(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of § 1.981-3. If the citizen and his nonresident alien spouse have different taxable years, see paragraph (c) of § 1.981-3. If one of the spouses is deceased, see paragraph (d) of § 1.981-3.
(2)
Requirements to be met.
In order for a U.S. citizen and his nonresident alien spouse to make an election under section 981(a) and this section for any taxable year and in order for the election to apply for any subsequent taxable year it is required under section 981(a)(1) that, for each such taxable year, such citizen be (i) a citizen of the United States, (ii) a bona fide resident of a foreign country or countries during the entire taxable year, and (iii) married at the close of the taxable year to an individual who is (
a
) a nonresident alien during the entire taxable year and (
b
), in the case of any such subsequent taxable year, the same nonresident alien individual to whom the citizen was married at the close of the earliest of such taxable years. If either spouse dies during a taxable year, the taxable year of the surviving spouse shall be treated, solely for purposes of making the determination under subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph, as ending on the date of such death. A citizen of the United States shall be considered as not married at the close of his taxable year if he is legally separated from his spouse under a decree of divorce or of separate maintenance. However, the mere fact that spouses have not lived together during the course of the taxable year shall not cause them to be considered as not married at the close of the taxable year. A husband and wife who are separated under an interlocutory decree of divorce retain the relationship of husband and wife until the decree becomes final.
(3)
Determination of residence.
The principles of paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(7) of § 1.911-1 (26 CFR 1.911-1 (1978)) shall apply in order to determine for
purposes of this paragraph whether a U.S. citizen is a
bona fide
resident of a foreign country or countries during the entire taxable year. The principles of §§ 1.871.2 through 1.871-5 shall apply in order to determine whether the alien spouse of a U.S. citizen is a nonresident during the entire taxable year.
(4)
Manner of electing.
The election under section 981(a) and this section shall be made in accordance with the applicable rules set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Treatment of community income
—(1)
In general.
Community income for any taxable year to which an election under section 981(a) and this section applies, and the deductions properly allocable to such income, shall be divided between the electing U.S. citizen and nonresident alien spouses in accordance with the rules set forth in section 981(b) and subparagraphs (2) through (6) of this paragraph. Community income for this purpose means all gross income, whether derived from sources within or without the United States, which is treated as community income of the spouses under the community property laws of the foreign country having jurisdiction to determine the legal ownership of the income. A spouse has ownership of the income for this purpose if under the applicable foreign law he has a proprietary vested interest in the income.
(2)
Earned income.
Wages, salaries, or professional fees, and other amounts received as compensation for personal services actually performed, which are community income for the taxable year, shall be treated as the income of the spouse who actually performed the personal services. This subparagraph does not apply, however, to community income (i) derived from any trade or business carried on by the husband or the wife, (ii) attributable to a spouse's distributive share of the income of a partnership to which subparagraph (4) of this paragraph applies, (iii) consisting of compensation for personal services rendered to a corporation which represents a distribution of the earnings and profits of the corporation rather than a reasonable allowance as compensation for the personal services actually performed, or (iv) derived from property which is acquired as consideration for personal services performed.
(3)
Trade or business income.
If any income derived from a trade or business carried on by the husband or wife is community income for the taxable year, all of the gross income, and the deductions attributable to such income, shall be treated as the gross income and deductions of the husband unless the wife exercises substantially all of the management and control of the trade or business, in which case all of the gross income and deductions shall be treated as the gross income and deductions of the wife. This subparagraph does not apply to any income derived from a trade or business carried on by a partnership of which both or one of the spouses is a member. For purposes of this subparagraph, income derived from a trade or business includes any income derived from a trade or business in which both personal services and capital are material income producing factors. The term “management and control” means management and control in fact, not the management and control imputed to the husband under the community property laws of a foreign country. For example, a wife who operates a beauty parlor without any appreciable collaboration on the part of a husband is considered as having substantially all of the management and control of the business despite the provisions of any community property laws of a foreign country vesting in the husband the right of management and control of community property; and the income and deductions attributable to the operation of the beauty parlor are considered the income and deductions of the wife.
(4)
Partnership income.
If any portion of a spouse's distributive share of the income of a partnership of which such spouse is a member is community income for the taxable year, all of that distributive share shall be treated as the income of that spouse and shall not be taken into account in determining the income of the other spouse. If both spouses are members of the same partnership, the distributive share of the
income of each spouse which is community income shall be treated as the income of that spouse. A spouse's distributive share of such income of a partnership shall be determined as provided in section 704, and the regulations thereunder.
(5)
Income from separate property.
Any community income for the taxable year, other than income described in section 981(b)(1) or (2) and subparagraph (2), (3), or (4) of this paragraph, which is derived from the separate property of one of the spouses shall be treated as the income of that spouse. The determination of what property is separate property for this purpose shall be made in accordance with the laws of the foreign country which, in accordance with subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, has jurisdiction to determine that the income from such property is community income.
(6)
Other community income.
Any community income for the taxable year, other than income described in section 981(b)(1), (2), or (3), and subparagraph (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this paragraph, shall be treated as the income of that spouse who has a proprietary vested interest in that income under the laws of the foreign country which, in accordance with subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, has jurisdiction to determine that such income is community income. Thus, for example, this subparagraph applies to community income not described in subparagraph (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this paragraph which consists of dividends, interest, rents, royalties, or gains, from community property or of the earnings of unemancipated minor children.
(7)
Illustrations.
The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
H, a nonresident alien individual and W, a U.S. citizen, each of whose taxable years is the calendar year, were married throughout 1967. H and W were residents of, and domiciled in, foreign country Z during the entire taxable year. During 1967, H earned $10,000 from the performance of personal services as an employee. H also received $500 in dividend income from stock which under the community property laws of country Z is considered to be the separate property of H. W had no separate income for 1967. Under the community property laws of country Z all income earned by either spouse is considered to be community income, and one-half of such income is considered to belong to the other spouse. In addition, such laws of country Z provide that all income derived from property held separately by either spouse is to be treated as community income and treated as belonging one-half to each spouse. Thus, under the community property laws of country Z, H and W are both considered to have realized income of $5,250 during 1967, even though such laws recognize the stock as the separate property of H. If the election under this section is in effect for 1967, under the rules of subparagraphs (2) and (5) of this paragraph all of the income of $10,500 derived during 1967 shall be treated, for U.S. income tax purposes, as the income of H.

# Example 2.
The facts are the same as in example 1 except that H is the sole proprietor of a retail merchandising company and such company has a $10,000 profit during 1967. W exercises no management and control over the business. In addition, H is a partner in a wholesale distributing company, and his distributive share of the partnership profit is $5,000. Both of these amounts of income are treated as community income under the community property laws of country Z, and under such laws both H and W are treated as realizing $7,500 of such income. If the election under this section is in effect for 1967, under the rule of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this paragraph all $15,000 of such income shall be treated as the income of H for U.S. income tax purposes.

# Example 3.
The facts are the same as in example 1 except that H also received $1,000 in dividends on stock held separately in his name. Under the community property laws of country Z the stock is considered to be community property; and the dividends, to be community income, one-half of such income being treated as the income of each spouse. If the election under this section is in effect for 1967, under the rule of subparagraph (6) of this paragraph, $500 of the dividend income shall be treated, for U.S. income tax purposes, as the income of each spouse.
(c)
Time and manner of making or terminating an election
—(1)
In general.
A citizen of the United States and his nonresident alien spouse shall, for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1966, for which an election under section 981(a) and this section is to apply, make the election by filing a return, an amended return, or a claim for refund, whichever is proper, for such taxable year and attaching thereto a statement that the election is being made and that the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section are
met for such taxable year. The statement must show the name, address, and account number, if any, of each spouse, the name and address of the executor, administrator, or other person making the election for a deceased spouse, the taxable year to which the election applies, and the name of the foreign country or countries having jurisdiction to determine the ownership of any income being treated in accordance with section 981(b) and paragraph (b) of this section. The statement must be signed by both persons making the election. An election under this section may be made only for a taxable year which, on the date of the election, as defined in paragraph (b) of § 1.981-3, is open within the meaning of section 981(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of § 1.981-3.
(2)
Termination only with consent of Director of International Operations
—(i)
In general.
An election under this section for any taxable year is binding and may not be revoked. The election shall also remain in effect for all subsequent taxable years of the spouses for which the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section are met and which on the date of the election are open, within the meaning of paragraph (a) of § 1.981-3, unless the election is terminated for any such subsequent taxable year or years in accordance with subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph. Any return, amended return, or claim for refund in respect of any such subsequent taxable year for which the election is in effect shall have attached thereto a copy of the statement filed in accordance with subparagraph (1) of this paragraph and an additional signed statement that for such subsequent taxable year the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section are met.
(ii)
Written request to terminate required.
A request to terminate an election under this section for a subsequent taxable year or years shall be made in writing by the persons who made the election and shall be addressed to the Director of International Operations, Internal Revenue Service, Washington, DC 20225. The request must include the name, address, and account number, if any, of each spouse and must be signed by the persons making the request. It must specify the taxable year or years for which the termination is to be effective and the grounds which justify the termination. The request shall be filed not later than 90 days before the close of the period for assessing a deficiency against the U.S. citizen for the earliest taxable year of such citizen for which the termination is to be effective. The Director of International Operations may require such other information as may be necessary in order to determine whether the termination will be permitted. A copy of the consent by the Director of International Operations to terminate must be attached to an amended income tax return for each taxable year for which the termination is effective and for which a return has previously been filed.
(Secs. 913(m) (92 Stat. 3106; 26 U.S.C. 913(m)), and 7805 (68A Stat. 917; 26 U.S.C. 7805), Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
[T.D. 7330, 39 FR 38372, Oct. 31, 1974, as amended by T.D. 7670, 45 FR 6929, Jan. 31, 1980; T.D. 7736, 45 FR 76143, Nov. 18, 1980]
§ 1.981-2
Foreign law community income for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967.
(a)
Election for special treatment
—(1)
In general.
For all open taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967, for which an individual citizen of the United States meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A) and (C) of section 981(a)(1) and subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, such citizen and his nonresident alien spouse may make a joint election to have section 981(c)(2) and paragraph (b) of this section apply to their income which is treated as community income under the applicable community property laws of a foreign country or countries. However, if the conditions prescribed by section 981(d)(3) and subparagraph (3) of this paragraph are met, the nonresident alien spouse is not required to join in the election and such citizen may make a separate election to have section 981(c)(2) and paragraph (b) of this section apply to such income for such taxable years. An election under section 981(c)(1) and this section shall apply to every open taxable year of such citizen and his nonresident alien spouse beginning before January 1, 1967, for which all the requirements of subparagraphs (A) and (C) of section
981(a)(1) and subparagraph (2) of this paragraph are met. It is immaterial whether such open taxable year is a taxable year subject to the provisions of the 1954 Code, the 1939 Code, or any other internal revenue law in effect before the 1939 Code. An election under section 981(c)(1) and this section has no effect for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1966. For the definition of “open taxable year” see section 981(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of § 1.981-3. If the citizen and his nonresident alien spouse have different taxable years, see paragraph (c) of § 1.981-3. If one of the spouses is deceased, see paragraph (d) of § 1.981-3. An election under section 981(c)(1) and this section is binding and may not be revoked.
(2)
Requirements to be met.
In order for the citizen of the United States to make an election under this section, whether required to be made jointly with his nonresident alien spouse or permitted to be made separately, it is required under section 981(c)(1) that, for each taxable year to which the election applies, the citizen making the election be (i) a citizen of the United States and (ii) married at the close of the taxable year to an individual who is (
a
) a nonresident alien during the entire taxable year and (
b
), in the case of any such taxable years subsequent to the first, the same nonresident alien individual to whom the citizen was married at the close of such first taxable year. The provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.981-1 apply to determine whether a U.S. citizen making an election under section 981(c)(1) and this section is married at the close of a taxable year to an individual who is a nonresident alien during the entire taxable year.
(3)
Cases where joint election is not required.
A nonresident alien spouse is not required to join in an election under section 981(c)(1) and this section if the Director of International Operations determines in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section—
(i) That an election under section 981(c)(1) and this section would not affect the liability for Federal income tax of the nonresident alien spouse for any taxable year, whether beginning on, before, or after January 1, 1967, or
(ii) That the effect of the election on the liability of the nonresident alien spouse for Federal income tax for any such taxable year cannot be ascertained and that to deny the election to the U.S. citizen spouse would be inequitable and cause undue hardship to the U.S. citizen.
If in accordance with this subparagraph the nonresident alien spouse is not required to join in the election by the U.S. citizen, the provisions of section 981(d)(2) and paragraph (e) of § 1.981-3 shall not apply so as to extend the period for assessing deficiencies or filing a claim for credit or refund for any taxable year of the nonresident alien spouse.
(4)
Manner of electing.
The election under section 981(c)(1) and this section shall be made in accordance with the applicable rules set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Treatment of community income
—(1)
In general.
Community income, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.981-1, for any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1967, to which an election under section 981(c)(1) and this section applies, and the deductions properly allocable to such income, shall be divided between the U.S. citizen and his nonresident alien spouse in accordance with the rules set forth in section 981(c)(2) and subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph. The income shall be divided in such manner even though the nonresident alien spouse is not required, in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section, to join in the election by the U.S. citizen.
(2)
Earned income, business income, partnership income, and income from separate property.
All community income for any taxable year to which this paragraph applies which is treated as the income of one of the spouses in accordance with section 981(b)(1), (2), or (3) and paragraph (b)(2), (3), (4), or (5) of § 1.981-1 shall be treated as the income of that spouse for purposes of this paragraph.
(3)
Other community income.
All community income for any taxable year to which this paragraph applies, other than income described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, shall be treated as the income of the spouse who, for such taxable year, has a greater
amount of gross income than the other spouse, determined by adding to the amount of gross income which is treated as the gross income of that spouse in accordance with subparagraph (2) of this paragraph the amount of the gross income for the taxable year which is treated as the separate income of that spouse under the community property laws of the foreign country having jurisdiction to determine the legal ownership of the income. If either spouse dies during a taxable year, the taxable year of the surviving spouse shall be treated as ending on the date of such death for the purpose of determining which spouse has the greater amount of gross income for such taxable year. Moreover, if the U.S. citizen and his nonresident alien spouse do not have the same taxable year, as defined in section 441(b) and the regulations thereunder, the periods for which the amounts of gross income are to be compared under this subparagraph are (i) the taxable year of the citizen and (ii) that period falling within the consecutive taxable years of the nonresident alien spouse which coincides with the period covered by such taxable year of the citizen. See paragraph (c) of § 1.981-3.
(c)
Time and manner of making election
—(1)
In general.
A citizen of the United States and his nonresident alien spouse or, if subparagraph (4) of this paragraph applies, such citizen alone may make an election under section 981(c)(1) and this section at any time on or after November 13, 1966, for each and every taxable year beginning before January 1, 1967, which on the date of the election, as defined in paragraph (b) of § 1.981-3, is open within the meaning of section 981(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of § 1.981-3. The election shall be made by filing a return, an amended return, or a claim for refund, whichever is proper, for each taxable year to which the election applies and attaching thereto a statement that the election is being made and that the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section are met for each such taxable year. The statement must also show the information required by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph and must, where applicable, be signed by both persons making the election.
(2)
Information required.
The statement described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph must show—
(i) The name, address, and account number, if any, of each spouse,
(ii) The name and address of the executor, administrator, or other person making the election for a deceased spouse,
(iii) The taxable years to which the election applies,
(iv) The office of the district director, or the service center, where the return or returns, if any, for such taxable year or years were filed,
(v) The dates on which such return or returns, if any, were filed and on which the tax for such taxable year or years was paid, if the tax has been paid, and
(vi) The name of the foreign country or countries having jurisdiction to determine the ownership of any income being treated in accordance with section 981(c)(2) and paragraph (b) of this section.
(3)
Place for filing.
Any return, amended return, or claim for refund filed under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph in respect of any taxable year shall be filed with the Director of International Operations, Internal Revenue Service, Washington, DC 20225. (See § 1.6091-3.)
(4)
Determination that joint election is not required.
A U.S. citizen spouse entitled to make an election under section 981(c)(1) and this section for open taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967, may apply to the Director of International Operations for a determination under section 981(d)(3) that the nonresident alien spouse is not required to join in the election by such citizen. This application shall be made by filing with the Director of International Operations, Internal Revenue Service, Washington, DC 20225, a statement setting forth the same information required by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph and such other information as is required by the Director of International Operations to justify a claim that the requirements of section 981(d)(3) and paragraph (a)(3) of this section are met. The Director of International Operations shall notify the U.S. citizen by letter of his determination with respect to the application. If
the determination is that the nonresident alien spouse is not required to join in the election, a copy of the letter of determination shall be attached to each return, amended return, or claim for refund, to be filed pursuant to subparagraph (1) of this paragraph.
[T.D. 7330, 39 FR 38373, Oct. 31, 1974]
§ 1.981-3
Definitions and other special rules.
(a)
Open taxable years.
(1) For purposes of paragraph (a) of § 1.981-1, and paragraph (a) of § 1.981-2, a taxable year of the U.S. citizen, and the taxable year or years of his nonresident alien spouse ending or beginning within such taxable year of such citizen, shall be treated as open if the period prescribed by section 6501(a) (or section 6501(c)(4) if the period is extended by agreement) for assessing a deficiency against the citizen for his taxable year has not expired before the date of the election, determined under paragraph (b) of this section. Thus, for example, a taxable year of a U.S. citizen beginning before January 1, 1967, is open for purposes of this subparagraph if, before the election under section 981(c)(1) and § 1.981-2, such citizen has never filed a return for such year and a return was required under section 6012 without reference to section 981. For example, if a U.S. citizen spouse on a calendar year basis who has never filed a return for 1960 decides in 1975 that he wishes to make the election under section 981(c)(1) and § 1.981-2 in order to avoid being subject to tax for 1960 on his share of the community income for that year, he may in 1975 elect the benefits of section 981(c)(2) by filing an election in accordance with paragraph (c) of § 1.981-2. In such case, a taxable year or years of the nonresident alien spouse of such citizen ending or beginning within 1960 shall be treated in 1975 as an open taxable year.
(2) Subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall apply even though the period prescribed by section 6501 for assessing a deficiency against the nonresident alien spouse for his taxable year or years ending or beginning within the taxable year of the U.S. citizen has expired before the election is made.
(3) If either spouse dies during a taxable year to which an election under § 1.981-1 or § 1.981-2 applies, the taxable year of the decedent and the surviving spouse shall be determined under this paragraph without regard to section 981(e)(4), relating to death of spouse during the taxable year. See paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.443-1.
(4) For definition of the term “taxable year”, see section 441(b) and the regulations thereunder.
(b)
Date of election.
(1) For purposes of § 1.981-1 and this section the date of an election made under section 981(a) and § 1.981-1 is the date on which the return, amended return, or claim for refund required by paragraph (c)(1) of § 1.981-1 is filed.
(2) For purposes of § 1.981-2 and this section the date of an election made under section 981(c)(1) and § 1.981-2 is the date on which the returns, amended returns, or claims for refund, required by paragraph (c)(1) of § 1.981-2 are filed.
(3) For provisions treating timely mailing as timely filing, see section 7502 and the regulations thereunder.
(c)
Spouses with different taxable years.
If the U.S. citizen and his nonresident alien spouse do not have the same taxable year, as defined in section 441(b) and the regulations thereunder, the election under § 1.981-1 or § 1.981-2 shall apply to each taxable year of such citizen in respect of which the election is made and to that period falling within the consecutive taxable years of the nonresident alien spouse which coincides with the period covered by such taxable year of the citizen.
(d)
Election on behalf of deceased spouse.
Any election, statement, or request, required to be made under paragraph (c) of § 1.981-1, or paragraph (c) of § 1.981-2, by one of the spouses may, if such spouse is deceased, be made by the executor, administrator, or other person charged with the property of such deceased spouse.
(e)
Extension of period of limitations on assessment or refund
—(1)
Assessment of deficiency.
Except as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, if an election under section 981(a) and § 1.981-1, or under section 981(c)(1) and § 1.981-2, is properly made, the period within which a deficiency may be assessed for any taxable year to which the election
applies shall, to the extent the deficiency is attributable to the application of such election, not expire before one year after the date of the election, determined under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Refund of tax.
Except as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, if an election under section 981(a) and § 1.981-1, or under section 981(c)(1) and § 1.981-2, is properly made, the period within which a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment for any taxable year to which the election applies may be filed shall, to the extent the overpayment is attributable to the application of the election, not expire before one year after the date of the election, determined under paragraph (b) of this section.
(3)
Exception in case of nonelecting alien.
Subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph shall not apply to any taxable year of a nonresident alien spouse who, in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of § 1.981-2, is not required to join in the election by the U.S. citizen spouse under section 981(c)(1) and § 1.981-2.
(f)
Payment of interest for extension period.
To the extent that an overpayment or deficiency for any taxable year is attributable to an election made under § 1.981-1 or § 1.981-2, no interest shall be allowed or paid for any period ending with the day before the date which is one year after the date of the election, determined under paragraph (b) of this section.
[T.D. 7330, 39 FR 38374, Oct. 31, 1974]

# Foreign Currency Transactions

# Source:
T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100164, Dec. 11, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1.985-0
Outline of regulation.
This section lists the paragraphs contained in §§ 1.985-1 through 1.985-6.

# § 1.985-1 Functional currency.
(a) Applicability and effective date.
(b) Dollar functional currency.
(c) Functional currency of a QBU that is not required to use the dollar.
(d) Single functional currency for a foreign corporation.
(e) Translation of nonfunctional currency transactions.
(f) Examples.

# § 1.985-2 Election to use the United States dollar as the functional currency of a QBU.
(a) Background and scope.
(b) Eligible QBU.
(c) Time and manner for dollar election.
(d) Effect of dollar election.

# § 1.985-3 United States dollar approximate separate transactions method.
(a) Scope and effective date.
(b) Statement of method.
(c) Translation into United States dollars.
(d) Computation of DASTM gain or loss.
(e) Effect of DASTM gain or loss on gross income, taxable income, or earnings and profits.

# § 1.985-4 Method of accounting.
(a) Adoption or election.
(b) Condition for changing functional currencies.
(c) Relationship to certain other sections of the Code.

# § 1.985-5 Adjustments required upon change in functional currency.
(a) In general.
(b) Step 1—Taking into account exchange gain or loss on certain section 988 transactions.
(c) Step 2—Determining the new functional currency basis of property and the new functional currency amount of liabilities and any other relevant items.
(d) Step 3A—Additional adjustments that are necessary when a branch changes functional currency.
(e) Step 3B—Additional adjustments that are necessary when a taxpayer changes functional currency.
(f) Examples.

# Section 1.985-6 Transition rules for a QBU that uses the dollar approximate separate transactions method for its first taxable year beginning in 1987.
(a) In general.
(b) Certain controlled foreign corporations.
(c) All other foreign corporations.
(d) Pre-1987 section 902 amounts.
(e) Net worth branch.
(f) Profit and loss branch.
[T.D. 8263, 54 FR 38653, Sept. 20, 1989, as amended by T.D. 8464, 58 FR 232, Jan. 5, 1993; T.D. 8556, 59 FR 37672, July 25, 1994]
§ 1.985-1
Functional currency.
(a)
Applicability and effective date
—(1)
Purpose and scope.
These regulations provide guidance with respect to defining the functional currency of a taxpayer and each qualified business unit (QBU), as defined in section 989(a). Generally, a taxpayer and each QBU must
make all determinations under subtitle A of the Code (relating to income taxes) in its respective functional currency. This section sets forth rules for determining when the functional currency is the United States dollar (dollar) or a currency other than the dollar. Section 1.985-2 provides an election to use the dollar as the functional currency for certain QBUs that absent the election would have a functional currency that is a hyperinflationary currency, and explains the effect of making the election. Section 1.985-3 sets forth the dollar approximate separate transactions method that certain QBUs must use to compute their income or loss or earnings and profits. Section 1.985-4 provides that the adoption of a functional currency is a method of accounting and sets forth conditions for a change in functional currency. Section 1.985-5 provides adjustments that are required to be made upon a change in functional currency. Finally, § 1.985-6 provides transition rules for a QBU that uses the dollar approximate separate transactions method for its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1986.
(2)
Effective date.
These regulations apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986. However, any taxpayer desiring to apply temporary Income Tax Regulations § 1.985-0T through § 1.985-4T in lieu of these regulations to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, and on or before October 20, 1989 may (on a consistent basis) so choose. For the text of the temporary regulations, see 53 FR 20308 (1988).
(b)
Dollar functional currency
—(1)
In general.
The dollar shall be the functional currency of a taxpayer or QBU described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section regardless of the currency used in keeping its books and records (as defined in § 1.989(a)-1(d)). The dollar shall be the functional currency of—
(i) A taxpayer that is not a QBU (e.g., an individual);
(ii) A QBU that conducts its activities primarily in dollars. A QBU conducts its activities primarily in dollars if the currency of the economic environment in which the QBU conducts its activities is primarily the dollar. The facts and circumstances test set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall apply in making this determination;
(iii) Except as otherwise provided by ruling or administrative pronouncement, a QBU that has the United States, or any possession or territory of the United States where the dollar is the standard currency, as its residence (as defined in section 988(a)(3)(B));
(iv) A QBU that does not keep books and records in the currency of any economic environment in which a significant part of its activities is conducted. Whether a QBU keeps such books and records is determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section; or
(v) A QBU that produces income or loss that is, or is treated as, effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States.
(2)
QBUs operating in a hyperinflationary environment
—(i)
Taxable years beginning on or before August 24, 1994.
For taxable years beginning on or before August 24, 1994, see § 1.985-2 with respect to a QBU that elects to use, or is otherwise required to use, the dollar as its functional currency.
(ii)
Taxable years beginning after August 24, 1994
—(A)
In general.
For taxable years beginning after August 24, 1994, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, any QBU that otherwise would be required to use a hyperinflationary currency as its functional currency must use the dollar as its functional currency and compute income or loss or earnings and profits under the rules of § 1.985-3.
(B)
Exceptions
—(
1
)
Certain QBU branches.
The functional currency of a QBU that otherwise would be required to use a hyperinflationary currency as its functional currency and that is a branch of a foreign corporation having a non-dollar functional currency that is not hyperinflationary shall be the functional currency of the foreign corporation. Such QBU's income or loss or earnings and profits shall be determined under § 1.985-3 by substituting the functional currency of the foreign corporation for the dollar.
(
2
)
Corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation.
A foreign corporation (or its QBU branch) operating in a hyperinflationary environment is not
required to use the dollar as its functional currency pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section if that foreign corporation is not a controlled foreign corporation as defined in section 957 or 953(c)(1)(B). However, a noncontrolled section 902 corporation, as defined in section 904(d)(2)(E), may elect to use the dollar (or, if appropriate, the currency specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section) as its (or its QBU branch's) functional currency under the procedures set forth in § 1.985-2(c)(3).
(C)
Change in functional currency
—(
1
)
In general.
If a QBU is required to change its functional currency to the dollar under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, or chooses or is required to change its functional currency to the dollar for any open taxable year (and all subsequent taxable years) under § 1.985-3(a)(2)(ii), the change is considered to be made with the consent of the Commissioner for purposes of § 1.985-4. A QBU changing functional currency must make adjustments described in § 1.985-7 if the year of change (as defined in § 1.481-1(a)(1)) begins after 1987, or the adjustments described in § 1.985-6 if the year of change begins in 1987. No adjustments under section 481 are required solely because of a change in functional currency described in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C).
(
2
)
Effective date.
This paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) applies to taxable years beginning after April 6, 1998. However, a taxpayer may choose to apply this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) to all open years after December 31, 1986, provided each person, and each QBU branch of a person, that is related (within the meaning of § 1.985-2(d)(3)) also applies to this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C).
(D)
Hyperinflationary currency.
For purposes of sections 985 through 989, the term hyperinflationary currency means the currency of a country in which there is cumulative inflation during the base period of at least 100 percent as determined by reference to the consumer price index of the country listed in the monthly issues of the “International Financial Statistics” or a successor publication of the International Monetary Fund. If a country's currency is not listed in the monthly issues of “International Financial Statistics,” a QBU may use any other reasonable method consistently applied for determining the country's consumer price index. Base period means, with respect to any taxable year, the thirty-six calendar months immediately preceding the first day of the current calendar year. For this purpose, the cumulative inflation rate for the base period is based on compounded inflation rates. Thus, if for 1991, 1992, and 1993, a country's annual inflation rates are 29 percent, 25 percent, and 30 percent, respectively, the cumulative inflation rate for the three-year base period is 110 percent [((1.29 × 1.25 × 1.3)−1.0 × 1.10) × 100 = 110%] and the currency of the country for the QBU's 1994 year is considered hyperinflationary. In making the determination whether a currency is hyperinflationary, the determination for purposes of United States generally accepted accounting principles may be used for income tax purposes provided the determination is based on criteria that is substantially similar to the rules previously set forth in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D), the method of determination is applied consistently from year to year, and the same method is applied to all related persons as defined in § 1.985-3(e)(2)(vi).
(E)
Change in functional currency when currency ceases to be hyperinflationary
—(
1
)
In general.
A QBU that has been required to use the dollar as its functional currency under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or has elected to use the dollar as its functional currency under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section or § 1.985-2, must change its functional currency as of the first day of the first taxable year that follows three consecutive taxable years in which the currency of its economic environment, determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, is not a hyperinflationary currency. The functional currency of the QBU for such year shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. For purposes of § 1.985-4, the change is considered to be made with the consent of the Commissioner. See § 1.985-5 for adjustments that are required upon a change in functional currency.
(
2
)
Effective Date.
This paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(E) of this section applies to taxable years beginning after April 6, 1998.
(c)
Functional currency of a QBU that is not required to use the dollar
—(1)
General rule.
The functional currency of a QBU that is not required to use the dollar under paragraph (b) of this section shall be the currency of the economic environment in which a significant part of the QBU's activities is conducted, if the QBU keeps, or is presumed under paragraph (c)(3) of this section to keep, its books and records in such currency.
(2)
Economic environment.
For purposes of section 985 and the regulations thereunder, the economic environment in which a significant part of a QBU's activities is conducted shall be determined by taking into account all the facts and circumstances.
(i)
Facts and circumstances.
The facts and circumstances that are considered in determining the economic environment in which a significant part of a QBU's activities is conducted include, but are not limited to, the following:
(A) The currency of the country in which the QBU is a resident as determined under section 988(a)(3)(B);
(B) The currencies of the QBU's cash flows;
(C) The currencies in which the QBU generates revenues and incurs expenses;
(D) The currencies in which the QBU borrows and lends;
(E) The currencies of the QBU's sales markets;
(F) The currencies in which pricing and other financial decisions are made;
(G) The duration of the QBU's business operations; and
(H) The significance and/or volume of the QBU's independent activities.
(ii)
Rate of inflation.
The rate of inflation (regardless of how it is determined) shall not be a factor used to determine a QBU's economic environment.
(iii)
Consistency.
A taxpayer must consistently apply the facts and circumstances test set forth in this paragraph (c)(2) in evaluating the economic environment of its QBUs,
e.g.,
its branches, that engage in the same or similar trades or businesses.
(3)
Books and records presumption.
A QBU shall be presumed to keep books and records in the currency of the economic environment in which a significant part of its activities are conducted. The presumption may be overcome only if the QBU can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the district director that a substantial nontax purpose exists for not keeping any books and records in such currency. A taxpayer may not use this presumption affirmatively in determining a QBU's functional currency.
(4)
Multiple currencies.
If a QBU has more than one currency that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the QBU may choose any such currency as its functional currency.
(5)
Relationship of United States accounting principles.
In making the functional currency determination under this paragraph (c), the currency of the QBU for purposes of United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) will ordinarily be accepted as the functional currency of the QBU for income tax purposes, provided that the GAAP determination is based on facts and circumstances substantially similar to those set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(6)
Effect of changed circumstances.
Regardless of any change in circumstances, a QBU may change its functional currency determined under this paragraph (c) only if the QBU complies with § 1.985-4 or the Commissioner's consent is considered to have been granted under § 1.985-2(d)(4) or § 1.985-3(a)(2)(ii). For special rules relating to the conversion to the euro, see § 1.985-8.
(d)
Single functional currency for a foreign corporation
—(1)
General rule.
This paragraph (d) applies to a foreign corporation that has two or more QBUs that do not have the same functional currency. The foreign corporation shall be treated as having a single functional currency for the corporation as a whole that is different from the functional currency of one or more of its QBUs. The determination of a foreign corporation's functional currency shall be made by first applying paragraph (d)(1)(i) and then paragraph (d)(l)(ii) of this section.
(i)
Step 1.
Each QBU of the foreign corporation determines its functional currency in accordance with the rules set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and § 1.985-2.
(ii)
Step 2.
The foreign corporation determines its functional currency applying the principles of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to the corporation's activities as a whole. Thus, if a foreign corporation has two branches, the corporation shall determine its functional currency by applying the principles of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to the combined activities of the corporation and the branches. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(1), if a QBU of a foreign corporation has the dollar as its functional currency under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the QBU's activities shall be considered dollar activities of the corporation.
(2)
Translation of income or loss of QBUs having different functional currencies than the foreign corporation as a whole.
Where the functional currency of a foreign corporation as a whole differs from the functional currency of one or more of its QBUs, each such QBU shall determine the amount of its income or loss or earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) in its functional currency under the principles of section 987 (relating to branch transactions). The amount of income or loss or earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) of each QBU in its functional currency shall then be translated into the foreign corporation's functional currency using the appropriate exchange rate as defined in section 989(b)(4) for purposes of determining the corporation's income or loss or earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits).
(e)
Translation of nonfunctional currency transactions.
Except for a QBU using the dollar approximate separate transactions method described in § 1.985-3,
see
section 988 and the regulations thereunder for the treatment of nonfunctional currency transactions.
(f)
Examples.
The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples:
(1)
Example 1.
P, a domestic corporation, operates exclusively through foreign branch X in Country A. X is a QBU within the meaning of section 989(a) and its residence is Country A as determined under section 988 (a)(3)(B). The currency of Country A is the LC. All of X's purchases, sales, and expenses are in the LC. The laws of A require X to keep books and records in the LC. It is determined that the LC is the currency of X under United States generally accepted accounting principles. This determination is based on facts and circumstances substantially similar to those set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Under these facts, while the functional currency of P is the dollar since its residence is the United States, the functional currency of X is the LC.
(2)
Example 2.
P, a publicly-held domestic regulated investment company (as defined under section 851), operates exclusively through foreign branch B in Country R. B is a QBU within the meaning of section 989(a) and its residence is Country R as determined under section 988(a)(3)(B). The currency of Country R is the LC. B's principal activities consist of purchasing and selling stock and securities of Country R companies and securities issued by Country R. It is determined that the dollar is the currency of B under United States generally accepted accounting principles. This determination is not based on facts and circumstances substantially similar to those set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Under these facts, while the functional currency of P is the dollar since its residence is the United States, B may choose the LC as its functional currency because it has significant activities in the LC provided it keeps books and records in the LC. The fact that the dollar is the currency of B under generally accepted accounting principles is irrelevant for purposes of determining B's functional currency because the GAAP determination was not based on factors similar to those set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(3)
Example 3.
P, a domestic bank, operates through foreign branch X in Country R. X is a QBU within the meaning of section 989(a) and its residence is Country R as determined under section 988(a)(3)(B). The currency of Country R is the LC. The laws of R require X to keep books and records in
the LC. The branch customarily loans dollars and LCs. In the case of its LC loans, X ordinarily fixes the terms of the loans by reference to a contemporary London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) on dollar deposits. For instance, the interest on the amount of the outstanding LC loan principal might equal LIBOR plus 2 percent and the amount of the outstanding LC loan principal would be adjusted to reflect changes in the dollar value of the LC. X is primarily funded with dollar-denominated funds borrowed from related and unrelated parties. X's only LC activities are paying local taxes, employee wages, and local expenses such as rent and electricity. Under these facts, X's activities are primarily conducted in dollars. Thus, although X keeps its books and records in LCs, X's functional currency is the dollar.
(4)
Example 4.
S, a foreign corporation organized in Country U, is wholly-owned by P, a domestic corporation. The currency of Country U is the LC. S's sole function is acting as a financing vehicle for P and domestic corporations that are affiliated with P. All borrowing and lending transactions between S and P and its domestic affiliates are in dollars. Furthermore, primarily all of S's other borrowings are dollar-denominated or based on a dollar index. S's only LC activities are paying local taxes, employee wages, and local expenses such as rent and electricity. S keeps its books and records in the LC. Under these facts, S's activities are primarily conducted in dollars. Thus, although S keeps its books and records in LCs, S's functional currency is the dollar.
(5)
Example 5.
D is a domestic corporation whose primary activity is the extraction of natural gas and oil through foreign branch X in Country Y. X is a QBU within the meaning of section 989(a) and its residence is Country Y as determined under section 988(a)(3)(B). The currency of Country Y is the LC. X bills a significant amount of its natural gas and oil sales in dollars and a significant amount in LCs. X also incurs significant LC and dollar expenses and liabilities. The laws of Country Y require X to keep its books and records in the LC. It is determined that the LC is the currency of X under United States generally accepted accounting principles. This determination is based on facts and circumstances substantially similar to those set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Absent other factors indicating that X primarily conducts its activities in the dollar, D could choose either the dollar or the LC as X's functional currency because X has significant activities in both the dollar and the LC, provided the books and records requirement is satisfied. If, instead, X's activities were determined to be primarily in the dollar, then X would have to use the dollar as its functional currency.
(6)
Example 6.
S, a foreign corporation organized in Country U, is wholly-owned by P, a domestic corporation. The currency of U is the LC. S purchases the products it sells from related and unrelated parties, including P. These purchases are made in the LC. In addition, most of S's gross receipts are generated by transactions denominated in the LC. S attempts to determine its LC price for goods sold in such a manner as to obtain an LC equivalent of a certain dollar amount after reduction for all LC costs. However, local market conditions sometimes result in pricing adjustments. Thus, changes in the LC-dollar exchange rate from period to period generally result in corresponding changes in the LC price of S's products. S pays local taxes, employee wages, and other local expenses in the LC. It is determined that the dollar is the currency of S under United States generally accepted accounting principles. This determination is not based on facts and circumstances substantially similar to those set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Under these facts, S could choose either the dollar or the LC as its functional currency because S has significant activities in both the dollar and the LC, provided that the books and records requirement is satisfied.
(7)
Example 7.
S, a foreign corporation organized in Country X, is wholly-owned by P, a domestic corporation. S conducts all of its operations through two branches. Branch A is located in Country F and branch B is located in Country G. S, A, and B are QBUs within the meaning of section 989(a). Branch A's and branch B's residences
are Country F and Country G respectively as determined under section 988(a)(3)(B). The currency of Country F is the FC and the currency of Country G is the LC. The functional currencies of S, A, and B are determined in a two step procedure.
Step 1: The functional currency of branches A and B.
Branch A and branch B both conduct all activities in their respective local currencies. The FC is the currency of branch A and the LC is the currency of branch B under United States generally accepted accounting principles. This determination is based on facts and circumstances substantially similar to those set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Under these facts, the functional currency of branch A is the FC and the functional currency of branch B is the LC.
Step 2: The functional currency of S.
S's functional currency is determined by disregarding the fact that A and B are branches. When A's activities and B's activities are viewed as a whole, S determines that it only conducts significant activities in the LC. Therefore, S's functional currency is the LC. See Examples 9, 10, and 11 for how the earnings and profits of a foreign corporation, which has branches with different functional currencies, are determined.
(8)
Example 8.
Assume the same facts as in Example 7, except that S does not exist and P conducts all of its operations through branch A and branch B. In this instance P's functional currency in Step 2 is the dollar, regardless of the fact that its branches' activities viewed as a whole are in the LC, because P is a taxpayer whose residence is the United States under section 988(a)(3)(B)(i). Therefore, while the functional currency of branch A is the FC and the functional currency of branch B is the LC, the functional currency of P is the dollar because its residence is the United States.
(9)-(11) [Reserved]
(12)
Example 12.
F, a foreign corporation, has gain from the disposition of a United States real property interest (as defined in section 897(c)). The gain is taken into account as if F were engaged in a trade or business within the United States during the taxable year and as if such gain were effectively connected with such trade or business. F's disposition activity shall be treated as a separate QBU with a dollar functional currency because such activity produced income that is treated as effectively connected with a trade or business within the United States. Therefore, F must compute its gain from the disposition by giving the United States real property interest an historic dollar basis.
[T.D. 8263, 54 FR 38653, Sept. 20, 1989, as amended by T.D. 8556, 59 FR 37672, July 25, 1994; T.D. 8765, 63 FR 10774, Mar. 5, 1998; 63 FR 15760, Apr. 1, 1998; T.D. 8776, 63 FR 40368, July 29, 1998; T.D. 8927, 66 FR 2216, Jan. 11, 2001; T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100164, Dec. 11, 2024]
§ 1.985-2
Election to use the United States dollar as the functional currency of a QBU.
(a)
Background and scope
—(1)
In general.
This section permits an eligible QBU to elect to use the dollar as its functional currency for taxable years beginning on or before August 24, 1994. An election to use a dollar functional currency is not permitted for a QBU other than an eligible QBU. Paragraph (b) of this section defines an eligible QBU. Paragraph (c) of this section describes the time and manner for making the dollar election and paragraph (d) of this section describes the effect of making the election. For the definition of a QBU, see section 989(a). See § 1.985-1(b)(2)(ii) for rules requiring a QBU to use the dollar as its functional currency in taxable years beginning after August 24, 1994.
(2)
Exception.
Pursuant to § 1.985-1(b)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
), the rules of paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall apply with respect to the procedure required to be followed by a noncontrolled section 902 corporation as defined in section 904(d)(2)(E) to elect the dollar as its (or its QBU branch's) functional currency and the application of § 1.985-3.
(b)
Eligible QBU
—(1)
In general.
The term “eligible QBU” means a QBU that could have used a hyperinflationary currency as its functional currency absent the dollar election.
See
§ 1.985-1 for how a QBU determines its functional currency absent the dollar election.
(2)
Hyperinflationary currency.
See § 1.985-1(b)(2)(ii)(D) for the definition of hyperinflationary currency.
(c)
Time and manner for dollar election
—(1)
QBUs that are branches of United States persons
—(i)
Rule.
If an eligible QBU is a branch of a United States person, the dollar election shall be made by attaching a completed Form 8819 to the United States person's timely filed (taking extensions into account) tax return for the first taxable year for which the election is to be effective.
(ii)
Procedure prior to the issuance of Form 8819.
In the absence of Form 8819, the election shall be made in accordance with § 1.985-2T(c)(1). Failure to file an amended return within the time period prescribed in § 1.985-2T(c)(1) shall not invalidate the dollar election if it is established to the satisfaction of the district director that reasonable cause existed for such failure. A subsequent election for 1988 will not prejudice the taxpayer with respect to such reasonable cause determination. Nevertheless, each United States person making an election under the § 1.985-2T(c)(1) must file a Form 8819 in the time and manner provided in the Form's instructions.
(2)
Eligible QBUs that are controlled foreign corporations or branches of controlled foreign corporations
—(i)
Rule.
If an eligible QBU is a controlled foreign corporation (as described in section 957), or a branch of a controlled foreign corporation, the election may be made either by the foreign corporation or by the controlling United States shareholders on behalf of the foreign corporation by—
(A) Filing a completed Form 8819 in the time and manner provided in the Form's instructions, and
(B) Providing the written notice required by paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section at the time and in the manner prescribed therein.
The term
controlling United States shareholders
means those United States shareholders (as defined in section 951(b)) who, in the aggregate, own (within the meaning of section 958(a)) greater than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the foreign corporation entitled to vote. If the foreign corporation is a controlled foreign corporation (as described in section 957) but the United States shareholders do not, in the aggregate, own the requisite voting power, the term “controlling United States shareholders” means all the United States shareholders (as defined in section 951(b)) who own (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock of the controlled foreign corporation.
(ii)
Notice.
Prior to filing Form 8819, the controlling United States shareholders (or the foreign corporation, if the dollar election is made by the corporation) shall provide written notice that the dollar election will be made to all United States persons known to be shareholders who own (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock of the foreign corporation. Such notice shall also include all information required in Form 8819.
(iii)
Reasonable cause exception.
Failure of the controlling United States shareholders (or the foreign corporation, if the dollar election is made by the corporation) to timely file Form 8819 or provide written notice to a United States person required to be notified by paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section shall not invalidate the dollar election, if it is established to the satisfaction of the district director that reasonable cause existed for such failure.
(iv)
Procedure prior to the issuance of Form 8819.
In the absence of Form 8819, an eligible QBU described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section shall make the dollar election in accordance with § 1.985-2T(c)(2). Nevertheless, the person or persons that made such election must file a Form 8819 in the time and manner provided in the Form's instructions.
(3)
Eligible QBUs that are noncontrolled foreign corporations or branches of noncontrolled foreign corporations
—(i)
Rule.
If an eligible QBU is a noncontrolled foreign corporation (a foreign corporation not described in section 957), or a branch of a noncontrolled foreign corporation, the dollar election must be made by the corporation or the majority domestic corporate shareholders on behalf of the corporation by applying the rules provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) and (B), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section substituting “majority domestic corporate shareholders” for “controlling United States shareholders” wherever it appears therein.
The term “majority domestic corporate shareholders” means those domestic corporate shareholders (as described in section 902(a)) who, in the aggregate, own (within the meaning of section 958(a)) greater than 50 percent of the total combined voting stock of all classes of stock of the noncontrolled foreign corporation entitled to vote that is owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)) by all the domestic corporate shareholders.
(ii)
Procedure prior to the issuance of Form 8819.
In the absence of Form 8819, an eligible QBU described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section shall make the dollar election in accordance with § 1.985-2T(c)(3). Nevertheless, the person or persons that made such election must file a Form 8819 in the time and manner provided in the Form's instructions.
(4)
Others.
Any other person making a dollar election under this section shall elect by filing Form 8819 and fulfilling any other notice requirements that may be required by the Commissioner.
(d)
Effect of dollar election
—(1)
General rule.
If a dollar election is made (or considered made under paragraph (d)(3) of this section) by or on behalf of an eligible QBU, the QBU shall be deemed to have the dollar as its functional currency. Each United States person that owns (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock of a foreign corporation which has the dollar as its functional currency under § 1.985-2 must make all of its federal income tax calculations with respect to the foreign corporation using the dollar as the corporation's functional currency (regardless of when ownership was acquired or whether the United States person received the written notice required by paragraph (c)(2)(i)(B) of this section).
(2)
Computation
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, any eligible QBU that pursuant to this § 1.985-2 has a dollar functional currency must compute income or loss or earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) in dollars using the dollar approximate separate transactions method described in § 1.985-3.
(ii)
Alternative method.
An eligible QBU that has a dollar functional currency pursuant to this § 1.985-2 may use a method other than the dollar approximate separate transactions method described in § 1.985-3 only if the QBU demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that it can properly employ such method. Generally, the QBU must show that it could compute foreign currency gain or loss under the principles of section 988 with respect to each of its section 988 transactions. If subsequently the QBU can no longer demonstrate to the satisfaction of the district director that it can properly employ such an alternative method, then the QBU will be deemed to have changed its method of accounting to the dollar approximate separate transactions method described in § 1.985-3. This change in accounting will be treated as having been made with the consent of the Commissioner. No adjustments under either § 1.985-5T (or any succeeding final regulation) or section 481(a) shall be required solely because of the change. Rather the QBU shall begin accounting for its operations under § 1.985-3 based on its dollar books and records as of the time of the change.
(3)
Conformity
—(i)
General rule.
If a dollar election is made under this § 1.985-2 for an eligible QBU (“electing QBU”), then the dollar shall be the functional currency of any related person (regardless of when such person became related to the electing QBU) that is an eligible QBU, or any branch of any such related person that is an eligible QBU. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term “related person” means any person with a relationship defined in section 267 (b) to the electing QBU (or to the United States or foreign person of which the electing QBU is a part). In determining whether two or more corporations are members of the same controlled group under section 267(b)(3), a person is considered to own stock owned directly by such person, stock owned with the application of section 1563(e)(1), and stock owned with the application of section 267(c).
(ii)
Branches of United States and foreign persons.
If a dollar election is made for a QBU branch of any person, each eligible QBU branch of such person shall have the dollar as its functional currency.
(4)
Required adjustments.
If an eligible QBU's functional currency changes due to a dollar election, or due to the conformity requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section, such change shall be deemed for purposes of § 1.9B5-4 to be consented to by the Commissioner. No adjustments under section 481(a) shall be required solely because of the change. However, the QBU must make those adjustments required by § 1.985-5T (or any succeeding final regulation).
(5)
Taxable year conformity required.
Generally, the adjustments required by paragraph (d)(4) of this section shall be made for a related person's taxable year—
(i) That includes the date in which the electing QBU made the dollar election if the person was related to such electing QBU at any time during the QBU's taxable year that includes such date, or
(ii) During which the person first becomes related to any electing QBU, in all other cases.
For purposes of this paragraph (d)(5), the date in which the electing QBU makes the dollar election shall be the last day of the electing QBU's taxable year. The district director may permit the related party to make such adjustments beginning one taxable year later if, in the district director's sole judgment, reasonable cause exists for the related party not being able to make the required adjustments for the earlier year.
(6)
Availability of election.
A dollar election may be made by or on behalf of a QBU, or considered made under the conformity rule of paragraph (d)(3), in any year in which the QBU is an eligible QBU. If a dollar election is not made by or on behalf of a QBU for its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1986 in which it is an eligible QBU, then any dollar election made by or on behalf of the QBU, or considered made under the conformity rules of paragraph (d)(3) of this section, that results in a change in the QBU's functional currency shall be treated as having been made with the consent of the Commissioner. In such a case, however, the taxpayer must make those adjustments required by § 1.985-5T (or any succeeding final regulation).
(7)
Effect of changed circumstances.
Regardless of any change in circumstances (
e.g.,
a currency ceases to qualify as hyperinflationary), a QBU whose functional currency is the dollar under this section may change its functional currency only if the QBU complies with § 1.985-4.
(8)
Examples.
The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples.

# Example 1.
X is a calendar year domestic corporation that in 1987 establishes a branch, A, in Country Z. A's functional currency under sections 985(b)(1) and (2) and § 1.985-1 is the “h”, the currency of Country Z. The cumulative inflation in Country Z exceeds 100 percent for the thirty-six months prior to January 1987, as measured by the consumer price index of Country Z listed in the monthly issues of the “International Financial Statistics”. Accordingly, A is an eligible QBU in 1987 because the h is a hyperinflationary currency. Thus, X may elect the dollar as the functional currency of A for 1987.

# Example 2.
The facts are the same as in Example (1). X does not elect the dollar as the functional currency of A for 1987. Rather, X elects the dollar as the functional currency of A for l991, a year A is an eligible QBU. The election constitutes a change in A's functional currency that is made with the consent of the Commissioner. However, A must make the adjustments required under § 1.985-5T (or any succeeding final regulation).

# Example 3.
X is a domestic corporation that establishes A, an eligible QBU branch. X is wholly owned by domestic corporation Y. Y has an eligible QBU branch, B. Both X and Y are calendar year taxpayers. X makes a dollar election for A in 1987. Thus, A is an electing QBU. X and Y are related persons as defined in section 267(b) (
i.e.,
Y has a relationship under section 267(b)(3) to X, the corporation of which A is a part). Therefore, the dollar election by X for A in 1987 results in B, the eligible QBU branch of Y, also having the dollar as its functional currency for 1987.

# Example 4.
The facts are the same as in Example 3, except that Y does not have an eligible QBU branch but owns all the stock of C, a calendar year controlled foreign corporation, which is not itself an eligible QBU but which has an eligible QBU branch, D. X and C are related persons as defined in section 267(b) (
i.e.,
C has a relationship under section 267(b)(3) to X, the corporation of which A is a part). Therefore, the dollar election by X for A in 1987 results in D, the eligible QBU branch of C, also having the dollar as its functional currency for 1987.

# Example 5.
X, whose taxable year ends September 30, is an eligible QBU that does not use the dollar as its functional currency. X is
wholly-owned by domestic corporation W. On January 1, 1989, X acquires all the stock of Y, an unrelated eligible QBU that made the dollar election under § 1.985-2. Y is a calendar year taxpayer. After the stock purchase, X and Y are related persons as defined in section 267(b). Under §§ 1.985-2(d)(3) and (5), the dollar shall be the functional currency of X, any person related to X, and any branch of such related person that is an eligible QBU beginning with the taxable year that includes December 31, 1989. Thus, X must change to the dollar for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1988. However, the district director may allow X to change to the dollar for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1989, provided reasonable cause exists. Those QBUs changing to the dollar as their functional currency as the result of the conformity requirements must make the adjustments required under § 1.985-5T (or any succeeding final regulation).

# Example 6.
The facts are the same as in Example 5, except that before X purchased the Y stock, X made the dollar election under § 1.985-2 but Y did not use the dollar as its functional currency. Under §§ 1.985-2(d)(3) and (5) the dollar shall be the functional currency of Y, any person related to Y, and any branch of such related person that is an eligible QBU beginning with the taxable year that includes September 30, 1989. Thus, Y must change to the dollar for its taxable year beginning January 1, 1989. However the district director may allow Y to change to the dollar for its taxable year beginning January 1, 1990, provided reasonable cause exists. Those QBUs changing to the dollar as their functional currency as the result of the conformity requirements must make the adjustments required under § 1.985-5T (or any succeeding final regulation).
[T.D. 8263, 54 FR 38656, Sept. 20, 1989, as amended by T.D. 8556, 59 FR 37673, July 25, 1994]
§ 1.985-3
United States dollar approximate separate transactions method.
(a)
Scope and effective date
—(1)
Scope.
This section describes the United States dollar (dollar) approximate separate transactions method of accounting (DASTM). For all purposes of subtitle A, this method of accounting must be used to compute the gross income, taxable income or loss, or earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) of a QBU (as defined in section 989(a)) that has the dollar as its functional currency pursuant to § 1.985-1(b)(2).
(2)
Effective date
—(i)
In general.
This section is effective for taxable years beginning after August 24, 1994.
(ii)
DASTM prior-year election.
A taxpayer may elect to apply this section to any open taxable year beginning after December 31, 1986 (whether or not DASTM has been previously elected for some or all of those years). In order to make this election, the taxpayer must apply § 1.985-3 to that year and all subsequent years. In addition, each person that is related (within the meaning of § 1.985-3(e)(2)(vi)) to the taxpayer on the last day of any taxable year for which the election is effective and that would have been eligible to elect DASTM must also apply these rules to that year and all subsequent years. A taxpayer that has not previously elected to apply DASTM to its prior taxable years may make the DASTM election for the pertinent years by filing amended returns and complying with the applicable election procedures of § 1.985-2. Form 8819 shall be attached to the return for the first year for which the election is to be effective. A taxpayer that has elected DASTM for prior taxable years and applied the rules under § 1.985-3 (as contained in the April 1, 1994 edition of 26 CFR part 1 (1.908 to 1.1000)) may amend its returns to apply the rules of this § 1.985-3. In either case, the DASTM election for prior taxable years shall be deemed to be made with the consent of the Commissioner.
(b)
Statement of method.
Under DASTM, income or loss or earnings and profits (or a deficit in earnings and profits) of a QBU for its taxable year shall be determined in dollars by—
(1) Preparing an income or loss statement from the QBU's books and records (within the meaning of § 1.989(a)-1(d)) as recorded in the QBU's hyperinflationary currency (as defined in § 1.985-1(b)(2)(ii)(D));
(2) Making the adjustments necessary to conform such statement to United States generally accepted accounting principles and tax accounting principles (including reversing monetary correction adjustments required by local accounting principles);
(3) Translating the amounts of hyperinflationary currency as shown on such adjusted statement into dollars in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; and
(4) Adjusting the resulting dollar income or loss or earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) and, where necessary, particular items of gross income, deductible expense or other amounts, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section to reflect the amount of DASTM gain or loss as determined under paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Translation into United States dollars
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c), the amounts shown on the income or loss statement, as adjusted under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, shall be translated into dollars at the exchange rate (as defined in paragraph (c)(6) of this section) for the translation period (as defined in paragraph (c)(7) of this section) to which they relate. However, if the QBU previously changed its functional currency to the dollar, and the rules of § 1.985-5 (or, if applicable, § 1.985-5T, as contained in the April 1, 1993 edition of 26 CFR part 1 (1.908 to 1.1000)) applied in translating its balance sheet amounts into dollars, then the spot exchange rate applied under those rules shall be used to translate any amount that would otherwise be translated at a rate determined by reference to a translation period prior to the change in functional currency. For example, depreciation with respect to an asset acquired while the QBU had a nondollar functional currency shall be translated into dollars at the spot rate on the last day of the taxable year before the year of change to a dollar functional currency, rather than at the rate for the period in which the asset was acquired.
(2)
Cost of goods sold.
The dollar value of cost of goods sold shall equal the sum of the dollar values of beginning inventory and purchases less the dollar value of closing inventory as these amounts are determined under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3)
Beginning inventory, purchases, and closing inventory
—(i)
Beginning inventory.
Amounts representing beginning inventory shall be translated so as to obtain the same amount of dollars which represented such items in the closing inventory balance for the preceding taxable year.
(ii)
Purchases.
Amounts representing items purchased or otherwise first included in inventory during the taxable year shall be translated at the exchange rate for the translation period in which the cost of such items was incurred.
(iii)
Closing inventory
—(A)
In general.
Amounts representing items included in the closing inventory balance shall be translated at the exchange rate for the translation period in which the cost of such items was incurred. However, if amounts representing items included in the closing inventory balance are either valued at market or written down to market value, they shall be translated at the exchange rate existing on the last day of the taxable year. For purposes of determining lower of cost or market, items of inventory included in the closing inventory balance shall be translated into dollars at the exchange rate for the translation period in which the cost of such items was incurred and compared with market as determined in the QBU's hyperinflationary currency translated into dollars at the exchange rate existing on the last day of the taxable year.
(B)
Determination of translation period.
The method used to determine the translation period of amounts representing items of closing inventory for purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section may be based upon reasonable approximations and averages, including rates of turnover, provided that the method is used consistently from year to year.
(4)
Depreciation, depletion, and amortization.
Amounts representing allowances for depreciation, depletion, or amortization shall be translated at the exchange rate for the translation period in which the cost of the underlying asset was incurred, except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(5)
Prepaid expenses or income.
Amounts representing expense or income paid or received in a prior taxable year shall be translated at the exchange rate for the translation period during which they were paid or received.
(6)
Exchange rate.
The exchange rate for a translation period may be determined under any reasonable method,
provided that the method is consistently applied to all translation periods and conforms to the taxpayer's method of financial accounting. Reasonable methods include the average of beginning and ending exchange rates for the translation period and the spot rate on the last day of the translation period. Once chosen, a method for determining an exchange rate can be changed only with the consent of the district director.
(7)
Translation period
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(B) and (c)(7)(ii) of this section, a translation period shall be each month within a QBU's taxable year.
(ii)
Exception.
A taxpayer may divide its taxable year into translation periods of equal length (with not more than one short period annually) that are less than one month. Once such a translation period is established, it may not be changed without the consent of the district director.
(8)
Dollar transactions
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section, no DASTM gain or loss is realized with respect to dollar transactions since the dollar is the functional currency of the QBU. Thus, the amount of any payment or receipt of dollars shall be reflected in the income or loss statement by the amount of such dollars. Also, the income or loss attributable to any transaction in which the amount that a QBU is entitled to receive (or is required to pay) by reason of such transaction is denominated in terms of the dollar, or is determined by reference to the value of the dollar, must be computed transaction by transaction. For example, if a foreign corporation lends 20 LC when 20 LC = $20 and is entitled to receive the LC equivalent of $20 at maturity plus a market rate of interest in dollars (or its LC equivalent), the loan is a dollar transaction. Similarly, this paragraph applies to any transaction that is determined to be a dollar transaction under section 988.
(ii)
Non-dollar functional currency.
If pursuant to § 1.985-1(b)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
), a QBU is required to use a functional currency other than the dollar, then that currency shall be substituted for the dollar in applying paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section.
(9)
Third currency transactions.
A taxpayer may use any reasonable method of accounting for transactions described in sections 988(c)(1)(B) and (C) that are denominated in, or determined by reference to, a currency other than the QBU's hyperinflationary currency or the dollar (third currency transactions) so long as such method is consistent with its method of financial accounting.
(10)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (c) are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
S is an accrual basis QBU that is required to use the dollar as its functional currency for its first taxable year beginning in 1994. S's hyperinflationary currency is the “h.” During 1994, S accrues 100 dollars attributable to dollar-denominated sales. Because this is a dollar transaction under paragraph (c)(8) of this section, S's income or loss for 1994 shall reflect the 100 dollars (not the hyperinflationary value of such dollars when accrued).

# Example 2.
(i) S is an accrual basis QBU that is required to use the dollar as its functional currency for its first taxable year beginning in 1994. S's hyperinflationary currency is the “h.” During 1994, S's sales amounted to 240,000,000h, its currently deductible expenses were 26,000,000h, and its total inventory purchases amounted to 100,000,000h. During January and February of 1994, S purchased depreciable assets for 80,000,000h and was allowed depreciation of 4,000,000h. At the end of 1994, S's closing inventory was 23,000,000h. No election to use a translation period other than the month is made, S had no transactions described in paragraph (c)(8) or (c)(9) of this section, and S's closing inventory was computed on the first-in, first-out inventory method. S's adjusted income or loss statement for 1994 is translated into dollars as follows:
Hyperinflationary currency
Exchange rate
United States dollars
Sales
(Jan.-Feb.)
10,000,000h
1
20:1
$500,000
(Mar.-Apr.)
20,000,000
21:1
952,381
(May.-June.)
50,000,000
22:1
2,272,727
(July)
50,000,000
23:1
2,173,913
(August)
20,000,000
26:1
769,231
(Sept.)
20,000,000
28:1
714,286
(Oct.)
20,000,000
29:1
689,655
(Nov.)
20,000,000
30:1
666,667
(Dec.)
30,000,000
31:1
967,742
Total
240,000,000h
9,706,602
Cost of Goods Sold
Opening Inventory Purchases:
0
0
(Jan.-Feb.)
15,000,000h
20:1
750,000
(Mar.-Apr.)
10,000,000
21:1
476,190
(May-June)
30,000,000
22:1
1,363,636
(July)
20,000,000
23:1
869,565
(August)
10,000,000
26:1
384,615
(Sept.)
5,000,000
28:1
178,571
(Oct.)
5,000,000
29:1
172,414
(Nov.)
2,500,000
30:1
83,333
(Dec.)
2,500,000
31:1
80,645
Less Closing Inventory
(23,000,000)
(
2
)
(822,655)
77,000,000h
3,536,314
1
Where multiple months are indicated, the exchange rate applies for all months.
2
See paragraph (ii) of this
Example.
(ii) Since S uses the first-in, first-out inventory method, the closing inventory is assumed to consist of purchases made during the most recent translation period as follows:
Hyperinflationary currency
Exchange rate
United States dollars
December
2,500,000h
31:1
$80,645
November
2,500,000
30:1
83,333
October
5,000,000
29:1
172,414
September
5,000,000
28:1
178,571
August
8,000,000
26:1
307,692
Total
23,000,000h
822,655
Non-Capitalized Expenses
(Jan.-Feb.)
4,000,000h
20:1
200,000
(Mar.-Apr.)
2,500,000
21:1
119,048
(May-June)
2,500,000
22:1
113,636
(July)
2,000,000
23:1
86,957
(August)
3,000,000
26:1
115,385
(Sept.)
3,000,000
28:1
107,143
(Oct.)
2,000,000
29:1
68,966
(Nov.)
3,000,000
30:1
100,000
(Dec.)
4,000,000
31:1
129,032
Total
26,000,000h
1,040,167
Depreciation
4,000,000h
20:1
200,000
Total Cost
Expenses
107,000,000h
4,776,481
Operating Profit
133,000,000h
4,930,121
(d)
Computation of DASTM gain or loss
—(1)
Rule.
DASTM gain or loss of a QBU equals—
(i) The net worth of the QBU (as determined under paragraph (d)(2) of this section) at the end of the taxable year minus the net worth of the QBU at the end of the preceding taxable year; plus
(ii) The dollar amount of the items described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section and minus the dollar amount of the items described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section; minus
(iii) The amount of dollar income or earnings and profits (or plus the amount of any dollar loss or deficit in
earnings and profits) as determined for the taxable year pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.
(2)
Net worth.
Net worth of a QBU at the end of any taxable year equals the aggregate dollar amount representing assets on the QBU's balance sheet at the end of the taxable year less the aggregate dollar amount representing liabilities on the balance sheet. Notwithstanding any other provision in this paragraph (d)(2), the district director may adjust the amount of any asset or liability if a purpose for acquiring (or disposing of) the asset or incurring (or discharging) the liability is to manipulate the composition of the balance sheet for any period during the taxable year in order to avoid tax. The taxpayer shall determine net worth by—
(i) Preparing a balance sheet as of the end of the taxable year from the QBU's books and records (within the meaning of § 1.989(a)-1(d)) as recorded in the QBU's hyperinflationary currency;
(ii) Making adjustments necessary to conform such balance sheet to United States generally accepted accounting principles and tax accounting principles (including reversing monetary correction adjustments required by local accounting principles); and
(iii) Translating the asset and liability amounts shown on the balance sheet into United States dollars in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(3)
Positive adjustments
—(i)
In general.
The items described in this paragraph (d)(3) are dividend distributions for the taxable year and any items that decrease net worth for the taxable year but that generally do not affect income or loss or earnings and profits (or a deficit in earnings and profits). Such items include a transfer to the home office of a QBU branch and a return of capital.
(ii)
Translation.
Except as provided by ruling or administrative pronouncement, items described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section shall be translated into dollars as follows:
(A) If the item giving rise to the adjustment would be translated under paragraph (d)(5) of this section at the exchange rate for the last translation period of the taxable year if it were shown on the QBU's year-end balance sheet, such item shall be translated at the exchange rate on the date the item is transferred.
(B) If the item giving rise to the adjustment would be translated under paragraph (d)(5) of this section at the exchange rate for the translation period in which the cost of the item was incurred if it were shown on the QBU's year-end balance sheet, such item shall be translated at the same historical rate.
(iii)
Effective date.
Paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section is applicable for any transfer, dividend, or distribution that is a return of capital that is made after March 8, 2005, and that gives rise to an adjustment under this paragraph (d)(3).
(4)
Negative adjustments.
The items described in this paragraph (d)(4) are items that increase net worth for the taxable year but that generally do not affect income or loss or earnings and profits (or a deficit in earnings and profits). Such items include a capital contribution or a transfer from a home office to a QBU branch. Except as otherwise provided by ruling or administrative pronouncement, if the contribution or transfer is not in dollars, the amount of a capital contribution or transfer shall be translated into dollars at the exchange rate on the date made.
(5)
Translation of balance sheet.
Asset and liability amounts shown on the balance sheet in hyperinflationary currency (adjusted pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section) shall be translated into dollars as provided in this paragraph (d)(5). However, if the QBU previously changed its functional currency to the dollar and the rules of § 1.985-5 (or, if applicable, § 1.985-5T, as contained in the April 1, 1993 edition of 26 CFR part 1 (1.908 to 1.1000)) applied in translating its balance sheet amounts into dollars, then the spot exchange rate applied under those rules shall be used to translate any amount that would otherwise be translated at a rate determined by reference to a translation period prior to the change in functional currency. For example, the basis of real property acquired while the QBU had a nondollar functional currency shall be translated into dollars at the spot rate on the last day
of the taxable year before the year of change to a dollar functional currency, rather than at the rate for the period in which the cost was incurred.
(i)
Closing inventory.
Amounts representing items of inventory included in the closing inventory balance shall be translated in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Bad debt reserves.
Amounts representing bad debt reserves shall be translated at the exchange rate for the last translation period for the taxable year.
(iii)
Prepaid income or expense.
Amounts representing expenses or income paid or received in a prior taxable year shall be translated in accordance with paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(iv)
Hyperinflationary currency.
Amounts of the hyperinflationary currency and hyperinflationary demand deposit balances shall be translated at the exchange rate for the last translation period of the taxable year.
(v)
Certain assets
—(A)
In general.
Amounts representing plant, real property, equipment, goodwill, and patents and other intangibles shall be translated at the exchange rate for the translation period in which the cost of the asset was incurred.
(B)
Adjustment to certain assets.
Amounts representing depreciation, depletion, and amortization reserves shall be translated in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(vi)
Hyperinflationary debt obligations.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(5)(vii) of this section, amounts representing a hyperinflationary debt obligation (including accounts receivable and payable) shall be translated at the exchange rate for the last translation period for the taxable year.
(vii)
Accrued foreign income taxes.
Amounts representing an accrued but unpaid foreign income tax shall be translated at the exchange rate on the last day of the last translation period of the taxable year of accrual.
(viii)
Certain hyperinflationary financial instruments.
Amounts representing any item described in section 988(c)(1)(B)(iii) (relating to forward contracts, futures contracts, options, or similar financial instruments) denominated in or determined by reference to the hyperinflationary currency shall be translated at the exchange rate for the last translation period for the taxable year.
(ix)
Other assets and liabilities.
Amounts representing assets and liabilities, other than those described in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (viii) of this section, shall be translated at the exchange rate for the translation period in which the cost of the asset or the amount of the liability was incurred.
(6)
Dollar transactions.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this paragraph (d), where the amount representing an item shown on the balance sheet reflects a dollar transaction (described in paragraph (c)(8) of this section), the transaction shall be taken into account in accordance with that paragraph.
(7)
Third currency transactions.
A taxpayer may use any reasonable method of accounting for transactions described in section 988(c)(1)(B) and (C) that are denominated in, or determined by reference to, a currency other than the QBU's hyperinflationary currency or the dollar (third currency transactions), so long as such method is consistent with its method of financial accounting.
(8)
Character.
The amount of DASTM gain or loss determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be ordinary income or loss.
(9)
Example.
The provisions of this paragraph (d) are illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
(i) S, an accrual method calendar year foreign corporation, uses DASTM. S's hyperinflationary currency is the “h.” S's net worth at December 31, 1993 was $3,246,495. For 1994, S's operating profit is 81,340,000h, or $2,038,200. S made a 5,000,000h distribution in April and again in December of 1994. S's translation period is the month. None of S's assets or liabilities reflect a dollar or third currency transaction described in paragraph (c)(8) or (c)(9) of this section, respectively. The exchange rate for each month in 1994 is as follows:
January
32h:$1
Feb.-Mar.
33:1
April-May
34:1
June
35:1
July
36:1
Aug.-Sept.
37:1
Oct.
38:1
Nov.
39:1
Dec.
40:1
(ii) At the end of 1994, S's assets and liabilities, as adjusted and translated pursuant to paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(5) of this section, are as follows:
Hyperin-flationary
Exchange rate
U.S. dollar
Hyperinflationary cash on hand
40,000h
40:1
$1,000
Checking account
400,000
40:1
10,000
Accounts Receivable- 30 Day Accounts
20,000,000
1
40:1
500,000
60 Day Accounts
25,000,000
40:1
625,000
Inventory
65,000,000
(
2
)
2,500,000
Fixed assets—Property
90,000,000
27:1
3,333,333
Plant
190,000,000
(
3
)
6,785,714
Accumulated Depreciation
(600,000)
(
3
)
(21,428)
Equipment
10,000,000
(
4
)
340,000
Accumulated Depreciation
(400,000)
(
4
)
(13,333)
Common Stock—Stock A
500,000
34:1
14,706
Stock B
400,000
26:1
15,385
Preferred Stock
1,000,000
32:1
31,250
C.D.s
5,000,000
40:1
125,000
Total Assets
406,340,000
14,246,627
Accounts Payable Long-term liabilities:
35,000,000
40:1
875,000
Liability A
150,000,000
40:1
3,750,000
Liability B
80,000,000
40:1
2,000,000
Liability C
30,000,000
40:1
750,000
Total Liabilities
295,000,000h
$7,375,000
1
S ages its accounts receivable and groups them into two categories—those outstanding for 30 days and those outstanding for 60 days.
2
Translated the same as closing inventory under paragraph (c)(3)(iii).
3
The cost of S's plant was incurred in several translation periods. Therefore, the dollar cost and dollar depreciation reflect several translation rates.
4
S has a variety of equipment. Therefore, S's dollar basis represents the sum of the hyperinflationary cost of each, translated according to the exchange rate for the translation period incurred.
(iii) The DASTM gain of S for 1994 is computed as follows:
Net worth—1994
$6,871,627
Less—Net worth—1993
$3,246,495
Plus—1994 Dividends:
April
$149,254
December
1
126,582
275,836
Less Operating Profit—1994
2,038,200
DASTM Gain
$1,862,768
1
The exchange rates on the date of the April and December dividends were 33.5h:$1 and 39.5h:$1, respectively.
(iv) Thus, total profit = $2,038,200 + $1,862,768 = $3,900,968
(e)
Effect of DASTM gain or loss on gross income, taxable income, or earnings and profits
—(1)
In general.
For all purposes of subtitle A, the amount of DASTM gain or loss of a QBU determined under paragraph (d) of this section is taken into account by the QBU for purposes of determining the amount of its gross income, taxable income or loss, earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits), and, where necessary, particular items of income, expense or other amounts. DASTM gain or loss is allocated under one of two methods. Certain small QBUs may elect the small QBU DASTM allocation described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. All other QBUs must use the 9-step procedure described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2)
Small QBU DASTM allocation
—(i)
Election threshold.
A taxpayer may elect to use the small QBU DASTM allocation described in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section with respect to a QBU that has an adjusted basis in assets (translated as provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section) of $10 million or less at the end of any taxable year. In calculating the $10 million threshold, a QBU shall be treated as owning all of the assets of each related QBU (as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(vi) of this section) having its residence (as defined in section 988(a)(3)(B)) in the QBU's country of residence (related same- country QBU). For this purpose, appropriate adjustment shall be made to eliminate the double counting of assets created in transactions between related QBUs resident in the same country. For example, assume QBU-1, resident in country X, sells inventory to related QBU-2, also resident in country X, in exchange for an account receivable. For purposes of determining the assets of QBU-1 under this paragraph (e)(2)(i), the taxpayer shall take into account either the inventory
shown on the books of QBU-2 or QBU-1's receivable from QBU-2 (but not both).
(ii)
Consent to election.
The election of the small QBU DASTM allocation or subsequent application of the rules of paragraph (e)(3) of this section due to an increase in the adjusted basis of the QBU's assets shall be deemed to have been made with the consent of the Commissioner. Once the election under paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section is made, it shall apply for all years in which the adjusted basis of the assets of the QBU (and any related same-country QBU) is $10 million or less, unless revoked with the Commissioner's consent. If the adjusted basis of the assets of the QBU (and any related same- country QBU) exceeds $10 million at the end of any taxable year, the rules of paragraph (e)(3) of this section shall apply to that QBU (and any related same-country QBU) for such year and each subsequent year unless such QBU again qualifies, and applies for and obtains the Commissioner's consent, to use the small QBU DASTM allocation. However, if a QBU acquires assets with a principal purpose of avoiding the application of paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section, the Commissioner may disregard the acquisition of such assets.
(iii)
Manner of making election
—(A)
QBUs that are branches of United States persons.
For the first year in which this election is effective, in the case of a QBU branch of a United States person, a statement shall be attached to the United States person's timely filed Federal income tax return (taking extensions into account). The statement shall identify the QBU (or QBUs) for which the election is being made by describing its business and its country of residence, state the adjusted basis of the assets of the QBU (and any related same-country QBUs) to which the election applies, and include a statement that the election is being made pursuant to § 1.985-3(e)(2).
(B)
Other QBUs.
In the case of a QBU other than one described in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, an election must be made in the manner prescribed in § 1.964-1. The statement filed with the Internal Revenue Service as required under § 1.964-1 must include the information required under paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(A) of this section.
(iv)
Effect of election.
If a taxpayer elects under this paragraph (e)(2) to use the small QBU DASTM allocation, DASTM gain or loss, as determined under paragraph (d) of this section, of a small QBU shall be allocated ratably to all items of the QBU's gross income (determined prior to adjustment for DASTM gain or loss). Therefore, for purposes of the foreign tax credit, DASTM gain or loss shall be allocated on the basis of the relative amounts of gross income in each separate category as defined in § 1.904-5(a)(4)(v). In the case of a controlled foreign corporation (within the meaning of section 957 or 953(c)(1)(B)), for purposes of section 952, DASTM gain or loss shall be allocated to subpart F income in a separate category in the same ratio that the gross subpart F income in that category for the taxable year bears to its total gross income in that category for the taxable year.
(v)
Conformity.
If a person (or a QBU of such person) makes an election under this paragraph (e)(2) to use the small QBU DASTM allocation, then each QBU of any related person (as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(vi) of this section) that satisfies the threshold requirement of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section (after application of the aggregation rule of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section) shall be deemed to have made the election.
(vi)
Related person.
The term related person means any person with a relationship to the QBU (or to the United States or foreign person of which the electing QBU is a part) that is defined in section 267(b) or section 707(b).
(3)
DASTM 9-step procedure
—(i)
Step 1—prepare balance sheets.
The taxpayer shall prepare an opening and a closing balance sheet for the QBU for each balance sheet period during the taxable year. The balance sheet period is the most frequent period for which balance sheet data are reasonably available (but in no event less frequently than quarterly). The balance sheet period may not be changed without the consent of the district director. The balance sheets must be prepared under the principles of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(ii)
Step 2—identify certain assets and liabilities.
The taxpayer shall identify each item on the balance sheet that is described in section 988(c)(1)(B) or (C) and that would have been translated under paragraph (d)(5) of this section into dollars at the exchange rate for the last translation period for the taxable year (or the exchange rate on the last day of the last translation period of the taxable year in the case of an accrued foreign income tax liability).
(iii)
Step 3—characterize the assets.
The taxpayer shall characterize and group the assets identified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section (Step 2) according to the source and the type of income that they generate, have generated, or may reasonably be expected to generate by applying the principles of § 1.861-9T(g)(3) or its successor regulation (relating to characterization of assets for purposes of interest expense allocation). If a purpose for a taxpayer's business practices is to manipulate asset characterization or groupings, the district director may allocate or apportion DASTM gain or loss attributable to the assets. Thus, if a taxpayer that previously did not separately state interest on accounts receivable begins to impose an interest charge and a purpose for the change was to manipulate tax characterizations or groupings, then the district director may require that none of the DASTM gain or loss attributable to those receivables be allocated or apportioned to interest income.
(iv)
Step 4—determine DASTM gain or loss attributable to certain assets
—(A)
General rule.
The taxpayer shall determine the dollar amount of DASTM gain or loss attributable to assets in each group identified in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section (Step 3) as follows:
EC09OC91.062
where
bb = the hyperinflationary currency adjusted basis of the assets in the group at the beginning of the balance sheet period.
eb = the hyperinflationary currency adjusted basis of the assets in the group at the end of the balance sheet period.
er = one dollar divided by the number of hyperinflationary currency units that equal one dollar at the end of the balance sheet period.
br = one dollar divided by the number of hyperinflationary currency units that equal one dollar at the beginning of the balance sheet period.
(B)
Weighting to prevent distortion.
If averaging the adjusted basis of assets in a group at the beginning and end of a balance sheet period results in an allocation of DASTM gain or loss that does not clearly reflect income, as might be the case in the event of a purchase or disposition of an asset that is not in the normal course of business, the taxpayer must use a weighting method that reflects the time the assets are held by the QBU during the translation period.
(C)
Example.
The provisions of this paragraph (e)(3)(iv) are illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
S is a foreign corporation that operates in the hyperinflationary currency “h” and computes its income or loss or earnings and profits under DASTM. S's adjusted basis in a group of assets described in section 988(c)(1)(B) or (C) that generate general limitation foreign source income (as characterized under paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section) at the beginning of the balance sheet period is 750,000h. S's basis in such assets at the end of the balance sheet period is 1,250,000h. The exchange rate at the beginning of the balance sheet period is $1 = 200h. The exchange rate at the end of the balance sheet period is $1 = 500h. The DASTM loss attributable to the assets described above is $3,000, determined as follows:
[(750,000h + 1,250,000h) ÷ 2] × [($1 ÷ 500h) − ($1 ÷ 200h)] = ($3000)
(v)
Step 5—adjust dollar gross income by DASTM gain or loss from assets.
The taxpayer shall adjust the dollar amount of the QBU's gross income (computed under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section) generated by each group of assets characterized in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section (Step 3) by the amount of DASTM gain or loss attributable to those assets computed under paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section (Step 4). Thus, if a group of assets, such as accounts receivable, generates both a category of income described in section 904(d)(1)(I) (relating to general limitation income) that is not foreign base company income as defined in section 954 and a DASTM loss under paragraph
(e)(3)(iv) of this section (Step 4), the amount of the DASTM loss would reduce the amount of the QBU's gross income in that category. Similarly, if a group of assets, such as short-term bank deposits, generates both foreign personal holding company income that is passive income (described in sections 954(c)(1)(A) and 904(d)(1)(A)) and a DASTM loss under paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section (Step 4), the amount of the DASTM loss would reduce the amount of the QBU's foreign personal holding company income and passive income. See section 904(f) and the regulations thereunder in the case where that section would apply and DASTM loss attributable to a group of assets exceeds the income generated by such assets.
(vi)
Step 6—determine DASTM gain or loss attributable to liabilities
—(A)
General rule.
The taxpayer shall determine the dollar amount of DASTM gain or loss attributable to liabilities identified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section (Step 2), and described in paragraph (e)(3)(vi)(B) of this section as follows:
EC09OC91.063
where
bl = the hyperinflationary currency amount of liabilities at the beginning of the balance sheet period.
el = the hyperinflationary currency amount of liabilities at the end of the balance sheet translation period.
br = one dollar divided by the number of hyperinflationary currency units that equal one dollar at the beginning of the balance sheet period.
er = one dollar divided by the number of hyperinflationary currency units that equal one dollar at the end of the balance sheet period.
(B)
Separate calculation.
The calculation shall be made separately for interest-bearing liabilities described in paragraph (e)(3)(vii) of this section (Step 7) and for each of the classes of non-interest-bearing liabilities described in paragraph (e)(3)(viii) of this section (Step 8).
(C)
Weighting to prevent distortion.
Where a distortion would result from averaging the amount of liabilities at the beginning and end of a balance sheet period, as might be the case where a taxpayer incurs or retires a substantial liability, the taxpayer must use a different method that more clearly reflects the average amount of liabilities weighted to reflect the time the liability was outstanding during the balance sheet period.
(vii)
Step 7—adjust dollar income and expense by DASTM gain or loss from interest-bearing liabilities
—(A)
In general.
The taxpayer shall apply the amount of DASTM gain on interest-bearing liabilities computed under paragraph (e)(3)(vi) of this section (Step 6) to reduce interest expense generated by such liabilities (
e.g.,
prior to the application of § 1.861-9T or its successor regulation). To the extent DASTM gain on such liabilities exceeds interest expense, it shall be sourced or otherwise classified in the same manner that interest expense is allocated and apportioned under § 1.861-9T or its successor regulation. The amount of DASTM loss on interest-bearing liabilities computed under paragraph (e)(3)(vi) of this section (Step 6) shall be allocated and apportioned in the same manner that interest expense is allocated and apportioned under § 1.861-9T or its successor regulation (without regard to the exceptions to fungibility in § 1.861-10T or its successor regulation). For purposes of this section, an interest-bearing liability is a liability that requires payment of periodic interest (whether fixed or variable), has original issue discount, or would have interest imputed under subtitle A.
(B)
Allocation of DASTM gain or loss from interest-bearing liabilities that generate related person interest expense.
DASTM gain or loss from interest-bearing liabilities that generate related person interest expense (as provided in section 954(b)(5)) shall be allocated for purposes of subtitle A (including sections 904 and 952) in the same manner that the related person interest expense of that debt is required to be allocated under the rules of section 954(b)(5) and § 1.904-5(c)(2).
(C)
Modified gross income method.
In applying the modified gross income method described in § 1.861-9T(j) or its successor regulation, gross income shall be adjusted for any DASTM gain or loss from assets as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(v) of this section (Step 5)
and any DASTM gain or loss with respect to short-term, non-interest-bearing trade payables as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(viii)(A) of this section.
(viii)
Step 8—adjust dollar income and expense by DASTM gain or loss from non-interest bearing liabilities
—(A)
Short-term, non-interest-bearing trade payables.
The taxpayer shall allocate DASTM gain or loss on short-term non-interest-bearing trade payables for purposes of subtitle A (including sections 904 and 952) to the same category or type of gross income as the cost or expense to which the trade payable relates. For this purpose, a short-term, non-interest-bearing trade payable is a non-interest-bearing liability with a term of 183 days or less that is incurred to purchase property or services to be used by the obligor in an active trade or business.
(B)
Excise tax payables.
The taxpayer shall allocate DASTM gain or loss on excise tax payables for purposes of subtitle A (including sections 904 and 952) to the same category or type of gross income as would be derived from the activity to which the excise tax relates.
(C)
Other non-interest-bearing liabilities
—(
1
)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(3)(viii)(A), (e)(3)(viii)(B), and (e)(3)(viii)(C)(
2
) of this section, DASTM gain or loss on non-interest-bearing liabilities shall be allocated under paragraph (e)(3)(ix) of this section (Step 9).
(
2
)
Tracing if substantial distortion of income.
DASTM gains and losses on liabilities described in paragraph (e)(3)(viii)(C)(
1
) of this section may be attributed to the same section 904(d) separate category or subpart F category as the transaction to which the liability relates if the taxpayer demonstrates to the satisfaction of the district director, or it is determined by the district director, that application of paragraph (e)(3)(viii)(C)(
1
) of this section results in a substantial distortion of income.
(ix)
Step 9—allocate residual DASTM gain or loss.
If there is a difference between the net DASTM gain or loss determined under paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (viii) of this section (Steps 1 through 8) and the DASTM gain or loss determined under paragraph (d) of this section, the amount of the difference must be allocated for purposes of subtitle A (including sections 904 and 952) to the QBU's gross income (computed under paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as adjusted under paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (viii) of this section (Steps 1 through 8)) on the basis of the relative amounts of each category or type of gross income.
[T.D. 8556, 59 FR 37673, July 25, 1994, as amended by T.D. 9320, 72 FR 15044, Mar. 30, 2007; T.D. 9882, 84 FR 69120, Dec. 17, 2019]
§ 1.985-4
Method of accounting.
(a)
Adoption of election.
The adoption of, or the election to use, a functional currency shall be treated as a method of accounting. The functional currency shall be used for the year of adoption (or election) and for all subsequent taxable years unless permission to change is granted, or considered to be granted under § 1.985-2 or § 1.985-8, by the Commissioner.
(b)
Condition for changing functional currencies.
Generally, permission to change functional currencies shall not be granted unless significant changes in the facts and circumstances of the QBU's economic environment occur. If the determination of the functional currency of the QBU for purposes of United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) is based on facts and circumstances substantially similar to those set forth in § 1.985-1(c)(2), then ordinarily the Commissioner will grant a taxpayer's request to change its functional currency (or the functional currency of its branch that is a QBU) to a new functional currency only if the taxpayer (or its QBU) also changes to the new functional currency for purposes of GAAP. However, permission to change will not necessarily be granted merely because the new functional currency will conform to the taxpayer's GAAP functional currency.
(c)
Relationship to certain other sections of the Code.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to override the provisions of any other sections of the Code of regulations that require the use of consistent accounting methods. Such provisions must be independently satisfied separate and apart from the identification of a functional currency.
For instance, while separate geographical divisions of a taxpayer's trade or business may have different functional currencies, such geographical divisions may nevertheless be required to consistently use other methods of accounting.
[T.D. 8263, 54 FR 38661, Sept. 20, 1989, as amended by T.D. 8776, 63 FR 40368, July 29, 1998; T.D. 8927, Jan. 11, 2001]
§ 1.985-5
Adjustments required upon change in functional currency.
(a)
In general.
This section applies in the case of a taxpayer or qualified business unit (QBU) (including a section 987 QBU (as defined in § 1.987-1(b)(3)) changing from one functional currency (old functional currency) to another functional currency (new functional currency). A taxpayer or QBU subject to the rules of this section shall make the adjustments set forth in the 3-step procedure described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the adjustments shall be made on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change (as defined in § 1.481-1(a)(1)). Gain or loss required to be recognized under paragraphs (b), (d)(2), (e)(2), and (e)(4)(iii) of this section is not subject to section 481 and, therefore, the full amount of the gain or loss must be included in income on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change.
(b)
Step 1—Taking into account exchange gain or loss on certain section 988 transactions.
The taxpayer or QBU shall recognize or otherwise take into account for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code the amount of any unrealized exchange gain or loss attributable to a section 988 transaction (as defined in section 988(c)(1)(A) through (C)) that, after applying section 988(d), is denominated in terms of or determined by reference to the new functional currency. The amount of such gain or loss shall be determined without regard to the limitations of section 988(b) (that is, whether any gain or loss would be realized on the transaction as a whole). The character and source of such gain or loss shall be determined under section 988.
(c)
Step 2—Determining the new functional currency basis of property and the new functional currency amount of liabilities and any other relevant items.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the new functional currency adjusted basis of property and the new functional currency amount of liabilities and any other relevant items (for example, items described in section 988(c)(1)(B)(iii)) shall equal the product of the old functional currency adjusted basis or liability and the new functional currency/old functional currency spot rate on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change.
(d)
Step 3A—Additional adjustments that are necessary when a QBU changes functional currency
—(1)
QBU changing to a functional currency other than the owner's functional currency
—(i)
Rule.
If a QBU changes its functional currency, and after the change the QBU is a section 987 QBU that is subject to §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-15 pursuant to § 1.987-1(b)(1), then the adjustments described in either paragraph (d)(1)(ii) or (d)(1)(iii) of this section shall be taken into account for purposes of section 987.
(ii)
QBU and the owner had different functional currencies prior to the change.
If the QBU and the owner of the QBU had different functional currencies prior to the change and as a result the QBU was a section 987 QBU prior to the change, then the adjustments described in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) and (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section shall be taken into account.
(A)
Determining new historic rates.
The historic rate (as defined in § 1.987-1(c)(3)) for the year of change and subsequent taxable years with respect to a historic item (as defined in § 1.987-1(e)) reflected on the balance sheet of the section 987 QBU immediately prior to the year of change shall be equal to the historic rate prior to the year of change (that is, a rate that translates the section 987 QBU's old functional currency into the owner's functional currency) divided by the spot rate (as defined in § 1.987-1(c)(1)) for translating an amount denominated in the section 987 QBU's old functional currency into the section 987 QBU's new functional currency on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change. For example, if a taxpayer
with a U.S. dollar (USD) functional currency owns a section 987 QBU that changes from a British pound (GBP) functional currency to a euro (EUR) functional currency, the historic rate for translating a specific historic item of this section 987 QBU from GBP to USD is 1.50, and the spot rate for translating GBP to EUR on the last day of the last taxable year before the change is 1.30, then the new historic rate for translating this historic item from EUR to USD is 1.15 (1.50/1.30).
(B)
Determining the owner functional currency net value of the QBU on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(i)(B).
For purposes of determining the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(i)(B) and § 1.987-4(e), the section 987 QBU's marked items (as defined in § 1.987-1(d)) shall be translated from the section 987 QBU's old functional currency into the owner's functional currency using the spot rate on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change.
(iii)
QBU and the taxpayer had the same functional currency prior to the change.
If a QBU that has the same functional currency as a taxpayer changes its functional currency to a new functional currency that is different than the functional currency of the taxpayer, and as a result the taxpayer becomes an owner of a section 987 QBU (see § 1.987-1), the taxpayer and section 987 QBU will become subject to section 987 for the year of change and subsequent years.
(2)
QBU changing to the owner's functional currency.
If a section 987 QBU changes its functional currency to the functional currency of its owner, the section 987 QBU shall be treated as if it terminated on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change.
See
§§ 1.987-5, 1.987-8, 1.987-12, and 1.987-13 for the effect of a termination of a section 987 QBU that is subject to §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-15.
(e)
Step 3B—Additional adjustments that are necessary when a taxpayer/owner changes functional currency
—(1)
Corporations.
The amount of a corporation's new functional currency earnings and profits and the amount of its new functional currency paid-in capital shall equal the old functional currency amounts of such items multiplied by the spot rate for translating an amount denominated in the corporation's old functional currency into the corporation's new functional currency on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change.
(2)
Collateral consequences to a United States shareholder of a corporation changing to the United States dollar as its functional currency.
A United States shareholder (within the meaning of section 951(b) or section 953(c)(1)(A)) of a controlled foreign corporation (within the meaning of section 957 or section 953(c)(1)(B)) changing its functional currency to the dollar shall recognize foreign currency gain or loss computed under section 986(c) as if all previously taxed earnings and profits, if any, (including amounts attributable to pre-1987 taxable years that were translated from dollars into functional currency in the foreign corporation's first post-1986 taxable year) were distributed immediately prior to the change.
(3)
Taxpayers that are not corporations.
[Reserved]
(4)
Adjustments to a section 987 QBU's balance sheet and unrecognized section 987 gain or loss when an owner changes functional currency
—(i)
Owner changing to a functional currency other than the section 987 QBU's functional currency.
If an owner of a section 987 QBU, subject to §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-15 pursuant to § 1.987-1(b)(1), changes to a functional currency other than the functional currency of the section 987 QBU, the adjustments described in paragraphs (e)(4)(i)(A) through (C) of this section are taken into account for purposes of section 987.
(A)
Determining new historic rates.
The historic rate (as defined in § 1.987-1(c)(3)) for the year of change and subsequent taxable years with respect to a historic item (as defined in § 1.987-1(e)) reflected on the balance sheet of the section 987 QBU immediately before the year of change is equal to the historic rate before the year of change (that is, a rate that translates the section 987 QBU's functional currency into the owner's old functional currency) divided by the spot rate for translating
an amount denominated in the owner's new functional currency into the owner's old functional currency on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change. For example, if a taxpayer that owns a section 987 QBU with a British pound functional currency changes from a U.S. dollar functional currency to a euro functional currency, and the historic rate for translating a specific item of the section 987 QBU from GBP to USD is 1.50 and the spot rate for translating EUR to USD on the last day of the last taxable year before the change is 1.10, then the new historic rate for translating this historic item from GBP to EUR is 1.36 (1.50/1.10).
(B)
Determining the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(i)(B).
For purposes of determining the change in the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU on the last day of the last taxable year preceding the year of change under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(i)(B) and (e), the section 987 QBU's marked items are translated into the owner's new functional currency at the spot rate on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change.
(C)
Translation of unrecognized section 987 gain or loss.
Any net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss determined under § 1.987-4(c), cumulative suspended section 987 loss determined under § 1.987-11(b), or deferred section 987 gain or loss determined under § 1.987-12 is translated from the owner's old functional currency into the owner's new functional currency using the spot rate for translating an amount denominated in the owner's old functional currency into the owner's new functional currency on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change.
(ii)
Taxpayer with the same functional currency as its QBU changing to a different functional currency.
If a taxpayer with the same functional currency as its QBU changes to a new functional currency and as a result the taxpayer becomes an owner of a section 987 QBU (
see
§ 1.987-1), the taxpayer and the section 987 QBU become subject to section 987 for the year of change and subsequent taxable years.
(iii)
Owner changing to the same functional currency as the section 987 QBU.
If an owner changes its functional currency to the functional currency of its section 987 QBU, the section 987 QBU is treated as if it terminated on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change.
See
§§ 1.987-5, 1.987-8, 1.987-12, and 1.987-13 for the consequences of a termination of a section 987 QBU that is subject to §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-15.
(f)
Example.
The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following example:
(1)
Facts.
FC, a foreign corporation, is wholly owned by DC, a domestic corporation. The Commissioner granted permission to change FC's functional currency from the British pound to the euro beginning January 1, year 2. The EUR/GBP exchange rate on December 31, year 1, is €1:£0.50.
(2)
Analysis
—(i)
Determining new functional currency basis of property and liabilities.
The following table shows how FC must convert the items on its balance sheet from the British pound to the euro on December 31, year 1.
Table 1 to Paragraph
(f)(2)(i)
Conversion of FC's Balance Sheet Items
GBP
EUR
Assets:
Cash on hand
£40,000
€80,000
Accounts Receivable
10,000
20,000
Inventory
100,000
200,000
100,000 Euro Bond (100,000 historical basis)
50,000
100,000
Fixed assets:
Property
200,000
400,000
Plant
500,000
1,000,000
Accumulated Depreciation
(200,000)
(400,000)
Equipment
1,000,000
2,000,000
Accumulated Depreciation
(400,000)
(800,000)
Total Assets
1,300,000
2,600,000
Liabilities and Equity:
Accounts Payable
50,000
100,000
Long-term Liabilities
400,000
800,000
Paid-in-Capital
800,000
1,600,000
Retained Earnings
50,000
100,000
Total Liabilities and Equity
1,300,000
2,600,000
(ii)
Exchange gain or loss on section 988 transactions.
Under paragraph (b) of this section, FC will recognize a £50,000 loss (£50,000 current value minus £100,000 historical basis) on the Euro Bond resulting from the change in functional currency because, after the change, the Euro Bond will no longer be an asset denominated in a non-functional currency. The amount of FC's retained earnings on its December 31, year 1, balance sheet reflects the £50,000 loss on the Euro Bond.
(g)
Applicability date.
Generally, this section applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024. However, if pursuant to § 1.987-15(b), a taxpayer chooses to apply §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-15 to a taxable year before the first taxable year described in § 1.987-15(a)(1), then this section applies to that taxable year and subsequent years.
[T.D. 9794, 81 FR 88819, Dec. 8, 2016, as amended at T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100164, Dec. 11, 2024]
§ 1.985-6
Transition rules for a QBU that uses the dollar approximate separate transactions method for its first taxable year beginning in 1987.
(a)
In general.
This section sets forth transition rules for a QBU that used the dollar approximate separate transactions method of accounting set forth in § 1.985-3 or § 1.985-3T (as contained in the April 1, 1989 edition of 26 CFR part 1 (1.908 to 1.1000)) for its first taxable year beginning in 1987 (DASTM QBU). A DASTM QBU must determine the dollar and hyperinflationary currency basis of its assets and the dollar and hyperinflationary currency amount of its liabilities that were acquired or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1987. In addition, a DASTM QBU must determine its net worth, including its retained earnings, at the end of the QBU's last taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987. This section provides rules for controlled foreign corporations (as defined in section 957 or section 953(c)(1)(B)), other foreign corporations, and branches of United States persons that must make these determinations.
(b)
Certain controlled foreign corporations.
If a DASTM QBU was a controlled foreign corporation for its last taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987, and it had a significant event as described in § 1.964-1(c)(6) in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987, then the rules of this paragraph (b) shall apply.
(1)
Basis in assets and amount of liabilities.
The hyperinflationary currency adjusted basis of the QBU's assets and the hyperinflationary currency amount of the QBU's liabilities acquired or incurred by the QBU in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987, shall be the basis or the amount as determined under § 1.964-1(e) prior to translation under § 1.964-1(e)(4). The dollar adjusted basis of such assets and the dollar amount of such liabilities shall be the adjusted basis or the amount as determined under the rules of § 1.964-1(e) after translation under § 1.964-1(e)(4).
(2)
Retained earnings.
The dollar amount of the QBU's retained earnings at the end of its last taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987, shall be the dollar amount determined under § 1.964-1(e)(3).
(c)
All other foreign corporations.
If a foreign corporation is a DASTM QBU that is not described in paragraph (b) of this section, then the hyperinflationary currency and dollar adjusted basis in the QBU's assets acquired in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1987, the hyperinflationary currency and dollar
amount of the QBU's liabilities acquired or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1987, and the dollar amount of the QBU's net worth, including its retained earnings, at the end of its last taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987, shall be determined by applying the principles of § 1.985-3T or § 1.985-3. Thus, for example, the dollar basis of plant and equipment shall be determined using the appropriate historical exchange rate.
(d)
Pre-1987 section 902 amounts
—(1)
Translation of pre-1987 section 902 accumulated profits and taxes into United States dollars.
The foreign income taxes and accumulated profits or deficits in accumulated profits of a foreign corporation that were maintained in foreign currency for purposes of section 902 and that are attributable to taxable years of the foreign corporation beginning before January 1, 1987, shall be translated into dollars at the spot exchange rate on the first day of its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1986. Once translated into dollars, these accumulated profits and taxes shall (absent a change in functional currency) remain in dollars for all federal income tax purposes.
(2)
Carryforward of accumulated deficits in accumulated profits from pre-1987 taxable years to post-1986 taxable years.
For purposes of sections 902 and 960, the post-1986 undistributed earnings of a foreign corporation that is subject to the rules of this section shall be reduced by the dollar amount of the corporation's deficit in accumulated profits, if any, determined under section 902 and the regulations thereunder, that was accumulated at the end of the corporation's last taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987. The dollar amount of the accumulated deficit shall be determined by multiplying the foreign currency amount of such deficit by the spot exchange rate on the last day of the corporation's last taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987, and shall be taken into account on the first day of the corporation's first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1986. Post-1986 undistributed earnings may not be reduced by the dollar amount of a pre-1987 deficit in retained earnings determined under § 1.964-1(e).
(e)
Net worth branch.
If a DASTM QBU is a branch of a United States person and the QBU used a net worth method of accounting for its last taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987, then the rules of this paragraph (e) shall apply. A net worth method of accounting is any method of accounting under which the taxpayer calculates the taxable income of a QBU based on the net change in the dollar value of the QBU's equity (assets minus liabilities) during the course of a taxable year, taking into account any contributions or remittances made during the year. See,
e.g.,
Rev. Rul. 75-106, 1975-1 C.B. 31. (See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter).
(1)
Basis in assets and amount of liabilities
—(i)
Hyperinflationary amounts.
For the first taxable year beginning in 1987, the hyperinflationary currency adjusted basis of a QBU's assets or the hyperinflationary currency amounts of its liabilities acquired or incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987 is the hyperinflationary currency basis or amount at the date when acquired or incurred, as adjusted according to United States generally accepted accounting and tax accounting principles. If a hyperinflationary currency basis or amount was not determined at such date, the dollar basis or amount, as adjusted according to United States generally accepted accounting and tax accounting principles, shall be translated into hyperinflationary currency at the spot exchange rate on the date when the asset or liability was acquired or incurred.
(ii)
Dollar amounts.
For the first taxable year beginning in 1987, the dollar adjusted basis of the QBU's assets and the amounts of its liabilities shall be those amounts reflected on the QBU's dollar books and records at the end of the taxpayer's last taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987, after adjusting the books and records according to United States generally accepted accounting and tax accounting principles.
(2)
Ending net worth.
The dollar amount of the QBU's net worth at the end of its last taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987 shall equal the
QBU's net worth at that date as determined under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
(f)
Profit and loss branch.
If a DASTM QBU is a branch of a United States person and the QBU used a profit and loss method of accounting for its last taxable year beginning before January 1, 1987, then the United States person shall first apply the transition rules of § 1.987-5 in order to determine the beginning amount and dollar basis of the branch's EQ pool, the hyperinflationary currency basis of the branch's assets, and the hyperinflationary currency amounts of its liabilities. A profit and loss method of accounting is any method of accounting under which the taxpayer calculates the profits of a QBU by computing the QBU's profits in its functional currency and translating the net result into dollars. See
e.g.,
Rev. Rul. 75-107, 1975-1 C.B. 32. (See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter). The QBU and the taxpayer must then make the adjustments required by § 1.985-5,
e.g.,
the QBU must take into account unrealized exchange gain or loss on dollar-denominated section 988 transactions, the taxpayer must account for the deemed termination of the branch, and the taxpayer must translate the QBU's balance sheet items from hyperinflationary currency into dollars at the spot rate.
[T.D. 8464, 58 FR 234, Jan. 5, 1993]
§ 1.985-7
Adjustments required in connection with a change to DASTM.
(a)
In general.
If a QBU begins to use the dollar approximate separate transactions method of accounting set forth in § 1.985-3 (DASTM) in a taxable year beginning after April 6, 1998, adjustments shall be made as provided by this section. For the rules with respect to foreign corporations, see paragraph (b) of this section. For the rules with respect to adjustments to the income of United States shareholders of controlled foreign corporations, see paragraph (c) of this section. For the rules with respect to adjustments relating to QBU branches, see paragraph (d) of this section. For the effective date of this section, see paragraph (e). For purposes of applying this section, the look-back period shall be the period beginning with the first taxable year after the transition date and ending on the last day prior to the taxable year of change. The term transition date means the later of the last day of the last taxable year ending before the base period as defined in § 1.985-1(b)(2)(ii)(D) or the last day of the taxable year in which the QBU last applied DASTM. The taxable year of change shall mean the taxable year of change as defined in § 1.481-1(a)(1). The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A calendar year QBU that has not previously used DASTM operates in a country in which the functional currency of the country is hyperinflationary as defined under § 1.985-1(b)(2)(ii)(D) for the QBU's 1999 tax year. The look-back period is the period from January 1, 1996 through December 31, 1998, the transition date is December 31, 1995, and the taxable year of change is the taxable year beginning January 1, 1999.

# Example 2.
A QBU that has not previously used DASTM with a taxable year ending June 30, operates in a country in which the functional currency of the country is hyperinflationary for the QBU's tax year beginning July 1, 1999 as defined under § 1.985-1(b)(2)(ii)(D) (where the base period is the thirty-six calendar months immediately preceding the first day of the current calendar year 1999). The look-back period is the period from July 1, 1995 through June 30, 1999, the transition date is June 30, 1995, and the taxable year of change is the taxable year beginning July 1, 1999.
(b)
Adjustments to foreign corporations
—(1)
In general.
In the case of a foreign corporation, the corporation shall make the adjustments set forth in paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section. The adjustments shall be made on the first day of the taxable year of change.
(2)
Treatment of certain section 988 transactions
—(i)
Exchange gain or loss from section 988 transactions unrealized as of the transition date.
A foreign corporation shall adjust earnings and profits by the amount of any unrealized exchange gain or loss that was attributable to a section 988 transaction (as defined in sections 988(c)(1)(A), (B), and (C)) that was denominated in terms of (or determined by reference to) the dollar and was held by the corporation on the transition date. Such gain or loss shall be computed as if recognized on
the transition date and shall be reduced by any gain and increased by any loss recognized by the corporation with respect to such transaction during the look-back period. The amount of such gain or loss shall be determined without regard to the limitations of section 988(b) (i.e., whether any gain or loss would be realized on the transaction as a whole). The character and source of such gain or loss shall be determined under section 988. Proper adjustments shall be made to account for gain or loss taken into account by reason of this paragraph (b)(2). See § 1.985-5(f)
Example 1, footnote 1.
(ii)
Treatment of a section 988 transaction entered into and terminated during the look-back period.
A foreign corporation shall reduce earnings and profits by the amount of any gain, and increase earnings and profits by the amount of any loss, that was recognized with respect to any dollar denominated section 988 transactions entered into and terminated during the look-back period.
(3)
Opening balance sheet.
The opening balance sheet of a foreign corporation for the taxable year of change shall be determined as if the corporation had changed its functional currency to the dollar by applying § 1.985-5(c) on the transition date and had translated its assets and liabilities acquired and incurred during the look-back period under § 1.985-3.
(4)
Earnings and profits adjustments
—(i)
Pre-1987 accumulated profits.
The foreign income taxes and accumulated profits or deficits in accumulated profits of a foreign corporation that are attributable to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1987, as stated on the transition date, and that were maintained for purposes of section 902 in the old functional currency, shall be translated into dollars at the spot rate in effect on the transition date. The applicable accumulated profits shall be reduced on a last-in, first-out basis by the aggregate dollar amount (translated from functional currency in accordance with the rules of section 989(b)) attributable to earnings and profits that were distributed (or treated as distributed) during the look-back period to the extent such amounts distributed exceed the earnings and profits calculated under (b)(4)(ii) or (b)(4)(iii), as applicable. See § 1.902-1(b)(2)(ii). Once translated into dollars, these pre-1987 taxes and accumulated profits or deficits in accumulated profits shall (absent a change in functional currency) remain in dollars for all federal income tax purposes.
(ii)
Post-1986 undistributed earnings of a CFC.
In the case of a controlled foreign corporation (within the meaning of section 957 or section 953(c)(1)(B))(CFC) or a foreign corporation subject to the rules of § 1.904-6(a)(2), the corporation's post-1986 undistributed earnings in each separate category as defined in § 1.904-5(a)(1) as of the first day of the taxable year of change (and prior to adjustment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section) shall equal the sum of—
(A) The corporation's post-1986 undistributed earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) in each separate category as defined in § 1.904-5(a)(1) as stated on the transition date translated into dollars at the spot rate in effect on the transition date; and
(B) The sum of the earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) in each separate category determined under § 1.985-3 for each post-transition date taxable year prior to the taxable year of change.
Such amount shall be reduced by the aggregate dollar amount (translated from functional currency in accordance with the rules of section 989(b)) attributable to earnings and profits that were distributed (or treated as distributed) during the look-back period out of post-1986 earnings and profits in such separate category. For purposes of applying this paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B), the opening balance sheet for calculating earnings and profits under § 1.985-3 for the first post-transition year shall be translated into dollars pursuant to § 1.985-5(c).
(iii)
Post-1986 undistributed earnings of other foreign corporations.
In the case of a foreign corporation that is not a CFC or subject to the rules of § 1.904-6(a)(2), the corporation's post-1986 undistributed earnings shall equal the sum of—
(A) The corporation's post-1986 undistributed earnings (or deficit) on the transition date translated into dollars
at the spot rate in effect on the transition date; and
(B) The sum of the earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) determined under § 1.985-3 for each post-transition date taxable year (or such later year determined under section 902(c)(3)(A)) prior to the taxable year of change.
Such amount shall be reduced by the aggregate dollar amount (translated from functional currency in accordance with the rules of section 989(b)) that was distributed (or treated as distributed) during the look-back period out of post-1986 earnings and profits. For purposes of applying this paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B), the opening balance sheet for calculating earnings and profits under § 1.985-3 for the first post-transition year shall be translated into dollars pursuant to § 1.985-5(c).
(c)
United States shareholders of controlled foreign corporations
—(1)
In general.
A United States shareholder (within the meaning of section 951(b) or section 953(c)(1)(B)) of a CFC that changes to DASTM shall make the adjustments set forth in paragraphs (c) (2) through (5) of this section on the first day of the taxable year of change. Adjustments under this section shall be taken into account by the shareholder (or such shareholder s successor in interest) ratably over four taxable years beginning with the taxable year of change. Similar rules shall apply in determining adjustments to income of United States persons who have made an election under section 1295 to treat a passive foreign investment company as a qualified electing fund.
(2)
Treatment under subpart F of income recognized on section 988 transactions.
The character of amounts taken into account under paragraph (b)(2) of this section for purposes of sections 951 through 964, shall be determined on the transition date and to the extent characterized as subpart F income shall be taken into account in accordance with the rules of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Such amounts shall retain their character for all federal income tax purposes (including sections 902, 959, 960, 961, 1248, and 6038).
(3)
Recognition of foreign currency gain or loss on previously taxed earnings and profits on the transition date.
Gain or loss is recognized under section 986(c) as if all previously taxed earnings and profits as determined on the transition date, if any, were distributed on such date. Such gain or loss shall be reduced by any foreign currency gain and increased by any foreign currency loss that was recognized under section 986(c) with respect to distributions of previously taxed earnings and profits during the look-back period. Such amount shall be characterized in accordance with section 986(c) and taken into account in accordance with the rules of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(4)
Subpart F income adjustment.
Subpart F income in a separate category shall be determined under § 1.985-3 for each look-back year. For this purpose, the opening DASTM balance sheet shall be determined under § 1.985-5. The sum of the difference (positive or negative) between the amount computed pursuant to § 1.985-3 and amount that was included in income for each year shall be taken into account in the taxable year of change pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Such amounts shall retain their character for all federal income tax purposes (including sections 902, 959, 960, 961, 1248, and 6038). For rules applicable if an adjustment under this section results in a loss for the taxable year in a separate category, see section 904(f) and the regulations thereunder. The amount of previously taxed earnings and profits as determined under section 959(c)(2) shall be adjusted (positively or negatively) by the amount taken into account under this paragraph (c)(4) as of the first day of the taxable year of change.
(5)
Foreign tax credit.
A United States shareholder of a CFC shall compute an amount of foreign taxes deemed paid under section 960 with respect to any positive adjustments determined under paragraph (c) of this section. The amount of foreign tax deemed paid shall be computed with reference to the full amount of the adjustment and to the post-1986 undistributed earnings determined under paragraph (b)(4) (i) and (ii) of this section and the post-1986 foreign income taxes of the CFC on the first day of the taxable year of change (i.e., without taking into account earnings and taxes for the taxable year of
change). For purposes of section 960, the associated taxes in each separate category shall be allocated pro rata among, and deemed paid in, the shareholder's taxable years in which the income is taken into account. (No adjustment to foreign taxes deemed paid in prior years is required solely by reason of a negative adjustment to income under paragraph (c)(1) of this section).
(d)
QBU branches
—(1)
In general.
In the case of a QBU branch, the taxpayer shall make the adjustments set forth in paragraphs (d)(2) through (d)(4) of this section. Adjustments under this section shall be taken into account by the taxpayer ratably over four taxable years beginning with the taxable year of change.
(2)
Treatment of certain section 988 transactions
—(i)
Exchange gain or loss from section 988 transactions unrealized as of the transition date.
A QBU branch shall adjust income by the amount of any unrealized exchange gain or loss that was attributable to a section 988 transaction (as defined in sections 988(c)(1) (A), (B), and (C)) that was denominated in terms of (or determined by reference to) the dollar and was held by the QBU branch on the transition date. Such gain or loss shall be computed as if recognized on the transition date and shall be reduced by any gain and increased by any loss recognized by the QBU branch with respect to such transaction during the look-back period. The amount of such gain or loss shall be determined without regard to the limitations of section 988(b) (i.e., whether any gain or loss would be realized on the transaction as a whole). The character and source of such gain or loss shall be determined under section 988. Proper adjustments shall be made to account for gain or loss taken into account by reason of this paragraph (d)(2). See § 1.985-5(f)
Example 1, footnote 1.
(ii)
Treatment of a section 988 transaction entered into and terminated during the look-back period.
A QBU branch shall reduce income by the amount of any gain, and increase income by the amount of any loss, that was recognized with respect to any dollar denominated section 988 transactions entered into and terminated during the look-back period.
(3)
Deemed termination income adjustment.
The taxpayer shall realize gain or loss attributable to the QBU branch's equity pool (as stated on the transition date) under the principles of section 987, computed as if the branch terminated on the transition date. Such amount shall be reduced by section 987 gain and increased by section 987 loss that was recognized by such taxpayer with respect to remittances during the look-back period.
(4)
Branch income adjustment.
Branch income in a separate category shall be determined under § 1.985-3 for each look-back year. For this purpose, the opening DASTM balance sheet shall be determined under § 1.985-5. The sum of the difference (positive or negative) between the amount computed pursuant to § 1.985-3 and amount taken into account for each year shall be taken into account in the taxable year of change pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Such amounts shall retain their character for all federal income tax purposes.
(5)
Opening balance sheet.
The opening balance sheet of a QBU branch for the taxable year of change shall be determined as if the branch had changed its functional currency to the dollar by applying § 1.985-5(c) on the transition date and had translated its assets and liabilities acquired and incurred during the look-back period under § 1.985-3.
(e)
Effective date.
This section is effective for taxable years beginning after April 6, 1998. However, a taxpayer may choose to apply this section to all open taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, provided each person, and each QBU branch of a person, that is related (within the meaning of § 1.985-2(d)(3)) to the taxpayer also applies this section.
[T.D. 8765, 63 FR 10774, Mar. 5, 1998]
§ 1.985-8
Special rules applicable to the European Monetary Union (conversion to euro).
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Legacy currency.
A legacy currency is the former currency of a Member State of the European Community which is substituted for the euro in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community
signed February 7, 1992. The term legacy currency shall also include the European Currency Unit.
(2)
Conversion rate.
The conversion rate is the rate at which the euro is substituted for a legacy currency.
(b)
Operative rules
—(1)
Initial adoption.
A QBU (as defined in § 1.989(a)-1(b)) whose first taxable year begins after the euro has been substituted for a legacy currency may not adopt a legacy currency as its functional currency.
(2)
QBU with a legacy currency as its functional currency
—(i)
Required change.
A QBU with a legacy currency as its functional currency is required to change its functional currency to the euro beginning the first day of the first taxable year—
(A) That begins on or after the day that the euro is substituted for that legacy currency (in accordance with the Treaty on European Union); and
(B) In which the QBU begins to maintain its books and records (as described in § 1.989(a)-1(d)) in the euro.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, a QBU with a legacy currency as its functional currency is required to change its functional currency to the euro no later than the last taxable year beginning on or before the first day such legacy currency is no longer valid legal tender.
(3)
QBU with a non-legacy currency as its functional currency
—(i)
In general.
A QBU with a non-legacy currency as its functional currency may change its functional currency to the euro pursuant to this § 1.985-8 if—
(A) Under the rules set forth in § 1.985-1(c), the euro is the currency of the economic environment in which a significant part of the QBU's activities are conducted;
(B) After conversion, the QBU maintains its books and records (as described in § 1.989(a)-1(d)) in the euro; and
(C) The QBU is not required to use the dollar as its functional currency under § 1.985-1(b).
(ii)
Time period for change.
A QBU with a non-legacy currency as its functional currency may change its functional currency to the euro under this section only if it does so within the period set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section as if the functional currency of the QBU was a legacy currency.
(4)
Consent of Commissioner.
A change made pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be deemed to be made with the consent of the Commissioner for purposes of § 1.985-4. A QBU changing its functional currency to the euro pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section must make adjustments as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. A QBU changing its functional currency to the euro pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) must make adjustments as provided in § 1.985-5.
(5)
Statement to file upon change.
With respect to a QBU that changes its functional currency to the euro under paragraph (b) of this section, an affected taxpayer shall attach to its return for the taxable year of change a statement that includes the following: “TAXPAYER CERTIFIES THAT A QBU OF THE TAXPAYER HAS CHANGED ITS FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY TO THE EURO PURSUANT TO TREAS. REG. § 1.985-8.” For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5), an affected taxpayer shall be in the case where the QBU is: a QBU of an individual U.S. resident (as a result of the activities of such individual), the individual; a QBU branch of a U.S. corporation, the corporation; a controlled foreign corporation (as described in section 957)(or QBU branch thereof), each United States shareholder (as described in section 951(b)); a partnership, each partner separately; a noncontrolled section 902 corporation (as described in section 904(d)(2)(E)) (or branch thereof), each domestic shareholder as described in § 1.902-1(a)(1); or a trust or estate, the fiduciary of such trust or estate.
(c)
Adjustments required when a QBU changes its functional currency from a legacy currency to the euro pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section
—(1)
In general.
A QBU that changes its functional currency from a legacy currency to the euro pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section must make the adjustments described in paragraphs (c)(2) through (5) of this section. Section 1.985-5 shall not apply.
(2)
Determining the euro basis of property and the euro amount of liabilities and other relevant items.
The euro basis
in property and the euro amount of liabilities and other relevant items shall equal the product of the legacy functional currency adjusted basis or amount of liabilities multiplied by the applicable conversion rate.
(3)
Taking into account exchange gain or loss on legacy currency section 988 transactions
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section, a legacy currency denominated section 988 transaction (determined after applying section 988(d)) outstanding on the last day of the taxable year immediately prior to the year of change shall continue to be treated as a section 988 transaction after the change and the principles of section 988 shall apply.
(ii)
Examples.
The application of this paragraph (c)(3) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
X, a calendar year QBU on the cash method of accounting, uses the deutschmark as its functional currency. X is not described in section 1281(b). On July 1, 1998, X converts 10,000 deutschmarks (DM) into Dutch guilders (fl) at the spot rate of fl1 = DM1 and loans the 10,000 guilders to Y (an unrelated party) for one year at a rate of 10% with principal and interest to be paid on June 30, 1999. On January 1, 1999, X changes its functional currency to the euro pursuant to this section. Assume that the euro/deutschmark conversion rate is set by the European Council at €1= DM2. Assume further that the euro/guilder conversion rate is set at €1 = fl2.25. Accordingly, under the terms of the note, on June 30, 1999, X will receive €4444.44 (fl10,000/2.25) of principal and €444.44 (fl1,000/2.25) of interest. Pursuant to this paragraph (c)(3), X will realize an exchange loss on the principal computed under the principles of § 1.988-2(b)(5). For this purpose, the exchange rate used under § 1.988-2(b)(5)(i) shall be the guilder/euro conversion rate. The amount under § 1.988-2(b)(5)(ii) is determined by translating the fl10,000 at the guilder/deutschmark spot rate on July 1, 1998, and translating that deutschmark amount into euros at the deutschmark/euro conversion rate. Thus, X will compute an exchange loss for 1999 of €555.56 determined as follows: [€4444.44 (fl10,000/2.25)-5000 ((fl10,000/1)/2) = −€555.56]. Pursuant to this paragraph (c)(3), the character and source of the loss are determined pursuant to section 988 and regulations thereunder. Because X uses the cash method of accounting for the interest on this debt instrument, X does not realize exchange gain or loss on the receipt of that interest.

# Example 2.
(i) X, a calendar year QBU on the accrual method of accounting, uses the deutschmark as its functional currency. On February 1, 1998, X converts 12,000 deutschmarks into Dutch guilders at the spot rate of fl1 = DM1 and loans the 12,000 guilders to Y (an unrelated party) for one year at a rate of 10% with principal and interest to be paid on January 31, 1999. In addition, assume the average rate (deutschmark/guilder) for the period from February 1, 1998, through December 31, 1998 is fl1.07 = DM1. Pursuant to § 1.988-2(b)(2)(ii)(C), X will accrue eleven months of interest on the note and recognize interest income of DM1028.04 (fl1100/1.07) in the 1998 taxable year.
(ii) On January 1, 1999, the euro will replace the deutschmark as the national currency of Germany pursuant to the Treaty on European Union signed February 7, 1992. Assume that on January 1, 1999, X changes its functional currency to the euro pursuant to this section. Assume that the euro/deutschmark conversion rate is set by the European Council at €1 = DM2. Assume further that the euro/guilder conversion rate is set at €1 = fl2.25. In 1999, X will accrue one month of interest equal to €44.44 (fl100/2.25). On January 31, 1999, pursuant to the note, X will receive interest denominated in euros of €533.33 (fl1200/2.25). Pursuant to this paragraph (c)(3), X will realize an exchange loss in the 1999 taxable year with respect to accrued interest computed under the principles of § 1.988-2(b)(3). For this purpose, the exchange rate used under § 1.988-2(b)(3)(i) is the guilder/euro conversion rate and the exchange rate used under § 1.988-2(b)(3)(ii) is the deutschmark/euro conversion rate. Thus, with respect to the interest accrued in 1998, X will realize exchange loss of €25.13 under § 1.988-2(b)(3) as follows: [€488.89 (fl1100/2.25) − €514.02 (DM1028.04/2) = −€25.13]. With respect to the one month of interest accrued in 1999, X will realize no exchange gain or loss since the exchange rate when the interest accrued and the spot rate on the payment date are the same.
(iii) X will realize exchange loss of €666.67 on repayment of the loan principal computed in the same manner as in Example 1 [€5333.33 (fl12,000/2.25) − €6000 fl12,000/1)/2)]. The losses with respect to accrued interest and principal are characterized and sourced under the rules of section 988.
(iii)
Special rule for legacy nonfunctional currency.
The QBU shall realize or otherwise take into account for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code the amount of any unrealized exchange gain or loss attributable to nonfunctional currency (as described in section 988(c)(1)(C)(ii)) that is denominated in a legacy currency as if the currency were
disposed of on the last day of the taxable year immediately prior to the year of change. The character and source of the gain or loss are determined under section 988.
(iv)
Legacy currency denominated accounts receivable and payable
—(A)
In general.
A QBU may elect to realize or otherwise take into account for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code the amount of any unrealized exchange gain or loss attributable to a legacy currency denominated item described in section 988(c)(1)(B)(ii) as if the item were terminated on the last day of the taxable year ending prior to the year of change.
(B)
Time and manner of election.
With respect to a QBU that makes an election described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, an affected taxpayer (as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section) shall attach a statement to its tax return for the taxable year ending immediately prior to the year of change which includes the following: “TAXPAYER CERTIFIES THAT A QBU OF THE TAXPAYER HAS ELECTED TO REALIZE CURRENCY GAIN OR LOSS ON LEGACY CURRENCY DENOMINATED ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE UPON CHANGE OF FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY TO THE EURO.” A QBU making the election must do so for all legacy currency denominated items described in section 988(c)(1)(B)(ii).
(4)
Adjustments when a branch changes its functional currency to the euro
—(i)
Branch changing from a legacy currency to the euro in a taxable year during which taxpayer's functional currency is other than the euro.
If a branch changes its functional currency from a legacy currency to the euro for a taxable year during which the taxpayer's functional currency is other than the euro, the branch's euro equity pool shall equal the product of the legacy currency amount of the equity pool multiplied by the applicable conversion rate. No adjustment to the basis pool is required.
(ii)
Branch changing from a legacy currency to the euro in a taxable year during which taxpayer's functional currency is the euro.
If a branch changes its functional currency from a legacy currency to the euro for a taxable year during which the taxpayer's functional currency is the euro, the taxpayer shall realize gain or loss attributable to the branch's equity pool under the principles of section 987, computed as if the branch terminated on the last day prior to the year of change. Adjustments under this paragraph (c)(4)(ii) shall be taken into account by the taxpayer ratably over four taxable years beginning with the taxable year of change.
(5)
Adjustments to a branch's accounts when a taxpayer changes to the euro
—(i)
Taxpayer changing from a legacy currency to the euro in a taxable year during which a branch's functional currency is other than the euro.
If a taxpayer changes its functional currency to the euro for a taxable year during which the functional currency of a branch of the taxpayer is other than the euro, the basis pool shall equal the product of the legacy currency amount of the basis pool multiplied by the applicable conversion rate. No adjustment to the equity pool is required.
(ii)
Taxpayer changing from a legacy currency to the euro in a taxable year during which a branch's functional currency is the euro.
If a taxpayer changes its functional currency from a legacy currency to the euro for a taxable year during which the functional currency of a branch of the taxpayer is the euro, the taxpayer shall take into account gain or loss as determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
(6)
Additional adjustments that are necessary when a corporation changes its functional currency to the euro.
The amount of a corporation's euro currency earnings and profits and the amount of its euro paid-in capital shall equal the product of the legacy currency amounts of these items multiplied by the applicable conversion rate. The foreign income taxes and accumulated profits or deficits in accumulated profits of a foreign corporation that were maintained in foreign currency for purposes of section 902 and that are attributable to taxable years of the foreign corporation beginning before January 1, 1987, also shall be translated into the euro at the conversion rate.
(d)
Treatment of legacy currency section 988 transactions with respect to a QBU
that has the euro as its functional currency
—(1)
In general.
This § 1.985-8(d) applies to a QBU that has the euro as its functional currency and that holds a section 988 transaction denominated in, or determined by reference to, a currency that is substituted by the euro. For example, this paragraph (d) will apply to a German QBU with the euro as its functional currency if the QBU is holding Country X currency or other section 988 transactions denominated in such currency on the day in the year 2005 when the euro is substituted for the Country X currency.
(2)
Principles of paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall apply.
With respect to a QBU described in paragraph (d) of this section, the principles of paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall apply. For example, if a German QBU with the euro as its functional currency is holding a Country X currency denominated debt instrument on the day in the year 2005 when the euro is substituted for the Country X currency, the instrument shall continue to be treated as a section 988 transaction pursuant to the principles of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section. However, if such QBU holds Country X currency, the QBU shall take into account any unrealized exchange gain or loss pursuant to the principles of paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section as if the currency was disposed of on the day prior to the day the euro is substituted for the Country X currency. Similarly, if the QBU makes an election under the principles of paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section, the QBU shall take into account for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code the amount of any unrealized exchange gain or loss attributable to a legacy currency denominated item described in section 988(c)(1)(B)(ii) as if the item were terminated on the day prior to the day the euro is substituted for the Country X currency.
(e)
Effective date.
This section applies to tax years ending after July 29, 1998.
[T.D. 8927, 66 FR 2216, Jan. 11, 2001; T.D. 8927, 66 FR 21447, Apr. 30, 2001]
§ 1.986(a)-1
Translation of foreign income taxes for purposes of the foreign tax credit.
(a)
Translation of foreign income taxes taken into account when accrued
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of this section, the term
section 901 taxpayer
means the “taxpayer” described in § 1.901-2(f)(1) and so includes a partnership or a specified 10-percent owned foreign corporation (as defined in section 245A(b)) that has legal liability under foreign law for foreign income tax. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, in the case of a section 901 taxpayer that takes foreign income taxes (as defined in section 986(a)(4) (including taxes described in section 903)) into account when accrued, the amount of any foreign income taxes denominated in foreign currency that has been paid or accrued, including additional tax liability denominated in foreign currency, foreign income taxes withheld in foreign currency, or estimated foreign income taxes paid in foreign currency, are translated into dollars using the weighted average exchange rate (as defined in § 1.989(b)-1) (the “average exchange rate”) for the section 901 taxpayer's U.S. taxable year (as defined in § 1.960-1(b)(37)) to which such foreign income taxes relate.
See
section 986(a)(1)(A). See section 988 and §§ 1.988-1(a)(2)(ii) and 1.988-2(c) for rules for determining whether and the extent to which there is a foreign currency gain or loss when an accrued functional currency amount of foreign income tax denominated in nonfunctional currency differs from the functional currency amount paid.
(2)
Exceptions
—(i)
Foreign income taxes not paid within 24 months.
Any foreign income taxes denominated in foreign currency that are paid more than 24 months after the close of the section 901 taxpayer's U.S. taxable year to which they relate are translated into dollars using the spot rate on the date of payment of the foreign income taxes.
See
section 986(a)(1)(B)(i) and (a)(2)(A). For purposes of this section and § 1.905-3, the term
spot rate
has the meaning provided in § 1.988-1(d). To the extent any accrued foreign income taxes denominated in foreign currency remain unpaid more than 24 months after the close of the taxable year to which they relate, see § 1.905-3 and paragraph (c) of this section for the required adjustments.
(ii)
Foreign income taxes paid before taxable year begins.
Any foreign income
taxes denominated in foreign currency that are paid before the beginning of the section 901 taxpayer's U.S. taxable year to which such taxes relate are translated into dollars using the spot rate on the date of payment of the foreign income taxes. See section 986(a)(1)(B)(ii) and (a)(2)(A).
(iii)
Inflationary currency.
Any foreign income taxes denominated in a foreign currency that is an inflationary currency in the section 901 taxpayer's U.S. taxable year to which the foreign income taxes relate, or in any subsequent taxable year up to and including the taxable year in which the taxes are paid, are translated into dollars using the spot rate on the date of payment of such taxes. For purposes of section 986(a)(1)(C) and this paragraph (a)(2)(iii), the term
inflationary currency
means the currency of a country in which there is cumulative inflation during the base period of at least 30 percent, as determined under the principles of § 1.985-1(b)(2)(ii)(D), where the base period, with respect to any taxable year, is the 36 months ending on the last day of such taxable year (in lieu of the base period described in § 1.985-1(b)(2)(ii)(D), which ends on the last day of the preceding calendar year). Accrued but unpaid foreign income taxes denominated in a foreign currency that is an inflationary currency in the taxable year accrued are translated into dollars at the spot rate on the last day of the section 901 taxpayer's U.S. taxable year to which such taxes relate (provisional year-end rate). However, a U.S. taxpayer that claims a foreign tax credit under section 901 may choose to translate accrued but unpaid foreign income taxes (including foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960) denominated in a foreign currency that is an inflationary currency into dollars at the spot rate on the date of payment, in lieu of the provisional year-end rate, if such taxes are paid prior to the due date (with extensions) of the original Federal income tax return for the taxable year for which the credit is claimed and such return is timely filed. In all other cases, see § 1.905-3 and paragraph (c) of this section for required adjustments upon payment of accrued foreign income taxes denominated in an inflationary currency.
(iv)
Election to translate foreign income taxes using the spot rate as of date of payment
—(A)
Eligibility to make election.
An individual or corporate taxpayer (including a specified 10-percent owned foreign corporation) that is otherwise required to translate foreign income taxes that are denominated in foreign currency using the average exchange rate may elect to translate foreign income taxes described in this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) into dollars using the spot rate on the date of payment of the foreign income taxes, provided that the liability for such taxes is denominated in nonfunctional currency. For purposes of section 986(a)(1)(D) and this paragraph (a)(2)(iv), whether the currency in which a tax liability attributable to a qualified business unit (within the meaning of section 989(a)) (QBU) is denominated is a nonfunctional currency is determined by reference to the functional currency of the individual or corporate taxpayer and not that of the QBU of the taxpayer. Accrued but unpaid foreign income taxes subject to the election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) are translated at the provisional year-end rate. However, a taxpayer that claims a foreign tax credit under section 901 may choose to translate accrued but unpaid foreign income taxes (including foreign taxes deemed paid under section 960 with respect to a specified 10-percent owned foreign corporation that has made an election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv)) into dollars at the spot rate on the date of payment, in lieu of the provisional year-end rate, if such taxes are paid prior to the due date (with extensions) of the original return for the taxable year for which the credit is claimed and such return is timely filed. In all other cases, see § 1.905-3 and paragraph (c) of this section for required adjustments upon payment of accrued foreign income taxes that are translated into dollars at the spot rate on the date of payment.
(B)
Scope of election.
In general, an individual taxpayer may make an election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) for all foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency, or only for
those foreign income taxes that are denominated in nonfunctional currency and that are attributable to the individual's non-QBU activities and all QBUs with dollar functional currencies. A corporate taxpayer may make an election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) for all foreign income taxes that are denominated in nonfunctional currency, or only for those foreign income taxes that are denominated in nonfunctional currency and that are attributable to all QBUs (including the corporate taxpayer) with dollar functional currencies. Therefore, an election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) may not be made for foreign income taxes that are denominated in a nonfunctional currency of the taxpayer and attributable to QBUs with non-dollar functional currencies, except as part of an election to translate all taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency at the spot rate on the date of payment. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(B), foreign income tax is attributable to a QBU if the tax is properly recorded on the books and records of the QBU in accordance with sections 985 through 989. An election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) by a domestic corporation (or an individual that has made an election under section 962) does not apply to any taxes paid or accrued by foreign corporations with respect to which the individual or corporation is a United States shareholder. However, an election may be made on behalf of a foreign corporation to translate either all of the foreign corporation's foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency, or only the foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency that are attributable to the foreign corporation's QBUs with dollar functional currencies, using the spot rate on the date of payment. Such an election is made using the procedures under § 1.964-1(c)(3) that apply to permit controlling domestic shareholders to make or change a tax accounting election on behalf of a foreign corporation.
(C)
Time and manner of election.
The election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) must be made by attaching a statement to the taxpayer's timely filed Federal income tax or information return (including extensions) for the first taxable year to which the election applies. The statement must identify whether the election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) is made for all foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency or only for those foreign income taxes that are denominated in nonfunctional currency and that are either attributable to the taxpayer's QBUs with dollar functional currencies or, in the case of an individual, attributable to non-QBU activities. Once made, the election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) applies for the taxable year for which made and all subsequent taxable years unless revoked with the consent of the Commissioner.
(D)
Example
—(
1
)
Facts.
USP, a domestic corporation that uses the calendar year as its taxable year, owns a partnership interest in PS, a non-hybrid partnership organized in Country X. USP also owns an equity interest in HPS, a Country X corporation that has filed an entity classification election under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter to be treated as a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. USP also owns 100% of CFC, a Country Y controlled foreign corporation that uses the U.S. dollar as its functional currency. PS and HPS each use a fiscal year ending November 30 as its taxable year both for Federal income tax purposes and for Country X tax purposes, and their functional currency is the Euro. HPS is the section 901 taxpayer of foreign income taxes denominated in Euros that it pays to Country X and properly records on its books and records. USP takes its distributive share of the HPS taxes into account under sections 702(a)(6) and 901(b)(5) and §§ 1.702-1(a)(6) and 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii) in computing its foreign tax credit. USP is the section 901 taxpayer of Euro-denominated foreign income taxes it pays to Country X with respect to its distributive share of the income of PS, and also pays Country X taxes withheld in Euros from distributions from HPS to USP and properly records these taxes on its books and records. Pursuant to § 1.985-1(b)(1)(iii), USP's functional currency is the dollar. USP timely elects under § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(iv) to use the spot rate on the
date of payment to translate into dollars its foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency that are attributable to all QBUs with dollar functional currencies.
(
2
)
Result.
The Euro taxes paid by USP with respect to its distributive share of income from PS and the Euro taxes withheld from distributions from HPS are nonfunctional currency taxes attributable to USP, a QBU with a dollar functional currency. Accordingly, these taxes are translated into dollars at the spot rate on the date the taxes are paid. USP's distributive share of the Euro taxes paid by HPS are attributable to HPS, a Euro functional currency QBU of USP. Because these taxes are not attributable to a dollar QBU of USP, they are not covered by USP's election and so are translated into dollars at the average exchange rate for HPS's U.S. taxable year ending on November 30. See § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1). Foreign income taxes paid by CFC are not covered by USP's election; however, if USP so chooses it may make a separate election on behalf of CFC to use the spot rate on the date of payment to translate either all of CFC's nonfunctional currency taxes, or only those taxes that are attributable to CFC's dollar QBUs (which includes CFC). If instead USP had elected to use the spot rate on the date of payment to translate all of its foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency, rather than only those taxes attributable to QBUs with dollar functional currencies, then the spot rate on the date of payment would apply to translate all of the Euro taxes paid or accrued by USP, including its distributive share of taxes paid by HPS. However, this election would still not apply to taxes paid or accrued by CFC. See § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(iv)(B).
(v)
Regulated investment companies.
In the case of a regulated investment company (as defined in section 851) which takes into account income on an accrual basis, foreign income taxes paid or accrued with respect to such income are translated into dollars using the spot rate on the date the income accrues. See section 986(a)(1)(E).
(b)
Translation of foreign income taxes taken into account when paid.
In the case of a section 901 taxpayer that takes foreign income taxes into account when paid, the amount of any foreign income tax liability denominated in foreign currency, including additional income tax liability denominated in foreign currency or estimated foreign income taxes paid in foreign currency, are translated into dollars using the spot rate on the date of payment of such taxes. See section 986(a)(2)(A). Foreign income taxes withheld in foreign currency are translated into dollars using the spot rate on the date on which such taxes were withheld.
(c)
Refunds or other reductions of foreign income tax liability.
In the case of a section 901 taxpayer that takes foreign income taxes into account when accrued, a reduction in the amount of previously-accrued foreign income taxes that is attributable to a refund of foreign income taxes, a credit allowed in lieu of a refund, or a reduction in or other downward adjustment to an accrued amount, including an adjustment on account of accrued foreign income taxes that were not paid by the date 24 months after the close of the U.S. taxable year to which such taxes relate, is translated into dollars using the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when claimed as a credit or added to PTEP group taxes (as defined in § 1.960-3(d)(1)). In the case of foreign income taxes taken into account when accrued but translated into dollars on the date of payment, see § 1.905-3(b) for required adjustments to reflect a foreign tax redetermination (as defined in § 1.905-3(a)) attributable to a reduction in the amount of previously-accrued foreign income taxes that is attributable to a difference in exchange rates between the date or taxable year of accrual and the date of payment. In the case of a section 901 taxpayer that takes foreign income taxes into account when paid, a refund or other reduction in or downward adjustment to the amount of foreign income taxes is translated into dollars using the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when claimed as a credit. If a refund or other reduction of foreign income taxes relates to foreign income taxes paid or accrued on more than one date, then the refund
or other reduction is deemed to be derived from, and reduces, the payments of foreign income taxes in order, starting with the most recent payment of foreign income taxes first, to the extent thereof.
(d)
Allocation of refunds of foreign income taxes.
Refunds of foreign income taxes are allocated to the same separate category as the foreign income taxes to which the refunded taxes relate. Refunds are related to foreign income taxes in a separate category if the foreign income tax that was refunded was imposed with respect to that separate category. See § 1.904-6 concerning the allocation of foreign income taxes to separate categories of income.
(e)
Basis of foreign currency refunded
—(1)
Nonfunctional currency tax liability and dollar functional currency.
If the functional currency of the QBU that paid the tax and received the refund is the dollar or the person receiving the refund is not a QBU, then the recipient's basis in the foreign currency refunded is the dollar value of the refund determined under paragraph (c) of this section by using the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount into dollars when claimed as a credit or added to PTEP group taxes.
(2)
Nonfunctional currency tax liability and non-dollar functional currency.
If the functional currency of the QBU receiving the refund is not the dollar and is different from the currency in which the foreign income taxes were paid, then the recipient's basis in the refunded foreign currency is equal to the functional currency value of the nonfunctional currency refund, translated into functional currency at the appropriate exchange rate between the functional currency and the nonfunctional currency. Such exchange rate is determined under the principles of paragraph (c) of this section, substituting the words “functional currency” for the word “dollar” and using the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount into the QBU's functional currency when claimed as a credit or added to PTEP group taxes (as defined in § 1.960-3(d)(1)). If a QBU receives a refund of nonfunctional currency tax that is denominated in a currency that was the functional currency of the QBU when the refunded tax was claimed as a credit or added to PTEP group taxes, the QBU's basis in the nonfunctional currency received in the refund is determined by using the exchange rate used under § 1.985-5(c) when the QBU's functional currency changed. See § 1.905-3(b)(1)(ii)(C) (
Example 3
).
(3)
Functional currency tax liabilities.
If the functional currency of the QBU receiving the refund is the currency in which the refund was made, then the recipient's basis in the currency received is the amount of the functional currency received. If the QBU receives a refund of functional currency tax that was denominated in a nonfunctional currency of the QBU when the tax was claimed as a credit or added to PTEP group taxes, the QBU will recognize the section 988 gain or loss that would have been recognized under § 1.985-5(b) if the refund had been received immediately before the QBU's functional currency changed.
(4)
Foreign currency gain or loss.
For rules for determining subsequent foreign currency gain or loss on the disposition of nonfunctional currency, the basis of which is determined under this paragraph (e), see section 988(c)(1)(C).
(f)
Applicability dates.
This section applies to taxable years ending on or after December 16, 2019, and to taxable years of foreign corporations which end with or within a taxable year of a United States shareholder ending on or after December 16, 2019.
[T.D. 9882, 84 FR 69120, Dec. 17, 2019]
§ 1.986(c)-1
Coordination with section 965.
(a)
Amount of foreign currency gain or loss.
Foreign currency gain or loss with respect to distributions of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits (as defined in § 1.965-1(f)(39)) is determined based on movements in the exchange rate between December 31, 2017, and the time such distributions are made.
(b)
Section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits.
Any gain or loss recognized under section 986(c) with respect to distributions of section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits is reduced in the same proportion as the reduction by a section 965(c) deduction amount (as defined in § 1.965-1(f)(42)) of
the section 965(a) inclusion amount (as defined in § 1.965-1(f)(38)) that gave rise to such section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits.
(c)
Section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits.
Section 986(c) does not apply with respect to distributions of section 965(b) previously taxed earnings and profits (as defined in § 1.965-1(f)(40)).
(d)
Applicability dates.
The section applies beginning the last taxable year of a foreign corporation that begins before January 1, 2018, and with respect to a United States person, for the taxable year in which or with which such taxable year of the foreign corporation ends.
[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1915, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 1.987-0
Table of contents.
This section lists the headings for §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-15.
§ 1.987-1 Scope, definitions and special rules.
(a) In general.
(b) Scope of section 987 and certain rules relating to QBUs.
(1) Persons subject to section 987.
(i) In general.
(ii) Inapplicability to certain entities.
(2) Application of the section 987 regulations to earnings and profits.
(i) In general.
(ii) Timing.
(3) Definition of a section 987 QBU.
(i) In general.
(ii) Section 987 QBU grouping election.
(4) Definition of an eligible QBU.
(i) In general.
(ii) Qualified business unit.
(5) Definition of an owner.
(i) Direct ownership.
(ii) [Reserved]
(6) [Reserved]
(7) Examples illustrating paragraph (b) of this section.
(i) Example 1: Owner owns an eligible QBU and a DE holding company.
(ii) Example 2: Owner owns eligible QBUs through DEs.
(iii) Example 3: Section 987 grouping election.
(c) Exchange rates.
(1) Spot rate.
(i) In general.
(ii) Election to use a spot rate convention.
(2) Yearly average exchange rate.
(3) Historic rate.
(i) In general.
(ii) Date placed in service for depreciable or amortizable property.
(iii) Changed functional currency.
(d) Marked item.
(1) In general.
(2) Current rate election.
(e) Historic item.
(f) Example: Identification of marked and historic items.
(1) Facts.
(2) Analysis.
(g) Elections.
(1) Persons making the election.
(i) United States persons.
(ii) CFCs.
(iii) Consolidated groups.
(iv) Partnerships.
(2) Consistency rules.
(i) Consolidated groups.
(ii) CFCs and foreign partnerships.
(iii) Section 381(a) transactions.
(3) Manner of making or revoking elections.
(i) Statement must be attached to a return.
(ii) Election requirements.
(iii) Elections made under the 2016 and 2019 section 987 regulations.
(4) No change in method of accounting.
(5) Principles of § 1.964-1(c)(3) applicable to section 987 elections.
(h) Definitions.
§ 1.987-2 Attribution of items to eligible QBUs; definition of a transfer and related rules.
(a) In general.
(b) Attribution of items to an eligible QBU.
(1) General rules.
(2) Exceptions for non-portfolio stock, interests in partnerships, and certain acquisition indebtedness.
(i) In general.
(ii) Separate account assets.
(3) Adjustments to items reflected on the books and records.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Factors indicating no tax avoidance.
(iii) Factors indicating tax avoidance.
(iv) Section 988 transactions.
(c) Transfers to and from section 987 QBUs.
(1) In general.
(2) Disregarded transactions.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Definition of a disregarded transaction.
(iii) Items derived from disregarded transactions ignored.
(3) through (6) [Reserved]
(7) Application of general tax law principles.
(8) Interaction with § 1.988-1(a)(10).
(9) Certain disregarded transactions not treated as transfers.
(i) Combinations of section 987 QBUs.
(ii) Change in functional currency from a combination.
(iii) Separation of section 987 QBUs.
(iv) Special rules for successor suspended loss QBUs.
(10) Examples.
(i) Example 1: Loan to a section 987 QBU.
(ii) Example 2: Transfer between section 987 QBUs.
(iii) Example 3: Sale of property between two section 987 QBUs.
(iv) through (ix) [Reserved]
(x) Example 10: Contribution of a section 987 QBU's assets to a corporation.
(xi) Example 11: Circular transfers.
(xii) Example 12: Transfers without substance.
(xiii) Example 13: Offsetting positions in section 987 QBUs
(xiv) Example 14: Offsetting positions with respect to a section 987 QBU and a section 988 transaction.
(xv) Example 15: Offsetting positions with respect to a section 987 QBU and a section 988 transaction.
(xvi) Example 16: Borrowing by section 987 QBU followed by immediate distribution to owner.
(xvii) Example 17: Payment of interest by section 987 QBU on obligation of owner.
(xviii) Example 18: Sale of the interests in a DE.
(d) Translation of items transferred to a section 987 QBU.
(1) Marked items.
(2) Historic items.
(e) Cross-reference.
§ 1.987-3 Determination of section 987 taxable income or loss of an owner of a section 987 QBU.
(a) In general.
(b) Determination of each item of income, gain, deduction, or loss in the section 987 QBU's functional currency.
(1) In general.
(2) Translation of items of income, gain, deduction, or loss that are denominated in a nonfunctional currency.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) Section 988 transactions.
(i) In general.
(ii) Section 988 mark-to-market election.
(c) Translation of items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of a section 987 QBU into the owner's functional currency.
(1) In general.
(2) Exceptions.
(i) Recovery of basis with respect to historic assets.
(ii) through (iii) [Reserved]
(iv) Cost of goods sold computation.
(v) Translation of income to account for certain foreign income tax claimed as a credit.
(3) Adjustments to COGS required under the simplified inventory method.
(i) In general.
(ii) Adjustment for cost recovery deductions included in inventoriable costs.
(iii) Adjustment for beginning inventory for non-LIFO inventory.
(iv) Adjustment for year of LIFO liquidation.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) Examples.
(1) Example 1: Item of income denominated in nonfunctional currency.
(2) Example 2: Asset sold for nonfunctional currency.
(3) Example 3: Historic inventory method.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(4) Example 4: Simplified inventory method.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(5) Example 5: Depreciation expense that is not an inventoriable cost.
(6) Example 6: Translation of depreciation expense that is an inventoriable cost (historic inventory method).
(7) Example 7: Sale of land.
(8) Example 8: Current rate election.
(9) through (12) [Reserved]
(13) Example 13: Section 988 transaction.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(14) Example 14: Payment of foreign income tax.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
§ 1.987-4 Determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU.
(a) In general.
(b) Calculation of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss.
(c) Net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for all prior taxable years.
(1) In general.
(2) Additional adjustments for certain taxable years beginning on or before December 31, 2024.
(d) Calculation of unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for a taxable year.
(1) Step 1: Determine the change in the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU for the taxable year.
(i) In general.
(ii) Year section 987 QBU is terminated.
(iii) First taxable year of a section 987 QBU.
(iv) First year in which an election is in effect or ceases to be in effect.
(2) Step 2: Increase the amount determined in step 1 by the amount of assets transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner.
(i) In general.
(ii) Assets transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner during the taxable year.
(3) Step 3: Decrease the amount determined in steps 1 and 2 by the amount of assets transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU.
(i) In general.
(ii) Assets transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU during the taxable year.
(4) Step 4: Decrease the amount determined in steps 1 through 3 by the amount of liabilities transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner.
(i) In general.
(ii) Liabilities transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU during the taxable year.
(5) Step 5: Increase the amount determined in steps 1 through 4 by the amount of liabilities transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU.
(6) Step 6: Decrease or increase the amount determined in steps 1 through 5 by the section 987 taxable income or loss, respectively, of the section 987 QBU for the taxable year.
(7) Step 7: Increase the amount determined in steps 1 through 6 by certain expenses or losses that are not deductible in computing the section 987 taxable income or loss of the section 987 QBU for the taxable year.
(8) Step 8: Decrease the amount determined in steps 1 through 7 by the amount of certain income or gain that is not included in taxable income in computing the section 987 taxable income or loss of the section 987 QBU for the taxable year.
(9) Step 9: Increase or decrease the amount determined in steps 1 through 8 by any income or gain, or any deduction or loss, respectively, that does not impact the adjusted balance sheet.
(10) Step 10: Decrease or increase the amount determined in steps 1 through 9 by any increase or decrease, respectively, to the section 987 QBU's net assets that is not previously taken into account under steps 2 through 9.
(i) In general.
(ii) Determining the residual increase or decrease to net assets.
(iii) Modifications for taxable years to which a current rate election or an annual recognition election applies.
(e) Determination of the owner functional currency net value of a section 987 QBU.
(1) In general.
(i) Marked item.
(ii) Historic item.
(2) Current rate election.
(i) In general.
(ii) QBU net value.
(iii) Alternative calculation of QBU net value.
(f) Combinations and separations.
(1) Combinations.
(2) Separations.
(3) Examples.
(i) Example 1: Combination of two section 987 QBUs that have the same owner.
(ii) Example 2: Separation of two section 987 QBUs that have the same owner.
(g) Examples.
(1) Example 1: Determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(2) Example 2: Determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss if a current rate election in effect.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(iii) Alternative computation of QBU net value.
(3) Example 3: Determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss when a current rate election is revoked.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
§ 1.987-5 Recognition of section 987 gain or loss.
(a) Recognition of section 987 gain or loss by the owner of a section 987 QBU.
(b) Remittance proportion.
(1) In general.
(2) Annual recognition election.
(c) Remittance.
(1) Definition.
(2) Alternative calculation.
(i) Step 1: Determine the change in QBU net value.
(ii) Step 2: Adjust the amount determined in step 1 for income or loss of the section 987 QBU.
(iii) Step 3: Multiply the amount determined in step 2 by negative one.
(3) Day when a remittance is determined.
(4) Termination.
(d) Aggregate of all amounts transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner for the taxable year.
(e) Aggregate of all amounts transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU for the taxable year.
(f) Determination of owner's adjusted basis in transferred assets and amount of transferred liabilities.
(1) In general.
(2) Marked items.
(3) Historic items.
(g) Example—Calculation of section 987 gain or loss recognized.
(1) Facts.
(i) In general.
(ii) Year 1 balance sheet.
(iii) Transfers and income in year 2.
(iv) Year 2 balance sheet.
(2) Analysis.
(i) Computation of amount of remittance.
(ii) Alternative computation of remittance amount.
(iii) Computation of section 987 QBU gross assets plus remittance.
(iv) Computation of remittance proportion.
(v) Computation of section 987 gain or loss.
(3) Annual recognition election.
§ 1.987-6 Character and source of section 987 gain or loss.
(a) Ordinary income or loss.
(b) Character and source of section 987 gain or loss.
(1) Timing of source and character determination.
(2) Method for determining the character and source section 987 gain or loss.
(i) Initial assignment
(ii) Reassignment of section 987 gain or loss.
(iii) Special rule for the application of the GILTI high-tax exclusion to section 987 gain or loss.
(3) Allocation and apportionment of foreign income tax to section 987 items under section 861.
(i) The foreign gross income is an item of foreign currency gain or loss.
(ii) The same event or events give rise to both the foreign gross income and the section 987 gain or loss.
(c) Examples.
(1) Example 1: Initial assignment and reassignment of section 987 gain or loss.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(2) Example 2: Effect of GILTI high-tax exclusion.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(3) Example 3: Section 987 gain or loss treated as attributable to section 988 transactions.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(4) Example 4: Section 987 gain or loss assigned to passive foreign personal holding company income.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
§ 1.987-7 Application of the section 987 regulations to partnerships and S corporations.
(a) Overview.
(b) Section 987 regulations generally do not apply to partnerships.
(c) Provisions of the section 987 regulations that apply to partnerships.
(1) In general.
(i) Eligible QBU.
(ii) Partnership.
(2) Applicable provisions.
(i) In general.
(ii) Annual recognition election.
(iii) Section 988 mark-to-market election.
(3) Modifications to applicable provisions.
(i) In general.
(ii) Controlled group.
(4) Terminating QBUs.
(d) Suspended section 987 loss.
(1) In general.
(i) Rules of § 1.987-11(c) and (d)(2) do not apply.
(ii) Suspension of section 987 loss.
(2) Exceptions.
(i) Method under which historic items do not give rise to section 987 gain or loss.
(ii) Annual recognition election.
(iii) De minimis rule.
(3) Recognition of suspended section 987 loss.
(i) In general.
(ii) Partnership that is not engaged in a trade or business.
(iii) Application of the loss-to-the-extent-of-gain rule.
(e) Adjustments to the basis of a partner's interest in the partnership.
(f) S corporations treated as partnerships.
(g) Examples.
(1) Example 1: Aggregate approach to section 987.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(2) Example 2: Entity approach to section 987.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
§ 1.987-8 Termination of a section 987 QBU.
(a) Scope.
(b) In general.
(1) Trade or business ceases.
(2) Substantially all assets transferred.
(3) Owner no longer a CFC.
(4) Owner ceases to exist.
(5) Section 987 QBU ceases to be an eligible QBU with a functional currency different from its owner.
(6) Change in form of ownership.
(c) Transactions described in section 381(a).
(1) Liquidations.
(2) Reorganizations.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) Effect of terminations.
(f) Examples.
(1) Example 1: Cessation of operations.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(2) Example 2: Transfer of a section 987 QBU to a member of a consolidated group.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(3) Example 3: Cessation of controlled foreign corporation status.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(4) Example 4: Section 332 liquidation.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(5) [Reserved]
(6) Example 6: Deemed transfers to a CFC upon a check-the-box election.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(7) Example 7: Sale of a section 987 QBU to a member of a consolidated group.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
§ 1.987-9 Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) In general.
(b) Supplemental information.
(c) Retention of records.
(d) Information on a dedicated section 987 form.
§ 1.987-10 Transition rules.
(a) Overview.
(1) In general.
(2) Terms defined under prior § 1.987-12.
(b) Scope.
(1) Owner of a section 987 QBU.
(2) Deferral QBU owner and owner of outbound loss QBU.
(c) Transition date.
(1) In general.
(2) Terminating QBU.
(i) In general.
(ii) Ordering rule.
(d) Application of the section 987 regulations after the transition date.
(1) Owner functional currency net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year.
(2) Determination of historic rate.
(3) Transition exchange rate.
(i) In general.
(ii) Earnings only method.
(e) Pretransition gain or loss.
(1) In general.
(2) Amount of pretransition gain or loss for an owner that applied an eligible pretransition method.
(i) Owner of a section 987 QBU
(ii) Deferral QBU owner.
(iii) Owner of an outbound loss QBU.
(3) Amount of pretransition gain or loss for an owner that did not apply an eligible pretransition method.
(i) In general.
(ii) Computation of pretransition gain or loss.
(iii) Annual unrecognized section 987 gain or loss.
(iv) Deferral QBU owner.
(v) Owner of an outbound loss QBU.
(4) Eligible pretransition method.
(i) Earnings and capital method.
(ii) Other reasonable methods.
(iii) Other earnings only methods.
(iv) Error in the application of a section 987 method.
(v) Certain consistent practices not treated as errors.
(vi) Deferral of section 987 gain or loss until termination is not reasonable.
(vii) Anti-abuse rule.
(5) Recognition of pretransition gain or loss.
(i) In general.
(ii) Election to recognize pretransition section 987 gain or loss ratably over the transition period.
(6) Predecessor of an owner.
(i) In general.
(ii) Predecessor.
(7) Small business election.
(i) Scope.
(ii) Owner threshold.
(iii) QBU threshold.
(iv) Small business election.
(f) QBUs to which the fresh start transition method was applied.
(1) In general.
(2) Application of the section 987 regulations after the transition date.
(i) Owner functional currency net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year.
(ii) Determination of historic rate.
(iii) Unrecognized section 987 gain or loss.
(3) Taxpayers that are required to transition using the fresh start transition method.
(g) [Reserved]
(h) Determination of source and character.
(1) In general.
(2) Deferral QBU or outbound loss QBU.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Adjustments to avoid double counting or omissions.
(k) Reporting.
(1) In general.
(2) QBUs for which reporting is required.
(i) In general.
(ii) QBUs to which the fresh start transition method was applied.
(3) Attachments not required where information is reported on a form.
(4) No change in method of accounting.
(l) Examples.
(1) Example 1: Earnings and capital method.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(2) Example 2: Earnings only method described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(3) Example 3: Earnings only method described in paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(4) Example 4: Owner did not apply section 987(3).
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(5) Example 5: Error in application of method.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(6) Example 6: Consistent practice not treated as an error.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
§ 1.987-11 Suspended section 987 loss relating to certain elections; loss to the extent of gain rule.
(a) In general.
(b) Cumulative suspended section 987 loss in a recognition grouping.
(1) In general.
(2) Combined QBU.
(3) Separated QBU.
(c) Suspension of section 987 loss for taxable years in which a current rate election is in effect and an annual recognition election is not in effect.
(1) In general.
(2) De minimis rule.
(3) Taxable year of controlled group members.
(i) In general.
(ii) Owner is a CFC.
(d) Suspension of net unrecognized section 987 loss upon making or revoking certain elections.
(1) Making an annual recognition election.
(2) Revoking a current rate election.
(e) Loss-to-the-extent of gain rule.
(1) In general.
(2) Separate determination for each recognition grouping.
(3) Amount of suspended section 987 loss recognized.
(i) Current year gain amount.
(ii) Lookback gain amount.
(iii) Suspended section 987 loss not taken into account.
(iv) Lookback period.
(v) Anti-abuse rule.
(4) Suspended section 987 loss recognized with respect to each section 987 QBU and suspended section 987 loss QBU.
(5) Section 381(a) transactions.
(i) In general.
(ii) Limitation for inbound section 381(a) transactions.
(6) Consolidated group members.
(i) In general.
(ii) Suspended section 987 losses arising in separate return limitation years.
(f) Recognition groupings.
(1) Sourcing and section 904 category.
(2) Statutory and residual groupings for CFC owners.
(g) Examples.
(1) Example 1: Suspension of section 987 loss and recognition of suspended section 987 loss.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(2) Example 2: Recognition of suspended section 987 loss by reason of gain recognized during the lookback period.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(iii) Alternative facts.
(iv) Analysis of alternative facts.
(3) Example 3: Suspension of section 987 loss when a current rate election is revoked.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
§ 1.987-12 Deferral of section 987 gain or loss.
(a) Overview.
(1) Scope.
(2) Exceptions.
(i) Annual recognition election.
(ii) De minimis rule.
(b) Treatment of section 987 gain and loss in connection with a deferral event.
(1) Gain or loss recognized (or suspended) in the taxable year of a deferral event.
(2) Deferred section 987 gain or loss.
(i) In general.
(ii) Deferred section 987 gain or loss attributable to a successor deferral QBU.
(c) Recognition (or suspension) of deferred section 987 gain or loss following a deferral event.
(1) Recognition upon a subsequent remittance.
(i) In general.
(ii) Amount.
(iii) Deemed remittance by a successor deferral QBU.
(2) Deferral events and outbound loss events with respect to a successor deferral QBU.
(d) Successor deferral QBU becomes a successor suspended loss QBU.
(e) Anti-abuse rule.
(f) Combinations and separations of successor deferral QBUs.
(1) Combined QBU.
(2) Separated QBU.
(g) Definitions.
(1) Deferral event.
(i) Events.
(ii) Assets on books of successor deferral QBU.
(2) Successor deferral QBU.
(3) Original deferral QBU owner.
(4) Qualified successor.
(h) Examples.
(1) Example 1: Contribution of a section 987 QBU with net unrecognized section 987 gain to a member of the controlled group.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(2) Example 2: Contribution of a section 987 QBU with net unrecognized section 987 loss to a member of the controlled group when a current rate election is in effect.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(3) Example 3: Election to be classified as a corporation.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(4) Example 4: Partial recognition of deferred gain or loss.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
§ 1.987-13 Suspended section 987 loss upon terminations.
(a) Overview.
(1) In general.
(2) Ordering rule.
(b) Termination of a section 987 QBU with suspended loss.
(1) Suspended section 987 loss becomes suspended section 987 loss with respect to a successor suspended loss QBU.
(i) Successor suspended loss QBU.
(ii) Attribution of suspended section 987 loss to successor suspended loss QBU.
(2) Recognition of suspended section 987 loss.
(c) Termination of a successor suspended loss QBU.
(1) Successor to the successor suspended loss QBU.
(i) Successor suspended loss QBU.
(ii) Attribution of suspended section 987 loss to successor suspended loss QBU.
(2) Recognition of suspended section 987 loss.
(d) Transfer of successor suspended loss QBU owner.
(e) Transfer of original suspended loss QBU owner.
(f) Owner ceases to exist.
(g) Inbound nonrecognition transactions-no carryover of suspended section 987 loss.
(h) Outbound transactions-recognition or suspension of net unrecognized section 987 loss.
(1) In general.
(2) Outbound loss event.
(3) Loss recognition upon an outbound loss event
(4) Loss suspension upon outbound loss event.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Termination of a successor suspended loss QBU.
(k) Anti-abuse.
(l) Definitions.
(1) Original suspended loss QBU owner.
(i) In general.
(ii) Successors.
(2) Successor suspended loss QBU.
(3) Successor suspended loss QBU owner.
(4) Ownership interests.
(5) Significant portion.
(m) Examples.
(1) Example 1: Trade or business of a section 987 QBU ceases.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(2) Example 2: Trade or business of a section 987 QBU is sold to a third party.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(3) Example 3: Outbound loss event.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
§ 1.987-14 Section 987 hedging transactions.
(a) Overview.
(b) Section 987 hedging transaction.
(1) In general.
(2) Requirements.
(i) Identification.
(ii) Current rate election.
(iii) Mark-to-market method of accounting.
(iv) Treatment under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
(v) Hedge entered into by owner of the hedged QBU.
(3) Anti-abuse rule.
(4) Partial termination of a section 987 hedging transaction.
(c) Identification requirements.
(1) In general.
(2) Inadvertent error.
(d) Taxation of section 987 hedging transactions.
(1) Hedging gain or loss with respect to a hedged QBU.
(2) Adjustment to unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for the taxable year.
(i) Hedging loss.
(ii) Hedging gain.
(3) Termination of a hedged QBU.
(e) Examples.
(1) Example 1: Section 987 hedging transaction.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
(2) Example 2: Excess hedging gain from a section 987 hedging transaction.
(i) Facts.
(ii) Analysis.
§ 1.987-15 Applicability date.
(a) Applicability date of section 987 regulations.
(1) In general.
(2) Applicability date for a terminating QBU.
(b) Application of the section 987 regulations to taxable years beginning on or before December 31, 2024, and ending after November 9, 2023.
(c) Application of the 2016 and 2019 section 987 regulations.
(1) In general.
(2) Application to section 987 QBUs not owned on the transition date.
(3) Modifications of defined terms for purposes of this paragraph (c).
(i) Application of § 1.987-10 in lieu of prior § 1.987-10.
(ii) Partnerships not included in section 987 electing group.
(iii) Transition date.
(d) Prior § 1.987-12.
[T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024]
§ 1.987-1
Scope, definitions, and special rules.
(a)
In general.
Sections 1.987-1 through 1.987-15 (the
section 987 regulations
) provide rules for determining the taxable income or loss and earnings and profits of a taxpayer with respect to a qualified business unit (QBU) that is subject to section 987. Further, the section 987 regulations provide rules for determining the timing, amount, character, and source of section 987 gain or loss recognized with respect to
a section 987 QBU. This section addresses the scope of the section 987 regulations and provides certain definitions, special rules, and procedures for making elections. Section 1.987-2 provides rules for attributing assets and liabilities and items of income, gain, deduction, and loss to an eligible QBU. It also provides rules regarding the translation of items transferred to a section 987 QBU. Section 1.987-3 provides rules for determining and translating the taxable income or loss of a taxpayer with respect to a section 987 QBU. Section 1.987-4 provides rules for determining net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss. Section 1.987-5 provides rules regarding the recognition of section 987 gain or loss. It also provides rules regarding the translation of items transferred from a section 987 QBU to its owner. Section 1.987-6 provides rules regarding the character and source of section 987 gain or loss. Section 1.987-7 provides rules relating to the application of the section 987 regulations with respect to a partnership or S corporation. Section 1.987-8 provides rules regarding the termination of a section 987 QBU. Section 1.987-9 provides rules regarding the recordkeeping required under section 987. Section 1.987-10 provides transition rules. Section 1.987-11 provides rules relating to suspended losses in connection with certain elections and the loss-to-the-extent-of-gain rule. Section 1.987-12 provides rules regarding when section 987 gain or loss is deferred, as well as when such deferred amounts are recognized. Section 1.987-13 provides rules relating to suspended section 987 loss of an owner with respect to a section 987 QBU that terminates. Section 1.987-14 provides rules relating to section 987 hedging transactions. Section 1.987-15 provides the applicability date of the section 987 regulations.
(b)
Scope of section 987 and certain rules relating to QBUs
—(1)
Persons subject to section 987
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(6) of this section, any individual or corporation is subject to the section 987 regulations.
See
§ 1.987-7 for rules relating to the application of the section 987 regulations in the case of a partnership or S corporation.
(ii)
Inapplicability to certain entities.
Section 987(3) and the section 987 regulations do not apply to individuals who are not United States persons and foreign corporations that either are not controlled foreign corporations or that are controlled foreign corporations in which no United States shareholders own (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock.
(2)
Application of the section 987 regulations to earnings and profits
—(i)
In general.
The rules and principles of the section 987 regulations also apply to the determination of earnings and profits, and any elections that apply pursuant to the section 987 regulations also apply for purposes of determining earnings and profits.
(ii)
Timing.
Earnings and profits are increased when section 987 gain is recognized and decreased when section 987 loss is recognized. As a result, converting net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss to deferred section 987 gain or loss or suspended section 987 loss does not affect earnings and profits because the amounts have not yet been recognized.
(3)
Definition of a section 987 QBU
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of section 987, a
section 987 QBU
is an eligible QBU that has a functional currency different from its owner. A section 987 QBU will continue to be treated as a section 987 QBU of the owner until a sale or other termination of the section 987 QBU as described in § 1.987-8(b) and (c).
See
§ 1.985-1 for rules determining the functional currency of an eligible QBU.
(ii)
Section 987 QBU grouping election
—(A)
In general.
Solely for purposes of section 987, an owner may elect to treat all section 987 QBUs with the same functional currency as a single section 987 QBU except to the extent provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section. However, a QBU described in § 1.987-7(c)(1) may not be treated as part of the same QBU as a section 987 QBU that is not described in § 1.987-7(c)(1).
(B) [Reserved]
(4)
Definition of an eligible QBU
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of section 987, an
eligible QBU
means a qualified business unit that is not subject to the United
States dollar approximate separate transactions method rules of § 1.985-3.
(ii)
Qualified business unit.
For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4), a qualified business unit is defined in § 1.989(a)-1(b), except that a corporation, partnership, trust, estate, or disregarded entity is not itself a qualified business unit, but the activities of such entity may be a qualified business unit if they meet the requirements of § 1.989(a)-1(b)(1) and (b)(2)(ii). For example, if a corporation is solely engaged in activities that constitute a trade or business, and the corporation maintains only one set of books and records, the activities (but not the corporation) are a qualified business unit.
(5)
Definition of an owner.
For purposes of section 987, an
owner
is any person having direct ownership in an eligible QBU (including ownership through DEs). The term
owner
does not include an eligible QBU. For example, a section 987 QBU (
QBU1
) is not an owner of another section 987 QBU (
QBU2
) even if QBU1 wholly owns the DE that owns QBU2. A person that is not subject to the section 987 regulations under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section can meet the definition of an owner under this paragraph (b)(5) for purposes of applying the section 987 regulations to other persons.
(i)
Direct ownership.
A person is a direct owner of an eligible QBU if the person is the owner for Federal income tax purposes of the assets and liabilities of the eligible QBU.
(ii) [Reserved]
(6) [Reserved]
(7)
Examples illustrating paragraph (b) of this section.
The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (b). The following facts are assumed for purposes of the examples. U.S. Corp is a domestic corporation, has the U.S. dollar as its functional currency, and uses the calendar year as its taxable year. Except as otherwise provided: Business A and Business B are eligible QBUs and have the euro and the Japanese yen, respectively, as their functional currencies; and DE1 and DE2 are DEs, have no assets or liabilities, and conduct no activities.
(i)
Example 1: Owner owns an eligible QBU and a DE holding company
—(A)
Facts.
U.S. Corp owns Business A and all of the interests in DE1. DE1 maintains a separate set of books and records that are kept in British pounds. DE1 owns pounds and all of the stock of a foreign corporation, FC. DE1 is liable to a lender on a pound-denominated obligation that was incurred to acquire the stock of FC. The FC stock, the pounds, and the liability incurred to acquire the FC stock are recorded on DE1's separate books and records. DE1 has no other assets or liabilities and conducts no activities (other than holding the FC stock and pounds and servicing its liability).
(B)
Analysis
—(
1
) Pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, U.S. Corp is the owner of Business A because it has direct ownership of Business A, an eligible QBU. Because Business A is an eligible QBU with a functional currency that is different from the functional currency of its owner, U.S. Corp, Business A is a section 987 QBU under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. As a result, U.S. Corp and its section 987 QBU, Business A, are subject to section 987.
(
2
) Holding the stock of FC and pounds and servicing a liability does not constitute a trade or business within the meaning of § 1.989(a)-1(c). Because the activities of DE1 do not constitute a trade or business within the meaning of § 1.989(a)-1(c), such activities are not an eligible QBU. In addition, pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, DE1 itself is not an eligible QBU. As a result, neither DE1 nor its activities qualify as a section 987 QBU of U.S. Corp. Therefore, neither the activities of DE1 nor DE1 itself is subject to section 987. For the foreign currency treatment of payments on DE1's pound-denominated liability,
see
§ 1.988-2(b).
(ii)
Example 2: Owner owns eligible QBUs through DEs
—(A)
Facts.
U.S. Corp owns all of the interests in DE1. DE1 owns Business A and all of the interests in DE2. The only activities of DE1 are Business A activities and holding the interests in DE2. DE2 owns Business B and Business C. For purposes of this example, Business B does not maintain books and records that are separate from DE2. Instead, the activities of Business B are reflected on the books and records of DE2, which are
maintained in Japanese yen. In addition, Business C has the U.S. dollar as its functional currency, maintains books and records that are separate from the books and records of DE2, and is an eligible QBU.
(B)
Analysis
—(
1
) Pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, DE1 and DE2 are not eligible QBUs. Moreover, pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, DE1 is not the owner of the Business A, Business B, or Business C eligible QBUs, and neither Business A nor DE2 is the owner of the Business B or Business C eligible QBUs. Instead, pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, U.S. Corp is the owner of the Business A, Business B, and Business C eligible QBUs.
(
2
) Because Business A and Business B are eligible QBUs with functional currencies that are different than the functional currency of U.S. Corp, Business A and Business B are section 987 QBUs under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(
3
) The Business C eligible QBU has the same functional currency as U.S. Corp, the U.S. dollar. Therefore, the Business C eligible QBU is not a section 987 QBU under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Example 3: Section 987 grouping election
—(A)
Facts.
U.S. Corp owns all of the interests in DE1. DE1 owns Business A and Business B. For purposes of this example, assume Business B has the euro as its functional currency.
(B)
Analysis
—(
1
) Pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, DE1 is not an eligible QBU. Moreover, pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, DE1 is not the owner of the Business A or Business B eligible QBUs. Instead, pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, U.S. Corp is the owner of the Business A and Business B eligible QBUs.
(
2
) Business A and Business B constitute two separate eligible QBUs, each with the euro as its functional currency. Accordingly, Business A and Business B are section 987 QBUs of U.S. Corp under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. U.S. Corp may elect to treat Business A and Business B as a single section 987 QBU pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. If such election is made, pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, U.S. Corp would be the owner of the Business AB section 987 QBU that would include the activities of both the Business A section 987 QBU and the Business B section 987 QBU. In addition, pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, DE1 would not be treated as the owner of the Business AB section 987 QBU.
(c)
Exchange rates.
Solely for purposes of section 987, the spot rate, the yearly average exchange rate, and the historic rate are determined as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Spot rate
—(i)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the spot rate means the rate determined under the rules of § 1.988-1(d)(1), (2), and (4) on the relevant date.
(ii)
Election to use a spot rate convention.
An owner may elect to use a spot rate convention that reasonably approximates the spot rate determined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. A spot rate convention may be based on the spot rate at the beginning of a reasonable period, the spot rate at the end of a reasonable period, the average of spot rates for a reasonable period, or spot and forward rates for a reasonable period. For this purpose, a reasonable period may not exceed three months. For example, in lieu of the spot rate determined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, the spot rate for all transactions during a monthly period may be determined pursuant to one of the following conventions: the spot rate at the beginning of the current month or at the end of the preceding month; the monthly average of daily spot rates for the current or preceding month; or an average of the beginning and ending spot rates for the current or preceding month. Similarly, in lieu of the spot rate determined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, the spot rate may be determined pursuant to an average of the spot rate and the 30-day forward rate on a day of the preceding month. Use of a spot rate convention that is consistent with the convention used for financial accounting purposes is generally presumed to reasonably approximate the rate in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. However, the Commissioner may prescribe the spot rate as determined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this
section or an appropriate spot rate pursuant to this paragraph (c)(1)(ii) if the Commissioner determines that the use of the convention would not clearly reflect income based on the facts and circumstances available at the time of the election. The election or revocation of a spot rate convention does not change the spot rate with respect to any day of a taxable year before the election or revocation becomes effective.
See
paragraph (g) of this section for rules relating to section 987 elections.
(2)
Yearly average exchange rate.
For purposes of section 987, the yearly average exchange rate is a rate that represents an average exchange rate for the taxable year (or, if the section 987 QBU existed for less than the full taxable year, the portion of the year during which the section 987 QBU existed) computed under any reasonable method. For example, an owner may determine the yearly average exchange rate based on a daily, monthly, or quarterly averaging convention, whether weighted or unweighted, and may take into account forward rates for a period not to exceed three months. Use of an averaging convention that is consistent with the convention used for financial accounting purposes is generally presumed to be a reasonable method. However, the Commissioner may prescribe an appropriate yearly average exchange rate if the Commissioner determines that the use of the convention would not have been expected to clearly reflect income based on the facts and circumstances available at the time of the election.
(3)
Historic rate
—(i)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in the section 987 regulations, the historic rate is determined as described in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A)
Assets generally.
In the case of an asset other than inventory that is acquired by a section 987 QBU (or otherwise becomes attributable to a section 987 QBU, including through a transfer), the historic rate is the yearly average exchange rate applicable to the year of acquisition (or the year in which the asset otherwise becomes attributable to the section 987 QBU).
(B)
Inventory under the simplified inventory method.
If a taxpayer has not elected under § 1.987-3(c)(2)(iv)(B) to use the historic inventory method, the historic rate for inventory is determined under this paragraph (c)(3)(i)(B).
(
1
)
LIFO inventory.
The historic rate for LIFO inventory is the yearly average exchange rate applicable to the year in which the inventory's LIFO layer arose.
(
2
)
Non-LIFO inventory.
The historic rate for non-LIFO inventory is the yearly average exchange rate for the relevant taxable year. For example, in determining the owner functional currency net value of a section 987 QBU on the last day of the current taxable year under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(i)(A), the historic rate for non-LIFO inventory is the yearly average exchange rate for the current taxable year. In determining the owner functional currency net value of a section 987 QBU on the last day of the preceding taxable year under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(i)(B), the historic rate for non-LIFO inventory is the yearly average exchange rate for the preceding taxable year.
(C)
Inventory under the historic inventory method.
If a taxpayer has elected under § 1.987-3(c)(2)(iv)(B) to use the historic inventory method, each inventoriable cost with respect to a section 987 QBU's inventory may have a different historic rate. The historic rate for each inventoriable cost is the exchange rate at which the cost would be translated under § 1.987-3 if it were not an inventoriable cost.
(D)
Liabilities generally.
In the case of a liability that is incurred or assumed by a section 987 QBU, the historic rate is the yearly average exchange rate applicable to the year the liability is incurred or assumed.
(E)
Determination of historic rates after revocation of current rate election.
If a current rate election is revoked or otherwise ceases to be in effect, the historic rate of all historic items (other than non-LIFO inventory subject to the simplified inventory method) that were attributable to a section 987 QBU on the last day of the last taxable year in which the current rate election was in effect is the spot rate applicable to that day. Similarly, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(B)(
2
) of this section, if a marked item becomes a historic item (such as when an asset of an
insurance company ceases to be a separate account asset), the historic rate for the historic item is equal to the spot rate applicable to the last day of the last taxable year in which it was treated as a marked item.
(ii)
Date placed in service for depreciable or amortizable property.
In the case of depreciable or amortizable property, an owner may determine the historic rate by reference to the date such property is placed in service by the section 987 QBU rather than the date the property was acquired, provided that this convention is consistently applied for all such property attributable to that section 987 QBU.
(iii)
Changed functional currency.
In the case of a section 987 QBU or an owner of a section 987 QBU that previously changed its functional currency, § 1.985-5(d)(1)(ii)(A) and (e)(4)(i)(A), respectively, are taken into account in determining the historic rate for an item reflected on the balance sheet of the section 987 QBU immediately before the year of change.
(d)
Marked item
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a marked item is an asset (
marked asset
) or liability (
marked liability
) that is attributable to a section 987 QBU under § 1.987-2(b) and that—
(i) Is denominated in, or determined by reference to, the functional currency of the section 987 QBU and would be a section 988 transaction if such item were held or entered into directly by the owner of the section 987 QBU;
(ii) Is a prepaid expense or a liability for an advance payment of unearned income, in either case having an original term of one year or less on the date the prepaid expense or liability for an advance payment of unearned income arises;
(iii) Is a section 988 transaction of the section 987 QBU;
(iv) Is an insurance reserve; or
(v) Is a separate account asset.
(2)
Current rate election.
A taxpayer may elect to treat all assets and liabilities that are attributable to a section 987 QBU under § 1.987-2(b) as marked items (a
current rate election
).
See
§ 1.987-11(c) for rules suspending section 987 loss if a current rate election is in effect.
(e)
Historic item.
A historic item is an asset (
historic asset
) or liability (
historic liability
) that is attributable to a section 987 QBU under § 1.987-2(b) and that is not a marked item.
(f)
Example: Identification of marked and historic items.
The following example illustrates the application of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(1)
Facts.
U.S. Corp is a domestic corporation with the U.S. dollar as its functional currency and is the owner of Business A, a section 987 QBU that has the pound as its functional currency. Items reflected on Business A's balance sheet include £10,000, $1,000, a building with a basis of £100,000, a light general purpose truck with a basis of £30,000, a computer with a basis of £1,000, a 60-day receivable for ¥15,000, an account payable of £5,000, and a foreign currency contract within the meaning of section 1256(g)(2) that requires Business A to exchange £100 for $125 in 90 days.
(2)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (d) of this section, the £10,000, the $1,000, the ¥15,000 receivable, the £5,000 account payable, and the £/$ section 1256 foreign currency contract are marked items. The other items are historic items under paragraph (e) of this section.
(g)
Elections.
This paragraph (g) provides rules for making and revoking elections under the section 987 regulations (the
section 987 elections
). A section 987 election is made for the owner and for a taxable year and applies to every section 987 QBU owned by the owner while the election is in effect. Once made, a section 987 election remains in effect until revoked.
(1)
Persons making the election.
A section 987 election is made or revoked by the authorized person. The authorized person is described in paragraph (g)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section. If there are multiple controlling domestic shareholders, references to “the authorized person” refer to all authorized persons acting in concert.
(i)
United States persons.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(1)(iii) or (iv) of this section, if the owner of a section 987 QBU is a United States person, the owner is the authorized person.
(ii)
CFCs.
If the owner of a section 987 QBU is a controlled foreign corporation, the controlling domestic shareholders (determined under § 1.964-
1(c)(5)(i)) of the controlled foreign corporation are treated as the authorized person.
(iii)
Consolidated groups.
If the owner is a member of a consolidated group,
see
§ 1.1502-77.
(iv)
Partnerships.
If the owner of a section 987 QBU is a partnership, the election is made or revoked by the partnership. For a partnership that is not otherwise required to file a partnership return,
see
§ 1.6031(a)-1(b)(5) for elections that can only be made by a partnership under section 703.
(2)
Consistency rules
—(i)
Consolidated groups.
A section 987 election is made or revoked by a consolidated group and applies to all members of the group. Therefore, the same section 987 elections will be in effect for all members of a consolidated group at all times. If a corporation becomes a member of a consolidated group, it is deemed to make or revoke any section 987 election as necessary to be consistent with the consolidated group. If a corporation ceases to be a member of a consolidated group and does not join another group, its section 987 elections are unaffected by its departure from the group. All members of a consolidated group are treated as a single United States person for purposes of applying paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
CFCs and foreign partnerships.
If the authorized person makes or revokes an election on behalf of any person (including the authorized person) described in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section (the
section 987 electing group
), then the election must be made or revoked on behalf of all members of the section 987 electing group for the first taxable year of each entity that ends with or within the taxable year of the United States person described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(A) of this section in which the election or revocation became effective. If an entity that was not previously a member of the section 987 electing group becomes a member (for example, upon formation or acquisition), it is deemed to make or revoke any section 987 election as necessary to be consistent with the other members (without regard to the requirements of paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section). The following persons are described in this paragraph (g)(2)(ii):
(A) A United States person (the
relevant United States person
).
(B) Each controlled foreign corporation in which the relevant United States person owns (within the meaning of section 958(a)) more than fifty percent of the stock (by vote or value).
(C) In the case of an election that can be made by or for a partnership, each foreign partnership in which the relevant United States person owns (directly or indirectly) more than fifty percent of the capital and profits interest.
(iii)
Section 381(a) transactions.
If a corporation (
acquiring corporation
) acquires the assets of another corporation in a transaction described in section 381(a), the acquiring corporation's election status applies to all section 987 QBUs owned by the acquiring corporation after the transaction.
(3)
Manner of making or revoking elections.
The section 987 elections must be made in accordance with this paragraph (g)(3), except as provided in forms and instructions or other guidance as provided by the Secretary.
(i)
Statement must be attached to a return.
An authorized person that makes or revokes a section 987 election in accordance with this paragraph (g) must attach to its return the statement described in this paragraph (g)(3)(i) (or must provide the information described in this paragraph (g)(3)(i) in the manner prescribed in forms or instructions or other guidance). Each statement must include an identification of the election that is made or revoked (including the section and paragraph of the regulations under which the election is made); the name, address, and functional currency of each owner (or if the owner is a member of a consolidated group, the common parent of the consolidated group) for which the election is made or revoked; and the name, address, functional currency, and owner of each section 987 QBU to which the election applies. The elections provided in § 1.987-10 are made by reporting the election on the statement described in § 1.987-10(k). An election to use a spot rate convention under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section must describe the convention.
(ii)
Election requirements
—(A)
Consent required.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section, a section 987 election may not be made or revoked without the consent of the Commissioner. A copy of the consent must be attached to the statement described in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(3)(ii), the Commissioner's consent may be obtained only with a ruling or administrative pronouncement.
See
Revenue Procedure 2024-1, I.R.B. 2024-1 (or superseding guidance).
(B)
Current rate election, annual recognition election, and section 988 mark-to-market election.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, the authorized person may make a current rate election, an annual recognition election, or a section 988 mark-to-market election without the Commissioner's consent by filing the statement prescribed in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section with the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with the prescribed form or its instructions (or other guidance) on or before the first day of the taxable year to which the election applies, and attaching a copy of the statement to its return. Once made, a current rate election, annual recognition election, or section 988 mark-to-market election may not be revoked without the Commissioner's consent for any taxable year beginning within 60 months of the first day of the taxable year for which it was made. Once revoked, a new current rate election, annual recognition election, or section 988 mark-to-market election may not be made without the Commissioner's consent for any taxable year beginning within 60 months of the first day of the taxable year for which it was revoked.
(C)
First year to which the section 987 regulations apply.
The authorized person may make a section 987 election without the consent of the Commissioner on its original, timely filed (including extensions) return for the first taxable year of an owner in which both—
(
1
) The section 987 regulations apply (other than by applying solely to one or more terminating QBUs pursuant to § 1.987-15(a)(2)); and
(
2
) Either the owner or any member of its consolidated group or section 987 electing group is the owner of a section 987 QBU.
(iii)
Elections made under the 2016 and 2019 section 987 regulations.
Each section 987 election must be made by the authorized person under the rules of this section without regard to whether the election was in effect under the 2016 and 2019 final regulations or under prior § 1.987-8T. In the first taxable year in which the section 987 regulations apply, any elections made under the 2016 and 2019 final regulations cease to be effective.
(4)
No change in method of accounting.
An election under section 987 is not treated as a change in method of accounting for purposes of sections 446 and 481.
(5)
Principles of § 1.964-1(c)(3) applicable to section 987 elections.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (g), if the authorized person makes or revokes a section 987 election on behalf of a controlled foreign corporation, the authorized person must make or revoke the section 987 election in accordance with the rules and principles of § 1.964-1(c)(3).
(h)
Definitions.
The definitions in this paragraph (h) apply for purposes of the section 987 regulations.
1991 proposed regulations. 1991 proposed regulations
means proposed §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-3 as contained in 56 FR 48457-01 (September 25, 1991).
2006 proposed regulations. 2006 proposed regulations
means: proposed §§ 1.861-9T(g)(2)(ii)(A)(
1
) and (g)(2)(vi); 1.985-5; 1.987-1 through 1.987-11; 1.988-1(a)(3) and (4), (a)(10)(ii), and (i); 1.988-4(b)(2); and 1.989(a)-1(b)(2)(i), and (b)(4) as contained in 71 FR 52876-01 (September 7, 2006).
2016 and 2019 section 987 regulations. 2016 and 2019 section 987 regulations
means the following regulations:
(i) Sections 1.861-9T(g)(2)(ii)(A)(
1
) and (g)(2)(vi); 1.985-5; 1.987-1 through 1.987-10; 1.988-1(a)(4), (a)(10)(ii), and (i); 1.988-4(b)(2); and 1.989(a)-1(b)(2)(i), (b)(4), (d)(3) and (4), as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2017.
(ii) Sections 1.987-2T(c)(9), 1.987-4T(c)(2) and (f), and 1.987-7T, as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on
April 1, 2017 (until they were revoked on May 13, 2019).
(iii) Sections 1.987-2(c)(9) and 1.987-4(c)(2) and (f), as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2020 (beginning on May 13, 2019).
(iv) Sections 1.987-1T (other than §§ 1.987-1T(g)(2)(i)(B) and (g)(3)(i)(H)), 1.987-3T, 1.987-6T, 1.988-1T, and 1.988-2T(i), as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2017 (until they expired on December 6, 2019).
Adjusted balance sheet. Adjusted balance sheet
means a tax basis balance sheet in the functional currency of the eligible QBU, determined by—
(i) Preparing a balance sheet for the relevant date from the section 987 QBU's books and records (within the meaning of § 1.989(a)-1(d)) recorded in the section 987 QBU's functional currency and showing all assets and liabilities attributable to the section 987 QBU under § 1.987-2(b) (the
preliminary balance sheet
); and
(ii) Making adjustments necessary to conform the items reflected on the preliminary balance sheet to United States tax accounting principles (including adjustments to reflect items that were not reflected on the preliminary balance sheet but should be reflected under United States tax accounting principles, and adjustments to eliminate items that are reflected on the preliminary balance sheet but should not be reflected under United States tax accounting principles).
Annual recognition election. Annual recognition election
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-5(b)(2).
Authorized person. Authorized person
has the meaning provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
Combination. Combination
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-2(c)(9)(i).
Combined QBU. Combined QBU
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-2(c)(9)(i).
Combining QBU. Combining QBU
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-2(c)(9)(i).
Consolidated group. Consolidated group
has the meaning provided in § 1.1502-1(h).
Controlled foreign corporation. Controlled foreign corporation
(or
CFC
) has the meaning provided in section 957 (or, if applicable, section 953(c)(1)(B)).
Controlled group.
A
controlled group
means all persons with the relationships to each other specified in section 267(b) or section 707(b).
Cumulative suspended section 987 loss. Cumulative suspended section 987 loss
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-11(b).
Current rate election. Current rate election
has the meaning provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
Current year gain amount. Current year gain amount
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-11(e)(3)(i).
Deferral event. Deferral event
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-12(g)(1).
Deferred section 987 gain or loss. Deferred section 987 gain or loss
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-12(b)(2). Deferred section 987 gain or loss does not include net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss or suspended section 987 loss.
Disregarded entity. Disregarded entity
(or
DE
) means an entity disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for Federal income tax purposes, including an entity described in § 301.7701-2(c)(2) of this chapter, a qualified subchapter S subsidiary under section 1361(b)(3), a qualified REIT subsidiary within the meaning of section 856(i)(2), and a trust all of which is treated (under subpart E of part I of subchapter J of Chapter 1 of the Code) as owned by the grantor or another person.
Disregarded transactions. Disregarded transactions
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-2(c)(2)(ii).
Earnings only method. Earnings only method
means a method of applying section 987 before the transition date under which gain or loss under section 987(3) is determined only with respect to the earnings of a section 987 QBU.
ECI. ECI
means income that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States.
Eligible pretransition method. Eligible pretransition method
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-10(e)(4).
Eligible QBU. Eligible QBU
has the meaning provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
Financial instrument. Financial instrument
has the meaning provided in § 1.1275-6(b)(3). It includes a financial instrument entered into between related parties or unrelated parties.
Foreign source income. Foreign source income
means income from sources without the United States.
Generally accepted accounting principles. Generally accepted accounting principles
means United States generally accepted accounting principles described in standards established and made effective by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.
Hedge. Hedge
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-14(b)(1).
Hedged QBU. Hedged QBU
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-14(b)(1).
Hedging gain or loss. Hedging gain or loss
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-14(d)(1).
Historic asset. Historic asset
has the meaning provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
Historic item. Historic item
has the meaning provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
Historic liability. Historic liability
has the meaning provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
Historic rate. Historic rate
has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
Insurance reserve. Insurance reserve
means an item that is a reserve under section 807(c) or section 953(b) (as applicable).
LIFO. LIFO
means the last-in, first-out inventory method (as described in section 472).
LIFO inventory. LIFO inventory
means inventory accounted for under the LIFO inventory method.
Liability. Liability
means the amount of a liability on the adjusted balance sheet (or the amount that would be on the adjusted balance sheet if an adjusted balance sheet were prepared for that day).
Lookback gain amount. Lookback gain amount
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-11(e)(3)(ii).
Lookback period. Lookback period
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-11(e)(3)(iv).
Loss-to-the-extent-of-gain rule. Loss-to-the-extent-of-gain rule
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-11(e)(1).
Marked asset. Marked asset
has the meaning provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
Marked item. Marked item
has the meaning provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
Marked liability. Marked liability
has the meaning provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
Net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss. Net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-4(c).
Net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss. Net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-4(b). Net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss does not include deferred section 987 gain or loss or suspended section 987 loss.
Non-LIFO inventory. Non-LIFO inventory
means inventory that is not accounted for under the LIFO inventory method.
Original deferral QBU. Original deferral QBU
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-12(b).
Original deferral QBU owner. Original deferral QBU owner
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-12(g)(3).
Original suspended loss QBU owner. Original suspended loss QBU owner
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-13(l)(1).
Outbound loss event. Outbound loss event
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-13(h)(2).
Outbound loss QBU. Outbound loss QBU
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-13(h)(1).
Outbound section 987 loss. Outbound section 987 loss
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-13(h)(4).
Owner. Owner
has the meaning provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
Prior § 1.987-1. Prior § 1.987-1
means § 1.987-1, as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2017.
Prior § 1.987-4. Prior § 1.987-4
means § 1.987-4, as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2017.
Prior § 1.987-5. Prior § 1.987-5
means § 1.987-5, as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2017.
Prior § 1.987-8T. Prior § 1.987-8T
means § 1.987-8T, as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2017.
Prior § 1.987-10. Prior § 1.987-10
means § 1.987-10, as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2017.
Prior § 1.987-12. Prior § 1.987-12
means § 1.987-12, as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2020.
Prior § 1.987-12T. Prior § 1.987-12T
means § 1.987-12T, as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2017.
QBU net value. QBU net value
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-4(e)(2)(ii).
Recognition grouping. Recognition grouping
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-11(f).
Remittance. Remittance
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-5(c).
S corporation. S corporation
has the meaning provided in section 1361(a)(1).
Section 904 category. Section 904 category
means a separate category of income described in § 1.904-5(a)(4)(v).
Section 987 electing group. Section 987 electing group
has the meaning provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
Section 987 elections. Section 987 elections
has the meaning provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
Section 987 gain or loss. Section 987 gain or loss
means gain or loss that is recognized under § 1.987-5, deferred section 987 gain or loss, suspended section 987 loss, and pretransition gain or loss that is recognized under § 1.987-10(e)(5)(ii).
Section 987 hedging transaction. Section 987 hedging transaction
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-14(b).
Section 987 QBU. Section 987 QBU
has the meaning provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
Section 987 regulations. Section 987 regulations
has the meaning provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
Section 987 taxable income or loss. Section 987 taxable income or loss
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-3(a).
Section 988 mark-to-market election. Section 988 mark-to-market election
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-3(b)(4)(ii).
Separate account. Separate account
means a separate set of financial records maintained with respect to an insurance contract or group of contracts to report assets and liabilities for specific products that are separated from the insurer's general account, provided the following requirements are met—
(i) Any liability of the separate account is the liability only of that account and not the liability of any other separate account or the general account;
(ii) The separate account is not part of the company's general account and is protected from the general creditors of the company; and
(iii) The value of each contract supported by the separate account is supported proportionately by each of the assets in such account.
Separate account asset. Separate account asset
means an asset that is reflected on the books and records of an eligible QBU and held in a separate account with respect to a separate account insurance contract. A separate account asset does not include an asset held in the general account.
Separate account insurance contract. Separate account insurance contract
means a contract that would be treated as an insurance contract for Federal income tax purposes (except to the extent provided in this definition with respect to the requirements in section 72(s), 101(f), 817(h), or 7702) for which some or all of the assets supporting the insurance reserves are required to be held in a separate account under the insurance regulatory rules of the jurisdiction in which the contract is issued, and either—
(i) The contract qualifies as a variable contract under section 817(d) (treating foreign law as a State law or regulation); or
(ii) The contract would qualify as a variable contract under section 817(d) (treating foreign law as a State law or regulation) but for its failure to meet one or more of the requirements in section 72(s), 101(f), 817(h), or 7702, provided that the following requirements are met—
(A) The contract is regulated as a life insurance or annuity contract in the foreign jurisdiction in which it is issued;
(B) The contract reserves are computed or estimated on the basis of recognized mortality or morbidity tables and assumed rates of interest. For this purpose, the reflection of the investment return and the market value of assets in the separate account is considered an assumed rate of interest; and
(C) No policyholder, annuitant, insured, or beneficiary under the contract is a United States person.
Separated QBU. Separated QBU
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-2(c)(9)(iii).
Separating QBU. Separating QBU
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-2(c)(9)(iii).
Separation. Separation
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-2(c)(9)(iii).
Separation fraction.
In the case of a separated QBU,
separation fraction
means a fraction, the numerator of which is the aggregate adjusted basis of the gross assets attributable to the separated QBU immediately after the separation, and the denominator of which is the aggregate adjusted basis of the gross assets attributable to all separated QBUs immediately after the separation.
Spot rate. Spot rate
has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
SRLY section 987 losses. SRLY section 987 losses
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-11(e)(6)(ii).
Successor deferral QBU. Successor deferral QBU
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-12(g)(2).
Successor deferral QBU owner. Successor deferral QBU owner
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-12(c)(1).
Successor suspended loss QBU. Successor suspended loss QBU
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-13(l)(2).
Successor suspended loss QBU owner. Successor suspended loss QBU owner
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-13(l)(3).
Suspended section 987 loss. Suspended section 987 loss
means section 987 loss that is subject to the limitations on recognition described in § 1.987-11(e).
See
§§ 1.987-10(e)(5), 1.987-11(c) and (d), 1.987-12(c), and 1.987-13(h) for rules regarding when net unrecognized section 987 loss or deferred section 987 loss becomes suspended section 987 loss. Suspended section 987 loss does not include net unrecognized section 987 loss or deferred section 987 loss.
Tentative tested income group. Tentative tested income group
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-6(b)(2)(i)(D)(
1
).
Terminating QBU. Terminating QBU
means a section 987 QBU, if both—
(i) The section 987 QBU terminates on any date on or after November 9, 2023, or the section 987 QBU terminates as a result of an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that is filed on or after November 9, 2023, and that is effective before November 9, 2023; and
(ii) When the section 987 QBU terminates, neither the section 987 regulations nor the 2016 and 2019 section 987 regulations would apply with respect to the section 987 QBU but for § 1.987-15(a)(2).
Termination.
With respect to a section 987 QBU,
termination
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-8(b) and (c). With respect to a successor suspended loss QBU, the term
termination
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-13(j).
Trade or business. Trade or business
has the meaning provided in § 1.989(a)-1(c).
Transfer. Transfer
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-2(c).
Transition date. Transition date
has the meaning provided in § 1.987-10(c).
United States person. United States person
(or
U.S. person
) has the meaning provided in section 7701(a)(30).
United States shareholder. United States shareholder
(or
U.S. shareholder
) has the meaning provided in section 951(b) (or, if applicable, section 953(c)(1)(A)).
U.S. source income. U.S. source income
means income from sources within the United States.
Yearly average exchange rate. Yearly average exchange rate
has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
[T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024; 90 FR 5607, Jan. 17, 2025]
§ 1.987-2
Attribution of items to eligible QBUs; definition of a transfer and related rules.
(a)
In general.
This section provides rules regarding when items are attributed to eligible QBUs and when they are treated as transferred to or from section 987 QBUs. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules for attributing assets and liabilities, and items of income, gain, deduction, and loss, to an eligible QBU. Paragraph (c) of this section defines a transfer to or from a section 987 QBU. Paragraph (d) of this section provides translation rules for
transfers to a section 987 QBU. Paragraph (e) of this section provides a cross-reference relating to the treatment of section 987 QBUs owned by consolidated groups.
(b)
Attribution of items to an eligible QBU
—(1)
General rules.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, items are attributable to an eligible QBU to the extent they are reflected on the separate set of books and records, as defined in § 1.989(a)-1(d)(1) and (2), of the eligible QBU. For purposes of this section, the term
item
refers to any asset or liability, and any item of income, gain, deduction, or loss. Items that are attributed to an eligible QBU pursuant to this section must be adjusted to conform to Federal income tax principles. An item that is not taken into account for financial accounting purposes, and therefore is not reflected on the separate set of books and records of an eligible QBU, is treated as reflected on the separate set of books and records of an eligible QBU to the extent it would have been so reflected if the item were taken into account for financial accounting purposes. Except as provided in § 1.989(a)-1(d)(3), these attribution rules apply solely for purposes of section 987. For example, the allocation and apportionment of interest expense under section 864(e) is independent of these rules.
(2)
Exceptions for non-portfolio stock, interests in partnerships, and certain acquisition indebtedness.
(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the following items are not considered to be on the books and records of an eligible QBU:
(A) Stock of a corporation (whether domestic or foreign), other than stock of a corporation if the owner of the eligible QBU owns less than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote and less than 10 percent of the total value of all classes of stock of such corporation. For this purpose, section 958 (other than section 958(b)(1)) applies in determining ownership of a controlled foreign corporation and section 318(a) applies in determining ownership of other corporations, except that in applying section 318(a)(2)(C), the phrase “10 percent” is used instead of the phrase “50 percent.”
(B) An interest in a partnership (whether domestic or foreign).
(C) A liability that was incurred to acquire stock described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section or that was incurred to acquire a partnership interest described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
(D) Income, gain, deduction, or loss arising from the items described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section. For example, if a dividend is received with respect to stock of a corporation described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the dividend is excluded from the income of the eligible QBU.
See also
paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, treating the payment as received by the owner and contributed to the eligible QBU.
(ii)
Separate account assets.
Paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section does not apply to separate account assets, liabilities related to separate account assets, or income, gain, deduction, or loss arising from those assets and liabilities.
(3)
Adjustments to items reflected on the books and records
—(i)
General rule.
If a principal purpose of recording (or not recording) an item on the books and records of an eligible QBU is the avoidance of Federal income tax under, or through the use of, section 987, the item must be allocated between or among the eligible QBU, the owner of such eligible QBU, and any other persons, entities (including DEs), or other QBUs within the meaning of § 1.989(a)-1(b) (including eligible QBUs) in a manner that reflects the substance of the transaction. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3)(i), relevant factors for determining whether such Federal income tax avoidance is a principal purpose of recording (or not recording) an item on the books and records of an eligible QBU include the factors set forth in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section. The presence or absence of any factor or factors is not determinative. The weight given to any factor (whether or not set forth in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section) depends on the facts and circumstances.
(ii)
Factors indicating no tax avoidance.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, factors that may indicate that recording (or not recording) an item on the books and records of an
eligible QBU did not have as a principal purpose the avoidance of Federal income tax under, or through the use of, section 987 include the recording (or not recording) of an item:
(A) For a significant and bona fide business purpose;
(B) In a manner that is consistent with the economics of the underlying transaction;
(C) In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (or a similar comprehensive accounting standard);
(D) In a manner that is consistent with the treatment of similar items from year to year;
(E) In accordance with accepted conditions or practices in the particular trade or business of the eligible QBU;
(F) In a manner that is consistent with an explanation of existing internal accounting policies that is evidenced by documentation contemporaneous with the timely filing of a return for the taxable year; and
(G) As a result of a transaction between legal entities (for example, the transfer of an asset or the assumption of a liability), even if such transaction is not regarded for Federal income tax purposes (for example, a transaction between a DE and its owner).
(iii)
Factors indicating tax avoidance.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, factors that may indicate that a principal purpose of recording (or not recording) an item on the books and records of an eligible QBU is the avoidance of Federal income tax under, or through the use of, section 987 include:
(A) The presence or absence of an item on the books and records that is the result of one or more transactions that are transitory, for example, due to a circular flow of cash or other property;
(B) The presence or absence of an item on the books and records that is the result of one or more transactions that do not have substance; and
(C) The presence or absence of an item on the books and records that results in the taxpayer (or a person related to the taxpayer within the meaning of section 267(b) or section 707(b)) having offsetting positions with respect to the functional currency of a section 987 QBU.
(iv)
Section 988 transactions.
A section 988 transaction that is reflected on the books and records of an eligible QBU is not attributable to an eligible QBU if the transaction was entered into or was reflected on the eligible QBU's books and records with a principal purpose of generating fully or partially offsetting amounts of section 988 gain or loss and section 987 gain or loss (or if the taxpayer chose to denominate the section 988 transaction in a nonfunctional currency with such a principal purpose).
(c)
Transfers to and from section 987 QBUs
—(1)
In general.
The following rules apply for purposes of determining whether there is a transfer of an asset or a liability from an owner to a section 987 QBU, or from a section 987 QBU to an owner. These rules apply solely for purposes of section 987.
(2)
Disregarded transactions
—(i)
General rule.
An asset or liability is treated as transferred to a section 987 QBU from its owner if, as a result of a disregarded transaction, such asset or liability is reflected on the books and records of (or otherwise becomes attributable to) the section 987 QBU within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this section. Similarly, an asset or liability is treated as transferred from a section 987 QBU to its owner if, as a result of a disregarded transaction, such asset or liability is no longer reflected on the books and records of (or otherwise ceases to be attributable to) the section 987 QBU within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii)
Definition of a disregarded transaction.
For purposes of this section, a disregarded transaction means a transaction that is not regarded for Federal income tax purposes (for example, any transaction between separate section 987 QBUs of the same owner). For purposes of this paragraph (c), a disregarded transaction is treated as including events described in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.
(A) If the recording (or not recording) of an asset or liability on the books and records of a section 987 QBU of an owner is the result of such asset or liability being removed from (or included on) the books and records of the
owner or another eligible QBU of the owner, the asset or liability is treated as transferred to (or from) the section 987 QBU in a disregarded transaction.
(B) If an asset or liability that was previously attributable to a section 987 QBU of an owner begins to be attributable to the owner (or another eligible QBU of the owner) as a result of the application of paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, the asset or liability is treated as having been transferred by the section 987 QBU in a disregarded transaction. If an asset or liability that was previously attributable to the owner (or another eligible QBU of the owner) begins to be attributable to the section 987 QBU as a result of the application of paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, the asset or liability is treated as transferred to the section 987 QBU in a disregarded transaction.
(C) If an asset or liability that is attributable to a section 987 QBU is sold or exchanged (including in a nonrecognition transaction, such as an exchange under section 351) for an asset or liability that is not attributable to the section 987 QBU immediately after the sale or exchange, the sold or exchanged asset or liability that was attributable to the section 987 QBU immediately before the transaction is treated as transferred from the section 987 QBU to its owner in a disregarded transaction immediately before the sale or exchange for purposes of section 987 (including for purposes of recognizing section 987 gain or loss under § 1.987-5) and subsequently sold or exchanged by the owner.
(D) If an asset or liability of an owner of a section 987 QBU that is not attributable to a section 987 QBU is sold or exchanged (including in a nonrecognition transaction, such as an exchange under section 351) for an asset or liability that is attributable to the section 987 QBU immediately after the sale or exchange, the asset or liability that is attributable to the section 987 QBU immediately after the transaction is treated as received or assumed by the owner and transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU in a disregarded transaction immediately after the sale or exchange for purposes of section 987 (including for purposes of recognizing section 987 gain or loss under § 1.987-5).
(E) If an asset or liability that is attributable to a section 987 QBU was received, transferred, assumed, or accrued in a regarded transaction (including the making or receiving of a payment) in which the related item of income, gain, deduction, or loss is not attributable to the section 987 QBU, the asset or liability is treated as though it was received, transferred, assumed, or accrued by the owner or another eligible QBU and transferred to or from the section 987 QBU in a disregarded transaction. Similarly, if an asset or liability that is not attributable to a section 987 QBU was received, transferred, assumed, or accrued in a regarded transaction (including the making or receiving of a payment) in which the related item of income, gain, deduction, or loss is attributable to the section 987 QBU, the asset or liability is treated as though it was received, transferred, assumed, or accrued by the section 987 QBU and transferred to or from the section 987 QBU in a disregarded transaction. For example, if a section 987 QBU receives a dividend on an interest in stock that would be attributable to the section 987 QBU but for paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the owner is treated as receiving the dividend and transferring to the section 987 QBU the amount of the dividend in a disregarded transaction. Similarly, if a section 987 QBU pays interest on a liability that would be attributable to the section 987 QBU but for paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section, the section 987 QBU is treated as transferring to the owner the amount of the interest expense and the owner is treated as paying the interest expense in a disregarded transaction.
See also
paragraph (c)(7) of this section (application of general tax law principles).
(F) In the first taxable year in which an eligible QBU is treated as a section 987 QBU, all assets and liabilities attributable to the eligible QBU are treated as transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU in a disregarded transaction on the first day on which the eligible QBU is treated as a section 987 QBU.
(iii)
Items derived from disregarded transactions ignored.
For purposes of section 987, disregarded transactions do not give rise to items of income, gain, deduction, or loss that are taken into account in determining section 987 taxable income or loss under § 1.987-3.
(3) through (6) [Reserved]
(7)
Application of general tax law principles.
General tax law principles, including the circular cash flow, step-transaction, economic substance, and substance-over-form doctrines, apply for purposes of determining whether there is a transfer of an asset or liability under this paragraph (c), including a transfer of an asset or liability pursuant to a disregarded transaction.
(8)
Interaction with § 1.988-1(a)(10).
See § 1.988-1(a)(10) for rules regarding the treatment of an intra-taxpayer transfer of a section 988 transaction.
(9)
Certain disregarded transactions not treated as transfers
—(i)
Combinations of section 987 QBUs.
The combination (a
combination
) of two or more separate section 987 QBUs (
combining QBUs
) that are directly owned by the same owner into one section 987 QBU (
combined QBU
) does not give rise to a transfer of any combining QBU's assets or liabilities to the owner under this paragraph (c). In addition, transactions between the combining QBUs occurring in the taxable year of the combination do not result in a transfer of the combining QBUs' assets or liabilities to the owner under this paragraph (c). For this purpose, a combination occurs when the assets and liabilities that were attributable to two or more combining QBUs begin to be attributable to a combined QBU and the separate existence of the combining QBUs ceases. A combination may result from any transaction or series of transactions in which the combining QBUs become a combined QBU. A combination may also result when an owner of two or more section 987 QBUs with the same functional currency becomes subject to a grouping election under § 1.987-1(b)(3)(ii) or when a section 987 QBU of an owner subject to a grouping election changes its functional currency to that of another section 987 QBU of the same owner. For purposes of determining net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss, deferred section 987 gain or loss, and cumulative suspended section 987 loss of a combined QBU, the combining QBUs are treated as having combined immediately before the beginning of the taxable year of combination.
See
§§ 1.987-4(f)(1), 1.987-11(b)(2), and 1.987-12(f)(1).
(ii)
Change in functional currency from a combination.
If, following a combination of section 987 QBUs described in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this section, the combined section 987 QBU has a different functional currency than one or more of the combining section 987 QBUs, any such combining section 987 QBU is treated as changing its functional currency, and the owner of the combined section 987 QBU must comply with the regulations under section 985 regarding the change in functional currency.
See
§§ 1.985-1(c)(6) and 1.985-5.
(iii)
Separation of section 987 QBUs.
The separation (a
separation
) of a section 987 QBU (
separating QBU
) into two or more section 987 QBUs (
separated QBUs
) that, after the separation, are directly owned by the same owner does not result in a transfer of the separating QBU's assets or liabilities to the owner under this paragraph (c). Additionally, transactions that occurred between the separating QBUs in the taxable year of the separation before the completion of the separation do not result in transfers for purposes of section 987. For this purpose, a separation occurs when the assets and liabilities that were attributable to a separating QBU begin to be attributable to two or more separated QBUs and each of the separated QBUs continues to perform a significant portion of the separating QBU's activities immediately after the separation. A separation may result from any transaction or series of transactions in which a separating QBU becomes two or more separated QBUs described in the preceding sentence. A separation may also result when a section 987 QBU that is subject to a grouping election under § 1.987-1(b)(3)(ii) changes its functional currency or when the grouping election is revoked. For purposes of determining net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss, deferred section 987 gain or loss, or cumulative suspended section 987 loss of a separated QBU, the separating QBU is
treated as having separated immediately before the beginning of the taxable year of separation.
See
§§ 1.987-4(f)(2), 1.987-11(b)(3), and 1.987-12(f)(2).
(iv)
Special rules for successor suspended loss QBUs.
For purposes of determining whether a combination or separation has occurred with respect to a successor suspended loss QBU, the rules of paragraphs (c)(9)(i) and (iii) of this section are applied without regard to whether any of the combining QBUs, the combined QBU, the separating QBU, or the separated QBUs are section 987 QBUs. A combined QBU is a successor suspended loss QBU if either combining QBU was a successor suspended loss QBU, and a separated QBU is a successor suspended loss QBU if the separating QBU was a successor suspended loss QBU.
(10)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (c). For purposes of the examples, X and Y are domestic corporations, have the U.S. dollar as their functional currencies, and use the calendar year as their taxable years. Furthermore, except as otherwise provided, Business A and Business B are eligible QBUs that have the euro and the Japanese yen, respectively, as their functional currencies, and DE1 and DE2 are DEs. For purposes of determining whether any of the transfers in these examples result in remittances,
see
§ 1.987-5.
(i)
Example 1: Loan to a section 987 QBU
—(A)
Facts.
X owns all of the interests in DE1. DE1 owns Business A, which is a section 987 QBU of X. X owns €100 that are not reflected on the books and records of Business A. Business A is in need of additional capital and, as a result, X lends the €100 to DE1 for use in Business A in exchange for a note.
(B)
Analysis
—(
1
) The loan from X to DE1 is not regarded for Federal income tax purposes (because it is an interbranch transaction) and therefore is a disregarded transaction (as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section). Because DE1 is a DE, the DE1 note held by X and the liability of DE1 under the note are not taken into account under this section.
(
2
) As a result of the disregarded transaction, the €100 is reflected on the books and records of Business A and is attributable to Business A under paragraph (b) of this section. Therefore, X is treated as transferring €100 to its Business A section 987 QBU for purposes of section 987. This transfer is taken into account in determining the amount of any remittance for the taxable year under § 1.987-5(c).
See
§ 1.988-1(a)(10)(ii) for the application of section 988 to X as a result of the transfer of nonfunctional currency to its section 987 QBU.
(ii)
Example 2: Transfer between section 987 QBUs
—(A)
Facts.
X owns Business A and Business B, both of which are section 987 QBUs of X. X owns equipment that is used in Business A and is reflected on the books and records of Business A. Because Business A has excess manufacturing capacity and X intends to expand the manufacturing capacity of Business B, the equipment formerly used in Business A is transferred to Business B for use by Business B. As a result of the transfer, the equipment is removed from the books and records of Business A and is recorded on the books and records of Business B.
(B)
Analysis.
The transfer of the equipment from the books and records of Business A to the books and records of Business B is not regarded for Federal income tax purposes (because it is an interbranch transaction) and therefore is a disregarded transaction (as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section). Therefore, for purposes of section 987, the Business A section 987 QBU is treated as transferring the equipment to X, and X is subsequently treated as transferring the equipment to the Business B section 987 QBU. These transfers are taken into account in determining the amount of any remittance for the taxable year under § 1.987-5(c).
(iii)
Example 3: Sale of property between two section 987 QBUs
—(A)
Facts.
X owns all of the interests in DE1 and DE2. DE1 and DE2 own Business A and Business B, respectively, both of which are section 987 QBUs of X. DE1 owns equipment that is used in Business A and is reflected on the books and records of Business A. For business reasons, DE1 sells a portion of the equipment used in Business A to DE2 in exchange for a fair market value amount of Japanese yen. The yen used by DE2
to acquire the equipment was generated by Business B and was reflected on Business B's books and records. Following the sale, the yen and the equipment will be used in Business A and Business B, respectively. As a result of such sale, the equipment is removed from the books and records of Business A and is recorded on the books and records of Business B. Similarly, as a result of the sale, the yen is removed from the books and records of Business B and is recorded on the books and records of Business A.
(B)
Analysis
—(
1
) The sale of equipment between DE1 and DE2 is a transaction that is not regarded for Federal income tax purposes (because it is an interbranch transaction) and therefore the transaction is a disregarded transaction (as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section). Pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, the sale does not give rise to an item of income, gain, deduction, or loss for purposes of determining section 987 taxable income or loss under § 1.987-3. However, the yen and equipment exchanged by DE1 and DE2 in connection with the sale must be taken into account as a transfer under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(
2
) As a result of the disregarded transaction, the equipment ceases to be reflected on the books and records of Business A and becomes reflected on the books and records of Business B. Therefore, the Business A section 987 QBU is treated as transferring the equipment to X, and X is subsequently treated as transferring the equipment to the Business B section 987 QBU.
(
3
) Additionally, as a result of the disregarded transaction, the yen currency ceases to be reflected on the books and records of Business B and becomes reflected on the books and records of Business A. Therefore, the Business B section 987 QBU is treated as transferring the yen to X, and X is subsequently treated as transferring the yen from X to the Business A section 987 QBU. The transfers among Business A, Business B and X are taken into account in determining the amount of any remittance for the taxable year under § 1.987-5(c).
(iv) through (ix) [Reserved]
(x)
Example 10: Contribution of a section 987 QBU's assets to a corporation
—(A)
Facts.
X owns Business A. X forms Z, a domestic corporation, contributing 50 percent of its Business A assets and liabilities to Z in exchange for all of the stock of Z. X and Z do not file a consolidated tax return.
(B)
Analysis.
Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Z stock received in exchange for 50 percent of Business A's assets and liabilities is not reflected on the books and records of, and therefore is not attributable to, Business A for purposes of section 987 immediately after the exchange. As a result, pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, 50 percent of the assets and liabilities of Business A are treated as transferred from Business A to X in a disregarded transaction immediately before the exchange.
See
§ 1.1502-13(j)(9) if X and Z file a consolidated return.
(xi)
Example 11: Circular transfers
—(A)
Facts.
X owns Business A. On December 30, year 1, Business A purports to transfer €100 to X. On January 2, year 2, X purports to transfer €50 to Business A. On January 4, year 2, X purports to transfer another €50 to Business A. As of the end of year 1, X has net unrecognized section 987 loss with respect to Business A, such that a remittance, if respected, would result in recognition of a foreign currency loss under section 987.
(B)
Analysis.
Because the transfer by Business A to X is offset by the transfers from X to Business A that occurred in close temporal proximity, the purported transfers to and from Business A may be disregarded for purposes of section 987 pursuant to general tax principles under paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(xii)
Example 12: Transfers without substance
—(A)
Facts.
X owns Business A and Business B. On January 1, year 1, Business A purports to transfer €100 to X. On January 4, year 1, X purports to transfer €100 to Business B. The account in which Business B deposited the €100 is used to pay the operating expenses and other costs of Business A. As of the end of year 1, X has net unrecognized section 987 loss with respect to Business A, such that a remittance,
if respected, would result in recognition of a foreign currency loss under section 987.
(B)
Analysis.
Because Business A continues to have use of the transferred property, the €100 purported transfer from Business A to X may be disregarded for purposes of section 987 pursuant to general tax principles under paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(xiii)
Example 13: Offsetting positions in section 987 QBUs
—(A)
Facts.
X owns Business A and Business B. Business A and Business B each have the euro as their functional currency. X has not made a grouping election under § 1.987-1(b)(3)(ii). On January 1, year 1, X borrows €1,000 from a third-party lender, records the liability with respect to the borrowing on the books and records of Business A, and records the borrowed €1,000 on the books and records of Business B. On December 31, year 2, when Business A has $100 of net unrecognized section 987 loss and Business B has $100 of net unrecognized section 987 gain resulting from the change in exchange rates with respect to the liability and the €1,000, X terminates the Business A section 987 QBU.
(B)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the fact that Business A and Business B have offsetting positions in the euro is a factor indicating that a principal purpose of recording the euro-denominated liability on the books and records of Business A and the borrowed euros on the books and records of Business B was the avoidance of tax under section 987. If such a principal purpose is present, the items must be reallocated (that is, the euros and the euro-denominated liability) between Business A, Business B, and X under paragraph (b)(3) of this section to reflect the substance of the transaction.
(xiv)
Example 14: Offsetting positions with respect to a section 987 QBU and a section 988 transaction
—(A)
Facts.
X owns all of the interests in DE1, and DE1 owns Business A. On January 1, year 1, X borrows €1,000 from a third-party lender and records the liability with respect to the borrowing on its books and records. X contributes the €1,000 loan proceeds to DE1 and the €1,000 are reflected on the books and records of Business A. On December 31, year 2, when Business A has $100 of net unrecognized section 987 loss resulting from the change in exchange rates with respect to the €1,000 received from the borrowing, and when the euro-denominated borrowing, if repaid, would result in $100 of gain under section 988, X terminates the Business A section 987 QBU.
(B)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the fact that X and Business A have offsetting positions in the euro is a factor indicating that a principal purpose of recording the borrowed euros on the books and records of Business A, or not recording the corresponding euro-denominated liability on the books and records of Business A, was the avoidance of tax under section 987. If such a principal purpose is present, the items (that is, the euros and the euro-denominated liability) must be reallocated between Business A and X under paragraph (b)(3) of this section to reflect the substance of the transaction.
(xv)
Example 15: Offsetting positions with respect to a section 987 QBU and a section 988 transaction
—(A)
Facts.
X owns all of the stock of Y and all of the interests in DE1. DE1 owns Business A. X and Y do not file a consolidated return. On January 1, year 1, DE1 lends €1,000 to Y. X records the receivable with respect to the loan on Business A's books and records. On December 31, year 2, when Business A has $100 of net unrecognized section 987 gain resulting from the loan, Y repays the €1,000 liability. The repayment of the euro-denominated borrowing results in $100 of loss to Y under section 988. Business A does not make any remittances to X in year 2, so the offsetting gain with respect to the loan receivable has not been recognized by X.
(B)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the fact that Y (a related party to X) and Business A have offsetting positions in the euro is a factor indicating that a principal purpose of recording the euro-denominated receivable on the books and records of Business A, rather than on the books and records of X, was to avoid Federal income tax under, or through the use of, section 987. If such a principal purpose is present, the euro-denominated receivable must be reallocated between
Business A and X under paragraph (b)(3) of this section to reflect the substance of the transaction. Other provisions (for example, section 267) may also apply to defer or disallow the loss.
See
§ 1.1502-13(j)(9) if X and Y file a consolidated return.
(xvi)
Example 16: Borrowing by section 987 QBU followed by immediate distribution to owner
—(A)
Facts.
X owns all of the interests in DE1. DE1 owns Business A. On January 1, year 1, Business A borrows €1,000 from a bank. On January 2, year 1, Business A distributes the €1,000 it received from the bank to X. There are no other transfers between X and Business A during the year. At the end of the year, X has net unrecognized section 987 loss with respect to Business A such that a remittance would result in the recognition of foreign currency loss under section 987.
(B)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, if a principal purpose of recording of the loan on the books and records of Business A, rather than on the books and records of X, was to avoid Federal income tax under, or through the use of, section 987, the items must be reallocated to reflect the substance of the transaction (for example, by moving the loan onto the books of X, resulting in the transfer not being taken into account for purposes of section 987).
(xvii)
Example 17: Payment of interest by section 987 QBU on obligation of owner
—(A)
Facts.
X owns all of the interests in DE1. DE1 owns Business A. On January 1, X borrows €1,000 from a bank. On July 1, DE1 pays €20 in interest on X's €1,000 obligation to the bank, which is treated as a payment by Business A.
(B)
Analysis.
Under general tax law principles as provided in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, on July 1, year 1, Business A is treated for purposes of section 987 as making a transfer of €20 to X, and X is treated as making a €20 interest payment to the bank.
See also
paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(E) of this section for interest payments on loans that are not attributable to a section 987 QBU pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section.
(xviii)
Example 18: Sale of the interests in a DE
—(A)
Facts.
X owns all of the interests in DE1, a disregarded entity. DE1 owns Business A, which is a section 987 QBU of X. X has made a current rate election under § 1.987-1(d)(2) but not an annual recognition election under § 1.987-5(b)(2). On December 31, year 1, X sells all of the interests in DE1 to FC, an unrelated foreign corporation, for $150,000, when the exchange rate is €1 = $1.2. The sale proceeds are reflected on X's books and records after the sale. At the time of the sale, all of DE1's assets are used in Business A and are reflected on the books and records of Business A. The assets have a basis of €100,000 and Business A has no liabilities. In year 1, X has net unrecognized section 987 gain with respect to Business A of $20,000.
(B)
Analysis
—(
1
) Under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, if an asset that is attributable to a section 987 QBU is sold or exchanged for an asset that is not attributable to the section 987 QBU immediately after the sale or exchange, the sold or exchanged asset is treated as transferred from the section 987 QBU to its owner in a disregarded transaction immediately before the sale or exchange and subsequently sold or exchanged by the owner. The sale of DE1 is treated as a sale of the assets of Business A in exchange for cash that is not reflected on the books and records of the Business A section 987 QBU. Therefore, the assets of Business A are treated as transferred from the Business A section 987 QBU to X, and X is treated as selling the assets to FC.
(
2
) The deemed transfer of all of Business A's assets to X results in a termination of the Business A section 987 QBU under § 1.987-8(b)(2) (substantially all assets transferred). Under § 1.987-5(c)(4) and § 1.987-8(e), a termination of a section 987 QBU is treated as a remittance of all the gross assets of the section 987 QBU to the owner on the date of the termination. Therefore, the owner's remittance proportion is one, and X recognizes all of its net unrecognized section 987 gain with respect to Business A, or $20,000.
(
3
) Because a current rate election was in effect, all of the assets of Business A are marked items. Therefore, under § 1.987-5(f)(2), X's basis in the assets transferred from Business A is determined by translating Business A's
functional currency basis in the assets into X's functional currency at the spot rate applicable to the date of the transfer, €1 = $1.2. Consequently, immediately before the sale of the interests in DE1, X's functional currency basis in Business A's assets (which Business A held with a basis of €100,000) is $120,000. X recognizes $30,000 of gain under section 1001(a) on the sale of DE1.
(d)
Translation of items transferred to a section 987 QBU
—(1)
Marked items.
The adjusted basis of a marked asset, or the amount of a marked liability, transferred to a section 987 QBU is translated into the section 987 QBU's functional currency at the spot rate applicable to the date of transfer. If, and to the extent that, exchange gain or loss is recognized on the asset or liability transferred under § 1.988-1(a)(10)(ii), the adjusted basis of the marked asset, or the amount of the marked liability, is adjusted to take into account the exchange gain or loss recognized.
(2)
Historic items.
The adjusted basis of a historic asset, or the amount of a historic liability, transferred to a section 987 QBU is translated into the section 987 QBU's functional currency at the rate provided in § 1.987-1(c)(3).
(e)
Cross-reference. See also
§ 1.1502-13(j)(9) regarding the treatment of intercompany transactions involving section 987 QBUs owned by a member of a consolidated group.
[T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024; 90 FR 5607, Jan. 17, 2025]
§ 1.987-3
Determination of section 987 taxable income or loss of an owner of a section 987 QBU.
(a)
In general.
This section provides rules for determining the taxable income or loss of an owner of a section 987 QBU (
section 987 taxable income or loss
). Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules for determining items of income, gain, deduction, and loss in the section 987 QBU's functional currency. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for translating each item determined under paragraph (b) of this section into the functional currency of the owner of the section 987 QBU. Paragraph (d) of this section is reserved. Paragraph (e) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of the rules of this section.
(b)
Determination of each item of income, gain, deduction, or loss in the section 987 QBU's functional currency
—(1)
In general.
The owner of a section 987 QBU must determine each item of income, gain, deduction, or loss attributable to the section 987 QBU in the section 987 QBU's functional currency under Federal income tax principles.
(2)
Translation of items of income, gain, deduction, or loss that are denominated in a nonfunctional currency.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, an item of income, gain, deduction, or loss (or the item's components and related items, such as gross receipts and amount realized) that is denominated in (or determined by reference to) a nonfunctional currency (including the functional currency of the owner) is translated into the section 987 QBU's functional currency at the spot rate on the date such item is properly taken into account. Paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section (
Examples 1
and
2)
illustrate the application of this paragraph (b)(2).
(3) [Reserved]
(4)
Section 988 transactions
—(i)
In general.
Section 988 and the regulations under section 988 apply to section 988 transactions of a section 987 QBU. The determination of whether an asset or liability of a section 987 QBU is a section 988 transaction is determined by reference to the functional currency of the section 987 QBU. Section 988 gain or loss is determined in, and by reference to, the functional currency of the section 987 QBU. The amount of section 988 gain or loss determined under this paragraph (b)(4)(i) is translated into the owner's functional currency under paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii)
Section 988 mark-to-market election
—(A)
In general.
A taxpayer may elect to apply the section 988 mark-to-market method of accounting described in this paragraph (b)(4)(ii) with respect to all section 988 transactions that are properly attributable to a section 987 QBU and that are not otherwise accounted for under a mark-to-market method of accounting under section 475 or section 1256 (other than a section 988 transaction described in
paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section). Under the section 988 mark-to-market method of accounting, the timing of section 988 gain or loss on section 988 transactions described in the preceding sentence is determined under the principles of section 1256. Only section 988 gain or loss is taken into account under the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting. Appropriate adjustments must be made to prevent the section 988 gain or loss from being taken into account again after it is recognized under this paragraph (b)(4)(ii). A section 988 transaction subject to the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting is not subject to the netting rule of section 988(b) and § 1.988-2(b)(8) (under which exchange gain or loss is limited to overall gain or loss realized in a transaction) in taxable years before the taxable year in which section 988 gain or loss would be recognized with respect to the section 988 transaction but for this election.
(B)
Built-in loss transactions contributed to a section 987 QBU.
Paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section does not apply to a section 988 transaction if—
(
1
) The transaction was transferred to the section 987 QBU from its owner (or from another eligible QBU of the owner);
(
2
) Immediately before the transfer, the transaction was a section 988 transaction in the hands of the owner (or other eligible QBU of the owner) and was not subject to a mark-to-market method of accounting;
(
3
) If the owner (or other eligible QBU) had disposed of the section 988 transaction immediately before the transfer (and § 1.988-2(b)(8) did not apply), the owner would have recognized section 988 loss; and
(
4
) Section 988 loss was not recognized in connection with the transfer under § 1.988-1(a)(10).
(c)
Translation of items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of a section 987 QBU into the owner's functional currency
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the exchange rate to be used by an owner in translating an item of income, gain, deduction, or loss attributable to a section 987 QBU (or the item's components and related items, such as gross receipts, amount realized, basis, and cost of goods sold) into the owner's functional currency, if necessary, is the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year.
(2)
Exceptions.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section, this paragraph (c)(2) applies only to taxable years for which neither the annual recognition election nor the current rate election is in effect.
(i)
Recovery of basis with respect to historic assets.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c)(2), the exchange rate to be used by the owner in translating any recovery of basis (whether through a sale or exchange; deemed sale or exchange; cost recovery deduction such as depreciation, depletion or amortization; or otherwise) with respect to a historic asset is the historic rate for the property to which such recovery of basis is attributable.
(ii) through (iii) [Reserved]
(iv)
Cost of goods sold computation
—(A)
General rule—simplified inventory method.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, cost of goods sold (
COGS
) for a taxable year is translated into the functional currency of the owner at the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year in which the sale of inventory occurs (or the COGS is otherwise taken into account in computing taxable income) and adjusted as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(B)
Election to use the historic inventory method.
In lieu of using the simplified inventory method described in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, the owner of a section 987 QBU may elect under this paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) to translate inventoriable costs (including current-year inventoriable costs and costs that were capitalized into inventory in prior years) that are included in COGS at the historic rate for each such cost.
(v)
Translation of income to account for certain foreign income tax claimed as a credit.
The owner of a section 987 QBU claiming a credit under section 901 for foreign income taxes, other than foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960, that are properly reflected on the books and records of the section 987 QBU (the creditable tax amount) must determine section 987 taxable income or loss attributable to the section
987 QBU by reducing the amount of section 987 taxable income or loss that otherwise would be determined under this section by an amount equal to the creditable tax amount, translated into U.S. dollars using the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year in which the creditable tax is accrued, and by increasing the resulting amount by an amount equal to the creditable tax amount, translated using the same exchange rate that is used to translate the creditable taxes into U.S. dollars under section 986(a). This paragraph (c)(2)(v) applies whether or not a current rate election or an annual recognition election is in effect.
See
paragraph (e)(14) of this section (
Example 14)
for an illustration of this rule.
(3)
Adjustments to COGS required under the simplified inventory method.
This paragraph (c)(3) applies only to taxable years for which neither the annual recognition election nor the current rate election is in effect.
(i)
In general.
An owner of a section 987 QBU that uses the simplified inventory method described in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section must make the adjustment described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. In addition, the owner must make the adjustment described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section with respect to any inventory for which the section 987 QBU does not use the LIFO inventory method and must make the adjustment described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section with respect to any inventory for which the section 987 QBU uses the LIFO inventory method. An owner of a section 987 QBU that uses the simplified inventory method must make all of the applicable adjustments described in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section with respect to the section 987 QBU even in taxable years in which the amount of COGS is zero.
(ii)
Adjustment for cost recovery deductions included in inventoriable costs
—(A)
In general.
The translated COGS amount computed under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section is increased or decreased (as appropriate) by the amount described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section. The adjustment is included as an adjustment to translated COGS computed under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section in full in the year to which the adjustment relates and is not allocated between COGS and ending inventory.
(B)
Amount of adjustment.
With respect to each cost recovery deduction attributable to a historic asset that is included in inventoriable costs for a taxable year, the adjustment is equal to—
(
1
) The amount of the cost recovery deduction included in inventoriable costs, translated at the historic rate for the property to which the deduction is attributable; less
(
2
) The amount of the cost recovery deduction included in inventoriable costs, translated at the yearly average exchange rate for the current taxable year.
(iii)
Adjustment for beginning inventory for non-LIFO inventory
—(A)
In general.
In the case of non-LIFO inventory, the translated COGS amount computed under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section is increased or decreased (as appropriate) by the amount described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.
(B)
Amount of adjustment.
The adjustment is equal to—
(
1
) The ending non-LIFO inventory included on the closing balance sheet for the preceding taxable year, translated at the exchange rate described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C) of this section (which is generally the yearly average exchange rate for the preceding taxable year); less
(
2
) The ending non-LIFO inventory included on the closing balance sheet for the preceding taxable year, translated at the yearly average exchange rate for the current taxable year.
(C)
Exchange rate
—(
1
)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C)(
2
) of this section, the exchange rate used to translate non-LIFO inventory under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section is the yearly average exchange rate for the preceding taxable year.
(
2
)
Revocation of current rate election or taxable year beginning on the transition date.
In the first taxable year in which a current rate election is revoked or otherwise ceases to be in effect (or in the taxable year beginning on the transition date), the exchange
rate used to translate non-LIFO inventory under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section is the spot rate applicable to the last day of the preceding taxable year.
(iv)
Adjustment for year of LIFO liquidation
—(A)
In general.
In the case of inventory with respect to which a section 987 QBU uses the LIFO inventory method, the translated COGS amount computed under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section is increased or decreased (as appropriate) by the amount described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B) of this section.
(B)
Amount of adjustment.
With respect to each LIFO layer liquidated in whole or in part during the taxable year, the adjustment is equal to:
(
1
) The amount of the LIFO layer liquidated during the taxable year, translated at the historic rate that is used for translating the LIFO layer (which is generally the yearly average exchange rate for the year the LIFO layer arose); less
(
2
) The amount of the LIFO layer liquidated during the taxable year, translated at the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this section. For purposes of the examples, U.S. Corp is a domestic corporation that uses the calendar year as its taxable year and has the U.S. dollar as its functional currency. Except as otherwise indicated, U.S. Corp is the owner of Business A, a section 987 QBU with the euro as its functional currency, and U.S. Corp elects under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section to use the historic inventory method with respect to Business A but does not make any other elections.
(1)
Example 1: Item of income denominated in nonfunctional currency.
Business A accrues £100 of income from the provision of services. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the £100 is translated into €90 at the spot rate on the date of accrual, without the use of a spot rate convention. In determining U.S. Corp's taxable income, the €90 of income is translated into dollars at the yearly average exchange rate under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(2)
Example 2: Asset sold for nonfunctional currency.
Business A sells a historic asset consisting of non-inventory property for £100. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the £100 amount realized is translated into €85 at the spot rate on the sale date without the use of a spot rate convention. In determining U.S. Corp's taxable income, the €85 is translated into dollars at the yearly average exchange rate under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The euro basis of the property is translated into dollars at the historic rate under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(3)
Example 3: Historic inventory method
—(i)
Facts.
Business A uses a first-in, first-out (
FIFO
) method of accounting for inventory. Business A sells 1,200 units of inventory in year 2 for €3 per unit. The yearly average exchange rate is €1 = $1.02 for year 1 and €1 = $1.05 for year 2.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Gross sales.
Business A's gross sales are translated under paragraph (c)(1) of this section at the yearly average exchange rate for the year of the sale. Business A's dollar gross sales will be computed as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph
(e)(3)(ii)(A)
—Gross Sales
[Year 2]
Month
Number of
units
Amount in
€
€/$ yearly
average rate
Amount in $
Jan
100
€ 300
€1 = $1.05
$315.00
Feb
200
600
€1 = $1.05
630.00
March
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0.00
April
200
600
€1 = $1.05
630.00
May
100
300
€1 = $1.05
315.00
June
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0.00
July
100
300
€1 = $1.05
315.00
Aug
100
300
€1 = $1.05
315.00
Sept
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0.00
Oct
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0.00
Nov
100
300
€1 = $1.05
315.00
Dec
300
900
€1 = $1.05
945.00
1,200
3,780.00
(B)
Translated basis of inventory.
The purchase price for each inventory unit was €1.50. Under § 1.987-1(c)(3)(i) and paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, the basis of each item of inventory is translated into dollars at the yearly average exchange rate for the year the inventory was acquired.
Table 2 to Paragraph
(e)(3)(ii)(B)
—Opening Inventory and Purchases
[Year 2]
Month
Number of
units
Amount in
€
€/$ yearly
average rate
Amount in $
Opening inventory (purchased in Dec. year 1)
100
€150
€1 = $1.02
$153.00
Purchases in year 2
Jan
300
€ 450
€1 = $1.05
$472.50
Feb
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0
March
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0
April
300
450
€1 = $1.05
472.50
May
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0
June
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0
July
300
450
€1 = $1.05
472.50
Aug
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0
Sept
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0
Oct
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0
Nov
300
450
€1 = $1.05
472.50
Dec
0
0
€1 = $1.05
0
1,200
1,890.00
(C)
COGS.
Because Business A uses a FIFO method for inventory, Business A is considered to have sold in year 2 the 100 units of opening inventory purchased in year 1 ($153.00), the 300 units purchased in January year 2 ($472.50), the 300 units purchased in April year 2 ($472.50), the 300 units purchased in July year 2 ($472.50), and 200 of the 300 units purchased in November year 2 ($315.00). Accordingly, Business A's translated dollar COGS for year 2 is $1,885.50. Business A's opening inventory for year 3 is 100 units of inventory with a translated dollar basis of $157.50.
(D)
Gross sales income.
Accordingly, for purposes of section 987, Business A has gross income in dollars of $1,894.50 ($3,780.00−$1,885.50) from the sale of inventory in year 2.
(4)
Example 4: Simplified inventory method
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (e)(3) of this section (
Example 3
), except that U.S. Corp does not elect to use the historic inventory method with respect to Business A.
(ii)
Analysis.
Because U.S. Corp does not elect to use the historic inventory method, the simplified inventory method under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section applies.
(A)
Gross sales.
Business A's dollar gross sales will be computed as described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A) of this section (
Example 3
). Therefore, Business A has gross sales of $3,780.
(B)
COGS.
Business A sold 1,200 units of inventory in year 2, and the purchase price for each unit was €1.50. The total purchase price for the inventory sold in year 2 was €1,800. Under the simplified inventory method provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, COGS for a taxable year is translated into the functional currency of the owner at the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year in which the sale of inventory occurs. Therefore, before making the adjustments required under paragraph (c)(3)
of this section, Business A's dollar COGS for year 2 is equal to $1,890 (the purchase price for the inventory sold in year 2 (€1,800), translated at the yearly average exchange rate of €1 = $1.05).
(C)
Adjustments required.
Because the simplified inventory method applies, Business A's COGS must be adjusted under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. No adjustment is required under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section because no cost recovery deduction attributable to a historic asset is included in inventoriable costs for year 2. However, an adjustment for beginning inventory is required under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section because Business A uses a FIFO method of accounting for inventory.
(D)
Adjustment for beginning inventory.
The adjustment required under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section is equal to: the ending non-LIFO inventory included on Business A's closing balance sheet for the preceding taxable year (€150), translated at the yearly average exchange rate for year 1 (€1 = $1.02), which is $153; less the ending non-LIFO inventory included on Business A's closing balance sheet for the preceding taxable year (€150), translated at the yearly average exchange rate for year 2 (€1 = $1.05), which is $157.50. Therefore, there is a negative adjustment to COGS of $4.50. Business A's COGS for year 2 is reduced from $1,890 to $1,885.50.
(E)
Gross sales income.
Accordingly, for purposes of section 987, Business A has gross income in dollars of $1,894.50 ($3,780.00−$1,885.50) from the sale of inventory in year 2.
(5)
Example 5: Depreciation expense that is not an inventoriable cost.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (e)(3) of this section (
Example 3
) except that during year 2, Business A incurred €100 of depreciation expense with respect to a truck. No portion of the depreciation expense is an inventoriable cost. The truck was purchased on January 15, year 1. The yearly average exchange rate for year 1 was €1 = $1.02. Under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the €100 of depreciation is translated into dollars at the historic rate. The historic rate is the yearly average exchange rate for year 1. Accordingly, U.S. Corp takes into account depreciation of $102 with respect to Business A in year 2.
(6)
Example 6: Translation of depreciation expense that is an inventoriable cost (historic inventory method).
The facts are the same as in paragraph (e)(5) of this section (
Example 5
) except that the €100 of depreciation expense incurred during year 2 with respect to the truck is an inventoriable cost. As a result, the depreciation expense is capitalized into the 1,200 units of inventory purchased by Business A in year 2. Of those 1,200 units, 1,100 units are sold during the year, and 100 units become ending inventory. The portion of depreciation expense capitalized into inventory that is sold during year 2 is reflected in Business A's euro COGS and is translated at the €1 = $1.02 yearly average exchange rate for year 1, the year in which the truck was purchased. The portion of the depreciation expense capitalized into the 100 units of ending inventory is not taken into account in year 2 but rather, will be taken into account in the year the ending inventory is sold, translated at the €1 = $1.02 yearly average exchange rate for year 1.
(7)
Example 7: Sale of land.
Business A purchased raw land on October 16, year 1, for €8,000 and sold the land on November 1, year 2, for €10,000. The yearly average exchange rate was €1 = $1.02 for year 1 and €1 = $1.05 for year 2. Under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the amount realized is translated into dollars at the yearly average exchange rate for year 2 (€10,000 × $1.05 = $10,500). Under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the basis is translated at the historic rate for year 1, which is the yearly average exchange rate under section § 1.987-1(c)(3)(i) (€8,000 × $1.02 = $8,160). Accordingly, the amount of gain reported by U.S. Corp on the sale of the land is $2,340 ($10,500−$8,160).
(8)
Example 8: Current rate election.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (e)(7) of this section (
Example 7
), except that U.S. Corp makes a current rate election under § 1.987-1(d)(2). Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the exceptions to paragraph (c)(1) of this section generally do not apply in a taxable year for which an annual recognition election or a current rate election is in effect. As a result, all items of income,
gain, deduction, and loss with respect to Business A are translated into U.S Corp's functional currency at the yearly average exchange rate under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Business A's gain on the sale of the land is determined in its functional currency and is equal to €2,000 (amount realized of €10,000 less basis of €8,000). This gain is translated at the yearly average exchange rate for year 2 of €1 = $1.05, and the amount of gain reported by U.S. Corp on the sale of the land is $2,100. The result would be the same if U.S. Corp made an annual recognition election under § 1.987-5(b)(2) (and did not make a current rate election).
(9)-(12) [Reserved]
(13)
Example 13: Section 988 transaction
—(i)
Facts.
Business A receives and accrues $100 of income from the provision of services on January 1, 2021. Business A continues to hold the $100 as a U.S. dollar-denominated demand deposit at a bank on December 31, 2021. U.S. Corp has made a section 988 mark-to-market election under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. The euro-dollar spot rate without the use of a spot rate convention is €1 = $1 on January 1, 2021, and €1 = $2 on December 31, 2021, and the yearly average exchange rate for 2021 is €1 = $1.50.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A) Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the $100 earned by Business A is translated into €100 at the spot rate on January 1, 2021, as defined in § 1.987-1(c)(1) without the use of a spot rate convention. In determining U.S. Corp's taxable income, the €100 of services income is translated into $150 at the yearly average exchange rate for 2021, as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(B) Under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, section 988 gain or loss for Business A's section 988 transactions is determined in, and by reference to, the euro, the functional currency of Business A. Accordingly, section 988 gain or loss must be determined on Business A's holding of the $100 demand deposit in, and by reference to, the euro. Under § 1.988-2(a)(2), Business A is treated as having an amount realized of €50 when the $100 is marked to market at the end of 2021 under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. Marking the dollars to market gives rise to a section 988 loss of €50 (€50 amount realized, less Business A's €100 basis in the $100). In determining U.S. Corp's taxable income, that €50 loss is translated into a $75 loss at the yearly average exchange rate for 2021, as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(14)
Example 14: Payment of foreign income tax
—(i)
Facts.
Business A earns €100 of revenue from the provision of services and incurs €30 of general expenses and €10 of depreciation expense during 2021. Except as otherwise provided, U.S. Corp uses the yearly average exchange rate described in § 1.987-1(c)(2) to translate items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of Business A. Business A is subject to income tax in Country X at a 25 percent rate. U.S. Corp claims a credit with respect to Business A's foreign income taxes and elects under section 986(a)(1)(D) to translate the foreign income taxes at the spot rate on the date the taxes were paid. The yearly average exchange rate for 2021 is €1 = $1.50. The historic rate used to translate the depreciation expense is €1 = $1.00. The spot rate on the date that Business A paid its foreign income taxes was €1 = $1.60.
(ii)
Analysis.
Because U.S. Corp has elected to translate foreign income taxes at the spot rate on the date such taxes were paid rather than at the yearly average exchange rate, U.S. Corp must make the adjustments described in paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section. Accordingly, U.S. Corp determines its section 987 taxable income or loss by reducing the section 987 taxable income or loss that otherwise would be determined under this section by €15, translated into U.S. dollars at the yearly average exchange rate (€1 = $1.50), and increasing the resulting amount by €15, translated using the same exchange rate that is used to translate the creditable taxes into U.S. dollars under section 986(a) (€1 = $1.60). Following these adjustments, Business A's section 987 taxable income for 2021 is $96.50, computed as follows:
Table 3 to Paragraph (e)(14)(ii)
Amount in €
Translation rate
Amount in $
Revenue
€100
€1 = $1.50
$150.00
General Expenses
(30)
€1 = $1.50
(45.00)
Depreciation
(10)
€1 = $1.00
(10.00)
Tentative section 987 taxable income
€60
$95.00
Adjustments under paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section:
Decrease by €15 tax translated at yearly average exchange rate (€1 = $1.50)
($22.50)
Increase by €15 tax translated at spot rate on payment date (€1 = $1.60)
24.00
Section 987 taxable income
$96.50
[T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024]
§ 1.987-3T
Determination of section 987 taxable income or loss of an owner of a section 987 QBU (temporary).
(a) through (b)(2)(i) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-3(a) through (b)(2)(i).
(ii)
No translation of basis or amount realized with respect to a specified owner functional currency transaction treated as a historic asset.
If the acquisition of a historic asset gives rise to a specified owner functional currency transaction described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the basis of the historic asset, and any amount realized on a disposition of the historic asset, is not translated if the amount is denominated in the owner's functional currency.
(3) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-3(b)(3).
(4)
Special rule for section 988 transactions
—(i)
In general.
Section 988 and the regulations thereunder apply to section 988 transactions of a section 987 QBU. For this purpose, whether a transaction is a section 988 transaction is determined by reference to the functional currency of the section 987 QBU. (But see paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, providing that specified owner functional currency transactions are not treated as section 988 transactions.) However, except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, section 988 gain or loss is determined in, and by reference to, the functional currency of the owner of the section 987 QBU rather than the functional currency of the section 987 QBU. Accordingly, in determining section 988 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU with respect to a section 988 transaction of the section 987 QBU, the amounts required under section 988 and the regulations thereunder to be translated on the applicable booking date or payment date with respect to the section 988 transaction are translated into the owner's functional currency at the rate required under section 988 and the regulations thereunder.
(ii)
Specified owner functional currency transactions not treated as section 988 transactions.
Transactions of a section 987 QBU described in sections 988(c)(1)(B)(i), 988(c)(1)(B)(ii), and 988(c)(1)(C) (including the acquisition of nonfunctional currency as described in § 1.988-1(a)(1)), other than transactions described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, that are denominated in (or determined by reference to) the owner's functional currency (specified owner functional currency transactions) are not treated as section 988 transactions. Thus, no currency gain or loss is recognized by a section 987 QBU under section 988 with respect to such transactions.
(iii)
Determination of section 988 gain or loss for qualified short-term section 988 transactions
—(A)
Determination by reference to the section 987 QBU's functional currency for certain transactions subject to a mark-to-market method of accounting.
Section 988 gain or loss with respect to section 988 transactions described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section that are accounted for under a mark-to-market method of accounting for Federal income tax purposes or under the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C) of this section, and any hedges entered into to manage risk with respect to such transactions within the meaning of § 1.1221-2(c)(4) (related hedges), must be determined in, and by reference to,
the functional currency of the section 987 QBU (rather than the functional currency of its owner).
(B)
Qualified short-term section 988 transaction.
A qualified short-term section 988 transaction is a section 988 transaction that occurs in the ordinary course of a section 987 QBU's business and has an original term of one year or less on the date the transaction is entered into by the section 987 QBU. The holding of currency that is nonfunctional currency (within the meaning of section 988(c)(1)(C)(ii)) to the section 987 QBU in the ordinary course of a section 987 QBU's trade or business also is treated as a qualified short-term section 988 transaction. Any transaction that is denominated in, or determined by reference to, a hyperinflationary currency, including the holding of hyperinflationary currency, is not considered a qualified short-term section 988 transaction. See §§ 1.988-2(b)(15), 1.988-2(d)(5), and 1.988-2(e)(7) for rules relating to transactions denominated in, or determined by reference to, a hyperinflationary currency.
(C)
Election to use a foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting.
A taxpayer may elect under this paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C) to apply the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting described in this paragraph for all qualified short-term section 988 transactions described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section, and any related hedges, that are properly attributable to a section 987 QBU on or after the effective date of the election and that are not otherwise accounted for under a mark-to-market method of accounting under section 475 or section 1256. Under the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting, the timing of section 988 gain or loss on section 988 transactions is determined under the principles of section 1256(a)(1). Thus, only section 988 gain or loss is taken into account under the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting. Appropriate adjustments must be made to prevent the section 988 gain or loss from being taken into account again under section 988 or another provision of the Code or regulations. A section 988 transaction subject to this election is not subject to the “netting rule” of section 988(b) and § 1.988-2(b)(8), under which exchange gain or loss is limited to overall gain or loss realized in a transaction, in taxable years prior to the taxable year in which section 988 gain or loss would be recognized with respect to such section 988 transaction but for this election.
(iv)
Examples.
Examples 10 through 13 of paragraph (e) of this section illustrate the application of this paragraph (b)(4).
(c)(1) through (c)(2)(i) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-3(c)(1) through (c)(2)(i).
(ii)
Amount realized with respect to historic assets that are section 988 transactions.
If the acquisition of a historic asset gave rise to a section 988 transaction described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, then in computing the total gain or loss on a disposition of the historic asset (some or all of which total gain or loss may be section 988 gain or loss described in section 988(b) and paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section), the amount realized (determined, if necessary, under § 1.987-3(b)(2)(i)) is translated into the owner's functional currency using the spot rate on the date such item is properly taken into account, subject to the limitation under § 1.987-1T(c)(1)(ii)(B) regarding the use of a spot rate convention.
(iii) through (iv) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-3(c)(2)(iii) through (iv).
(v)
Translation of income to account for certain foreign income tax claimed as a credit.
The owner of a section 987 QBU claiming a credit under section 901 for foreign income taxes, other than foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 902 or section 960, that are properly reflected on the books and records of the section 987 QBU (the creditable tax amount) must determine section 987 taxable income or loss attributable to the section 987 QBU by reducing the amount of section 987 taxable income or loss that otherwise would be determined under this section by an amount equal to the creditable tax amount, translated into U.S. dollars using the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year in which the creditable tax is accrued, and by increasing the resulting amount by an amount equal to the creditable tax
amount, translated using the same exchange rate that is used to translate the creditable taxes into U.S. dollars under section 986(a). See
Example 14
of paragraph (e) of this section,, for an illustration of this rule.
(d)
Election to translate all items at the yearly average exchange rate.
Notwithstanding § 1.987-3(c), a taxpayer that has made the annual deemed termination election described in § 1.987-8T(d) may elect under this paragraph (d) to translate all items of income, gain, deduction, and loss with respect to a section 987 QBU determined under § 1.987-3(b) in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU into the owner's functional currency, if necessary, at the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year.
Example 9
of paragraph (e) of this section illustrates the application of this election.
(e)
Example 1
through
Example 8
[Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-3(e),
Example 1
through
Example 8.

# Example 9.
The facts are the same as in
Example 7,
except that U.S. Corp properly elects under paragraph (d) of this section to translate all items of income, gain, deduction, and loss with respect to Business A at the yearly average exchange rate. Accordingly, Business A's €2,000 gain on the sale of the land is translated at the yearly average exchange rate for 2021 of €1 = $1.05, and the amount of gain reported by U.S. Corp on the sale of the land is $2,100.

# Example 10.
Business A acquires £100 on August 27, 2021, for €120 and sells the pounds on November 17, 2021, for €125. The dollar-pound spot rate (without the use of a spot rate convention) is £1 = $1 on August 27, 2021, and £1 = $1.10 on November 17, 2021. The disposition of the pounds is a section 988 transaction of Business A under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, and the pounds are a historic asset under § 1.987-1(e). Section 988 gain or loss with respect to the disposition of the pounds is determined under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section and § 1.988-2(a)(2) by reference to the dollar functional currency of Business A's owner. The dollar amount realized for the pounds is determined under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section by translating £100 into $110 using the dollar-pound spot rate on November 17, 2021, without the use of a spot rate convention. The dollar basis in the pounds is determined under § 1.987-3(c)(2)(i) by translating £100 into $100 using the historic rate described in § 1.987-1T(c)(3)(i)(E), which is the dollar-pound spot rate on August 27, 2021, without the use of a spot rate convention. Thus, U.S. Corp takes into account $10 of section 988 gain with respect to Business A's disposition of £100.

# Example 11.
(i) Business A purchases a £100 2-year note for €75 on October 1, 2021, and receives a £100 repayment of principal with respect to the note on December 31, 2021. At the spot rates on October 1, 2021 (as defined in § 1.987-1(c)(1)), without the use of a spot rate convention, Business A's €75 purchase price translates into £80 and $95. At the spot rates on December 31, 2021, without the use of a spot rate convention, the £100 principal amount on the note translates into €90 and $130, and £80 translates into $104.
(ii) The acquisition of the note is a section 988 transaction of Business A under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, and the note is a historic asset under § 1.987-1(e). To determine its section 987 taxable income or loss with respect to Business A, U.S. Corp must determine Business A's total gain or loss on the disposition of the note in U.S. Corp's dollar functional currency. Consistent with § 1.988-2(b)(8), U.S. Corp also must determine whether some or all of that gain or loss constitutes section 987 gain or loss described in section 988(b).
(iii) To determine Business A's total gain or loss on the disposition of the note, Business A's basis and amount realized on the note must be determined in euros under § 1.987-3(b), if necessary, and translated into dollars under § 1.987-3(c). Business A has a €75 basis in the note that is translated into $95 under § 1.987-3(c)(2)(i) at the historic rate described in § 1.987-1T(c)(3)(i)(E), which is the spot rate on the date the note was acquired without the use of a spot rate convention. Business A's £100 amount realized on the note is translated into €90 under § 1.987-3(b)(2)(i) using the spot rate on December 31, 2021, without the use of a spot rate convention. That €90 amount realized is then translated into $130 under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section using the spot rate on December 31, 2021, without the use of a spot rate convention. Accordingly, the total gain with respect to the disposition of the note that is included in section 987 taxable income is $35 ($130 less $95).
(iv) U.S. Corp must determine whether some or all of the $35 total gain with respect to the note constitutes section 988 gain. The amount of section 988 gain realized with respect to the note is determined under § 1.988-2(b)(5), which requires a comparison of the functional currency value of the principal amount of the note on the booking date and payment date spot rates, respectively, and defines the principal amount of the note as Business A's purchase price in units of nonfunctional currency, which is £80. Under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, section 988 gain or loss with respect to the note is determined by reference to U.S. Corp's dollar functional currency, such that the amounts required under section 988 to be translated
on the booking date and payment date are translated into the dollars at the booking date and payment date spot rates. Accordingly, Business A's £80 principal amount with respect to the note is translated at the booking date and payment date spots rates into $95 and $104, respectively. Thus, $9 ($104 less $95) of the $35 total gain taken into account by U.S. Corp as section 987 taxable income with respect to the note is section 988 gain. The remaining $26 of gain, which may be attributable to credit risk or another factor unrelated to currency fluctuations, is sourced and characterized without regard to section 988.

# Example 12.
The facts are the same as in
Example 11,
except that Business A is owned by a foreign corporation with a pound functional currency. Under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the acquisition of the £100 2-year note is a specified owner functional currency transaction that is not treated as a section 988 transaction of Business A. Because the note is a historic asset under § 1.987-1(e), Business A's €75 basis in the note translates into £80 at the historic rate described in § 1.987-1T(c)(3)(i)(E), which provides that the historic rate is the spot rate for the date the note was acquired without the use of a spot rate convention. (If, instead, Business A had purchased the 5-year note for £80 rather than €75, then pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, Business A's basis in the note would have been determined without translating the £80 purchase price because it is denominated in the owner's functional currency.) Under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the £100 amount realized with respect to the note is not translated because it is denominated in the owner's functional currency. Thus, the owner takes into account £20 (£100 less £80) of section 987 taxable income in 2021 with respect to the note.

# Example 13.
(i) Business A receives and accrues $100 of income from the provision of services on January 1, 2021. Business A continues to hold the $100 as a U.S. dollar-denominated demand deposit at a bank on December 31, 2021. U.S. Corp has elected under paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C) of this section to use the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting for qualified short-term section 988 transactions entered into by Business A. The euro-dollar spot rate without the use of a spot rate convention is €1 = $1 on January 1, 2021, and €1 = $2 on December 31, 2021, and the yearly average exchange rate for 2021 is €1 = $1.50.
(ii) Under § 1.987-3(b)(2)(i), the $100 earned by Business A is translated into €100 at the spot rate on January 1, 2021, as defined in § 1.987-1(c)(1) without the use of a spot rate convention. In determining U.S. Corp's taxable income, the €100 of service income is translated into $150 at the yearly average exchange rate for 2021, as provided in § 1.987-3(c)(1).
(iii) The $100 demand deposit constitutes a qualified short-term section 988 transaction under paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section because the demand deposit is treated as nonfunctional currency within the meaning of section 988(c)(1)(C)(ii). Because Business A uses the foreign currency mark-to-market method of accounting for qualified short-term section 988 transactions, under paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, section 988 gain or loss for such transactions is determined in, and by reference to, euros, the functional currency of Business A. Accordingly, section 988 gain or loss must be determined on Business A's holding of the $100 demand deposit in, and by reference to, the euro. Under § 1.988-2(a)(2), Business A is treated as having an amount realized of €50 when the $100 is marked to market at the end of 2021 under paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C) of this section. Marking the dollars to market gives rise to a section 988 loss of €50 (€50 amount realized, less Business A's €100 basis in the $100). In determining U.S. Corp's taxable income, that €50 loss is translated into a $75 loss at the yearly average exchange rate for 2021, as provided in § 1.987-3(c)(1).

# Example 14.
(i)
Facts.
Business A earns €100 of revenue from the provision of services and incurs €30 of general expenses and €10 of depreciation expense during 2021. Except as otherwise provided, U.S. Corp uses the yearly average exchange rate described in § 1.987-1(c)(2) to translate items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of Business A. Business A is subject to income tax in Country X at a 25 percent rate. U.S. Corp claims a credit with respect to Business A's foreign income taxes and elects under section 986(a)(1)(D) to translate the foreign income taxes at the spot rate on the date the taxes were paid. The yearly average exchange rate for 2021 is €1 = $1.50. The historic rate used to translate the depreciation expense is €1 = $1.00. The spot rate on the date that Business A paid its foreign income taxes was €1 = $1.60.
(ii)
Analysis.
Because U.S. Corp has elected to translate foreign income taxes at the spot rate on the date such taxes were paid rather than at the yearly average exchange rate, U.S. Corp must make the adjustments described in paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section. Accordingly, U.S. Corp determines its section 987 taxable income by reducing the section 987 taxable income or loss that otherwise would be determined under this section by €15, translated into U.S. dollars at the yearly average exchange rate (€1 = $1.50), and increasing the resulting amount by €15, translated using the same exchange rate that is used to translate the creditable taxes into U.S. dollars under section 986(a) (€1 = $1.60). Following these adjustments, Business A's section 987 taxable income for 2021 is $96.50, computed as follows:
Amount in €
Translation rate
Amount in $
Revenue
€100
€1 = $1.50
$150.00
General Expenses
(30)
€1 = $1.50
(45.00)
Depreciation
(10)
€1 = $1.00
(10.00)
Tentative section 987 taxable income
€60
$95.00
Adjustments under paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section:
Decrease by €15 tax translated at yearly average exchange rate (€1 = $1.50)
($22.50)
Increase by €15 tax translated at spot rate on payment date (€1 = $1.60)
24.00
Section 987 taxable income
$96.50
(f)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to taxable years beginning on or after one year after the first day of the first taxable year following December 7, 2016. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a taxpayer makes an election under § 1.987-11(b), then this section applies to taxable years to which §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-10 apply as a result of such election.
(g)
Expiration date.
The applicability of this section expires on December 6, 2019.
[T.D. 9795, 81 FR 88870, Dec. 8, 2016]
§ 1.987-4
Determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU.
(a)
In general.
The net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU is determined by the owner annually as provided in paragraph (b) of this section in the owner's functional currency. Only assets and liabilities attributable to the section 987 QBU are taken into account.
(b)
Calculation of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss.
Net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU for a taxable year equals the sum of:
(1) The section 987 QBU's net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for all prior taxable years as determined in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(2) The section 987 QBU's unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for the current taxable year as determined in paragraph (d) of this section and § 1.987-14.
(c)
Net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for all prior taxable years
—(1)
In general.
A section 987 QBU's net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for all prior taxable years is the aggregate of the amounts determined under paragraph (d) of this section for all prior taxable years to which this section applies, reduced by amounts recognized under § 1.987-5(a), amounts treated as deferred section 987 gain or loss, and amounts treated as suspended section 987 loss for all prior taxable years to which this section applies. Accordingly, net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss is not reduced under this paragraph (c)(1) when deferred section 987 gain or loss is recognized (or suspended) under § 1.987-12 or when suspended section 987 loss is recognized under § 1.987-11 or § 1.987-13.
(2)
Additional adjustments for certain taxable years beginning on or before December 31, 2024.
For any section 987 QBU in existence before the transition date,
see
§ 1.987-10(e)(5) and (f)(2) for additional adjustments to the section 987 QBU's net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss.
(d)
Calculation of unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for a taxable year.
The unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU for a taxable year is generally determined under paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section. However, for taxable years in which a current rate election or an annual recognition election is in effect, the unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU for a taxable year is determined by applying only paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) and (10) of this section.
See
§ 1.987-14 for additional adjustments that must be made to the unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU for a taxable year in connection with a section 987 hedging transaction.
(1)
Step 1: Determine the change in the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU for the taxable year
—(i)
In general.
The change in the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU for the taxable year equals—
(A) The owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU, determined in the functional currency of the owner under paragraph (e) of this section, on the last day of the taxable year; less
(B) The owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU, determined in the functional currency of the owner under paragraph (e) of this section, on the last day of the preceding taxable year.
(ii)
Year section 987 QBU is terminated.
If a section 987 QBU is terminated within the meaning of § 1.987-8 during an owner's taxable year, the termination date is treated as the last day of the taxable year for purposes of this section.
(iii)
First taxable year of a section 987 QBU.
If the owner's taxable year is the first taxable year of a section 987 QBU, the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section is zero.
(iv)
First year in which an election is in effect or ceases to be in effect.
Except as otherwise provided, the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section is determined based on the elections that were (or were not) in effect on the last day of the preceding taxable year.
(2)
Step 2: Increase the amount determined in step 1 by the amount of assets transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner
—(i)
In general.
The amount determined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is increased by the total amount of assets transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner during the taxable year translated into the functional currency of the owner as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Assets transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner during the taxable year.
The total amount of assets transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner for the taxable year translated into the functional currency of the owner equals the sum of:
(A) The amount of the functional currency of the section 987 QBU and the aggregate adjusted basis of all other marked assets, after taking into account § 1.988-1(a)(10), transferred to the owner during the taxable year determined in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU and translated into the functional currency of the owner at the spot rate applicable to the date of transfer; and
(B) The aggregate adjusted basis of all historic assets transferred to the owner during the taxable year determined in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU and translated into the functional currency of the owner at the historic rate for each such asset.
(3)
Step 3: Decrease the amount determined in steps 1 and 2 by the amount of assets transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU
—(i)
In general.
The aggregate amount determined in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section is decreased by the total amount of assets transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU during the taxable year determined in the functional currency of the owner as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Assets transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU during the taxable year.
The total amount of assets transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU for the taxable year equals the sum of:
(A) The amount of functional currency of the owner transferred to the section 987 QBU during the taxable year; and
(B) The aggregate adjusted basis of all other assets, after taking into account § 1.988-1(a)(10), transferred to the section 987 QBU during the taxable year determined in the functional currency of the owner immediately before the transfer.
(4)
Step 4: Decrease the amount determined in steps 1 through 3 by the amount of liabilities transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner
—(i)
In general.
The aggregate amount determined in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section is decreased by the total amount of liabilities transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner during the taxable year translated into
the functional currency of the owner as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Liabilities transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner during the taxable year.
The total amount of liabilities transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner for the taxable year equals the sum of:
(A) The amount of marked liabilities, after taking into account § 1.988-1(a)(10), transferred to the owner during the taxable year determined in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU and translated into the functional currency of the owner at the spot rate applicable to the date of transfer; and
(B) The amount of historic liabilities transferred to the owner during the taxable year determined in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU and translated into the functional currency of the owner at the historic rate for each such liability.
(5)
Step 5: Increase the amount determined in steps 1 through 4 by the amount of liabilities transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU.
The aggregate amount determined in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section is increased by the total amount of liabilities, after taking into account § 1.988-1(a)(10), transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU during the taxable year determined in the functional currency of the owner immediately before the transfer.
(6)
Step 6: Decrease or increase the amount determined in steps 1 through 5 by the section 987 taxable income or loss, respectively, of the section 987 QBU for the taxable year.
The aggregate amount determined in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section is decreased or increased by the section 987 taxable income or loss, respectively, computed under § 1.987-3 for the taxable year.
(7)
Step 7: Increase the amount determined in steps 1 through 6 by certain expenses or losses that are not deductible in computing the section 987 taxable income or loss of the section 987 QBU for the taxable year.
The aggregate amount determined under paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section is increased by the amount of any expense or loss that reduces the basis of assets or increases the amount of liabilities attributable to the section 987 QBU for the taxable year but is not deductible in computing the section 987 QBU's taxable income or loss for the taxable year (such as business interest expense that is not deductible under section 163(j)). Items of expense or loss described in the preceding sentence are translated into the functional currency of the owner using the exchange rate that would apply under § 1.987-3(c) if they were deductible in computing the section 987 QBU's taxable income or loss for the taxable year. However, any foreign income taxes incurred by the section 987 QBU with respect to which the owner claims a credit are translated at the same rate at which such taxes were translated under section 986(a).
(8)
Step 8: Decrease the amount determined in steps 1 through 7 by the amount of certain income or gain that is not included in taxable income in computing the section 987 taxable income or loss of the section 987 QBU for the taxable year.
The aggregate amount determined under paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section is decreased by the amount of any income or gain that increases the basis of assets or reduces the amount of liabilities attributable to the section 987 QBU for the taxable year but is not included in taxable income in computing the section 987 QBU's taxable income or loss for the taxable year. Items of income or gain described in the preceding sentence are translated into the functional currency of the owner using the exchange rate that would apply under § 1.987-3(c) if they were included in taxable income in computing the section 987 QBU's taxable income or loss for the taxable year.
(9)
Step 9: Increase or decrease the amount determined in steps 1 through 8 by any income or gain, or any deduction or loss, respectively, that does not impact the adjusted balance sheet.
The aggregate amount determined under paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section is increased by any items of income or gain taken into account in paragraph (d)(6) of this section (step 6) that do not increase the basis of assets or reduce the amount of liabilities attributable to the section 987 QBU for the taxable year, and decreased by any items of deduction or loss taken into account in paragraph (d)(6) of this section (step 6)
that do not reduce the basis of assets or increase the amount of liabilities attributable to the section 987 QBU for the taxable year. Items of income, gain, deduction, or loss described in the preceding sentence are translated into the functional currency of the owner using the exchange rate that applied under § 1.987-3(c) in computing the section 987 QBU's taxable income or loss for the taxable year.
(10)
Step 10: Decrease or increase the amount determined in steps 1 through 9 by any increase or decrease, respectively, to the section 987 QBU's net assets that is not previously taken into account under steps 2 through 9
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(10)(iii) of this section, the aggregate amount determined under paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section is—
(A) Decreased by the residual increase to net assets (as defined in paragraph (d)(10)(ii) of this section), translated into the owner's functional currency at the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year; or
(B) Increased by the residual decrease to net assets (as defined in paragraph (d)(10)(ii) of this section), translated into the owner's functional currency at the yearly average exchange rate for the taxable year.
(ii)
Determining the residual increase or decrease to net assets
—(A)
In general.
The residual increase to net assets is the positive amount, if any, that would be determined under paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU if such amounts were determined in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU. The residual decrease to net assets is the negative amount, if any, that would be determined under paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU if such amounts were determined in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU.
(B)
Application of step 1 in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU if a current rate election is in effect.
In a taxable year in which a current rate election is in effect, for purposes of applying step 1 (paragraph (d)(1) of this section) in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU, the change in the net value of the section 987 QBU is determined by reference to the QBU net value described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(C)
Application of steps 3 and 5 in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU.
For purposes of applying steps 3 and 5 (paragraphs (d)(3) and (5) of this section) in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU, the amount of assets and liabilities transferred from an owner to a section 987 QBU is determined by translating the basis of the assets and the amount of the liabilities under § 1.987-2(d).
(iii)
Modifications for taxable years to which a current rate election or an annual recognition election applies.
For any taxable year to which a current rate election or an annual recognition election applies, paragraphs (d)(10)(i) and (ii) of this section are applied by replacing “paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section” with “paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.”
(e)
Determination of the owner functional currency net value of a section 987 QBU
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the owner functional currency net value of a section 987 QBU on the last day of a taxable year is equal to the aggregate amount of functional currency and the adjusted basis of each other asset on the section 987 QBU's adjusted balance sheet on that day, less the aggregate amount of each liability on the section 987 QBU's adjusted balance sheet on that day, in each case translated into the owner's functional currency as provided in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i)
Marked item.
A marked item is translated into the owner's functional currency at the spot rate applicable to the last day of the relevant taxable year.
(ii)
Historic item.
A historic item is translated into the owner's functional currency at the historic rate.
(2)
Current rate election
—(i)
In general.
If a current rate election is in effect, the owner functional currency net value of a section 987 QBU on the last day of a taxable year is equal to the QBU net value described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, translated into the owner's functional currency at the spot rate applicable to that day.
(ii)
QBU net value.
The QBU net value of a section 987 QBU on the last day of a taxable year is determined in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU and is equal to the aggregate amount of functional currency and the adjusted basis of each other asset that is attributable to the section 987 QBU on that day, less the aggregate amount of each liability that is attributable to the section 987 QBU on that day. The QBU net value of a section 987 QBU on the last day of a taxable year may be determined either by preparing an adjusted balance sheet or by following the steps described in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section (provided that the calculation is made consistently for all years in which a current rate election is in effect). However, in the first taxable year in which a current rate election ceases to be in effect, the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU for the preceding taxable year must be determined by preparing an adjusted balance sheet.
(iii)
Alternative calculation of QBU net value.
The QBU net value of a section 987 QBU on the last day of a taxable year can be computed using the following steps (each applied in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU).
See
paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section (
Example 2
) for an example illustrating this rule.
(A)
Step 1: Determine the QBU net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year.
Determine the QBU net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year under this paragraph (e)(2). If the owner's taxable year is the first taxable year of a section 987 QBU, the QBU net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year is zero. In the first taxable year in which a current rate election is in effect (other than the taxable year beginning on the transition date or the first taxable year of a section 987 QBU), the QBU net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year is determined by preparing an adjusted balance sheet. In the taxable year beginning on the transition date (other than the first taxable year of a section 987 QBU), the QBU net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year may be determined either by preparing an adjusted balance sheet or by applying the steps described in this paragraph (e)(2)(iii) for each taxable year beginning with the first taxable year of the section 987 QBU.
(B)
Step 2: Adjust for transfers between the section 987 QBU and its owner.
The amount determined in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is increased by the amount of each transfer described in paragraph (d)(3) or (4) of this section and decreased by the amount of each transfer described in paragraph (d)(2) or (5) of this section (in each case, after adjustment for gain or loss recognized under § 1.988-1(a)(10)). For this purpose, the amount of assets and liabilities transferred from an owner to a section 987 QBU is determined by translating the basis of the assets and the amount of the liabilities under § 1.987-2(d)(1).
(C)
Step 3: Adjust for income or loss of the section 987 QBU.
The amount determined in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section is increased by items of income and gain attributable to the section 987 QBU (including tax-exempt income described in paragraph (d)(8) of this section) for the taxable year and reduced by items of deduction and loss attributable to the section 987 QBU (including non-deductible expenses described in paragraph (d)(7) of this section) for the taxable year. However, no adjustment is made under the preceding sentence for any item of income, gain, deduction, or loss described in paragraph (d)(9) of this section.
(f)
Combinations and separations
—(1)
Combinations.
The net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a combined QBU for a taxable year is equal to the sum of the combining QBUs' net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss.
See
paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section (
Example 1
) for an illustration of this rule.
(2)
Separations.
The net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a separated QBU for a taxable year is equal to the separating QBU's net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss multiplied by the separation fraction. For purposes of determining the owner functional currency net value and QBU net value of the separated QBUs on the last day of the taxable year preceding the taxable year of separation under paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(B) and (e) of this section, the assets and
liabilities attributable to the separating QBU on that day are deemed to be attributable to the separated QBUs on that day, and are apportioned between the separated QBUs in a reasonable manner that takes into account the assets and liabilities attributable to the separated QBUs immediately after the separation.
See
paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section (
Example 2
) for an illustration of this rule.
(3)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. For purposes of these examples, assume that no section 987 elections are in effect.
(i)
Example 1: Combination of two section 987 QBUs that have the same owner
—(A)
Facts.
DC1, a domestic corporation, owns Entity A, a DE. Entity A conducts a manufacturing business that constitutes a section 987 QBU (
Manufacturing QBU
) that has the euro as its functional currency. Manufacturing QBU has a net accumulated unrecognized section 987 loss of $100. DC1 also owns Entity B, a DE. Entity B conducts a sales business that constitutes a section 987 QBU (
Sales QBU
) that has the euro as its functional currency. Sales QBU has a net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain of $110. During the taxable year, Entity A merges into Entity B under local law pursuant to which Entity A ceases to exist, Entity B survives, and Entity B acquires all the assets and liabilities of Entity A. As a result, the books and records of Manufacturing QBU and Sales QBU are combined into a new single set of books and records. The combined entity has the euro as its functional currency.
(B)
Analysis.
Pursuant to § 1.987-2(c)(9)(i), Manufacturing QBU and Sales QBU are combining QBUs, and their combination does not give rise to a transfer that is taken into account in determining the amount of a remittance (as defined in § 1.987-5(c)). For purposes of computing net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss under this section for the year of the combination, the combination is deemed to have occurred on the last day of the owner's prior taxable year, such that the owner functional currency net value of the combined section 987 QBU at the end of that taxable year described under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section takes into account items attributable to both Manufacturing QBU and Sales QBU at that time. Additionally, any transactions between Manufacturing QBU and Sales QBU occurring during the year of the merger will not result in transfers to or from a section 987 QBU. Pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the combined QBU will have a net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain of $10 (the $100 loss from Manufacturing QBU plus the $110 gain from Sales QBU).
(ii)
Example 2: Separation of two section 987 QBUs that have the same owner
—(A)
Facts.
DC1, a domestic corporation, owns Entity A, a DE. Entity A conducts a business in the Netherlands that constitutes a section 987 QBU (
Dutch QBU
) that has the euro as its functional currency. The business of Dutch QBU consists of manufacturing and selling bicycles and scooters and is recorded on a single set of books and records. On the last day of year 1, the adjusted basis of the gross assets of Dutch QBU is €1,000. In year 2, the net accumulated unrecognized section 987 loss of Dutch QBU from all prior taxable years is $200. During year 2, Entity A separates the bicycle and scooter business such that each business begins to have its own books and records and to meet the definition of a section 987 QBU under § 1.987-1(b)(3) (hereafter, “bicycle QBU” and “scooter QBU”). There are no transfers between DC1 and Dutch QBU before the separation. After the separation, the aggregate adjusted basis of bicycle QBU's assets is €600 and the aggregate adjusted basis of scooter QBU's assets is €400. Each section 987 QBU continues to have the euro as its functional currency.
(B)
Analysis.
Pursuant to § 1.987-2(c)(9)(iii), bicycle QBU and scooter QBU are separated QBUs, and the separation of Dutch QBU, a separating QBU, does not give rise to a transfer taken into account in determining the amount of a remittance. For purposes of computing net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss under this section for year 2, the separation will be deemed to have occurred on the last day of the owner's prior taxable year, year 1. Pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section and § 1.987-1(h), bicycle QBU will have a
separation fraction of €600/€1,000 and net accumulated unrecognized section 987 loss of $120 (€600/€1,000 × $200), and scooter QBU will have a separation fraction of €400/€1,000 and net accumulated unrecognized section 987 loss of $80 (€400/€1,000 × $200).
(g)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of this section. For purposes of the examples, U.S. Corp is a domestic corporation that uses the calendar year as its taxable year and has the dollar as its functional currency. Except as otherwise indicated, no section 987 elections are in effect. The examples are not intended to demonstrate when activities constitute a trade or business within the meaning of § 1.989(a)-1(b)(2)(ii)(A) and (c) and therefore whether a section 987 QBU is considered to exist.
(1)
Example 1: Determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss
—(i)
Facts.
On July 1, year 1, U.S. Corp establishes Japan Branch, a section 987 QBU that has the yen as its functional currency, and U.S. Corp transfers to Japan Branch ¥100,000 with a basis of $1,000 and raw land with a basis of $500. On the same day, Japan Branch borrows ¥10,000 from a bank. In year 1, Japan Branch earns ¥12,000 for providing services and incurs ¥2,000 of related expenses. Japan Branch thus earns ¥10,000 of net income in year 1. The spot rate on July 1, year 1, is $1 = ¥100; the spot rate on December 31, year 1, is $1 = ¥120; and the average rate for the period of July 1, year 1, to December 31, year 1, is $1 = ¥110. Thus, the ¥12,000 of services revenue when translated under § 1.987-3(c)(1) at the yearly average exchange rate equals $109.09 (¥12,000 × ($1/¥110)) = $109.09). The ¥2,000 of expenses translated at the same yearly average exchange rate equals $18.18 (¥2,000 × ($1/¥110) = $18.18). Thus, Japan Branch's net income translated into dollars equals $90.91 ($109.09−$18.18 = $90.91).
(ii)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (a) of this section, U.S. Corp must compute the net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of Japan Branch for year 1. Because this is Japan Branch's first taxable year, the net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss (as defined under paragraph (b) of this section) is equal to the branch's unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for year 1 as determined in paragraph (d) of this section. The calculations under paragraph (d) of this section are made as follows:
(A)
Step 1.
Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section (step 1), U.S. Corp must determine the change in the owner functional currency net value (
OFCNV
) of Japan Branch for year 1 in dollars. The change in the OFCNV of Japan Branch for year 1 is equal to the OFCNV of Japan Branch determined in dollars on the last day of year 1, less the OFCNV of Japan Branch determined in dollars on the last day of the preceding taxable year.
(
1
) The OFCNV of Japan Branch on December 31, year 1 is determined under paragraph (e) of this section as the sum of the basis of each asset on Japan Branch's adjusted balance sheet on December 31, year 1, less the sum of each liability on Japan Branch's adjusted balance sheet on that date, translated into dollars as provided in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(
2
) For this purpose, Japan Branch will show the following assets and liabilities on its adjusted balance sheet for December 31, year 1: cash of ¥120,000; raw land with a basis of ¥55,000 ($500 translated under § 1.987-2(d)(2) at the historic rate of $1 = ¥110); and liabilities of ¥10,000.
(
3
) Under paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, U.S. Corp will translate these items as follows. The ¥120,000 is a marked asset and the ¥10,000 liability is a marked liability. These items are translated into dollars on December 31, year 1, using the spot rate on December 31, year 1, of $1 = ¥120. The raw land is a historic asset and is translated into dollars under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section at the historic rate, which under § 1.987-1(c)(3)(i)(A) is the yearly average exchange rate of $1 = ¥110 applicable to the year the land was transferred to the QBU.
(
4
) The OFCNV of Japan Branch on December 31, year 1, in dollars is $1,416.67. The determination of the OFCNV of Japan Branch on December 31, year 1, is shown below in dollars together with the corresponding amounts in yen.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
g
)(1)(
ii
)(A)(
4
)—OFCNV—End of Year 1
Amount in ¥
Translation rate
Amount in $
Assets
Yen
120,000
$1 = ¥120 (spot rate-12/31/year 1)
$1,000.00
Land
55,000
$1 = ¥110 (historic rate-yearly average rate-year 1)
500.00
Total assets
175,000
1,500.00
Liabilities
Bank loan
10,000
$1 = ¥120 (spot rate-12/31/year 1)
83.33
Total liabilities
10,000
83.33
Year 1 ending net value
165,000
1,416.67
(
5
) Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the change in OFCNV of Japan Branch for year 1 is equal to the OFCNV of the branch determined in dollars on December 31, year 1, (which is $1,416.67) less the OFCNV of the branch determined in dollars on the last day of the preceding taxable year. Because this is the first taxable year of Japan Branch, the OFCNV of Japan Branch determined in dollars on the last day of the preceding taxable year is zero under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. Accordingly, the change in OFCNV of Japan Branch for year 1 is $1,416.67.
(B)
Step 2 (no adjustment).
No adjustment is made under paragraph (d)(2) of this section (step 2) because no assets were transferred by Japan Branch to U.S. Corp during the taxable year.
(C)
Step 3.
On July 1, year 1, U.S. Corp transferred to Japan Branch ¥100,000 with a basis of $1,000.00 and raw land with a basis of $500.00 (equal to ¥55,000, translated under § 1.987-2(d)(2) at the historic rate of $1 = ¥110). The total amount of assets transferred from U.S. Corp to Japan Branch in dollars is $1,500, and the total amount of the transfer in yen is ¥155,000. Therefore, under paragraph (d)(3) of this section (step 3), the amount determined in previous steps is reduced by $1,500.00, from $1,416.67 to negative $83.33.
(D)
Steps 4 and 5 (no adjustment).
No adjustment is made under paragraphs (d)(4) and (5) of this section (steps 4 and 5) because no liabilities were transferred by U.S. Corp to Japan Branch or by Japan Branch to U.S. Corp during the taxable year.
(E)
Step 6.
Under paragraph (d)(6) of this section (step 6), the amount determined in previous steps is decreased by the section 987 taxable income of Japan Branch of $90.91, from negative $83.33 to negative $174.24.
(F)
Steps 7 through 9 (no adjustment).
No adjustment is made under paragraphs (d)(7) through (9) of this section (steps 7 through 9) because all of Japan Branch's items of income or deduction for the taxable year impact the basis of Japan Branch's assets or the amount of its liabilities and are taken into account in computing taxable income.
(G)
Step 10 (no adjustment)
—(
1
)
Calculation of residual increase or decrease to net assets.
Under paragraph (d)(10)(ii) of this section, the residual increase (or decrease) to net assets is the positive (or negative) amount, if any, that would be determined under paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section (steps 1 through 9) in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU if such amounts were determined in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU. In year 1, the relevant steps that must be applied in the functional currency of Japan Branch (the yen) are paragraphs (d)(1), (3), and (6) of this section (steps 1, 3, and 6). For purposes of applying paragraph (d)(1) of this section (step 1) in yen, the change in the net value of Japan Branch is ¥165,000.
See
paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(A)(
4
) of this section. For purposes of applying paragraph (d)(3) of this section (step 3) in yen, the amount of assets transferred from U.S. Corp to Japan Branch is ¥155,000.
See
paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(C) of this section. For purposes of applying paragraph (d)(6) of this section (step 6) in yen, Japan Branch earned ¥10,000 of net income in year 1. The application of these steps results in no residual increase or decrease to the adjusted balance sheet, as shown below:
Table 2 to Paragraph (
g
)(1)(
ii
)(G)(
1
)—Application of Relevant Steps in Yen
Change in net value in yen (step 1)
¥165,000
Subtract amount determined in yen under step 3 (transfers from owner to section 987 QBU)
(¥155,000)
Subtract amount determined in yen under step 6 (section 987 taxable income or loss)
(¥10,000)
Residual increase or decrease to the adjusted balance sheet
¥0
(
2
)
No residual increase or decrease to the adjusted balance sheet.
As explained in paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(G)(
1
) of this section, there is no residual increase or decrease to the adjusted balance sheet of Japan Branch in year 1. Therefore, no adjustment is made under paragraph (d)(10) of this section (step 10). Accordingly, the unrecognized section 987 loss of Japan Branch for year 1 is $174.24.
(2)
Example 2: Determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss if a current rate election is in effect
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (g)(1) of this section (
Example 1
), except that U.S. Corp makes a current rate election under § 1.987-1(d)(2) for year 1.
(ii)
Analysis.
Because a current rate election is in effect for year 1, the unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for year 1 is determined by applying only paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) and (10) of this section (steps 1 through 5 and step 10). The calculations under paragraph (d) of this section are made as follows:
(A)
Step 1.
The change in the OFCNV of Japan Branch for year 1 is equal to the OFCNV of Japan Branch determined in dollars on the last day of year 1, less the OFCNV of Japan Branch determined in dollars on the last day of the preceding taxable year.
(
1
) For this purpose, Japan Branch will show the same assets and liabilities on its adjusted balance sheet for December 31, year 1 as are described in paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(A)(
2
) of this section (
Example 1
), but the land is treated as a marked asset as a result of the current rate election. The adjusted balance sheet reflects cash of ¥120,000, raw land with a basis of ¥50,000 ($500 translated under § 1.987-2(d)(1) at the July 1, year 1 spot rate of $1 = ¥100), and liabilities of ¥10,000.
(
2
) Under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, because a current rate election is in effect, the OFCNV of Japan Branch at the end of year 1 is equal to the QBU net value, translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable spot rate on the last day of the taxable year. The QBU net value of Japan Branch at the end of year 1 is ¥160,000, as shown below. The OFCNV of Japan Branch is $1,333.33, which is equal to the QBU net value of ¥160,000, translated at the applicable spot rate on December 31, year 1 of $1 = ¥120.
Table 3 to Paragraph
(g)(2)(ii)
(A)(
2
)—QBU Net Value—Year 1
Amount in ¥
Assets:
Yen
120,000
Land
50,000
Total assets
170,000
Liabilities:
Bank loan
10,000
Total liabilities
10,000
Year 1 QBU net value
160,000
(
3
) Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the change in OFCNV of Japan Branch for year 1 is equal to the OFCNV of the branch determined in dollars on December 31, year 1, (which is $1,333.33) less the OFCNV of the branch determined in dollars on the last day of the preceding taxable year. Because this is the first taxable year of Japan Branch, the OFCNV of Japan Branch determined in dollars on the last day of the preceding taxable year is zero under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. Accordingly, the change in OFCNV of Japan Branch for year 1 is $1,333.33.
(B)
Step 2 (no adjustment).
No adjustment is made under paragraph (d)(2) of this section (step 2) because no assets were transferred by Japan Branch to U.S. Corp during the taxable year.
(C)
Step 3.
On July 1, year 1, U.S. Corp transferred to Japan Branch ¥100,000 with a basis of $1,000.00 and raw land with a basis of $500.00 (equal to ¥50,000, translated under § 1.987-2(d)(1) at the spot rate on July 31, year 1 of $1 = ¥100). The total amount of assets transferred in dollars is $1,500.00, and the amount of assets transferred in yen is ¥150,000. Therefore, under paragraph (d)(3) of this section (step 3), the amount determined in previous steps is reduced by $1,500, from $1,333.33 to negative $166.67.
(D)
Steps 4 and 5 (no adjustment
). No adjustment is made under paragraphs (d)(4) and (5) of this section (steps 4 and 5) because no liabilities were transferred by U.S. Corp to Japan Branch or by Japan Branch to U.S. Corp during the taxable year.
(E)
Steps 6 through 9 do not apply.
Under paragraph (d) of this section, paragraphs (d)(6) through (9) of this section (steps 6 through 9) do not apply because a current rate election is in effect.
(F)
Step 10
—(
1
)
Application of relevant steps in Japan Branch's functional currency.
Under paragraph (d)(10)(iii) of this section, because a current rate election is in effect, the residual increase or decrease to net assets is determined by applying paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section (steps 1 through 5) in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU. The relevant steps that must be applied under paragraph (d)(10) of this section in the functional currency of Japan Branch are paragraphs (d)(1) and (3) of this section (steps 1 and 3). Under paragraph (d)(10)(ii)(B) of this section, step 1 is applied by reference to Japan Branch's QBU net value.
See
paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(A) and (C) of this section for amounts determined in yen. The residual increase to net assets is determined as follows:
Table 4 to Paragraph
(g)(2)(ii)
(F)(
1
)—Application of Relevant Steps in Yen
Step 1: Change in net value
¥160,000
Step 3: Subtract amount of transfers from owner to section 987 QBU
(¥150,000)
Residual increase or decrease to the adjusted balance sheet
¥10,000
(
2
)
Residual increase or decrease to net assets.
As explained in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(F)(
1
) of this section, the residual increase to Japan Branch's net assets in year 1 is ¥10,000. This amount, translated at the yearly average exchange rate of $1 = ¥110, equals $90.91. Therefore, the amount determined in previous steps is reduced by $90.91, from negative $166.67 to negative $257.58. Accordingly, the unrecognized section 987 loss of Japan Branch for year 1 is $257.58.
(iii)
Alternative computation of QBU net value.
Alternatively, for purposes of applying steps 1 and 10 (paragraphs (d)(1) and (10) of this section), U.S. Corp can determine QBU net value using the following steps under paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.
(A)
Step 1: Determine QBU net value at the end of the preceding taxable year.
Because year 1 is the first taxable year in which Japan Branch exists, the QBU net value at the end of the preceding taxable year is zero.
(B)
Step 2: Adjust for transfers between the section 987 QBU and its owner.
During year 1, U.S. Corp transferred assets to Japan Branch with an aggregate basis of ¥150,000, as described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(C) of this section. Therefore, the amount determined in step 1 is increased from zero to ¥150,000.
(C)
Step 3: Adjust for income or loss of the section 987 QBU.
During year 1, Japan Branch earned ¥10,000 of net income. Therefore, the amount determined in step 2 is increased from ¥150,000 to ¥160,000.
(D)
QBU net value.
Japan Branch's QBU net value at the end of the preceding taxable year is zero. This amount is increased by the transfer from U.S. Corp of ¥150,000 and by Japan Branch's taxable income of ¥10,000. Japan Branch did not have any tax-exempt income or non-deductible expenses in year 1. Accordingly, Japan
Branch's QBU net value at the end of year 1 is ¥160,000.
(3)
Example 3: Determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss when a current rate election is revoked
—(i)
Facts
—(A)
Background.
The facts in year 1 are the same as in paragraph (g)(2) of this section (
Example 2
). In year 9, a current rate election remains in effect, U.S. Corp has net unrecognized section 987 loss of $1,000 with respect to Japan Branch, and Japan Branch does not make a remittance. On December 31, year 9, the adjusted balance sheet of Japan Branch shows the following assets and liabilities: cash of ¥120,000; raw land with a basis of ¥50,000; and liabilities of ¥10,000. Effective for year 10, U.S. Corp revokes the current rate election.
(B)
Operations in year 10.
In year 10, Japan Branch earns ¥12,000 for providing services and incurs ¥2,000 of related expenses. Japan Branch thus earns ¥10,000 of net income in year 10. On December 31, year 10, the adjusted balance sheet of Japan Branch shows the following assets and liabilities: cash of ¥130,000; raw land with a basis of ¥50,000; and liabilities of ¥10,000. Assume that the spot rate on December 31, year 9, is $1 = ¥120; the spot rate on December 31, year 10, is $1 = ¥130; and the yearly average exchange rate for year 10 is $1 = ¥125. Thus, the ¥12,000 of services revenue when properly translated under § 1.987-3(c)(1) at the yearly average exchange rate equals $96.00 (¥12,000 × ($1/¥125)) = $96.00). The ¥2,000 of expenses translated at the same yearly average exchange rate equals $16.00 (¥2,000 × ($1/¥125) = $16.00). Thus, Japan Branch's net income translated into dollars equals $80. There are no transfers of assets or liabilities between U.S. Corp and Japan Branch in year 10.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Determination of OFCNV for year 9.
Under paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section, the OFCNV of a section 987 QBU on the last day of the preceding taxable year is determined based on the elections that were (or were not) in effect on the last day of that taxable year. In year 9, a current rate election was in effect. Therefore, in determining the OFCNV of Japan Branch for year 9, all assets and liabilities of Japan Branch (including the land) are treated as marked items. Under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, because a current rate election was in effect for year 9, the OFCNV of Japan Branch at the end of year 9 is equal to the QBU net value, translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable spot rate on the last day of the taxable year. The QBU net value of Japan Branch at the end of year 9 is ¥160,000, as shown below. The OFCNV of Japan Branch is $1,333.33, which is equal to the QBU net value of ¥160,000, translated at the applicable spot rate on December 31, year 9 of $1 = ¥120.
Table 5 to Paragraph
(g)(3)(ii)
(A)—QBU Net Value—End of Year 9
Amount in ¥
Assets:
Yen
120,000
Land
50,000
Total assets
170,000
Liabilities:
Bank loan
10,000
Total liabilities
10,000
Year 9 ending net value
160,000
(B)
Determination of OFCNV for year 10.
In year 10, a current rate election is not in effect. Therefore, in determining the OFCNV of Japan Branch for year 10, the land owned by Japan Branch is treated as a historic item. Under § 1.987-1(c)(3)(i)(E), the historic rate applicable to historic items that were attributable to Japan Branch on the last day of the last taxable year in which a current rate election was in effect (December 31, year 9) generally is equal to the spot rate applicable to that day. Therefore, the historic rate applicable to the land is the spot rate on December 31, year 9. The OFCNV of Japan Branch for year 10 is $1,339.74, determined under paragraph (e) of this section as follows (together with the corresponding amounts in yen):
Table 6 to Paragraph (
g
)(3)(
ii
)(B)—OFCNV—End of Year 10
Amount in ¥
Translation rate
Amount in $
Assets:
Yen
¥130,000
$1 = ¥130 (spot rate-12/31/year 10)
$1,000.00
Land
50,000
$1 = ¥120 (historic rate-spot rate-12/31/year 9)
416.67
Total assets
180,000
1,416.67
Liabilities:
Bank loan
10,000
$1 = ¥130 (spot rate-12/31/year 10)
76.92
Total liabilities
10,000
76.92
Year 10 ending net value
170,000
1,339.74
(C)
Determination of unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for year 10.
The unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of Japan Branch for year 10 is determined under paragraph (d) of this section as follows:
(
1
)
Step 1.
The change in the OFCNV of Japan Branch for year 10 is equal to the OFCNV of Japan Branch determined in dollars on the last day of year 10, less the OFCNV of Japan Branch determined in dollars on the last day of year 9. Therefore, the change in OFCNV is equal to $6.41 ($1,339.74—$1,333.33).
(
2
)
Steps 2 through 5 (no adjustment).
No adjustment is made under paragraphs (d)(2) through (5) of this section (steps 2 through 5) because no assets or liabilities were transferred by U.S. Corp to Japan Branch or by Japan Branch to U.S. Corp during the taxable year.
(
3
)
Step 6.
Under paragraph (d)(6) of this section (step 6), the amount determined in previous steps is decreased by the section 987 taxable income of Japan Branch of $80.00, from $6.41 to negative $73.59.
(
4
)
Steps 7 through 10 (no adjustment).
No adjustment is made under paragraphs (d)(7) through (10) of this section (steps 7 through 10) because all of Japan Branch's items of income or deduction for the taxable year impact the basis of Japan Branch's assets or the amount of its liabilities and are taken into account in computing taxable income. In addition, Japan Branch does not have a residual increase or decrease to net assets (because the change in net value of ¥10,000 is equal to the amount of Japan Branch's net income in year 10). Accordingly, the unrecognized section 987 loss of Japan Branch for year 10 is negative $73.59.
(D)
Determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss.
In year 10, Japan Branch has net accumulated section 987 loss of $1,000. Because U.S. Corp revoked the current rate election for year 10, the net accumulated section 987 loss of $1,000 becomes suspended section 987 loss under § 1.987-11(d)(2) and Japan Branch's net accumulated section 987 loss is reduced to zero. Therefore, in year 10, Japan Branch's net unrecognized section 987 loss is equal to $73.59, its unrecognized section 987 loss for year 10.
[T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024]
§ 1.987-5
Recognition of section 987 gain or loss.
(a)
Recognition of section 987 gain or loss by the owner of a section 987 QBU.
The taxable income of an owner of a section 987 QBU includes the owner's section 987 gain or loss recognized with respect to the section 987 QBU for the taxable year. Except as otherwise provided in the section 987 regulations (including § 1.987-11(c), § 1.987-12(b) or (e), or § 1.987-13(h) or (k)), for any taxable year the owner's section 987 gain or loss recognized with respect to a section 987 QBU is equal to:
(1) The owner's net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss with respect to the section 987 QBU determined under § 1.987-4 on the last day of such taxable year (or, if earlier, on the day the section 987 QBU is terminated under § 1.987-8); multiplied by
(2) The owner's remittance proportion for the taxable year, as determined under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Remittance proportion
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph
(b)(2) of this section, the owner's remittance proportion with respect to a section 987 QBU for a taxable year is equal to:
(i) The amount of the remittance, as determined under paragraph (c) of this section, to the owner from the section 987 QBU for such taxable year; divided by
(ii) The sum of:
(A) The aggregate adjusted basis of the gross assets that are attributable to the section 987 QBU as of the end of the taxable year, determined in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU; and
(B) The amount of the remittance, as determined under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Annual recognition election.
A taxpayer may elect to recognize its net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss with respect to the section 987 QBU on an annual basis (
annual recognition election
). For any taxable year in which the annual recognition election is in effect, the owner's remittance proportion with respect to a section 987 QBU is one.
See
paragraph (g) of this section for an example illustrating this rule. Additionally, for any taxable year of an original deferral QBU owner in which an annual recognition election is in effect, the remittance proportion with respect to any successor deferral QBU is one.
(c)
Remittance
—(1)
Definition.
A remittance is determined in the section 987 QBU's functional currency and equals the excess, if any, of:
(i) The aggregate of all amounts transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner during the taxable year, as determined in paragraph (d) of this section; over
(ii) The aggregate of all amounts transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU during the taxable year, as determined in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2)
Alternative calculation.
The amount of a remittance described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section may alternatively be determined under the following steps (each applied in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU). If the amount determined under this paragraph (c)(2) is negative, the amount of the remittance is zero.
(i)
Step 1: Determine the change in QBU net value.
The change in QBU net value is equal to the QBU net value on the date provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, less the QBU net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year. In the first taxable year in which the section 987 QBU exists, the QBU net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year is zero.
(ii)
Step 2: Adjust the amount determined in step 1 for income or loss of the section 987 QBU.
The amount determined in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section is reduced (including below zero) by items of income and gain attributable to the section 987 QBU (including tax-exempt income described in § 1.987-4(d)(8)) for the taxable year and increased by items of deduction and loss attributable to the section 987 QBU (including non-deductible expenses described in § 1.987-4(d)(7)) for the taxable year. However, no adjustment is made under the preceding sentence for any item of income, gain, deduction, or loss described in § 1.987-4(d)(9) (items that do not impact the adjusted balance sheet).
(iii)
Step 3: Multiply the amount determined in step 2 by negative one.
The amount of a remittance is equal to the amount determined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section multiplied by negative one.
(3)
Day when a remittance is determined.
An owner's remittance from a section 987 QBU for a taxable year is determined on the last day of the taxable year (or, if earlier, on the day of the taxable year when the section 987 QBU is terminated under § 1.987-8).
(4)
Termination.
A termination of a section 987 QBU as determined under § 1.987-8 is treated as a remittance of all the gross assets of the section 987 QBU to the owner on the date of such termination.
See
§ 1.987-8(e). Accordingly, for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the remittance proportion in the case of a termination is one.
(d)
Aggregate of all amounts transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner for the taxable year.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, the aggregate of all amounts transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner for the taxable year is the aggregate amount of functional currency and the
aggregate adjusted basis of the other assets transferred (after taking into account § 1.988-1(a)(10)), determined in the section 987 QBU's functional currency. Solely for this purpose, the amount of liabilities transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU (determined in the section 987 QBU's functional currency under § 1.987-2(d) after taking into account § 1.988-1(a)(10)) is treated as a transfer of assets from the section 987 QBU to the owner with an adjusted basis equal to the amount of such liabilities.
(e)
Aggregate of all amounts transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU for the taxable year.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the aggregate of all amounts transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU for the taxable year is the aggregate amount of functional currency and the aggregate adjusted basis of the assets transferred (determined in the section 987 QBU's functional currency under § 1.987-2(d) after taking into account § 1.988-1(a)(10)). Solely for this purpose, the amount of liabilities transferred from the section 987 QBU to the owner (determined in the section 987 QBU's functional currency after taking into account § 1.988-1(a)(10)) is treated as a transfer of assets from the owner to the section 987 QBU with an adjusted basis equal to the amount of such liabilities.
(f)
Determination of owner's adjusted basis in transferred assets and amount of transferred liabilities
—(1)
In general.
The owner's adjusted basis in an asset or the amount of a liability received in a transfer from a section 987 QBU (whether or not such transfer is made in connection with a remittance) is determined in the owner's functional currency under the rules prescribed in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2)
Marked items.
The basis of a marked asset or amount of a marked liability is the amount determined by translating the section 987 QBU's functional currency basis of the asset or amount of the liability, after taking into account § 1.988-1(a)(10), into the owner's functional currency at the spot rate applicable to the date of transfer.
(3)
Historic items.
The basis of a historic asset or amount of a historic liability is the amount determined by translating the section 987 QBU's functional currency basis of the asset or amount of the liability into the owner's functional currency at the historic rate for the asset or liability.
(g)
Example—Calculation of section 987 gain or loss recognized.
The following example illustrates the calculation of section 987 gain or loss under this section. For purposes of this example, except as otherwise indicated, assume that no section 987 elections are in effect. Depreciation is ignored for purposes of this example.
(1)
Facts
—(i)
In general.
U.S. Corp, a domestic corporation with the dollar as its functional currency, operates in the United Kingdom through Business A, a section 987 QBU with the pound as its functional currency. The net unrecognized section 987 gain for Business A as determined under § 1.987-4 as of the last day of year 2 is $80.
(ii)
Year 1 balance sheet.
At the end of year 1, the following assets are attributable to Business A: cash of £3,350; a computer with an adjusted basis of £500; and a machine with an adjusted basis of £500. Thus, the aggregate basis of Business A's assets is £4,350. Business A has no liabilities.
(iii)
Transfers and income in year 2.
During year 2, Business A earned income of £1,500. In addition, the following transfers took place between U.S. Corp and Business A in year 2. On January 5, year 2, U.S. Corp transferred to Business A £300 (acquired by U.S. Corp immediately before the transfer). On March 5, year 2, Business A transferred a machine (with an adjusted basis of £500) to U.S. Corp. On November 1, year 2, Business A transferred £2,300 to U.S. Corp. On December 7, year 2, U.S. Corp transferred a truck to Business A. The adjusted basis of the truck, when properly translated into pounds under § 1.987-2(d), is £2,000.
(iv)
Year 2 balance sheet.
At the end of year 2, the following assets are attributable to Business A: cash of £2,850, a computer with a pound adjusted basis of £500, and a truck with a pound adjusted basis of £2,000. Thus, the aggregate basis of Business A's assets is £5,350. Business A has no liabilities.
(2)
Analysis.
U.S. Corp's section 987 gain with respect to Business A is determined as follows:
(i)
Computation of amount of remittance.
Under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, U.S. Corp must determine the amount of the remittance for year 2 in the QBU's functional currency (pounds) on the last day of year 2. The amount of the remittance for year 2 is £500, determined as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
g
)(2)(
i
)
Transfers from Business A to U.S. Corp in pounds
Machine
£500
Pounds
£
2,300
Aggregate transfers from Business A to U.S. Corp
£2,800
Transfers from U.S. Corp to Business A in pounds
Truck
£2,000
Pounds
£
300
Aggregate transfers from U.S. Corp to Business A
£2,300
Computation of amount of remittance:
Aggregate transfers from Business A to U.S. Corp
£2,800
Less: aggregate transfers from U.S. Corp to Business A
(£
2,300)
Total remittance
£500
(ii)
Alternative computation of remittance amount.
Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, U.S. Corp can compute the amount of the remittance for year 2 using the following steps.
(A)
Step 1: Change in QBU net value.
The change in Business A's QBU net value is equal to £1,000 (£5,350—£4,350).
(B)
Step 2: Adjustment for income or loss.
The amount determined in step 1 (£1,000) is reduced by Business A's income for year 2 of £1,500, to negative £500.
(C)
Step 3: Multiply by negative one.
The amount determined in step 2 (negative £500) is multiplied by negative one. The remittance for year 2 is equal to £500.
(iii)
Computation of section 987 QBU gross assets plus remittance.
Under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, Business A must determine the aggregate basis of its gross assets and must increase this amount by the amount of the remittance.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
g
)(2)(
iii
)
Computer
£500
Pounds
£2,850
Truck
£
2,000
Aggregate gross assets
£5,350
Remittance
£500
Aggregate basis of Business A's gross assets at end of year 2, increased by amount of remittance
£5,850
(iv)
Computation of remittance proportion.
Under paragraph (b) of this section, Business A must compute the remittance proportion by dividing the £500 remittance amount by the £5,850 sum of the aggregate basis of Business A's gross assets and the amount of the remittance. The resulting remittance proportion is 0.085.
(v)
Computation of section 987 gain or loss.
The amount of U.S. Corp's section 987 gain or loss that is recognized with respect to Business A is determined under paragraph (a) of this section by multiplying the 0.085 remittance proportion by the $80 of net unrecognized section 987 gain. U.S. Corp's resulting recognized section 987 gain for year 2 is $6.80.
(3)
Annual recognition election.
If an annual recognition election under paragraph (b)(2) of this section were in effect for year 2, U.S. Corp's remittance proportion would be one. Accordingly, U.S. Corp would recognize all $80 of the net unrecognized section 987 gain with respect to Business A.
[T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024]
§ 1.987-6
Character and source of section 987 gain or loss.
(a)
Ordinary income or loss.
Section 987 gain or loss is ordinary income or loss for Federal income tax purposes.
(b)
Character and source of section 987 gain or loss.
With respect to each section 987 QBU, the character and source of section 987 gain or loss is determined under this paragraph (b) for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code, including sections 904(d), 907, and 954.
(1)
Timing of character and source determination.
The character and source
of section 987 gain or loss is determined based on the initial assignment pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section and may be reassigned in the year in which the section 987 gain or loss is recognized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. The initial assignment is made in the earliest of the taxable years described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The taxable year in which net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss is recognized.
(ii) The taxable year in which net unrecognized section 987 loss or pretransition loss becomes suspended section 987 loss.
(iii) The taxable year in which net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss becomes deferred section 987 gain or loss.
(iv) In the case of pretransition gain or loss that is recognized ratably over the transition period pursuant to the election under § 1.987-10(e)(5)(ii), the taxable year that includes the transition date.
(2)
Method for determining the character and source of section 987 gain or loss
—(i)
Initial assignment
—(A)
In general.
In the taxable year of the initial assignment, determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner assigns gross section 987 gain or loss to the statutory and residual groupings in the same proportions as the proportions in which the tax book value of the assets of the section 987 QBU are assigned to the groupings under the asset method in §§ 1.861-9(g) and 1.861-9T(g), as modified by this paragraph (b)(2)(i). For purposes of applying the asset method, the owner takes into account only the assets that are attributable to the section 987 QBU under § 1.987-2(b).
See
§ 1.987-11(e) and (f) (grouping of section 987 gain and loss and applying the loss-to-the-extent-of-gain rule on basis of the initial assignment of section 987 gain and loss under this paragraph (b)(2)(i)).
(B)
Special rules for applying the asset method to assign section 987 gain or loss.
For purposes of assigning gross section 987 gain or loss to the statutory and residual groupings under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the proportions in which the tax book value of the assets of the section 987 QBU are assigned to the groupings described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section are determined without regard to section 987 gain or loss. Further, the section 987 gain or loss is assigned after any reattribution of gross income required under § 1.904-4(f)(2)(vi) or § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(ii)(B)(
2
) (or the principles thereof, as applicable), but before the allocation and apportionment of expenses or the application of provisions that are based on a net income computation, such as the high-tax exception to passive category income in § 1.904-4(c), the high-tax exception to foreign base company income in § 1.954-1(d), and the high-tax exclusion from tested income in § 1.951A-2(c)(7).
(C)
Election to treat section 987 gain or loss that is assigned to subpart F income groups relating to foreign personal holding company income as attributable to section 988 transactions
—(
1
)
In general.
If an election is made under this paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
1
), section 987 gain or loss assigned under paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section to any grouping of passive foreign personal holding company income, as described in § 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(B)(2)(i), is treated as foreign currency gain of the owner attributable to section 988 transactions not directly related to the business needs of the controlled foreign corporation, or as loss allocated and apportioned to such foreign currency gain.
See
§ 1.987-1(g) for rules that apply to section 987 elections.
(
2
)
Coordination with § 1.954-2(g).
The rules of § 1.954-2(g)(2), (3) and (4) apply without regard to any section 987 gain treated as gain from section 988 transactions, or loss allocated and apportioned to such gain, by reason of an election under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
1
) of this section.
(D)
Section 987 gain or loss assigned to tentative tested income rather than tested income
—(
1
)
In general.
In the case of a controlled foreign corporation, section 987 gain or loss is initially assigned to tentative tested income within a section 904 category (a
tentative tested income group
) under paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section as though the election described in § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(viii) is in effect for the taxable year. As a result, section 987 gain or loss that would have initially
been characterized as tested income if no election under § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(viii) was in effect is initially characterized as tentative tested income.
(
2
)
For purposes of the GILTI high-tax exclusion, section 987 gain or loss is not attributable to any tested unit.
In the case of a controlled foreign corporation, the initial assignment of section 987 gain or loss is made as though the section 987 gain or loss was not attributable to any tested unit for purposes of applying § 1.951A-2(c)(7) (GILTI high-tax exclusion).
See
paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section (applying the GILTI high-tax exclusion by treating all section 987 gain or loss in the same tentative tested income group as composing a single tentative tested income item).
(ii)
Reassignment of section 987 gain or loss.
In the taxable year in which section 987 gain or loss is recognized (determined by taking into account §§ 1.987-5, 1.987-11(e), 1.987-12(c), and 1.987-13(b) through (d), if applicable), the section 987 gain or loss is sourced and characterized based on the initial assignment in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, but with appropriate changes to account for the application of provisions that apply to the section 987 gain or loss based on a net income computation such as the high-tax exception to passive category income in § 1.904-4(c), the high-tax exception to foreign base company income in § 1.954-1(d), and the high-tax exclusion to tested income in § 1.951A-2(c)(7). Thus, for example, if an election under § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(viii) is in effect for the taxable year, section 987 gain or loss initially assigned to a tentative tested income group will be reassigned to a tested income group (as defined in § 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(C)) or to the residual income group (as defined in § 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(D)), as applicable, depending on whether the item of income (as described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section) is subject to a high rate of tax (as determined under § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(vi)). If no election is made under § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(viii) for a taxable year, all of the section 987 gain or loss that is recognized in the taxable year that was initially assigned to tentative tested income under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, is reassigned to the appropriate tested income group (as defined in § 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(C)).
(iii)
Special rule for the application of the GILTI high-tax exclusion to section 987 gain or loss.
Section 987 gain in a tentative tested income group that is recognized by a controlled foreign corporation in a taxable year comprises a single tentative gross tested income item (as if it were allocable to its own tested unit) within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(ii), and section 987 loss in a tentative tested income group that is recognized by a controlled foreign corporation in the taxable year is allocated and apportioned to the corresponding tentative gross tested income item for purposes of calculating the tentative tested income item within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iii). Thus, for purposes of applying the high-tax exclusion in § 1.951A-2(c)(7), all of the section 987 gain and loss in a tentative tested income group that is recognized by the controlled foreign corporation in a taxable year is a single tentative tested income item.
(3)
Allocation and apportionment of foreign income tax to section 987 items under section 861.
For purposes of applying the definition of a corresponding U.S. item in § 1.861-20(b), an item of foreign gross income and an item of section 987 gain or loss are treated as arising from the same transaction or other realization event only if the requirements in both paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section are satisfied.
(i)
The foreign gross income is an item of foreign currency gain or loss.
The owner of the section 987 QBU, original deferral QBU owner, or original suspended loss QBU owner includes the foreign gross income under the laws of the foreign country in which it is a tax resident because under that foreign law it is required to recognize foreign currency gain or loss with respect to its interest in the section 987 QBU or with respect to a successor deferral QBU or successor suspended loss QBU.
(ii)
The same event or events give rise to both the foreign gross income and the section 987 gain or loss.
The remittance under § 1.987-5(c) that gave rise to the item of section 987 gain or loss comprises one or more of the events that gave rise to the item of foreign gross
income described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(c)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this section. For purposes of the examples, except as otherwise indicated, assume that no section 987 elections are in effect.
(1)
Example 1: Initial assignment and reassignment of section 987 gain or loss
—(i)
Facts.
CFC is a controlled foreign corporation with the Swiss franc (
Sf
) as its functional currency. CFC is the owner of Business A, a section 987 QBU that has the euro as its functional currency. For year 1, CFC does not have an election described in § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(viii) in effect but is subject to an election under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section. CFC recognizes section 987 gain of Sf10,000 under § 1.987-5. Business A has average total assets of Sf1,000,000 in year 1, which generate income (other than section 987 gain) as follows: Sf750,000 of assets that produce gross income in the statutory grouping for foreign source general category tested income under sections 904(d)(1)(A) and 951A; and Sf250,000 of assets that produce foreign source passive gross income in one of the groupings described in §§ 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) and 1.954-1(c)(1)(iii)(B) (subpart F income groups relating to passive foreign personal holding company income).
(ii)
Analysis.
Under paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A), (B), and (D) of this section, Sf7,500 (Sf750,000/Sf1,000,000 x Sf10,000) of the section 987 gain is initially assigned to the statutory grouping of foreign source general category tentative tested income. Because an election under § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(viii) is not in effect for the taxable year in which the section 987 gain is recognized, the section 987 gain is reassigned under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to foreign source general category tested income. The remaining Sf2,500 (Sf250,000/Sf1,000,000 × Sf10,000) is characterized under paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section by reference to assets that give rise to foreign source passive gross income in one of the groupings described in § 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) (subpart F income groups relating to passive foreign personal holding company income) and is therefore generally treated under the election in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section as foreign source foreign currency gain of CFC attributable to section 988 transactions not directly related to the business needs of the controlled foreign corporation. All of the section 987 gain is treated as ordinary income under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Example 2: Effect of GILTI high-tax exclusion—(i) Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(1) of this section (
Example 1
) except that CFC does have an election described in § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(viii) in effect. Without regard to the section 987 gain or loss, CFC has two tentative gross tested income items: Sf100,000 of gross tentative tested income attributable to a CFC tested unit (the CFC item) and Sf5,000,000 of gross tentative tested income attributable to a Business A tested unit (the Business A item). CFC accrues Sf1,010,000 of current year taxes and has no other current year deductions. CFC is not required by its country of tax residence to include in foreign gross income foreign currency gain or loss with respect to its interest in a foreign QBU. For purposes of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iii)(A), Sf1,000,000 of current year tax is allocated and apportioned to the Business A item and Sf10,000 is allocated and apportioned to the CFC item. At all relevant times Sf1 = $1.
(ii)
Analysis.
As in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section (
Example 1
), Sf7,500 of section 987 gain is initially assigned to the statutory grouping of foreign source general category tentative tested income. Under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, the section 987 gain comprises a single tentative gross tested income item of the CFC (the section 987 item). Therefore, the CFC has three tentative gross tested income items: the section 987 item, the CFC item, and the Business A item. No tax is allocated and apportioned to the section 987 item.
See
paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Applying § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(vi), the effective tax rate of the section 987 item is 0% ($0/$7,500), the effective tax rate of the CFC item is 10% ($10,000/$100,000), and the effective tax rate of the Business A item is 20% ($1,000,000/$5,000,000). An election under § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(viii) is in effect; therefore, the section 987 gain is reassigned based on
the application of § 1.951A-2(c)(7). Because the section 987 item was not subject to an effective tax rate of greater than 90 percent of the maximum rate of tax specified in section 11, it is reassigned under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to foreign source general category tested income. The remaining Sf2,500 of section 987 gain is foreign source foreign currency gain of CFC attributable to section 988 transactions not directly related to the business needs of the controlled foreign corporation for the reasons stated in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section (
Example 1
).
(3)
Example 3: Section 987 gain or loss treated as attributable to section 988 transactions
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(1) of this section (
Example 1
) except that CFC recognizes section 987 loss of Sf40,000, Sf5,000 of which is characterized under paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section by reference to assets that give rise to foreign source passive gross income in a separate subpart F income group for non-related party interest income of Business A and Sf5,000 of which is characterized by reference to assets that give rise to foreign source passive gross income in a separate subpart F income group for gains from certain property transactions of Business A not derived from the active conduct of a trade or business. CFC otherwise has Sf12,000 of net foreign currency gain determined under § 1.954-2(g) that is taken into account in determining the excess of foreign currency gain over foreign currency losses characterized as foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(1)(D).
(ii)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section, the Sf10,000 total section 987 loss characterized by reference to assets that give rise to foreign source passive gross income in one of the groupings described in §§ 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) and 1.954-1(c)(1)(iii)(B) (subpart F income groups relating to passive foreign personal holding company income) is treated as foreign source foreign currency loss of CFC attributable to section 988 transactions. Accordingly, CFC will aggregate the Sf10,000 section 987 loss with the Sf12,000 net foreign currency gain and will have Sf2,000 of net foreign currency gain characterized as passive foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(1)(D).
(4)
Example 4: Section 987 gain or loss assigned to passive foreign personal holding company income
—(i)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(3) of this section (
Example 3
) except that CFC is not subject to an election under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii)
Analysis.
As the CFC is not subject to an election under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section, Sf5,000 of section 987 loss is initially assigned to the statutory grouping for foreign source passive gross income in a separate subpart F income group for non-related party interest income of Business A, and Sf5,000 is initially assigned to the statutory grouping for foreign source passive gross income in a separate subpart F income group for gains from certain property transactions of Business A not derived from the active conduct of a trade or business. The Sf12,000 net foreign currency gain is foreign source passive gross income in a separate subpart F income group for foreign currency gain of CFC attributable to section 988 transactions of CFC. As a result, if the net income in a subpart F income group to which either section 987 loss is assigned is less than zero, that loss will not reduce any other category of subpart F income, including CFC's foreign currency gain from section 988 transactions, except by reason of the earnings and profit limitation in section 952(c)(1).
See
§ 1.954-1(c)(1)(ii).
[T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024]
§ 1.987-6T
Character and source of section 987 gain or loss (temporary).
(a) through (b)(3) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-6(a) through (b)(3).
(4)
Source of section 987 gain or loss with respect to a dollar QBU.
The source of section 987 gain or loss with respect to a dollar QBU (as defined in § 1.987-1T(b)(6)(i)) for which the CFC owner has elected under § 1.987-1T(b)(6)(iii) to apply section 987 is determined by reference to the residence of the CFC owner. This paragraph (b)(4) applies to any CFC that has made the election
under § 1.987-1T(b)(6)(iii), including a CFC described in § 1.987-1(b)(1)(ii).
(c) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-6(c).
(d)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to taxable years beginning on or after one year after the first day of the first taxable year following December 7, 2016. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a taxpayer makes an election under § 1.987-11(b), then this section applies to taxable years to which §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-10 apply as a result of such election.
(e)
Expiration date.
The applicability of this section expires on December 6, 2019.
[T.D. 9795, 81 FR 88874, Dec. 8, 2016]
§ 1.987-7
Application of the section 987 regulations to partnerships and S corporations.
(a)
Overview.
This section provides rules relating to the application of the section 987 regulations to partnerships and S corporations. Paragraph (b) of this section provides the general rule that the section 987 regulations do not apply to partnerships. Paragraph (c) of this section identifies certain provisions of the section 987 regulations that are applicable to partnerships, subject to certain modifications. Paragraph (d) of this section provides special rules relating to suspended section 987 loss. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules for adjusting a partner's basis in its partnership interest. Paragraph (f) of this section provides that S corporations are treated in the same manner as partnerships for purposes of the section 987 regulations. Paragraph (g) of this section provides examples that illustrate the rules of this section.
(b)
Section 987 regulations generally do not apply to partnerships.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the section 987 regulations do not apply to a partnership, and the section 987 regulations do not apply to an eligible QBU if a partnership is the owner for Federal income tax purposes of the eligible QBU's assets and liabilities. However, a taxpayer must apply sections 987 and 989(a) to partnerships and eligible QBUs of partnerships in a reasonable manner using a method that is applied consistently from year to year with respect to a particular partnership or eligible QBU. In addition, all members of the same controlled group must apply the same method consistently with respect to a particular partnership or eligible QBU.
(c)
Provisions of the section 987 regulations that apply to partnerships
—(1)
In general
—(i)
Eligible QBU.
The rules described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section apply to an eligible QBU if a partnership is the owner for Federal income tax purposes of the eligible QBU's assets and liabilities and either—
(A) The partnership (or a partner) treats the eligible QBU as a qualified business unit of the partnership that is subject to section 987 (for example, under an entity approach); or
(B) A partner in the partnership treats all or a portion of the eligible QBU as a qualified business unit of the partner that is subject to section 987 (for example, under an aggregate approach).
(ii)
Partnership.
The rules described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section apply to a partnership if a partner in the partnership treats the partnership itself (or an interest in the partnership) as a qualified business unit that is subject to section 987 (for example, under an entity approach).
(2)
Applicable provisions
—(i)
In general.
Sections 1.987-6 (character and source of section 987 gain or loss), 1.987-9(d) (information on a dedicated section 987 form), §§ 1.987-11 through 1.987-13 (suspended section 987 loss, deferral of section 987 gain or loss, and suspended section 987 loss upon terminations, respectively), and § 1.987-15 (applicability dates) apply to a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, subject to the modifications described in this paragraph (c) and in paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii)
Annual recognition election.
An annual recognition election under § 1.987-5(b)(2) applies to a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, subject to the modifications described in this paragraph (c). In each taxable year of the owner of a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in which an annual recognition election is in effect, the owner recognizes any unrecognized gain or loss with respect to the QBU under section 987(3) (other than suspended section 987 loss) as though the
QBU terminated on the last day of the taxable year. Appropriate adjustments must be made to prevent the gain or loss from being taken into account again after it is recognized under this paragraph (c)(2)(ii) (for example, in the case of a taxpayer applying the 1991 proposed regulations, by adjusting the equity and basis pools to reflect the gain or loss recognized). The rules of § 1.987-1(g) apply with respect to an annual recognition election that is made by or for an owner of a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(iii)
Section 988 mark-to-market election.
A section 988 mark-to-market election under § 1.987-3(b)(4)(ii) applies to a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The rules of § 1.987-1(g) apply with respect to a section 988 mark-to-market election that is made by or for an owner of a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3)
Modifications to applicable provisions
—(i)
In general.
An owner of a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must adapt the rules described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section as necessary to recognize section 987 gain or loss in a manner that is consistent with the principles of those rules. For purposes of applying this section and the rules described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section to a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the definitions provided in the section 987 regulations apply with appropriate modifications. For example, in the case of a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the term section 987 gain or loss means gain or loss recognized under section 987(3), the term owner means the person that recognizes gain or loss under section 987(3), and the term section 987 QBU means any qualified business unit subject to section 987 (including a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section). In addition, references to other rules of the section 987 regulations must be adapted as necessary to apply section 987 in a manner that is consistent with the principles of this section and the rules described in paragraphs (c)(2) of this section. For example, references to the recognition of section 987 gain or loss under § 1.987-5 encompass any recognition of gain or loss under section 987(3).
(ii)
Controlled group.
For purposes of applying §§ 1.987-12 and 1.987-13, if a partner in a partnership is treated as the owner of an eligible QBU described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section (for example, under an aggregate approach) before the QBU terminates, each member of the partnership's controlled group is treated as a member of the partner's controlled group at any time that the partner (or any member of the partner's controlled group, determined without regard to this paragraph (c)(3)(ii)) continues to be a direct or indirect partner in the partnership. This paragraph (c)(3)(ii) does not apply for purposes of the de minimis rule in § 1.987-11(c)(2).
(4)
Terminating QBUs.
In the case of a terminating QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the rules of this section and the rules described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section apply immediately before the termination, but § 1.987-10 does not apply because § 1.987-10 is not applicable to a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Suspended section 987 loss
—(1)
In general
—(i)
Rules of § 1.987-11(c) and (d)(2) do not apply.
The rules of § 1.987-11(c) and (d)(2) do not apply to a QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(ii)
Suspension of section 987 loss.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, any loss that would otherwise be recognized under section 987(3) (after applying § 1.987-12) with respect to a QBU described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section is not recognized and becomes suspended section 987 loss.
(A)
Eligible QBU.
This paragraph (d)(1)(ii) applies to an eligible QBU described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.
(B)
Partnership.
This paragraph (d)(1)(ii) applies to a partnership (or a partnership interest) described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section if at least 95 percent of the interests in partnership capital and profits are owned, directly or indirectly, by persons related to each other within the meaning of section 267(b) or section 707(b). For this purpose, ownership of an interest in partnership capital or profits is determined in accordance with the rules for
constructive ownership provided in section 267(c), other than section 267(c)(3).
(2)
Exceptions
—(i)
Method under which historic items do not give rise to section 987 gain or loss.
Paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section does not apply to an eligible QBU described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if section 987 is consistently applied to the QBU using a method under which historic items of the QBU do not give rise to section 987 gain or loss (for example, a method that follows the principles of §§ 1.987-3 through 1.987-5).
(ii)
Annual recognition election.
Paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section does not apply in a taxable year in which an annual recognition election is in effect.
(iii)
De minimis rule.
Paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section does not apply in a taxable year described in § 1.987-11(c)(2).
(3)
Recognition of suspended section 987 loss
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, suspended section 987 loss with respect to a QBU described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section is recognized under the rules of §§ 1.987-11(e) and 1.987-13.
(ii)
Partnership that is not engaged in a trade or business.
In the case of a partnership described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section that is not engaged in a trade or business, suspended section 987 loss cannot be recognized under § 1.987-13(b) through (d) (and thus can only be recognized under § 1.987-11(e)).
(iii)
Application of the loss-to-the-extent-of-gain rule.
If a partner in a partnership is the owner of a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and also owns one or more section 987 QBUs that are not described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the loss-to-the-extent-of-gain rule of § 1.987-11(e) is applied by taking into account all of the owner's section 987 gain and suspended section 987 loss in each recognition grouping with respect to all of its section 987 QBUs (whether or not they are described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section).
(e)
Adjustments to the basis of a partner's interest in the partnership.
When, and to the extent that, a partner recognizes section 987 gain or loss, defers section 987 gain or loss, or suspends section 987 loss at the partner level with respect to a partnership described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section or an eligible QBU of the partnership described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, the principles of sections 704(d) and 705 apply as though the item of income or loss was part of the partner's distributive share of partnership items. Thus, proper adjustments must be made to the partner's adjusted basis in the partnership under the principles of section 705, taking into account the principles of section 704(d).
(f)
S corporations treated as partnerships.
For purposes of the section 987 regulations, S corporations are treated in the same manner as partnerships and shareholders of S corporations are treated in the same manner as partners of partnerships.
(g)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the principles of this section. For purposes of these examples, DC1 and DC2 are domestic corporations, and P is a foreign partnership. P is also the owner for Federal income tax purposes of the assets and liabilities of Business A, an eligible QBU that has the pound as its functional currency. DC1 and DC2 each own 50% of the capital and profits interests in P. If P is treated as a qualified business unit under section 989(a), P would have the euro as its functional currency due to activities unrelated to Business A.
(1)
Example 1: Aggregate approach to section 987
—(i)
Facts.
DC1 and DC2 each apply section 987 using an aggregate approach, under which each partner's indirect interest in Business A is treated as a section 987 QBU of the partner. DC1 and DC2 each use the earnings and capital method described in the 1991 proposed regulations to apply section 987 with respect to Business A. Neither DC1 nor DC2 has made an annual recognition election. Under the earnings and capital method, but for the application of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, DC1 and DC2 each would recognize section 987 loss of $10 million in year 1 with respect to Business A.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Application of loss suspension rule to Business A.
Business A is an eligible QBU described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section because a
partnership (P) is the owner of Business A's assets and liabilities for federal income tax purposes and P's partners treat Business A as a section 987 QBU. Therefore, under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the section 987 loss of DC1 and DC2 that would otherwise be recognized in year 1 becomes suspended section 987 loss, which DC1 and DC2 may recognize in year 1 or in future taxable years under §§ 1.987-11(e) and 1.987-13(b) through (d).
(B)
Annual recognition election.
If DC1 and DC2 were subject to an annual recognition election in year 1, they would recognize section 987 gain or loss with respect to Business A as though Business A terminated at the end of year 1, and the loss suspension rule of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section would not apply.
(C)
FEEP method.
If DC1 and DC2 applied section 987 to Business A under the principles of §§ 1.987-3 through 1.987-5, such that historic items of Business A did not give rise to section 987 gain or loss, the loss suspension rule of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section would not apply.
(2)
Example 2: Entity approach to section 987
—(i)
Facts.
P applies section 987 to Business A using an entity approach, under which Business A is treated as a section 987 QBU of P. P is treated as a qualified business unit under section 989(a) and uses the euro as its functional currency. P uses the earnings and capital method described in the 1991 proposed regulations to apply section 987 with respect to Business A. Under the earnings and capital method, but for the application of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, P would recognize section 987 loss of $10 million in year 1 with respect to Business A. In addition, DC1 and DC2 apply section 987 to P using an entity approach, treating each partner's interest in P as a section 987 QBU. DC1 and DC2 each use the earnings and capital method described in the 1991 proposed regulations to apply section 987 with respect to P. Under the earnings and capital method, but for the application of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, DC1 and DC2 each would recognize section 987 loss of $10 million in year 1 with respect to P. Neither DC1 nor DC2 has made an annual recognition election.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
Business A treated as a QBU subject to section 987.
Business A is an eligible QBU described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section because a partnership (P) is the owner of Business A's assets and liabilities for Federal income tax purposes, and P treats Business A as a QBU subject to section 987. Therefore, the loss suspension rule in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section applies to suspend P's recognition of section 987 loss with respect to Business A.
(B
) Treatment of P as a section 987 QBU.
P is a partnership described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section because DC1 and DC2 each treat their interest in P as a section 987 QBU. Under paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, if DC1 and DC2 are related within the meaning of section 267(b) or section 707(b), the loss suspension rule in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section applies to suspend DC1's and DC2's recognition of section 987 loss with respect to their interest in P. However, if DC1 and DC2 are unrelated, the loss suspension rule in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section does not apply.
[T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024]
§ 1.987-8
Termination of a section 987 QBU.
(a)
Scope.
This section provides rules regarding the termination of a section 987 QBU. Paragraph (b) of this section provides general rules for determining when a termination occurs. Paragraph (c) of this section provides exceptions to the general termination rules for certain transactions described in section 381(a). Paragraph (d) of this section is reserved. Paragraph (e) of this section describes certain effects of terminations. Paragraph (f) of this section contains examples that illustrate the principles of this section.
(b)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a section 987 QBU terminates if the conditions described in any one of paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section are satisfied.
(1)
Trade or business ceases.
A section 987 QBU ceases its trade or business. When a section 987 QBU ceases its trade or business is determined based
on all the facts and circumstances, provided that an owner may continue to treat a section 987 QBU as a section 987 QBU for a reasonable period during the winding up of such trade or business, which period may in no event exceed two years from the date on which such QBU ceases its activities carried on for profit.
See
paragraph (f)(1) of this section (
Example 1
).
(2)
Substantially all assets transferred.
The section 987 QBU transfers substantially all (within the meaning of section 368(a)(1)(C)) of its assets to its owner. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), the amount of assets transferred from the section 987 QBU to its owner as a result of a transaction is reduced by the amount of assets transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU pursuant to the same transaction.
See
paragraphs (f)(2), (6), and (7) of this section (
Examples 2, 6,
and
7
).
(3)
Owner no longer a CFC.
A foreign corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation that is the owner of a section 987 QBU ceases to be a controlled foreign corporation as a result of a transaction or series of transactions after which persons that were related to the corporation within the meaning of section 267(b) immediately before the transaction or series of transactions collectively own sufficient interests in the corporation such that the corporation would continue to be considered a controlled foreign corporation if such persons were United States shareholders within the meaning of section 951(b).
See
paragraph (f)(3) of this section (
Example 3
).
(4)
Owner ceases to exist.
The owner of the section 987 QBU ceases to exist (including in connection with a transaction described in section 381(a)).
See
paragraph (f)(4) of this section (
Example 4
).
(5)
Section 987 QBU ceases to be an eligible QBU with a functional currency different from its owner.
The section 987 QBU ceases to be an eligible QBU that has a functional currency different from its owner.
See
§ 1.985-5(d)(2) and (e)(4)(iii) (providing that a termination resulting from a change in functional currency occurs on the last day of the last taxable year ending before the year of change).
(6)
Change in form of ownership.
An individual or corporation that was the direct owner of a section 987 QBU ceases to be the direct owner of the section 987 QBU (for example, because the assets of the section 987 QBU are transferred to a partnership).
(c)
Transactions described in section 381(a)
—(1)
Liquidations.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, a termination does not occur when the owner (
distributor
) of a section 987 QBU ceases to exist in a liquidation described in section 332 pursuant to which it transfers the section 987 QBU to another corporation (
distributee
), except in the following cases:
(i) The distributor is a domestic corporation and the distributee is a foreign corporation.
(ii) The distributor is a foreign corporation and the distributee is a domestic corporation.
(iii) The distributor and the distributee are both foreign corporations and the functional currency of the distributee is the same as the functional currency of the distributor's section 987 QBU.
(2)
Reorganizations.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, a termination does not occur when the owner (
transferor
) of the section 987 QBU ceases to exist in a reorganization described in section 381(a)(2) pursuant to which it transfers the section 987 QBU to another corporation (
acquiring corporation
), except in the following cases:
(i) The transferor is a domestic corporation and the acquiring corporation is a foreign corporation.
(ii) The transferor is a foreign corporation and the acquiring corporation is a domestic corporation.
(iii) The transferor is a controlled foreign corporation immediately before the transfer, the acquiring corporation is a foreign corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation immediately after the transfer, and the acquiring corporation was related to the transferor within the meaning of section 267(b) immediately before the transfer.
(iv) The transferor and the acquiring corporation are foreign corporations and the functional currency of the acquiring corporation is the same as the
functional currency of the transferor's section 987 QBU.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Effect of terminations.
A termination of a section 987 QBU as determined in this section is treated as a remittance of all the gross assets of the section 987 QBU to its owner immediately before the section 987 QBU terminates. Thus, except as otherwise provided in the section 987 regulations, a termination generally results in the recognition of any net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of the section 987 QBU (unless it is treated as deferred section 987 gain or loss or suspended section 987 loss).
See
§ 1.987-5(c)(3) (generally recognizing section 987 gain or loss on a termination) and §§ 1.987-11 through 1.987-13 (suspending section 987 gain or loss and deferring section 987 loss in certain instances).
(f)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the principles of this section. Except as otherwise provided, U.S. Corp is a domestic corporation that has the U.S. dollar as its functional currency, and Business A is a section 987 QBU.
(1)
Example 1: Cessation of operations
—(i)
Facts.
U.S. Corp is the owner of Business A, a sales office of U.S. Corp in Country X. Business A ceases sales activities on December 31, year 1. During year 2, Business A sells all of the assets used in its sales activities and winds up its business, settling outstanding accounts.
(ii)
Analysis.
Business A's trade or business ceases on December 31, year 1. The cessation of Business A's trade or business causes a termination of the Business A section 987 QBU under paragraph (b)(1) of this section on December 31, year 1, unless U.S. Corp chooses to continue to treat Business A as a section 987 QBU until completion of the wind-up activities in year 2. If U.S. Corp chooses to continue to treat Business A as a section 987 QBU during the wind-up of Business A, the Business A section 987 QBU would terminate under paragraph (b)(1) of this section upon completion of the wind-up in year 2.
(2)
Example 2: Transfer of a section 987 QBU to a member of a consolidated group
—(i)
Facts.
U.S. Corp, the owner of Business A, transfers all the assets and liabilities of Business A to DS, a domestic corporation all of the stock of which is owned by U.S. Corp, in a transaction qualifying under section 351. U.S. Corp and DS are members of the same consolidated group.
(ii)
Analysis.
Pursuant to § 1.987-2(c)(2)(i) and (ii), as a result of the deemed exchange of the assets and liabilities of Business A for DS stock in a section 351 transaction, Business A is treated as transferring its assets and liabilities to U.S. Corp immediately before the transfer by U.S. Corp of the assets and liabilities to DS. Because a section 351 transaction is not a transaction described in section 381(a)(2), the transfer of all of the assets of Business A to U.S. Corp causes a termination of the Business A section 987 QBU under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(3)
Example 3: Cessation of controlled foreign corporation status
—(i)
Facts.
Foreign parent (FP) is a foreign corporation that owns all the stock of U.S. Corp, a domestic corporation. U.S. Corp owns all of the stock of FC, a controlled foreign corporation as defined in section 957. FC is the owner of Business A. U.S. Corp liquidates into FP. FC no longer constitutes a controlled foreign corporation after the liquidation.
(ii)
Analysis.
Because FC ceases to qualify as a controlled foreign corporation as a result of a transaction after which persons that were related to FC within the meaning of section 267(b) immediately before the transaction collectively own sufficient interests in FC such that FC would continue to be considered a controlled foreign corporation if such persons were United States shareholders within the meaning of section 951(b), the Business A section 987 QBU terminates pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(4)
Example 4: Section 332 liquidation
—(i)
Facts.
U.S. Corp owns all of the stock of FC, a foreign corporation. FC is the owner of Business A. Pursuant to a liquidation described in section 332, FC distributes all of its assets and liabilities to U.S. Corp.
(ii)
Analysis.
FC's liquidation causes a termination of the Business A section 987 QBU as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section because FC ceases to exist as a result of the liquidation. The
exception for certain section 332 liquidations provided under paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply because U.S. Corp is a domestic corporation and FC is a foreign corporation.
See
paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(5) [Reserved]
(6)
Example 6: Deemed transfers to a CFC upon a check-the-box election—(i) Facts.
In year 1, U.S. Corp forms an entity in a foreign country, Entity A. Entity A owns Business A, which has the pound as its functional currency. Entity A forms Entity B in another foreign country. Entity B owns Business B, a section 987 QBU that has the euro as its functional currency. At the time of formation, Entity A and Entity B elect to be DEs. In year 6, Entity A files an election on Form 8832 to be classified as a corporation under § 301.7701-3(g)(1)(iv) of this chapter and becomes a CFC (FC) owned directly by U.S. Corp. FC has the pound as its functional currency.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A) Under § 1.987-1(b)(5), U.S. Corp is the owner of Business A and Business B. In year 6, when Entity A elects to be classified as a corporation, U.S. Corp is deemed to contribute the assets and liabilities of Business A and Business B to FC under section 351 in exchange for FC stock. Pursuant to § 1.987-2(c)(2)(i) and (ii), as a result of the deemed exchange of the assets and liabilities of Business A and Business B for FC stock in a section 351 transaction, Business A and Business B are each treated as transferring their assets and liabilities to U.S. Corp immediately before U.S. Corp's transfer of such assets and liabilities to FC. The transfer of assets from Business A and Business B to U.S. Corp causes terminations of those section 987 QBUs under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The assets and liabilities of Business A and Business B are now owned by FC, but because FC and Business A have the same functional currency, only Business B qualifies as a section 987 QBU to which section 987 applies.
(B) Terminations also would have occurred in year 6 if U.S. Corp had contributed Entity A and Entity B to an existing foreign corporation owned by U.S. Corp or to a newly created foreign corporation owned by U.S. Corp pursuant to a section 351 exchange because the transfer of all of the assets of Business A and Business B would cause terminations of those section 987 QBUs under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(7)
Example 7: Sale of a section 987 QBU to a member of a consolidated group—(i) Facts.
U.S. Corp, the owner of Business A, sells all of the assets and liabilities of Business A to DS, a domestic corporation, in exchange for cash. U.S. Corp and DS are members of the same consolidated group. The cash received on the sale is recorded on the books of U.S. Corp.
(ii)
Analysis.
Pursuant to § 1.987-2(c)(2)(i) and (ii), Business A is treated as transferring all of its assets and liabilities to U.S. Corp immediately before the sale by U.S. Corp to DS. As a result of this deemed transfer from Business A to U.S. Corp, the Business A section 987 QBU terminates under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
[T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024]
§ 1.987-8T
Termination of a section 987 QBU (temporary).
(a) through (c) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-8(a) through (c).
(d)
Annual deemed termination election.
A taxpayer, including a taxpayer described in § 1.987-1(b)(1)(ii) to which §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-11 generally do not apply, may elect under this paragraph (d) to deem all of the section 987 QBUs of which it is an owner to terminate on the last day of each taxable year for which the election is in effect. See § 1.987-8(e) regarding the effect of such a deemed termination. The owner of a section 987 QBU that is deemed to terminate under this paragraph is treated as having transferred all of the assets and liabilities attributable to such section 987 QBU to a new section 987 QBU on the first day of the following taxable year.
(e) through (f) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.987-8(e) through (f).
(g)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to taxable years beginning on or after December 7, 2016.
(h)
Expiration date.
The applicability of this section expires on December 6, 2019.
[T.D. 9795, 81 FR 88875, Dec. 8, 2016]
§ 1.987-9
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
In general.
An owner (or the authorized person on behalf of an owner) must keep a copy of the statement described in § 1.987-1(g)(3)(i) for each section 987 election made by or on behalf of the owner (if not required to be made on a form published by the Commissioner) and reasonable records sufficient to establish section 987 taxable income or loss and section 987 gain or loss with respect to each section 987 QBU, successor deferral QBU, and successor suspended loss QBU, as applicable, for each taxable year.
(b)
Supplemental information.
A person's obligation to maintain records under section 6001 and paragraph (a) of this section is not satisfied unless the following information is maintained in those records with respect to each section 987 QBU, successor deferral QBU, and successor suspended loss QBU for each taxable year:
(1) The amount of the items of income, gain, deduction, or loss attributed to the section 987 QBU in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU and its owner.
(2) The adjusted balance sheet of the section 987 QBU in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU and its owner. If a current rate election is in effect and the owner computes QBU net value under § 1.987-4(e)(2)(iii) without preparing an adjusted balance sheet, the information needed to apply § 1.987-4(e)(2)(iii) must be maintained in lieu of an adjusted balance sheet.
(3) The exchange rates used to translate items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of the section 987 QBU into the owner's functional currency and, if a spot rate convention is used, the manner in which the convention is determined.
(4) The exchange rates used to translate the assets and liabilities of the section 987 QBU into the owner's functional currency and, if a spot rate convention is used, the manner in which the convention is determined.
(5) The amount of assets and liabilities transferred by the owner to the section 987 QBU determined in the functional currency of the owner and the section 987 QBU.
(6) The amount of assets and liabilities transferred by the section 987 QBU to the owner determined in the functional currency of the owner and the section 987 QBU.
(7) The amount of the unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for the taxable year determined under § 1.987-4(d).
(8) The amount of the net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for the taxable year determined under § 1.987-4(c).
(9) The amount of the remittance and the remittance proportion for the taxable year.
(10) The computations required under §§ 1.861-9(g) and 1.861-9T(g) for purposes of sourcing and characterizing section 987 gain or loss, deferred section 987 gain or loss, suspended section 987 loss, or pretransition gain or loss under § 1.987-6.
(11) The cumulative suspended section 987 loss in each recognition grouping.
(12) The outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss in each recognition grouping.
(13) The transition information required to be determined under § 1.987-10(k).
(14) The identification required under § 1.987-14(c) with respect to a section 987 hedging transaction.
(c)
Retention of records.
The records required by this section, or records that support the information required on a form published by the Commissioner regarding section 987, must be maintained and kept available for inspection by the Internal Revenue Service for so long as the contents thereof may become relevant in the administration of the Internal Revenue Code.
(d)
Information on a dedicated section 987 form.
Information necessary to determine section 987 gain or loss and section 987 taxable income or loss must be reported on a form prescribed for that purpose (or, until that form is published, on Form 8858 or its successor) in accordance with the applicable forms and instructions. A taxpayer satisfies its obligation described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section to the extent that the taxpayer provides the specific information required on Form 8858 (or its successor) or other form prescribed for this purpose (including the information required by
the instructions accompanying those forms).
[T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024]
§ 1.987-10
Transition rules.
(a)
Overview
—(1)
In general.
This section provides transition rules for the first taxable year in which the section 987 regulations apply. Paragraph (b) of this section describes the scope of this section's application. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for determining the transition date. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules relating to the application of the section 987 regulations after the transition date. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules relating to the determination and recognition of pretransition gain or loss. Paragraph (f) of this section provides special rules for section 987 QBUs to which the fresh start transition method was applied. Paragraph (g) of this section is reserved. Paragraph (h) of this section provides rules relating to the source and character of pretransition gain or loss. Paragraph (i) of this section is reserved. Paragraph (j) of this section provides adjustments to avoid double counting or omissions. Paragraph (k) of this section provides reporting requirements that apply in the taxable year beginning on the transition date. Paragraph (l) of this section provides examples illustrating the rules of this section.
(2)
Terms defined under prior § 1.987-12.
For purposes of this section, the terms
deferral QBU, deferral QBU owner,
successor QBU, outbound loss QBU,
outbound section 987 loss,
and
qualified successor
have the meaning provided in prior § 1.987-12.
(b)
Scope
—(1)
Owner of a section 987 QBU.
Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, any person that is an owner of a section 987 QBU on the applicable transition date and any person that is the owner of a terminating QBU on the termination date must apply the rules of this section with respect to the section 987 QBU.
(2)
Deferral QBU owner and owner of outbound loss QBU.
Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, a deferral QBU owner or the owner of an outbound loss QBU must apply the rules of this section with respect to the deferral QBU or outbound loss QBU if the deferral event or outbound loss event occurred before the applicable transition date. This paragraph (b)(2) does not apply to the owner of a terminating QBU.
(c)
Transition date
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the transition date for a section 987 QBU, deferral QBU, or outbound loss QBU is the first day of the first taxable year described in § 1.987-15(a)(1), (b), or (c) to which this section applies.
(2)
Terminating QBU
—(i)
In general.
With respect to a terminating QBU, the transition date is the day after the termination date. Until the transition date described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the owner of the terminating QBU must apply the section 987 regulations with respect to the terminating QBU, and any section 987 gain or loss attributable thereto, without regard to any section 987 elections (other than the election described in § 1.987-6(b)(2)(i)(C)).
(ii)
Ordering rule.
In the case of a terminating QBU, the transition rules of this section are applied immediately before the termination, and the consequences of the termination are determined under the section 987 regulations after applying this section.
(d)
Application of the section 987 regulations after the transition date—(1) Owner functional currency net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year.
Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, for purposes of applying § 1.987-4 in the taxable year beginning on the transition date, the owner functional currency net value of a section 987 QBU on the last day of the preceding taxable year under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(i)(B) is determined by translating the assets and liabilities that are attributable to the section 987 QBU on the day before the transition date into the owner's functional currency at the transition exchange rate described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(2)
Determination of historic rate.
If a current rate election is not in effect for the taxable year beginning on the transition date, the historic rate for historic items that are attributable to a section 987 QBU on the day before the transition date (other than non-LIFO
inventory subject to the simplified inventory method under § 1.987-3(c)(2)(iv)(A)) is the transition exchange rate described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(3)
Transition exchange rate
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, the transition exchange rate is the spot rate applicable to the day before the transition date.
(ii)
Earnings only method.
If an earnings only method described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section was applied with respect to a section 987 QBU before the transition date, and a current rate election is not in effect in the taxable year beginning on the transition date, the transition exchange rate for each historic item (other than inventory subject to the simplified inventory method under § 1.987-3(c)(2)(iv)(A)) is the pretransition translation rate described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(C) of this section. This paragraph (d)(3)(ii) does not apply with respect to a terminating QBU.
(e)
Pretransition gain or loss
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, pretransition gain or loss is determined and recognized under this paragraph (e).
(2)
Amount of pretransition gain or loss for an owner that applied an eligible pretransition method
—(i)
Owner of a section 987 QBU.
If an owner of a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section applied an eligible pretransition method with respect to the section 987 QBU, the amount of pretransition gain or loss with respect to the section 987 QBU is equal to the sum of the deemed termination amount described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section and the owner functional currency net value adjustment described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
See
paragraphs (l)(1) through (3) of this section (
Examples 1
through
3
) for an illustration of this rule.
(A)
Deemed termination amount.
The deemed termination amount is the amount of section 987 gain or loss that would have been recognized by the owner under the eligible pretransition method if the section 987 QBU terminated and transferred all of its assets and liabilities to the owner on the day before the transition date and §§ 1.987-12 and 1.987-13 and prior § 1.987-12 did not apply.
(B)
Owner functional currency net value adjustment.
The owner functional currency net value adjustment may be either positive or negative and is equal to the amount described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section reduced by the amount described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B)(
2
) of this section.
(
1
) The basis of the assets, reduced by the amount of liabilities, that are attributable to the section 987 QBU on the day before the transition date, translated into the owner's functional currency at the transition exchange rate.
(
2
) The basis of the assets, reduced by the amount of liabilities, that are attributable to the section 987 QBU on the day before the transition date, translated into the owner's functional currency at the pretransition translation rate.
(C)
Pretransition translation rate.
The pretransition translation rate is the rate that would be used under the eligible pretransition method to determine the basis of an asset or the amount of a liability in the hands of the owner of a section 987 QBU if the section 987 QBU transferred all of its assets and liabilities to the owner on the day before the transition date.
(ii)
Deferral QBU owner.
If a deferral QBU owner described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section applied an eligible pretransition method with respect to the deferral QBU, the amount of pretransition gain or loss with respect to the deferral QBU is equal to the deferred section 987 gain or loss (determined under prior § 1.987-12) that was not recognized before the transition date with respect to the deferral QBU.
(iii)
Owner of an outbound loss QBU.
If the owner of an outbound loss QBU described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section applied an eligible pretransition method with respect to the outbound loss QBU, the pretransition loss with respect to the outbound loss QBU is equal to the outbound section 987 loss that was not added to the basis of stock or recognized under prior § 1.987-12 before the transition date with respect to the outbound loss QBU.
(3)
Amount of pretransition gain or loss for an owner that did not apply an eligible pretransition method
—(i)
In general.
If the owner of a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section did not apply an eligible pretransition method with respect to the section 987 QBU, the amount of pretransition gain or loss with respect to the section 987 QBU is determined under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section.
See
paragraph (l)(4) of this section (
Example 4
) for an illustration of this rule.
(ii)
Computation of pretransition gain or loss.
With respect to a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, pretransition gain or loss is equal to the amount described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A) of this section reduced by the amount described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(B) of this section.
(A) The sum of the owner's annual unrecognized section 987 gain or loss determined under paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section with respect to the section 987 QBU for all taxable years ending before the transition date and beginning after September 7, 2006, in which it was the owner of the section 987 QBU.
(B) The total net amount of section 987 gain or loss recognized by the owner with respect to the section 987 QBU in all taxable years ending before the transition date and beginning after September 7, 2006.
(iii)
Annual unrecognized section 987 gain or loss.
An owner of a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section determines annual unrecognized section 987 gain or loss with respect to a section 987 QBU under the rules of § 1.987-4(d), applied as though a current rate election was in effect for all relevant taxable years, and subject to the following modifications—
(A) Only § 1.987-4(d)(1) and (10) (steps 1 and 10) are applied; and
(B) Section 1.987-4(d)(10) is applied by replacing “paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section” with “paragraph (d)(1) of this section.”
(iv)
Deferral QBU owner.
If a deferral QBU owner described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section did not apply an eligible pretransition method with respect to the deferral QBU, the pretransition gain or loss with respect to the deferral QBU is equal to the amount that would be determined under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section with respect to the deferral QBU if the transition date was the day of the deferral event, reduced by the amount of deferred section 987 gain or loss (determined under prior § 1.987-12) recognized before the actual transition date.
(v)
Owner of an outbound loss QBU.
If the owner of an outbound loss QBU described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section did not apply an eligible pretransition method with respect to the outbound loss QBU, the pretransition loss with respect to the outbound loss QBU is equal to the amount that would be determined under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section with respect to the outbound loss QBU if the transition date was the day of the outbound loss event, reduced by any outbound section 987 loss recognized or added to the basis of stock under prior § 1.987-12 before the actual transition date.
(4)
Eligible pretransition method.
An eligible pretransition method means a method of applying section 987 before the transition date that is described in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. An owner is treated as applying an eligible pretransition method with respect to a section 987 QBU only if it applied an eligible pretransition method with respect to the QBU on a return filed before November 9, 2023.
(i)
Earnings and capital method.
An earnings and capital method is an eligible pretransition method if it is applied in a reasonable manner. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(4)(i), an earnings and capital method means a method of applying section 987 that requires section 987 gain or loss to be determined and recognized with respect to both the earnings of the section 987 QBU and capital contributed to the section 987 QBU (for example, the method prescribed in the 1991 proposed regulations under section 987).
See
paragraph (l)(1) of this section (
Example 1
) for an illustration of this rule.
(ii)
Other reasonable methods.
Any reasonable method of applying section 987 is an eligible pretransition method if it produces the same total amount of income over the life of the owner of a
section 987 QBU as the method described in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section (taking into account the aggregate of section 987 gain or loss, section 987 taxable income or loss, and income or loss recognized by the owner of the section 987 QBU with respect to property transferred between the section 987 QBU and the owner or any QBU of the owner).
See
paragraph (l)(2) of this section (
Example 2
) for an illustration of this rule.
(iii)
Other earnings only methods.
An earnings only method that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section is an eligible pretransition method, provided that—
(A) The earnings only method was first applied by the owner on a return filed before November 9, 2023;
(B) The earnings only method was applied consistently to all section 987 QBUs of the owner since the first taxable year in which the owner applied an eligible pretransition method; and
(C) The owner of the section 987 QBU otherwise applied section 987 in a reasonable manner.
See
paragraph (l)(3) of this section (
Example 3
) for an illustration of this rule.
(iv)
Error in the application of a section 987 method.
If an owner generally applied section 987 with respect to a section 987 QBU before the transition date under a method described in paragraph (e)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section but made errors in the application of the method or failed to apply the method to every taxable year since the QBU's inception, the owner is considered to have applied an eligible pretransition method with respect to the QBU. However, pretransition gain or loss must be determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section as though the eligible pretransition method was applied without error since the section 987 QBU's inception.
See
paragraph (l)(5) of this section (
Example 5
) for an illustration of this rule.
(v)
Certain consistent practices not treated as errors
—(A)
In general.
If an owner generally applied section 987 with respect to a section 987 QBU before the transition date under a method described in paragraph (e)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section and used a consistent practice described in paragraph (e)(4)(v)(B) of this section for purposes of applying that method, the owner is considered to have applied an eligible pretransition method with respect to the QBU. In addition, the consistent practice is not treated as an error under paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section. Therefore, the owner must take the consistent practice into account in determining pretransition gain or loss under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
See
paragraph (l)(6) of this section (
Example 6
) for an illustration of this rule.
(B)
Practices not treated as errors
—(
1
)
Reasonable conventions.
The use of a reasonable convention (for example, the use of a yearly average exchange rate rather than the applicable spot rate to translate frequently recurring transfers) is a practice described in this paragraph (e)(4)(v)(B).
(
2
)
Disregarded transactions.
If, in determining the amount of a remittance that requires the recognition of gain or loss under section 987(3), an owner of a QBU consistently disregarded certain transfers to or from the QBU (other than transfers from the QBU to the owner that would be treated as distributions if the QBU were treated as a separate corporation), the owner is considered to have applied a practice described in this paragraph (e)(4)(v)(B) with respect to the QBU, provided that the owner otherwise accounts for the disregarded transfers in a reasonable manner (for example, under the method described in the 1991 proposed regulations, by taking the disregarded transfers into account in computing equity and basis pools so as to properly reflect the owner's net equity in the QBU and its functional currency basis in the QBU).
(vi)
Deferral of section 987 gain or loss until termination is not reasonable.
For purposes of this paragraph (e)(4), a method under which the owner of a section 987 QBU defers the recognition of section 987 gain or loss until the section 987 QBU is terminated, sold, or liquidated is not a reasonable method.
(vii)
Anti-abuse rule.
If an owner changes its pretransition method of applying section 987 with a principal purpose of reducing its pretransition gain or increasing its pretransition loss, the Commissioner may redetermine pretransition gain or loss based on the
owner's original method of applying section 987 or by treating the owner as not applying an eligible pretransition method.
(5)
Recognition of pretransition gain or loss
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section, pretransition gain is recognized under paragraph (e)(5)(i)(A) of this section and pretransition loss is recognized under paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section.
(A)
Pretransition gain.
Pretransition gain with respect to a section 987 QBU is treated as net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain (within the meaning of § 1.987-4(c)). Pretransition gain with respect to a deferral QBU is treated as deferred section 987 gain and is attributed to one or more successor deferral QBUs under the principles of § 1.987-12(b)(2) and (c)(2).
(B)
Pretransition loss
—(
1
)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B)(
2
) of this section, pretransition loss with respect to a section 987 QBU, a deferral QBU, or an outbound loss QBU is treated as suspended section 987 loss with respect to the section 987 QBU, the deferral QBU, or the outbound loss QBU. In the case of a deferral QBU or outbound loss QBU, suspended section 987 loss is attributed to one or more successor suspended loss QBUs under the principles of § 1.987-13(b)(1) and (c)(1).
(
2
)
Current rate election.
If a current rate election is in effect (and an annual recognition election is not in effect) in the taxable year beginning on the transition date, pretransition loss with respect to a section 987 QBU (other than a terminating QBU) is treated as net accumulated unrecognized section 987 loss (within the meaning of § 1.987-4(c)), and pretransition loss with respect to a deferral QBU is treated as deferred section 987 loss and is attributed to one or more successor deferral QBUs under the principles of § 1.987-12(b)(2) and (c)(2).
(ii)
Election to recognize pretransition section 987 gain or loss ratably over the transition period
—(A)
In general.
A taxpayer may elect to recognize pretransition gain or loss ratably over the transition period. If an election is made to recognize pretransition gain or loss ratably over the transition period, then paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section does not apply, and each owner to which the election applies recognizes one tenth of its pretransition gain or loss with respect to each section 987 QBU, original deferral QBU, and outbound loss QBU in each taxable year for ten taxable years beginning with the taxable year that begins on the transition date described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
See
§ 1.987-1(g) for rules relating to section 987 elections (including consistency rules).
(B)
Special rules for certain transactions
—(
1
)
Scope.
This paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(B) applies if a corporation (
acquiring corporation
) acquires the assets of an owner that is subject to an election under paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(A) of this section in a transaction described in section 381(a), and either the owner is a foreign corporation and the acquiring corporation is a domestic corporation or the owner is a domestic corporation and the acquiring corporation is a foreign corporation. This paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(B) also applies to any transaction entered into with a principal purpose of avoiding the recognition of pretransition gain under paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(A) of this section.
(
2
)
Recognition of pretransition gain or loss.
In the case of a transaction described in paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section, pretransition gain or loss that has not been recognized under paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(A) of this section ceases to be subject to the election to be recognized ratably over the transition period. Any unrecognized pretransition gain is recognized immediately before the transaction, and any unrecognized pretransition loss becomes suspended section 987 loss immediately before the transaction. As a result, the suspended section 987 loss may be recognized to the extent of section 987 gain recognized in the same recognition grouping pursuant to § 1.987-11(e).
See also
§ 1.987-13(g) (providing that any remaining suspended section 987 loss does not carry over to the acquiring corporation upon an inbound transaction to which section 381(a) applies).
(C)
Terminating QBU.
This paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(C) applies with respect to a terminating QBU if, in the taxable year
beginning on the transition date described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the owner of the terminating QBU elects to recognize pretransition gain or loss ratably over the transition period. Any deferred section 987 gain or loss or suspended section 987 loss with respect to the terminating QBU that was not recognized before the transition date described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is treated as pretransition gain or loss for purposes of this paragraph (e)(5)(ii) (and ceases to be treated as deferred section 987 gain or loss or suspended section 987 loss). The pretransition gain or loss is recognized ratably over ten taxable years beginning with the taxable year that begins on the transition date described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(6)
Predecessor of an owner
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of this paragraph (e), references to an owner of a section 987 QBU, a deferral QBU owner, and the owner of an outbound loss QBU include a predecessor described in paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Predecessor.
If a corporation (
acquiring corporation
) becomes the owner of a section 987 QBU in a transaction described in section 381(a) in which the section 987 QBU does not terminate, the corporation that was the owner of the section 987 QBU immediately before the transaction is a predecessor of the acquiring corporation. If a corporation (
acquiring corporation
) becomes a qualified successor of a deferral QBU owner or the owner of an outbound loss QBU (each, a
transferor corporation
), the transferor corporation is a predecessor of the acquiring corporation. A predecessor of a corporation includes the predecessor of a predecessor of the corporation.
(7)
Small business election
—(i)
Scope.
This paragraph (e)(7) applies if the owner of a QBU meets the threshold described in paragraph (e)(7)(ii) of this section and the QBU meets the threshold described in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section. This paragraph (e)(7) does not apply with respect to a terminating QBU.
(ii)
Owner threshold.
An owner of a QBU meets the requirements of this paragraph (e)(7)(ii) if the owner would qualify for the small business exemption provided in section 163(j)(3) for the taxable year beginning on the transition date described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(iii)
QBU threshold.
A QBU meets the requirements of this paragraph (e)(7)(iii) if the assets attributable to the QBU have an adjusted basis (translated at the spot rate applicable to the last day of each taxable year) of $10 million or less at the end of each of the three taxable years of the owner ending before the transition date described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section (or, if the QBU was not in existence for three taxable years, each taxable year ending before the transition date in which the QBU existed). For this purpose, all QBUs owned by members of the same controlled group that have the same country of residence (as defined in section 988(a)(3)(B)) are treated as a single QBU. Solely for purposes of applying this paragraph (e)(7)(iii) in the case of a deferral QBU or outbound loss QBU described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the termination date is treated as the transition date.
(iv)
Small business election.
If the owner of a QBU meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(ii) of this section, the owner may elect to treat all QBUs that meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section as having no pretransition gain or loss.
(f)
QBUs to which the fresh start transition method was applied
—(1)
In general.
Paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section do not apply with respect to any section 987 QBU, deferral QBU, or outbound loss QBU with respect to which the taxpayer applied the rules of prior § 1.987-10 (or applied § 1.987-10 of the 2006 proposed regulations in a reasonable manner) on a return filed before November 9, 2023 or pursuant to paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(2)
Application of the section 987 regulations after the transition date
—(i)
Owner functional currency net value on the last day of the preceding taxable year.
For purposes of applying § 1.987-4 with respect to a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section for the taxable year beginning on the transition date, the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU on the last day of the preceding taxable year under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(i)(B) is the
amount that was determined for the preceding taxable year under prior § 1.987-4(d)(1)(A) or § 1.987-4(d)(1)(A) of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations, as applicable.
(ii)
Determination of historic rate.
For purposes of applying the section 987 regulations with respect to historic items (other than inventory subject to the simplified inventory method under § 1.987-3(c)(2)(iv)(A)) that are attributable to the section 987 QBU on the day before the transition date, a taxpayer must use the same historic rates as were used under the taxpayer's application of the 2016 and 2019 section 987 regulations or the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations, as applicable, in place of the historic rates that otherwise would be determined under § 1.987-1(c)(3).
(iii)
Unrecognized section 987 gain or loss
—(A)
Net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU.
In taxable years beginning on or after the transition date, for purposes of calculating the net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section under § 1.987-4(c)—
(
1
) Amounts determined under prior § 1.987-4(d) or under § 1.987-4(d) or § 1.987-10 of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations, as applicable, are included in amounts determined under § 1.987-4(d) for all prior taxable years; and
(
2
) Amounts taken into account under prior § 1.987-5(a) or under § 1.987-5(a) of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations, as applicable, are included in amounts recognized under § 1.987-5(a) for all prior taxable years. For this purpose, amounts taken into account under prior § 1.987-5(a) or under § 1.987-5(a) of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations, as applicable, are determined without regard to prior § 1.987-12 or prior § 1.987-12T.
(B)
Deferred section 987 gain or loss attributable to a successor deferral QBU.
In the taxable year beginning on the transition date, the outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss (as determined under prior § 1.987-12) of a deferral QBU described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section becomes deferred section 987 gain or loss (within the meaning of § 1.987-12). The deferred section 987 gain or loss is attributed to one or more successor deferral QBUs under the principles of § 1.987-12(b)(2) and (c)(2).
(C)
Outbound section 987 loss attributable to a successor suspended loss QBU.
In the taxable year beginning on the transition date, outbound section 987 loss of an outbound loss QBU described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section that has not been recognized or added to the basis of stock under prior § 1.987-12 becomes suspended section 987 loss. The suspended section 987 loss is attributed to one or more successor suspended loss QBUs under the principles of § 1.987-13(b)(1) and (c)(1).
(3)
Taxpayers that are required to transition using the fresh start transition method.
If a taxpayer is subject to a consent agreement under which it is required to apply the fresh start transition method with respect to a section 987 QBU, then the taxpayer must apply the transition rules of prior § 1.987-10 to that section 987 QBU for the taxable year beginning on the transition date and immediately before the taxpayer applies this section. In applying this section, the taxpayer is treated as having applied prior § 1.987-10 to the section 987 QBU.
(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Determination of source and character
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, the source and character of pretransition gain or loss is determined under the rules of § 1.987-6.
See
§ 1.987-6(b)(1) (timing of source and character determination).
(2)
Deferral QBU or outbound loss QBU.
Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(1) of this section and § 1.987-6, the source and character of pretransition gain or loss with respect to a deferral QBU or an outbound loss QBU described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is the same as the source and character of the outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss (determined under prior § 1.987-12) of the deferral QBU or the outbound section 987 loss of the outbound loss QBU (determined under prior § 1.987-12(e)).
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Adjustments to avoid double counting or omissions.
If a difference between the treatment of any item under the
section 987 regulations and the treatment of the item under the taxpayer's prior section 987 method would result in income, gain, deduction, or loss (including section 988 gain or loss) being taken into account more than once or not being taken into account, then pretransition gain or loss, as determined under paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section, is adjusted to account for the difference. In case of a QBU described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, appropriate adjustments must be made under the principles of paragraph (e)(5) of this section. In the case of a terminating QBU, the determination as to whether an adjustment is required under this paragraph (j) is made after taking into account section 988 gain or loss recognized in connection with the termination.
(k)
Reporting
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (k), a statement titled “Section 987 Transition Information” must be attached to an owner's timely filed (including extensions) return for the taxable year beginning on the transition date providing the following information for each QBU described in paragraph (k)(2) of this section:
(i) A description of each QBU, the QBU's principal place of business, and a description of the prior method used by the taxpayer to determine its section 987 gain or loss, deferred section 987 gain or loss, or outbound section 987 loss with respect to the QBU, including an explanation as to whether such method was an eligible pretransition method.
(ii) The pretransition gain or loss with respect to each QBU and the computations used to determine pretransition gain or loss.
(iii) Whether the authorized person has elected to recognize pretransition gain or loss ratably over the transition period pursuant to paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section.
(iv) Whether the authorized person has made a small business election under paragraph (e)(7) of this section and the computations used to determine eligibility for the election.
(v) With respect to each QBU for which any adjustment is made under paragraph (j) of this section, a description of each adjustment and the basis for computing the adjustment.
(vi) A list of the QBUs described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, or a statement that no QBUs are described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(2)
QBUs for which reporting is required
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (k)(2)(ii) of this section, the information described in paragraph (k)(1) of this section must be provided with respect to—
(A) Each section 987 QBU described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(B) Each deferral QBU described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and each of its successor deferral QBUs; and
(C) Each outbound loss QBU described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and each of its successor suspended loss QBUs.
(ii)
QBUs to which the fresh start transition method was applied.
A taxpayer is not required to provide the information described in paragraphs (k)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section with respect to a QBU described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(3)
Attachments not required where information is reported on a form.
This paragraph (k) does not apply to the extent provided on a form or instructions published by the Commissioner.
(4)
No change in method of accounting.
The application of this section is not treated as a change in method of accounting for purposes of sections 446 and 481.
(l)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this section. For purposes of the examples, DC is a domestic corporation with the U.S. dollar as its functional currency and Branch is a section 987 QBU with the euro as its functional currency. DC has a taxable year ending December 31, and the transition date is January 1, year 4. For purposes of the examples, except as otherwise indicated, assume that no section 987 elections are in effect.
(1)
Example 1: Earnings and capital method
—(i)
Facts
—(A)
Formation of Branch and Branch's operations.
DC formed Branch on November 30, year 1, with a contribution of €150. In year 1, Branch purchased a parcel of unimproved land for €100. In year 2, Branch earned €25. In year 3, Branch again
earned €25. On June 30, year 3, Branch distributed €100 cash to DC, and DC immediately exchanged the €100 for $135.
(B)
Exchange rates.
The relevant exchange rates are shown below.
Table 1 to Paragraph
(l)(1)(i)(B)
—Exchange Rates
Spot rate
Yearly average exchange rate
November 30, Year 1
€1 = $1
December 31, Year 1
€1 = $1.10
December 31, Year 2
€1 = $1.20
June 30, Year 3
€1 = $1.35
December 31, Year 3
€1 = $1.40
Year 1
€1 = $1.05.
Year 2
€1 = $1.15.
Year 3
€1 = $1.25.
(C)
Pretransition method.
DC used the method prescribed in the 1991 proposed regulations under section 987 with respect to Branch before the transition date. Under this method, DC maintains an equity pool in euros (Branch's functional currency) and a basis pool in U.S. dollars (DC's functional currency). When Branch makes a remittance (whether out of earnings or capital), DC recognizes section 987 gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount of the remittance (translated into U.S. dollars at the spot rate on the date of the remittance) and the portion of the basis pool attributable to the remittance. DC's basis in assets distributed from Branch is equal to Branch's basis in the assets, translated into U.S. dollars at the spot rate on the date of the remittance. Branch's earnings are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate for the taxable year. DC otherwise applies section 987 in a reasonable manner.
(D)
Application of the pretransition method before the transition date.
For purposes of determining section 987 gain or loss recognized as a result of the June 30, year 3, remittance, DC was required to determine the amount in Branch's equity and basis pools. Branch's equity pool was equal to €200, and its basis pool was equal to $210, as shown in the table below. Because the remittance was equal to 50% of the equity pool (€100), 50% of the basis pool, or $105, was attributable to the remittance. The amount of the remittance was $135 (€100 translated at the spot rate on June 30, year 3, of €1 = $1.35). Therefore, in year 3, DC recognized section 987 gain of $30, equal to the difference between the amount of the remittance ($135) and the portion of the basis pool attributable to the remittance ($105). As a result of the remittance, the equity pool was reduced by the amount distributed (€100), and the basis pool was reduced by the portion of the basis pool attributable to the remittance ($105). Therefore, after the remittance, the equity pool was equal to €100, and the basis pool was equal to $105. In the hands of DC, the euros distributed had a basis of $135 (equal to the €100 distribution translated at the spot rate on June 30, year 3, of €1 = $1.35). DC did not recognize section 988 gain or loss when it exchanged the euros for $135.
Table 2 to Paragraph
(l)(1)(i)(D)
—Year 3 Equity and Basis Pools
Equity pool
Translation rate
Basis pool
Contribution (11/30/Year 1)
€150
€1 = $1
$150
Year 2 Earnings
€25
€1 = $1.15
28.75
Year 3 Earnings
€25
€1 = $1.25
31.25
Total
€200
210
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
DC's method is an eligible pretransition method.
Before the transition date, DC followed the method prescribed in the 1991 proposed regulations under section 987 with respect to Branch. This method is an eligible pretransition method under paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. Therefore, DC determines its pretransition gain or loss with respect to Branch under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(B)
Pretransition gain or loss.
Under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, DC's pretransition gain or loss with respect
to Branch is equal to the sum of the deemed termination amount described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section and the owner functional currency net value adjustment described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section. As explained in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii)(B)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section (
Example 1
), DC's deemed termination amount is $35 and its owner functional currency net value adjustment is zero. Therefore, DC has $35 of pretransition gain with respect to Branch. Under paragraph (e)(5)(i)(A) of this section, the pretransition gain is treated as Branch's net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain. However, if DC elects to recognize its pretransition gain ratably over the transition period under paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section, the pretransition gain is not treated as net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain. Instead, DC recognizes $3.50 (one tenth of its pretransition gain) for each of the ten taxable years from year 4 through year 13.
(
1
)
Deemed termination amount.
Under paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the deemed termination amount is the amount of section 987 gain or loss that would have been recognized by DC under the eligible pretransition method if Branch terminated and transferred all its assets and liabilities to DC (the land with a basis of €100) on December 31, year 3. Under DC's eligible pretransition method, DC would have recognized section 987 gain of $35, determined by subtracting the remaining basis pool of $105 from the amount of the remittance of $140 (€100 translated at the spot rate on December 31, year 3, of €1 = $1.40). Therefore, the deemed termination amount is $35.
(
2
)
Owner functional currency net value adjustment.
On December 31, year 3, Branch had no liabilities and only one asset: land with a basis of €100. Under paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the owner functional currency net value adjustment is equal to the basis of the land, translated into U.S. dollars at the transition exchange rate, reduced by the basis of the land, translated into U.S. dollars at the pretransition translation rate. Under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, the transition exchange rate is the spot rate applicable to December 31, year 3. Under paragraph (e)(2)(i)(C) of this section, the pretransition translation rate is the rate that would be used under DC's eligible pretransition method to determine the basis of the land in the hands of DC if Branch transferred the land to DC on December 31, year 3. Under DC's eligible pretransition method, if Branch transferred the land to DC, DC's basis in the land would be equal to Branch's basis (€100) translated at the spot rate on the date of the remittance. Therefore, the pretransition translation rate on December 31, year 3, is equal to the spot rate on December 31, year 3. Consequently, the owner functional currency net value adjustment is zero.
(C)
Determination of unrecognized section 987 gain or loss in year 4.
For purposes of determining unrecognized section 987 gain or loss in year 4 under § 1.987-4(d), the owner functional currency net value of Branch on the last day of year 3 is determined by translating the €100 basis of the land at the transition exchange rate, which is the spot rate on December 31, year 3 (€1 = $1.40). Therefore, the owner functional currency net value of Branch on the last day of year 3 is $140.
(2)
Example 2: Earnings only method described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section
—(i)
Facts
—(A)
In general.
The facts and exchange rates are the same as in paragraph (l)(1) of this section (
Example 1
), except that DC uses an earnings only method with respect to Branch before the transition date, as described in paragraph (l)(2)(i)(B) of this section. In addition, a current rate election is in effect for Year 4.
(B)
Pretransition method.
Under the earnings only method, DC maintains an equity pool in euros (Branch's functional currency) and a basis pool in U.S. dollars (DC's functional currency) with respect to Branch's earnings. DC also maintains separate equity and basis pools with respect to Branch's capital. Distributions are treated as being made first out of earnings and then out of capital. When Branch makes a remittance out of earnings, DC recognizes section 987 gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount of the remittance (translated into U.S. dollars at the spot rate on the date of the remittance) and the portion
of the earnings basis pool attributable to the remittance. No section 987 gain or loss is recognized on a distribution out of capital. DC's basis in assets distributed out of Branch's earnings is equal to Branch's basis in the assets translated at the spot rate on the date of the remittance. DC's basis in assets distributed out of Branch's capital is equal to the portion of the capital basis pool attributable to the distribution. Branch's earnings are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate for the taxable year. DC otherwise applies section 987 in a reasonable manner.
(C)
Application of the pretransition method before the transition date.
On June 30, year 3, Branch distributed €100 cash to DC. Of this amount, €50 represented a remittance out of earnings, and €50 represented a distribution out of capital.
(
1
)
Remittance out of earnings.
For purposes of determining section 987 gain or loss recognized on the remittance, Branch's earnings equity pool was equal to €50, and its earnings basis pool was equal to $60, as shown in the table below. Because Branch remitted 100% of the earnings equity pool (€50), the entire earnings basis pool, or $60, was attributable to the remittance. The value of the remittance was $67.50 (€50 translated at the spot rate on June 30, year 3, of €1 = $1.35). Therefore, in year 3, DC recognized section 987 gain of $7.50, equal to the difference between the value of the remittance ($67.50) and the portion of the basis pool attributable to the remittance ($60). As a result of the remittance, the earnings equity pool and the earnings basis pool were each reduced to zero. In the hands of DC, the €50 distributed out of earnings had a basis of $67.50 (€50 translated at the spot rate on June 30, year 3, of €1 = $1.35).
Table 3 to Paragraph (
l
)(2)(
i
)(C)(
1
)—Earnings Equity and Basis Pools
Equity pool
Translation rate
Basis pool
Year 2 Earnings
€25
€1 = $1.15
$28.75
Year 3 Earnings
€25
€1 = $1.25
31.25
Total
€50
60
(
2
)
Distribution out of capital.
The basis of the €50 distributed out of capital was equal to the portion of the capital basis pool attributable to the distribution. For this purpose, the capital equity pool was equal to €150, and the capital basis pool was equal to $150, as shown in the table below. Because Branch distributed 33% of the capital equity pool, or €50, 33% of the capital basis pool, or $50, was attributable to the distribution. In the hands of DC, the €50 distributed out of capital had a basis of $50. As a result of the capital distribution, the capital equity pool was reduced to €100 and the capital basis pool was reduced to $100.
Table 4 to Paragraph (
l
)(2)(
i
)(C)(
2
)—Capital Equity and Basis Pools
Equity pool
Translation rate
Basis pool
Contribution (11/30/Year 1)
€150
€1 = $1
$150
Total
€150
150
(
3
)
Section 988 gain recognized.
On June 30, year 3, DC exchanged €100 with an aggregate basis of $117.50 (equal to the sum of the $67.50 basis of the remittance out of earnings and the $50 basis of the distribution out of capital) for $135. Therefore, DC recognized $17.50 of gain under section 988.
(ii)
Analysis
—(A)
DC's method is an eligible pretransition method.
Before the transition date, DC followed a reasonable method of applying section 987 that would result in the same total
amount of income over the life of DC ($125) as an earnings and capital method, as explained in paragraphs (l)(2)(ii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section (
Example 2
). Therefore, this method is an eligible pretransition method under paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section. Consequently, DC determines its pretransition gain or loss with respect to Branch under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(
1
)
DC's total amount of income under its pretransition method.
Under DC's pretransition method, DC recognized $7.50 of section 987 gain and $17.50 of section 988 gain in year 3. In addition, on December 31, year 3, DC had $40 of embedded gain in its capital equity and basis pools (equal to the difference between its capital equity pool of €100, translated at the spot rate on December 31, year 3, of €1 = $1.40, and its capital basis pool of $100) which will be taken into account in the future (when Branch distributes property out of capital and the property is sold). DC also recognized $60 of earnings with respect to Branch ($28.75 in year 2 and $31.25 in year 3). Thus, DC's total income (recognized and unrecognized) with respect to Branch is $125.
(
2
)
DC's total amount of income under an earnings and capital method.
If DC had instead applied an earnings and capital method, as described in paragraph (l)(1)(i)(C) of this section (
Example 1
), DC would have recognized section 987 gain of $30 in year 3 and would not have recognized section 988 gain in year 3, as explained in paragraph (l)(1)(i)(D) of this section. On December 31, year 3, DC would have unrecognized section 987 gain in its equity and basis pools of $35 (
see
paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section (
Example 1
)). DC would also have recognized $60 of earnings with respect to Branch ($28.75 in year 2 and $31.25 in year 3). Thus, DC's total income (recognized and unrecognized) with respect to Branch is $125.
(B)
Pretransition gain or loss.
Under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, DC's pretransition gain or loss with respect to Branch is equal to sum of the deemed termination amount described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section and the owner functional currency net value adjustment described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section. As explained in paragraphs (l)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section (
Example 2
), the deemed termination amount is zero and the owner functional currency net value adjustment is $40. Therefore, DC has $40 of pretransition gain with respect to Branch. Under paragraph (e)(5)(i)(A) of this section, the pretransition gain is treated as Branch's net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain. However, if DC elects to recognize its pretransition gain ratably over the transition period under paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section, the pretransition gain is not treated as net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain. Instead, DC recognizes $4 (one tenth of its pretransition gain) for each of the ten taxable years from year 4 through year 13.
(
1
)
Deemed termination amount.
Under paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the deemed termination amount is the amount of section 987 gain or loss that would have been recognized by DC under the eligible pretransition method if Branch terminated and transferred all of its assets and liabilities to DC on December 31, year 3. Under DC's eligible pretransition method, if Branch had transferred all of its assets and liabilities to DC, this would have been treated as a distribution out of capital. Under its eligible pretransition method, DC would not have recognized section 987 gain or loss on a distribution out of capital. Therefore, the deemed termination amount is zero.
(
2
)
Owner functional currency net value adjustment.
On December 31, year 3, Branch had no liabilities and only one asset: land with a basis of €100. Under paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the owner functional currency net value adjustment is equal to the basis of Branch's land, translated into U.S. dollars at the transition exchange rate, reduced by the basis of Branch's land, translated into U.S. dollars at the pretransition translation rate on December 31, year 3. Under paragraph (e)(2)(i)(C) of this section, the pretransition translation rate is the rate that would be used under the eligible pretransition method to determine the basis of the land in the hands of DC if Branch transferred the land to DC.
