A person who is required to register must submit payment of a fee following the payment guidelines available on the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls website at
www.pmddtc.state.gov.
The fee to be paid shall be one of the following:
(1)
Tier 1.
The first tier is a set fee of $3,000 per year. This applies to new registrants. It also applies to those who are renewing their registrations and for whom the Department did not issue a favorable determination on a license application or other request for authorization during the 12-month period ending 90 days prior to the expiration of the current registration.
(2)
Tier 2.
The second tier is a set fee of $4,000 for registrants renewing their registrations who have submitted license applications or other requests for authorization and received five or fewer favorable determinations during the 12-month period ending 90 days prior to the expiration of their current registration.
(3)
Tier 3.
The third tier is a calculated fee for registrants who have submitted license applications or other requests for authorization and received more than five favorable determinations during the 12-month period ending 90 days prior to the expiration of their current registration. For these registrants, the fee calculation is $4,000 plus $1,100 times the total number of favorable determinations over five.
(b)
Website, discounts, and further guidance.
Information on certain discounts for registrants who are wholly exempt from income tax pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3), and for Tier 3 registrants who are low-value exporters or temporary importers are available on the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls website at
www.pmddtc.state.gov
by selecting “Conduct Business” on the top heading bar, then selecting “Registration” from the left menu bar, and finally selecting “Payment of Registration” from the subsequent left menu bar. Other guidance and information relevant to the payment of registration fees is also available on the website.
[89 FR 99085, Dec. 10, 2024]
§ 122.4
Notification of changes in information furnished by registrants.
(a) A registrant must, within five days of the event, provide to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls a written notification, signed by a senior officer (e.g., chief executive officer, president, secretary, partner, member, treasurer, general counsel), if:
(1) Any of the persons referred to in § 122.2(b) is indicted or otherwise charged (e.g., by criminal information in lieu of indictment) for or convicted of violating any of the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6 of this subchapter or violating a foreign criminal law on exportation of defense articles where conviction of such law carries a minimum term of imprisonment of greater than 1 year, or becomes ineligible to contract with, or to receive a license or other approval to export or temporarily import defense articles or defense services from any agency of the U.S. Government; or
(2) There is a change in the following information contained in the Statement of Registration:
(i) Registrant's name;
(ii) Registrant's address;
(iii) Registrant's legal organization structure;
(iv) Ownership or control;
(v) The establishment, acquisition, or divestment of a U.S. or foreign subsidiary or other affiliate who is engaged in manufacturing defense articles, exporting defense articles or defense services; or
(vi) Board of directors, senior officers, partners, or owners.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
All other changes in the Statement of Registration must be provided as part of annual registration renewal.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
For one year from the effective date of the rule, “Amendment to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations: Registration and Licensing of Brokers, Brokering Activities, and Related Provisions,” RIN 1400-AC37, the following changes must be provided as part of the annual registration renewal: Pursuant to § 129.3(d) of this subchapter, changes to combine an existing broker registration with an existing manufacturer/exporter registration; and pursuant to § 122.2(a) of this subchapter, changes to an existing registration to remove partially owned and not otherwise controlled subsidiaries or affiliates, which are not the subject of an internal reorganization, merger, acquisition, or divestiture.
(b) A registrant must notify the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls by registered mail at least 60 days in advance of any intended sale or transfer to a foreign person of ownership or control of the registrant or any entity thereof. Such notice does not relieve the registrant from obtaining the approval required under this subchapter for the export of defense articles or defense services to a foreign person, including the approval required prior to disclosing technical data. Such notice provides the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls with the information necessary to determine whether the authority of § 38(g)(6) of the Arms Export Control Act regarding licenses or other approvals for certain sales or transfers of defense articles or data on the U.S. Munitions List should be invoked (see § 126.1(e) of this subchapter).
(c) The new entity formed when a registrant merges with another company or acquires, or is acquired by, another company or a subsidiary or division of another company shall advise the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls of the following:
(1) The new firm name and all previous firm names being disclosed;
(2) The registration number that will survive and those that are to be discontinued (if any);
(3) The license numbers of all approvals on which unshipped balances will be shipped under the surviving registration number, since any license not the subject of notification will be considered invalid; and
(4) Amendments to agreements approved by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls to change the name of a party to those agreements. The registrant must provide to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls a signed copy of such an amendment to each agreement signed by the new U.S. entity, the former U.S. licensor and the foreign licensee, within 60 days of this notification, unless an extension of time is approved by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Any agreement not so amended may be considered invalid.
(d) Prior approval by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls is required for any amendment making a substantive change.
[58 FR 39298, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20540, Apr. 21, 2006; 78 FR 52687, Aug. 26, 2013; 81 FR 87429, Dec. 5, 2016; 87 FR 16423, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 122.5
Maintenance of records by registrants.
(a) A person who is required to register must maintain records concerning the manufacture, acquisition and disposition (to include copies of all documentation on exports using exemptions and applications and licenses and their related documentation), of defense articles; of technical data; the provision of defense services; brokering activities; and information on political contributions, fees, or commissions furnished or obtained, as required by part 130 of this subchapter. Records in an electronic format must be maintained using a process or system capable of reproducing all records on paper. Such records when displayed on a viewer, monitor, or reproduced on paper, must exhibit a high degree of legibility and readability. (For the purpose of this section, “legible” and “legibility” mean the quality of a letter or numeral that enables the observer to identify it positively and quickly to the exclusion of all other letters or numerals. “Readable” and “readability” means the quality of a group of letters or numerals being recognized as complete words or numbers.) This information must be stored in such a manner that
none of it may be altered once it is initially recorded without recording all changes, who made them, and when they were made. For processes or systems based on the storage of digital images, the process or system must afford accessibility to all digital images in the records being maintained. All records subject to this section must be maintained for a period of five years from the expiration of the license or other approval, to include exports using an exemption (
see
§ 123.26 of this subchapter); or, from the date of the transaction (e.g., expired licenses or other approvals relevant to the export transaction using an exemption). The Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls and the Director of the Office of Defense Trade Controls Licensing may prescribe a longer or shorter period in individual cases.
(b) Records maintained under this section shall be available at all times for inspection and copying by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls or a person designated by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (e.g., the Diplomatic Security Service) or U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Upon such request, the person maintaining the records must furnish the records, the equipment, and if necessary, knowledgeable personnel for locating, reading, and reproducing any record that is required to be maintained in accordance with this section.
[70 FR 50959, Aug. 29, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 8084, Feb. 11, 2014]
Pt. 123

# PART 123—LICENSES FOR THE EXPORT AND TEMPORARY IMPORT OF DEFENSE ARTICLES
Sec.
123.1
Requirement for export or temporary import licenses.
123.2
Import jurisdiction.
123.3
Temporary import licenses.
123.4
Temporary import license exemptions.
123.5
Temporary export licenses.
123.6
Foreign trade zones and U.S. Customs and Border Protection bonded warehouses.
123.7
Exports to warehouses or distribution points outside the United States.
123.8
Special controls on vessels, aircraft and satellites covered by the U.S. Munitions List.
123.9
Country of ultimate destination and approval of reexports or retransfers.
123.10
Nontransfer and use assurances.
123.11
Movements of vessels and aircraft covered by the U.S. Munitions List outside the United States.
123.12
Shipments between U.S. possessions.
123.13
Domestic aircraft shipments via a foreign country.
123.14
Import certificate/delivery verification procedure.
123.15
Expedited processing of license applications for the export of defense articles and defense services to Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada.
123.16
Exemptions of general applicability.
123.17
Exemption for personal protective gear.
123.18
[Reserved]
123.19
Canadian and Mexican border shipments.
123.20
[Reserved]
123.21
Duration, renewal, and disposition of licenses.
123.22
Filing, retention, and return of export licenses and filing of export information.
123.23
Monetary value of shipments.
123.24
Shipments by U.S. Postal Service.
123.25
Amendments to licenses.
123.26
[Reserved]
123.27
Special licensing regime for export to U.S. allies of commercial communications satellite components, systems, parts, accessories, attachments and associated technical data.
123.28
Scope of a license.

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 38, and 71, Pub. L. 90-629, 90 Stat. 744 (22 U.S.C. 2752, 2778, 2797); 22 U.S.C. 2753; 22 U.S.C. 2651a; 22 U.S.C. 2776; Pub. L. 105-261, 112 Stat. 1920; Sec. 1205(a), Pub. L. 107-228; Sec. 520, Pub. L. 112-55; Section 1261, Pub. L. 112-239; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129.

# Source:
58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 123.1
Requirement for export or temporary import licenses.
(a) Any person who intends to export or to import temporarily a defense article must obtain the approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls prior to the export or temporary import, unless the export or temporary import qualifies for an exemption under the provisions of this subchapter. The applicant must be registered with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls pursuant to part 122 of this subchapter prior to submitting an
application. Applications for unclassified exports and temporary imports must be submitted electronically. Applications for classified exports and classified temporary imports must be submitted via paper. Further guidance is provided on the Internet Web site of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. The application forms for export or temporary import are as follows:
(1) Unclassified permanent exports must be made on Form DSP-5;
(2) Unclassified temporary exports must be made on Form DSP-73;
(3) Unclassified temporary imports must be made on Form DSP-61; or
(4) Classified exports or temporary imports must be made on Form DSP-85.
(b) Applications for Department of State export or temporary import licenses for proposed exports or temporary imports of defense articles, including technical data, may include commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR if:
(1) The purchase documentation (e.g., purchase order, contract, letter of intent, or other appropriate documentation) includes both defense articles described on the U.S. Munitions List and items on the Commerce Control List;
(2) The commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR are for end-use in or with the U.S. Munitions List defense article(s) proposed for export; and
(3) The license application separately enumerates the commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR in a U.S. Munitions List “(x)” paragraph entry.
(c) As a condition to the issuance of a license or other approval, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may require all pertinent documentation regarding the proposed transaction and proper completion of the application form as follows:
(1) Form DSP-5, DSP-61, DSP-73, and DSP-85 applications must have an entry in each block where space is provided for an entry. All requested information must be provided. Stating “Not Applicable” or “See Attached” is not acceptable. See the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls Internet Web site for additional guidance on the completion of a license application form;
(2) Attachments and supporting technical data or brochures should be submitted with the license application. All freight forwarders and U.S. consignors must be listed in the license application. See the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls Internet Web site for instructions and limitations on attaching documentation;
(3) Certification by an empowered official must accompany all application submissions (
see
§ 126.13 of this subchapter);
(4) An application for a license for the permanent export of defense articles sold commercially must be accompanied by purchase documentation (e.g., purchase order, contract, letter of intent, or other appropriate documentation). In cases involving the Foreign Military Sales program, a copy of the relevant Letter of Offer and Acceptance is required, unless the procedures of § 126.4(c) or § 126.6 of this subchapter are followed;
(5) Form DSP-83, duly executed, must accompany all license applications for the permanent export of significant military equipment, including classified defense articles or classified technical data (
see
§§ 123.10 and 125.3 of this subchapter); and
(6) A statement concerning the payment of political contributions, fees, and commissions must accompany a permanent export application if the export involves defense articles or defense services valued in an amount of $500,000 or more and is being sold commercially to or for the use of the armed forces of a foreign country or international organization (
see
part 130 of this subchapter).
(d) Provisions for furnishing the type of defense services described in § 120.32 of this subchapter are contained in part 124 of this subchapter. Provisions for the export or temporary import of technical data and classified defense articles are contained in part 125 of this subchapter.
(e) A request for a license for the export of unclassified technical data (DSP-5) related to a classified defense article should specify any classified
technical data or material that subsequently will be required for export in the event of a sale.
[58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 70 FR 50960, Aug. 29, 2005; 71 FR 20540, Apr. 21, 2006; 77 FR 22670, Apr. 17, 2012; 78 FR 22758, Apr. 16, 2013; 79 FR 61230, Oct. 10, 2014; 87 FR 16423, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 123.2
Import jurisdiction.
The Department of State regulates the temporary import of defense articles. Permanent imports of defense articles into the United States are regulated by the Department of the Justice's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives under the direction of the Attorney General (see 27 CFR parts 447, 478, 479, and 555).
[71 FR 20540, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 123.3
Temporary import licenses.
(a) A license (DSP-61) issued by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls is required for the temporary import and subsequent export of unclassified defense articles, unless exempted from this requirement pursuant to § 123.4. This requirement applies to:
(1) Temporary imports of unclassified defense articles that are to be returned directly to the country from which they were shipped to the United States;
(2) Temporary imports of unclassified defense articles in transit to a third country;
(b) A bond may be required as appropriate (see part 125 of this subchapter for license requirements for technical data and classified defense articles.)
(c) A DSP-61 license may be obtained by a U.S. importer in satisfaction of § 123.4(c)(4) of this subchapter. If a foreign exporter requires documentation for a permanent import, the U.S. importer must contact the Department of Justice's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives for the appropriate documentation. A DSP-61 will not be approved to support permanent import requirements.
[58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20540, Apr. 21, 2006; 77 FR 22670, Apr. 17, 2012]
§ 123.4
Temporary import license exemptions.
(a) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the temporary import (and subsequent export) without a license, for a period of up to 4 years, of unclassified U.S.-origin defense items (including any items manufactured abroad pursuant to U.S. Government approval) if the item temporarily imported:
(1) Is serviced (e.g., inspection, testing, calibration or repair, including overhaul, reconditioning and one-to-one replacement of any defective items, parts or components, but excluding any modifications, enhancement, upgrade or other form of alteration or improvement that changes the basic performance of the item), and is subsequently returned to the country from which it was imported. Shipment may be made by the U.S. importer or a foreign government representative of the country from which the goods were imported; or
(2) Is to be enhanced, upgraded or incorporated into another item which has already been authorized by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for permanent export; or
(3) Is imported for the purpose of exhibition, demonstration or marketing in the United States and is subsequently returned to the country from which it was imported; or
(4) Has been rejected for permanent import by the Department of Justice and is being returned to the country from which it was shipped; or
(5) Is approved for such import under the U.S. Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program pursuant to an executed U.S. Department of Defense Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA).

# Note:
These Exceptions do not apply to shipments that transit the U.S. to or from Canada (see §§ 123.19 and 126.5 of this subchapter for exceptions).
(b) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the temporary import (but not the subsequent export) without a license of unclassified defense articles that are to be incorporated into another article, or modified, enhanced, upgraded, altered, improved or serviced in any other manner that changes the basic performance
or productivity of the article prior to being returned to the country from which they were shipped or prior to being shipped to a third country. A DSP-5 is required for the reexport of such unclassified defense articles after incorporation into another article, modification, enhancement, upgrading, alteration or improvement.
(c)
Requirements.
To use an exemption under § 123.4 (a) or (b), the following criteria must be met:
(1) The importer must meet the eligibility requirements set forth in § 120.16 of this subchapter;
(2) At the time of export, the ultimate consignee named on the Electronic Export Information (EEI) must be the same as the foreign consignee or end-user of record named at the time of import;
(3) A stated in § 126.1 of this subchapter, the temporary import must not be from or on behalf of a proscribed country, area, or person listed in that section unless an exception has been granted in accordance with § 126.3 of this subchapter; and
(4) The foreign exporter must not require documentation of U.S. Government approval of the temporary import. If the foreign exporter requires documentation for a temporary import that qualifies for an exemption under this subchapter, the U.S. importer will not be able to claim the exemption and is required to obtain a DSP-61 Application/License for Temporary Import of Unclassified Defense Articles.
(d)
Procedures.
To the satisfaction of the Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the importer and exporter must comply with the following procedures:
(1) At the time of temporary import—
(i) File and annotate the applicable U.S. Customs and Border Protection document (e.g., Form CF 3461, 7512, 7501, 7523 or 3311) to read: “This shipment is being imported in accordance with and under the authority of 22 CFR 123.4(a) (identify subsection),” and
(ii) Include, on the invoice or other appropriate documentation, a complete list and description of the defense article(s) being imported, including quantity and U.S. dollar value; and
(2) At the time of export, in accordance with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) procedures, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) registered and eligible exporter, or an agent acting on the filer's behalf, must electronically file the export information with CBP, identify 22 CFR 123.4 as the authority for the export, and provide, as requested by CBP, the entry document number or a copy of the CBP document under which the article was imported.
[58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 17533, Apr. 12, 1999; 68 FR 61101, Oct. 27, 2003; 70 FR 50960, Aug. 29, 2005; 77 FR 16597, Mar. 21, 2012; 77 FR 22670, Apr. 17, 2012; 81 FR 54735, Aug. 17, 2016; 82 FR 17, Jan. 3, 2017; 87 FR 16423, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 123.5
Temporary export licenses.
(a) The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may issue a license for the temporary export of unclassified defense articles (DSP-73). Such licenses are valid only if the article will be exported for a period of less than 4 years and will be returned to the United States and transfer of title will not occur during the period of temporary export. Accordingly, articles exported pursuant to a temporary export license may not be sold or otherwise permanently transferred to a foreign person while they are overseas under a temporary export license. A renewal of the license or other written approval must be obtained from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls if the article is to remain outside the United States beyond the period for which the license is valid.
(b)
Requirements.
Defense articles authorized for temporary export under this section may be shipped only from a port in the United States where a Port Director of U.S. Customs and Border Protection is available, or from a U.S. Post Office (see 39 CFR part 20), as appropriate. The license for temporary export must be presented to the Port Director of U.S. Customs and Border Protection who, upon verification, will endorse the exit column on the reverse side of the license. The license for temporary export must be electronically submitted to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, unless electronic reporting of such information is unavailable, in
which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection will issue instructions. In the event a physical license is required by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the licensee is to retain the duly endorsed license for temporary export in accordance with § 123.22(b) of this subchapter. In the case of a military aircraft or vessel temporarily exported under its own power, evidence that the Department of State has duly authorized it to leave the United States must be readily available on board the aircraft or vessel.
(c) Any temporary export license for hardware that is used, regardless of whether the hardware was exported directly to the foreign destination or returned directly from the foreign destination, must be endorsed by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection in accordance with the procedures in § 123.22 of this subchapter.
[70 FR 50960, Aug. 29, 2005, as amended at 82 FR 17, Jan. 3, 2017]
§ 123.6
Foreign trade zones and U.S. Customs and Border Protection bonded warehouses.
Foreign trade zones in the United States and U.S. Customs and Border Protection bonded warehouses are considered integral parts of the United States for the purpose of this subchapter. An export license is therefore not required for shipment between the United States and a foreign trade zone or a U.S. Customs and Border Protection bonded warehouse. In the case of classified defense articles, the provisions of the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual will apply. An export license is required for all shipments of articles on the U.S. Munitions List from foreign trade zones and U.S. Customs and Border Protection bonded warehouses to foreign countries, regardless of how the articles reached the zone or warehouse.
[71 FR 20540, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 123.7
Exports to warehouses or distribution points outside the United States.
Unless the exemption under § 123.16(b)(1) is used, a license is required to export defense articles to a warehouse or distribution point outside the United States for subsequent resale and will normally be granted only if an agreement has been approved pursuant to § 124.14 of this subchapter.
§ 123.8
Special controls on vessels, aircraft and satellites covered by the U.S. Munitions List.
(a) Transferring registration or control to a foreign person of any aircraft, vessel, or satellite on the U.S. Munitions List is an export for purposes of this subchapter and requires a license or written approval from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. This requirement applies whether the aircraft, vessel, or satellite is physically located in the United States or abroad.
(b) The registration in a foreign country of any aircraft, vessel or satellite covered by the U.S. Munitions List which is not registered in the United States but which is located in the United States constitutes an export. A license or written approval from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls is therefore required. Such transactions may also require the prior approval of the U.S. Department of Transportation's Maritime Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
[71 FR 20540, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 123.9
Country of ultimate destination and approval of reexports or retransfers.
(a) The country designated as the country of ultimate destination on an application for an export license, or in an Electronic Export Information filing where an exemption is claimed under this subchapter, must be the country of ultimate end-use. The written approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls must be obtained before reselling, transferring, reexporting, retransferring, transshipping, or disposing of a defense article to any end-user, end-use, or destination other than as stated on the export license, or in the Electronic Export Information filing in cases where an exemption is claimed under this subchapter, except in accordance with the provisions of an exemption under this subchapter that
explicitly authorizes the resell, transfer, reexport, retransfer, transshipment, or disposition of a defense article without such approval. Exporters must determine the specific end-user, end-use, and destination prior to submitting an application to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls or claiming an exemption under this subchapter.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
In making the aforementioned determination, a person is expected to review all readily available information, including information readily available to the public generally as well as information readily available from other parties to the transaction.
(b) The exporter, U.S. or foreign, must inform the end-user and all consignees that the defense articles being exported are subject to U.S. export laws and regulations as follows:
(1) The exporter must incorporate the following information as an integral part of the commercial invoice, whenever defense articles are to be shipped (exported in tangible form), retransferred (in tangible form), or reexported (in tangible form) pursuant to a license or other approval under this subchapter:
(i) The country of ultimate destination;
(ii) The end-user;
(iii) The license or other approval number or exemption citation; and
(iv) The following statement: “These items are controlled by the U.S. government and authorized for export only to the country of ultimate destination for use by the ultimate consignee or end-user(s) herein identified. They may not be resold, transferred, or otherwise disposed of, to any other country or to any person other than the authorized ultimate consignee or end-user(s), either in their original form or after being incorporated into other items, without first obtaining approval from the U.S. government or as otherwise authorized by U.S. law and regulations.”

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(1)(
iv

# ):
The phrase “or as otherwise authorized by U.S. law and regulations” is included because U.S. regulations contain specific exemptions from licensing requirements (e.g., ITAR exemptions, and EAR license exceptions and No License Required designations) and allow for certain amounts of U.S. origin content in foreign made items (see 15 CFR 734).
(2) When exporting items subject to the EAR pursuant to a Department of State license or other approval, the U.S. exporter must also provide the end-user and consignees with the appropriate EAR classification information for each item. This includes the Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) or EAR99 designation.
(c) Any U.S. person or foreign person requesting written approval from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for the reexport, retransfer, other disposition, or change in end-use, end-user, or destination of a defense article initially exported or transferred pursuant to a license or other written approval, or an exemption under this subchapter, must submit all the documentation required for a permanent export license (
see
§ 123.1 of this subchapter) and shall also submit the following:
(1) The license number, written authorization, or exemption under which the defense article or defense service was previously authorized for export from the United States (
Note:
For exports under exemptions at § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter, the original end-use, program, project, or operation under which the item was exported must be identified.);
(2) A precise description, quantity, and value of the defense article or defense service;
(3) A description and identification of the new end-user, end-use, and destination; and
(4) With regard to any request for such approval relating to a defense article or defense service initially exported pursuant to an exemption contained in § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter, written request for the prior approval of the transaction from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls must be submitted: By the original U.S. exporter, provided a written request is received from a member of the Australian Community, as identified in § 126.16 of this subchapter, or the United Kingdom Community, as identified in § 126.17 of this subchapter (where such a written request includes a written certification from the member of the Australian Community or the
United Kingdom Community providing the information set forth in § 126.17 of this subchapter); or by a member of the Australian Community or the United Kingdom Community, where such request provides the information set forth in this section. All persons must continue to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements outside of this subchapter concerning the import of defense articles and defense services or the possession or transfer of defense articles, including, but not limited to, regulations issued by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives found at 27 CFR parts 447, 478, and 479, which are unaffected by the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and continue to apply fully to defense articles and defense services subject to either of the aforementioned treaties and the exemptions contained in § 126.17 of this subchapter.
(d) The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may authorize reexport or retransfer of an item subject to the EAR provided that:
(1) The item was initially exported, reexported or transferred pursuant to a Department of State license or other approval;
(2) The item is for end-use in or with a defense article; and
(3) All requirements of paragraph (c) of this section are satisfied for the item subject to the EAR, as well as for the associated defense article.
(e) Reexports or retransfers of U.S.-origin components incorporated into a foreign defense article to NATO, NATO agencies, a government of a NATO country, or the governments of Australia, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, or the Republic of Korea are authorized without the prior written approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, provided:
(1) The U.S.-origin components were previously authorized for export from the United States, either by a license, written authorization, or an exemption other than those described in either § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter;
(2) The U.S.-origin components are not significant military equipment, the items are not major defense equipment sold under contract in the amount of $25,000,000 ($25 million) or more; the articles are not defense articles or defense services sold under a contract in the amount of $100,000,000 ($100 million) or more; and are not identified in part 121 of this subchapter as Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) items; and
(3) The person reexporting the defense article provides written notification to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls of the retransfer not later than 30 days following the reexport. The notification must state the articles being reexported and the recipient government.
(4) The original license or other approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls did not include retransfer or reexport restrictions prohibiting use of this exemption.
[58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20541, Apr. 21, 2006; 73 FR 15885, Mar. 26, 2008; 73 FR 38343, Aug. 3, 2009; 77 FR 16597, Mar. 21, 2012; 78 FR 22759, Apr. 16, 2013; 78 FR 61755, Oct. 3, 2013; 81 FR 54735, Aug. 17, 2016; 87 FR 16423, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 123.10
Nontransfer and use assurances.
(a) A nontransfer and use certificate (
i.e.,
Form DSP-83) is required for the export of significant military equipment and classified articles, including classified technical data, pursuant to a license or other authorization, except for the exemptions in §§ 126.5 and 126.7 of this subchapter. A license will not be issued until a completed Form DSP-83 has been received by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. This form is to be executed by the foreign consignee, foreign end-user, and the applicant. The certificate stipulates that, except as specifically authorized by prior written approval of the Department of State, the foreign consignee and foreign end-user will not reexport, resell, or otherwise dispose of the significant military equipment enumerated in the application outside the country named as the location of the foreign end-use or to any other person.
(b) The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may also require a DSP-83 for the export of any other defense articles, including technical data, or defense services.
(c) When a DSP-83 is required for an export of any defense article or defense
service to a non-governmental foreign end-user, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may require as a condition of issuing the license that the appropriate authority of the government of the country of ultimate destination also execute the certificate.
[71 FR 20541, Apr. 21, 2006, as amended at 89 FR 67290, Aug. 20, 2024]
§ 123.11
Movements of vessels and aircraft covered by the U.S. Munitions List outside the United States.
(a) A license issued by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls is required whenever a privately-owned aircraft or vessel on the U.S. Munitions List makes a voyage outside the United States.
(b) Exemption. An export license is not required when a vessel or aircraft referred to in paragraph (a) of this section departs from the United States and does not enter the territorial waters or airspace of a foreign country if no defense articles are carried as cargo. Such a vessel or aircraft may not enter the territorial waters or airspace of a foreign country before returning to the United States, or carry as cargo any defense article, without a temporary export license (Form DSP-73) from the Department of State. (See § 123.5.)
[58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20541, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 123.12
Shipments between U.S. possessions.
An export license is not required for the shipment of defense articles between the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and U.S. possessions. A license is required, however, for the export of defense articles from these areas to foreign countries.
§ 123.13
Domestic aircraft shipments via a foreign country.
A license is not required for the shipment by air of a defense article from one location in the United States to another location in the United States via a foreign country.
[81 FR 54736, Aug. 17, 2016]
§ 123.14
Import certificate/delivery verification procedure.
(a) The Import Certificate/Delivery Verification Procedure is designed to assure that a commodity imported into the territory of those countries participating in IC/DV procedures will not be diverted, transshipped, or reexported to another destination except in accordance with export control regulations of the importing country.
(b)
Exports.
The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may require the IC/DV procedure on proposed exports of defense articles to non-government entities in those countries participating in IC/DV procedures. In such cases, U.S. exporters must submit both an export license application (the completed Form DSP-5) and the original Import Certificate, which must be provided and authenticated by the government of the importing country. This document verifies that the foreign importer complied with the import regulations of the government of the importing country and that the importer declared the intention not to divert, transship or reexport the material described therein without the prior approval of that government. After delivery of the commodities to the foreign consignee, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may also require U.S. exporters to furnish Delivery Verification documentation from the government of the importing country. This documentation verifies that the delivery was in accordance with the terms of the approved export license. Both the Import Certificate and the Delivery Verification must be furnished to the U.S. exporter by the foreign importer.
(c)
Triangular transactions.
When a transaction involves three or more countries that have adopted the IC/DV procedure, the governments of these countries may stamp a triangular symbol on the Import Certificate. This symbol is usually placed on the Import Certificate when the applicant for the Import Certificate (the importer) states either (1) that there is uncertainty whether the items covered by the Import Certificate will be imported into the country issuing the Import Certificate; (2) that he or she knows that the items will not be imported into the country issuing the Import
Certificate; or (3) that, if the items are to be imported into the country issuing the Import Certificate, they will subsequently be reexported to another destination. All parties, including the ultimate consignee in the country of ultimate destination, must be shown on the completed Import Certificate.
[58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20541, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 123.15
Congressional certification pursuant to Section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act.
(a) The Arms Export Control Act requires that a certification be provided to the Congress prior to the granting of any license or other approval for transactions, in the amounts described below, involving exports of any defense articles and defense services and for exports of major defense equipment, as defined in § 120.37 of this subchapter. Approvals may not be granted when the Congress has enacted a joint resolution prohibiting the export. Certification is required for any transaction involving:
(1) A license for the export of major defense equipment sold under a contract in the amount of $14,000,000 or more, or for defense articles and defense services sold under a contract in the amount of $50,000,000 or more, to any country that is not a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), or Australia, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, or the Republic of Korea that does not authorize a new sales territory; or
(2) A license for export to a country that is a member country of NATO, or Australia, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, or the Republic of Korea, of major defense equipment sold under a contract in the amount of $25,000,000 or more, or for defense articles and defense services sold under a contract in the amount of $100,000,000 or more, and provided the transfer does not include any other countries; or
(3) A license for export of defense articles controlled under Category I paragraphs (a) through (g) of the United States Munitions List, § 121.1 of this subchapter, in an amount of $1,000,000 or more.
(b) Unless an emergency exists which requires the final export in the national security interests of the United States, approval may not be granted for any transaction until at least 15 calendar days have elapsed after receipt by the Congress of the certification required by 22 U.S.C. 2776(c)(1) involving NATO, or Australia, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, or the Republic of Korea or at least 30 calendar days have elapsed for any other country; in the case of a license for an export of a commercial communications satellite for launch from, and by nationals of, the Russian Federation, Ukraine, or Kazakhstan, until at least 15 calendar days after the Congress receives such certification.
(c) Persons who intend to export defense articles and defense services pursuant to any exemption in this subchapter under the circumstances described in this section must provide written notification to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and include a signed contract and a DSP-83 signed by the applicant, the foreign consignee and the end-user.
[70 FR 34654, June 15, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 38343, Aug. 3, 2009; 77 FR 16598, Mar. 21, 2012; 85 FR 3832, Jan. 23, 2020; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 123.16
Exemptions of general applicability.
(a) The following exemptions apply to exports of unclassified defense articles for which no approval is needed from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. These exemptions do not apply to: Proscribed destinations under § 126.1 of this subchapter; exports for which Congressional notification is required (
see
§ 123.15 of this subchapter); MTCR articles; Significant Military Equipment (SME); and may not be used by persons who are generally ineligible as described in § 120.16 of this subchapter. All shipments of defense articles, including but not limited to those to Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom, require an Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing or notification letter. If the export of a defense article is exempt from licensing, the EEI filing must cite the exemption. Refer to § 123.22 of this subchapter for EEI filing and letter notification requirements.
(b) The following exports are exempt from the licensing requirements of this subchapter.
(1) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the export without a license of defense hardware being exported in furtherance of a manufacturing license agreement, technical assistance agreement, distribution agreement or an arrangement for distribution of items identified in Category XIII(b)(1), approved in accordance with part 124, provided that:
(i) The defense hardware to be exported supports the activity and is identified by item, quantity and value in the agreement or arrangement; and
(ii) Any provisos or limitations placed on the authorized agreement or arrangement are adhered to; and
(iii) The exporter identifies in the EEI filing by selecting the appropriate code that the export is exempt from the licensing requirements of this subchapter; and
(iv) The total value of all shipments does not exceed the value authorized in the agreement or arrangement.
(v) In the case of a distribution agreement, export must be made directly to the approved foreign distributor.
(2) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the export of parts or components without a license when the total value does not exceed $500 in a single transaction and:
(i) The components or spare parts are being exported to support a defense article previously authorized for export; and
(ii) The spare parts or components are not going to a distributor, but to a previously approved end-user of the defense articles; and
(iii) The spare parts or components are not to be used to enhance the capability of the defense article;
(iv) Exporters shall not split orders so as not to exceed the dollar value of this exemption;
(v) The exporter may not make more than 24 shipments per calendar year to the previously authorized end user;
(vi) The exporter must certify on the invoice, the bill of lading, air waybill, or shipping documents that the export is exempt from the licensing requirements of this subchapter. This is done by writing “22 CFR 123.16(b)(2) applicable.”
(3) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the export without a license, of packing cases specially designed to carry defense articles.
(4) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the export without a license, of unclassified models or mock-ups of defense articles, provided that such models or mock-ups are inoperable and do not reveal any technical data in excess of that which is exempted from the licensing requirements of § 125.4(b) of this subchapter and do not contain components (
see
§ 120.40(c) of this subchapter) covered by the U.S. Munitions List (
see
§ 121.1 of this subchapter). Some models or mockups built to scale or constructed of original materials can reveal technical data. U.S. persons who avail themselves of this exemption must electronically submit a certification to U.S. Customs and Border Protection that these conditions are met, unless directed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to provide such a certification in another manner. This exemption does not imply that the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will approve the export of any defense articles for which models or mocks-ups have been exported pursuant to this exemption.
(5) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the temporary export without a license of unclassified defense articles to any public exhibition, trade show, air show or related event if that article has previously been licensed for a public exhibition, trade show, air show or related event and the license is still valid. U.S. persons who avail themselves of this exemption must electronically submit a certification to U.S. Customs and Border Protection that these conditions are met, unless directed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to provide such a certification in another manner.
(6) For exemptions for personal protective gear, refer to § 123.17.
(7) [Reserved]
(8) For exports to Canada refer to § 126.5 of this subchapter.
(9) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the temporary export without a license by a U.S. person of any unclassified component, part, tool or test equipment to a subsidiary, affiliate or facility owned or controlled by the U.S. person (see § 120.65 of this subchapter for definition of foreign ownership and foreign control) if the component, part, tool or test equipment is to be used for manufacture, assembly, testing, production, or modification provided:
(i) The U.S. person is registered with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and complies with all requirements set forth in part 122 of this subchapter;
(ii) No defense article exported under this exemption may be sold or transferred without the appropriate license or other approval from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(10) [Reserved]
[58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 29951, June 10, 1994; 59 FR 45622, Sept. 2, 1994; 67 FR 15100, Mar. 29, 2002; 70 FR 50961, Aug. 29, 2005; 71 FR 20541, Apr. 21, 2006; 76 FR 45197, July 28, 2011; 77 FR 16598, Mar. 21, 2012; 78 FR 40631, July 8, 2013; 79 FR 61230, Oct. 10, 2014; 79 FR 66609, Nov. 10, 2014; 82 FR 17, Jan. 3, 2017; 85 FR 3832, Jan. 23, 2020; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 123.17
Exemption for personal protective gear.
(a)-(e) [Reserved]
(f) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) shall permit U.S. persons to export temporarily from the United States without a license one set of body armor covered by U.S. Munitions List Category X(a)(1), which may include one helmet covered by U.S. Munitions List Category X(a)(6), or one set of chemical agent protective gear covered by U.S. Munitions List Category XIV(f)(4), which may include one additional filter canister, provided:
(1) The person declares the articles to a CBP officer upon each departure from the United States, presents the Internal Transaction Number from submission of the export information through CBP's electronic system(s) per § 123.22 (unless electronic reporting of such information is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection will issue instructions), and the articles are presented to the CBP officer for inspection;
(2) The body armor, which may include a helmet, or chemical agent protective gear, which may include one additional filter canister, to be exported is with the individual's baggage or effects, whether accompanied or unaccompanied (but not mailed); and
(3) The body armor, which may include a helmet, or chemical agent protective gear, which may include one additional filter canister, to be exported is for that person's exclusive use and not for reexport or other transfer of ownership. The person must declare it is his intention to return the article(s) to the United States at the end of tour, contract, or assignment for which the articles were temporarily exported.
(g) The license exemption set forth in paragraph (f) of this section is available for the temporary export of body armor or chemical agent protective gear for personal use to countries listed in § 126.1 of this subchapter provided:
(1) The conditions in paragraph (f) of this section are met; and
(2) The person is affiliated with the U.S. Government traveling on official business or is traveling in support of a U.S. Government contract. The person shall electronically submit documentation to this effect, along with the Internal Transaction Number from U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s), unless electronic reporting of such information is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection will issue instructions.
(h) The license exemption set forth in paragraph (f) of this section is available for the temporary export of body armor, which may include a helmet, or chemical agent protective gear, which may include one additional filter canister, for personal use to Iraq, provided the conditions in paragraph (f) are met, and the person is either affiliated with the U.S. Government traveling on official business or is traveling in support of a U.S. Government contract, or is traveling to Iraq under a direct authorization by the Government of Iraq and engaging in activities for, on behalf of, or at the request of, the Government of Iraq. The person shall electronically submit documentation to this effect,
along with the Internal Transaction Number using U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s), unless electronic reporting of such information is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection will issue instructions. Documentation regarding direct authorization from the Government of Iraq shall include an English translation.
(i) The license exemption set forth in paragraph (f) of this section is available for the temporary export of body armor, which may include a helmet, or chemical agent protective gear, which may include one additional filter canister, for personal use to Afghanistan, provided the conditions in paragraph (f) are met.
(j) If the articles temporarily exported pursuant to paragraphs (f) through (i) of this section are not returned to the United States, a detailed report must be submitted to the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance in accordance with the requirements of § 127.12(c)(2) of this subchapter.
(k) To use the exemptions in this section, individuals are not required to be registered with the Department of State (the registration requirement is described in part 122 of this subchapter). All other entities must be registered and eligible, as provided in §§ 120.15(d) and 120.16(c) and part 122 of this subchapter.
[58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 17534, Apr. 12, 1999; 70 FR 50962, Aug. 29, 2005; 71 FR 20541, Apr. 21, 2006; 74 FR 39213, Aug. 6, 2009; 77 FR 25867, May 2, 2012; 78 FR 40631, July 8, 2013; 82 FR 18, Jan. 3, 2017; 85 FR 3832, Jan. 23, 2020; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 123.18
[Reserved]
§ 123.19
Canadian and Mexican border shipments.
A shipment originating in Canada or Mexico which incidentally transits the United States en route to a delivery point in the same country that originated the shipment is exempt from the requirement for an in transit license.
§ 123.20
[Reserved]
§ 123.21
Duration, renewal, and disposition of licenses.
(a) A license is valid for four years. The license expires when the total value or quantity authorized has been shipped or when the date of expiration has been reached, whichever occurs first. Defense articles to be shipped thereafter require a new application and license. The new application should refer to the expired license. It should not include references to any defense articles other than those of the unshipped balance of the expired license.
(b) Unused, expired, suspended, or revoked licenses must be handled in accordance with § 123.22(c) of this subchapter.
[58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 76 FR 68312, Nov. 4, 2011]
§ 123.22
Filing, retention, and return of export licenses and filing of export information.
(a) Any export, as defined in this subchapter, of a defense article controlled by this subchapter, to include defense articles transiting the United States, requires the electronic reporting of export information. The reporting of the export information shall be to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection using its electronic system(s), or directly to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC), as appropriate. Before the export of any hardware, via a license or other authorization, the DDTC registered applicant/exporter, or an agent acting on the filer's behalf, must electronically submit export information to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, unless electronic reporting is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection will issue instructions (
see
paragraph (b) of this section). In addition to electronically providing the export information to U.S. Customs and Border Protection before export, all mandatory supporting documentation (e.g., attachments, certifications, proof of filing in U.S. Customs and Border Protection's system(s) such as the Internal Transaction Number (ITN)) must be submitted electronically, unless electronic reporting of such information is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection will issue instructions.
(1) If necessary, an export may be made through a port other than the
one designated on the license if the exporter complies with the procedures established by U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(2) When a defense article is temporarily exported from the United States and subsequently moved from one destination authorized on a license to another destination authorized on the same or another temporary license, the applicant, or an agent acting on the applicant's behalf, must ensure that U.S. Customs and Border Protection decrements both temporary licenses to show the exit and entry of the hardware.
(b)
Filing and reporting of export information
—(1)
Filing of export information with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
Before exporting any hardware controlled by this subchapter using a license or exemption, the DDTC registered applicant/exporter, or an agent acting on the filer's behalf, must electronically file the export information with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in accordance with the following timelines:
(i)
Air or truck shipments.
The export information must be electronically filed at least 8 hours prior to departure.
(ii)
Sea or rail Shipments.
The export information must be electronically filed at least 24 hours prior to departure.
(2)
Emergency shipments of hardware that cannot meet the pre-departure filing requirements.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection may permit an emergency export of hardware by truck or air by a U.S. registered person when the exporter is unable to comply with the Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing timeline in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. The applicant, or an agent acting on the applicant's behalf, must provide documentation required by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and this subchapter. The documentation provided to U.S. Customs and Border Protection must include the Internal Transaction Number (ITN) for the shipment and must be accompanied by an explanation for urgency. The export filing via U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s) must be made at least two hours prior to any departure by air from the United States. When shipping via ground, the filing in U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s) must be made when the exporter provides the articles to the carrier or at least one hour prior to departure from the United States, when the permanent export of the hardware has been authorized for export:
(i) In accordance with § 126.4 of this subchapter, or
(ii) On a valid license, and the ultimate recipient and ultimate end-user identified on the license is a foreign government.
(3)
Reporting of export information on technical data and defense service.
When an export is being made using a DDTC authorization (e.g., technical data license, agreement or a technical data exemption provided in this subchapter), the DDTC registered exporter will retain the license or other approval and provide the export information electronically to DDTC as follows:
(i)
Technical data license.
Prior to the permanent export of technical data licensed using a Form DSP-5, the applicant shall electronically provide export information using the system for direct electronic reporting to DDTC of export information and self-validate the original of the license. Exports of copies of the licensed technical data should be made in accordance with existing exemptions in this subchapter. Should an exemption not apply, the applicant may request a new license.
(ii)
Manufacturing license and technical assistance agreements.
Prior to the initial export of any technical data and defense services authorized in an agreement the U.S. agreement holder must electronically inform DDTC that exports have begun. In accordance with this subchapter, all subsequent exports of technical data and services are not required to be filed electronically with DDTC except when the export is done using a U.S. Port. Records of all subsequent exports of technical data shall be maintained by the exporter in accordance with this subchapter and shall be made immediately available to DDTC upon request. Exports of technical data in furtherance of an agreement using a U.S. Port shall be made in accordance with § 125.4 of this subchapter and made
in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
(iii)
Technical data and defense service exemptions.
In any instance when technical data is exported using an exemption in this subchapter (e.g., §§ 125.4(b)(2), 125.4(b)(4), 126.5) from a U.S. port, the exporter must provide the export data electronically to DDTC. A copy of the electronic notification to DDTC must accompany the technical data shipment and be made available to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection upon request.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(3)(
iii

# ):
Future changes to the electronic reporting procedure will be amended by publication of a rule in the
Federal Register.
Exporters are reminded to continue maintaining records of all export transactions, including exemption shipments, in accordance with this subchapter.
(c)
Return of licenses.
Licenses issued by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls are subject to return requirements as follows:
(1) A license issued electronically by DDTC and electronically decremented by U.S. Customs and Border Protection through its electronic system(s) is not required to be returned to DDTC. A copy of the license must be maintained by the applicant in accordance with § 122.5 of this subchapter.
(2) Licenses issued by DDTC but not decremented by U.S. Customs and Border Protection through its electronic system(s) (e.g., oral or visual technical data releases) must be maintained by the applicant in accordance with § 122.5 of this subchapter.
(3) A license issued by DDTC but not used by the applicant does not need to be returned to DDTC, even when expired.
(4) A license revoked by DDTC is considered expired and must be handled in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.
[68 FR 61101, Oct. 27, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 50962, Aug. 29, 2005; 76 FR 68312, Nov. 4, 2011; 77 FR 16599, Mar. 21, 2012; 82 FR 18, Jan. 3, 2017; 83 FR 50007, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 123.23
Monetary value of shipments.
Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the shipment of defense articles identified on any license when the total value of the export does not exceed the aggregate monetary value (not quantity) stated on the license by more than ten percent, provided that the additional monetary value does not make the total value of the license or other approval for the export of any major defense equipment sold under a contract reach $14,000,000 or more, and provided that the additional monetary value does not make defense articles or defense services sold under a contract reach the amount of $50,000,000 or more.
[70 FR 50963, Aug. 29, 2005]
§ 123.24
Shipments by U.S. Postal Service.
(a) The export of any defense hardware using a license or exemption in this subchapter by the U.S. Postal Service must be filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection using its electronic system(s) and the license must be filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection before any hardware is actually sent abroad by mail. The exporter must certify the defense hardware being exported in accordance with this subchapter by clearly marking on the package: “This export is subject to the controls of the ITAR, 22 CFR (identify section for an exemption) or (state license number) and the export has been electronically filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection.”
(b) The export of any technical data using a license in this subchapter by the U.S. Postal Service must be notified electronically directly to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC). The exporter, using either a license or exemption, must certify, by clearly marking on the package, “This export is subject to the controls of the ITAR, 22 CFR (identify section for an exemption) or (state license number).” For those exports using a license, the exporter must also state “The export has been electronically notified directly to DDTC.” The license must be returned to DDTC upon completion of the use of the license (
see
§ 123.22(c)).
[68 FR 61102, Oct. 27, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 50963, Aug. 29, 2005; 82 FR 19, Jan. 3, 2017]
§ 123.25
Amendments to licenses.
(a) The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may approve an amendment
to a license for permanent export, temporary export and temporary import of unclassified defense articles. A suggested format is available from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(b) The following types of amendments to a license will be considered: Addition of U.S. freight forwarder or U.S. consignor; change due to an obvious typographical error; change in source of commodity; and change of foreign intermediate consignee if that party is only transporting the equipment and will not process (e.g., integrate, modify) the equipment. For changes in U.S. dollar value see § 123.23.
(c) The following types of amendments to a license will not be approved: Additional quantity, changes in commodity, country of ultimate destination, end-use or end-user, foreign consignee and/or extension of duration. The foreign intermediate consignee may only be amended if that party is acting as freight forwarder and the export does not involve technical data. A new license is required for these changes. Any new license submission must reflect only the unshipped balance of quantity and dollar value.
[58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20542, Apr. 21, 2006; 77 FR 22671, Apr. 17, 2012]
§ 123.26
[Reserved]
§ 123.27
Special licensing regime for export to U.S. allies of commercial communications satellite components, systems, parts, accessories, attachments and associated technical data.
(a) U.S. persons engaged in the business of exporting specifically designed or modified components, systems, parts, accessories, attachments, associated equipment and certain associated technical data for commercial communications satellites, and who are so registered with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls pursuant to part 122 of this subchapter, may submit license applications for multiple permanent and temporary exports and temporary imports of such articles for expeditious consideration without meeting the documentary requirements of § 123.1(c)(4) and (5) concerning purchase orders, letters of intent, contracts and non-transfer and end use certificates, or the documentary requirements of § 123.9, concerning approval of re-exports or re-transfers, when all of the following requirements are met:
(1) The proposed exports or re-exports concern exclusively one or more countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and/or one or more countries which have been designated in accordance with section 517 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and with section 1206 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 as a major non-NATO ally.
(2) The proposed exports concern exclusively one or more foreign persons (e.g., companies or governments) located within the territories of the countries identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and one or more commercial communications satellite programs included within a list of such persons and programs approved by the U.S. Government for purposes of this section, as signified in a list of such persons and programs that will be publicly available through the Internet Web site of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and by other means.
(3) The articles are not major defense equipment sold under a contract in the amount of $14,000,000 or more or defense articles or defense services sold under a contract in the amount of $50,000,000 or more (for which purpose, as is customary, exporters may not split contracts or purchase orders). Items meeting these statutory thresholds must be submitted on a separate license application to permit the required notification to Congress pursuant to section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act.
(4) The articles are not detailed design, development, manufacturing or production data and do not involve the manufacture abroad of significant military equipment.
(5) The U.S. exporter provides complete shipment information to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls within 15 days of shipment by submitting a report containing a description of the item and the quantity, value, port of exit, and end-user and country of destination of the item, and at that time meets the documentary requirements of § 123.1(c)(4) and (5), the documentary requirements of § 123.9 in the
case of re-exports or re-transfers, and, other documentary requirements that may be imposed as a condition of a license (e.g., parts control plans for MTCR-controlled items). The shipment information reported must include a description of the item and quantity, value, port of exit and end user and country of destination of the item.
(6) At any time in which an item exported pursuant to this section is proposed for re-transfer outside of the approved territory, programs or persons (e.g., such as in the case of an item included in a satellite for launch beyond the approved territory), the detailed requirements of § 123.9 apply with regard to obtaining the prior written consent of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(b) The re-export or re-transfer of the articles authorized for export (including to specified re-export destinations) in accordance with this section do not require the separate prior written approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls provided all of the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section are met.
(c) The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will consider, on a case-by-case basis, requests to include additional foreign companies and satellite programs within the geographic coverage of a license application submitted pursuant to this section from countries not otherwise covered, who are members of the European Space Agency or the European Union. In no case, however, can the provisions of this section apply or be relied upon by U.S. exporters in the case of countries who are subject to the mandatory requirements of Section 1514 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Pub. L. 105-261), concerning national security controls on satellite export licensing.
(d) Registered U.S. exporters may request at the time of a license application submitted pursuant to this section that additional foreign persons or communications satellite programs be added to the lists referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, which additions, if approved, will be included within the publicly available lists of authorized recipients and programs.
[65 FR 34091, May 26, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 58988, Sept. 19, 2002; 69 FR 40314, July 2, 2004; 70 FR 50963, Aug. 29, 2005; 71 FR 20542, Apr. 21, 2006; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 123.28
Scope of a license.
Unless limited by a condition set out in a license, the export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import authorized by a license is for the item(s), end-use(s), and parties described in the license application and any letters of explanation. DDTC grants licenses in reliance on representations the applicant made in or submitted in connection with the license application, letters of explanation, and other documents submitted.
[81 FR 35616, June 3, 2016]
Pt. 124

# PART 124—AGREEMENTS, OFF-SHORE PROCUREMENT, AND OTHER DEFENSE SERVICES
Sec.
124.1
Manufacturing license agreements and technical assistance agreements.
124.2
Exemptions for training and military service.
124.3
Exports of technical data in furtherance of an agreement.
124.4
Deposit of signed agreements with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
124.5
Proposed agreements that are not concluded.
124.6
Termination of manufacturing license agreements and technical assistance agreements.
124.7
Information required in all manufacturing license agreements and technical assistance agreements.
124.8
Clauses required both in manufacturing license agreements and technical assistance agreements.
124.9
Additional clauses required only in manufacturing license agreements.
124.10
Nontransfer and use assurances.
124.11
Congressional certification pursuant to Section 36(d) of the Arms Export Control Act.
124.12
Required information in letters of transmittal.
124.13
Procurement by U.S. persons in foreign countries (offshore procurement).
124.14
Exports to warehouses or distribution points outside the United States.
124.15
Special Export Controls for Defense Articles and Defense Services Controlled under Category XV: Space Systems and Space Launches.
124.16
[Reserved]

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 38, and 71, Pub. L. 90-629, 90 Stat. 744 (22 U.S.C. 2752, 2778, 2797); 22 U.S.C. 2651a; 22 U.S.C. 2776; Section 1514, Pub. L. 105-261; Pub. L. 111-266; Section 1261, Pub. L. 112-239; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129.

# Source:
58 FR 39305, July 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 124.1
Manufacturing license agreements and technical assistance agreements.
(a)
Approval.
The approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls must be obtained before the defense services described in § 120.32 of this subchapter may be furnished. In order to obtain such approval, the U.S. person must submit a proposed agreement to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Such agreements are generally characterized as manufacturing license agreements, technical assistance agreements, distribution agreements, or off-shore procurement agreements, and may not enter into force without the prior written approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Once approved, the defense services described in the agreements may generally be provided without further licensing in accordance with §§ 124.3 and 125.4(b)(2) of this subchapter. The requirements of this section apply whether or not technical data is to be disclosed or used in the performance of the defense services described in § 120.32 of this subchapter (e.g., all the information relied upon by the U.S. person in performing the defense service is in the public domain or is otherwise exempt from licensing requirements of this subchapter pursuant to § 125.4 of this subchapter). This requirement also applies to the training of any foreign military forces, regular and irregular, in the use of defense articles. Technical assistance agreements must be submitted in such cases. In exceptional cases, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, upon written request, will consider approving the provision of defense services described in § 120.32 of this subchapter by granting a license under part 125 of this subchapter.
(b)
Classified articles.
Copies of approved agreements involving the release of classified defense articles will be forwarded by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls to the Defense Security Service of the Department of Defense.
(c)
Amendments.
Changes to the scope of approved agreements, including modifications, upgrades, or extensions must be submitted for approval. The amendments may not enter into force until approved by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(d)
Minor amendments.
Amendments which only alter delivery or performance schedules, or other minor administrative amendments which do not affect in any manner the duration of the agreement or the clauses or information which must be included in such agreements because of the requirements of this part, do not have to be submitted for approval. One copy of all such minor amendments must be submitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls within thirty days after they are concluded.
(e) Unless limited by a condition set out in an agreement, the export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import authorized by a license is for the item(s), end-use(s), and parties described in the agreement, license, and any letters of explanation. DDTC approves agreements and grants licenses in reliance on representations the applicant made in or submitted in connection with the agreement, letters of explanation, and other documents submitted.
[71 FR 20542, Apr. 21, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 52624, Aug. 27, 2010; 81 FR 35616, June 3, 2016; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 124.2
Exemptions for training and military service.
(a) Technical assistance agreements are not required for the provision of training in the basic operation and maintenance of defense articles lawfully exported or authorized for export to the same recipient. This does not include training in intermediate and depot level maintenance.
(b) Services performed as a member of the regular military forces of a foreign nation by U.S. persons who have been drafted into such forces are not deemed to be defense services for purposes of § 120.32 of this subchapter.
(c) NATO countries, Australia, Japan, and Sweden, in addition to the
basic maintenance training exemption provided in § 124.2(a) and basic maintenance information exemption in § 125.4(b)(5) of this subchapter, no technical assistance agreement is required for maintenance training or the performance of maintenance, including the export of supporting technical data, when the following criteria can be met:
(1) Defense services are for unclassified U.S.-origin defense articles lawfully exported or authorized for export and owned or operated by and in the inventory of NATO or the Federal Governments of NATO countries, Australia, Japan or Sweden.
(2) This defense service exemption does not apply to any transaction involving defense services for which congressional notification is required in accordance with §§ 123.15 and 124.11 of this subchapter.
(3) Maintenance training or the performance of maintenance must be limited to inspection, testing, calibration or repair, including overhaul, reconditioning and one-to-one replacement of any defective items, parts or components; and excluding any modification, enhancement, upgrade or other form of alteration or improvement that enhances the performance or capability of the defense article. This does not preclude maintenance training or the performance of maintenance that would result in enhancements or improvements only in the reliability or maintainability of the defense article, such as an increased mean time between failure (MTBF).
(4) Supporting technical data must be unclassified and must not include software documentation on the design or details of the computer software, software source code, design methodology, engineering analysis, or manufacturing know-how.
(5) This defense service exemption does not apply to maintenance training or the performance of maintenance and service or the transfer of supporting technical data for the following defense articles:
(i) All Missile Technology Control Regime Annex Items;
(ii) Firearms listed in Category I; and ammunition listed in Category III for the firearms in Category I;
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) Naval nuclear propulsion equipment listed in USML Category VI and USML Category XX;
(v) Gas turbine engine hot sections covered by Category XIX(f);
(vi) Category VIII(f);
(vii) Category XII(c);
(viii) Chemical agents listed in Category XIV (a), biological agents in Category XIV (b), and equipment listed in Category XIV (c) for dissemination of the chemical agents and biological agents listed in Categories XIV (a) and (b);
(ix) [Reserved]
(x) Category XV;
(xi) [Reserved]
(xii) Submersible and semi-submersible vessels and related articles covered in USML Category XX; or
(xiii) Miscellaneous articles covered by Category XXI.
(6)
Eligibility criteria for foreign persons.
Foreign persons eligible to receive technical data or maintenance training under this exemption are limited to nationals of the NATO countries, Australia, Japan, or Sweden.
[58 FR 39305, July 22, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 45283, July 21, 2000; 66 FR 35899, July 10, 2001; 71 FR 20543, Apr. 21, 2006; 78 FR 40933, July 8, 2013; 79 FR 47, Jan. 2, 2014; 81 FR 87429, Dec. 5, 2016; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 124.3
Exports of technical data in furtherance of an agreement.
(a)
Unclassified technical data.
The U.S. Customs and Border Protection or U.S. Postal authorities shall permit the export without a license of unclassified technical data if the export is in furtherance of a manufacturing license or technical assistance agreement which has been approved in writing by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) and the technical data does not exceed the scope or limitations of the relevant agreement. The approval of the DDTC must be obtained for the export of any unclassified technical data that may exceed the terms of the agreement.
(b)
Classified technical data.
The export of classified information in furtherance of an approved manufacturing license or technical assistance agreement which provides for the transmittal of classified information does
not require further approval from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls when:
(1) The United States party certifies to the Department of Defense transmittal authority that the classified information does not exceed the technical or product limitations in the agreement; and
(2) The U.S. party complies with the requirements of the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual concerning the transmission of classified information (unless such requirements are in direct conflict with guidance provided by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, in which case the latter guidance must be followed) and any other requirements of cognizant U.S. departments or agencies.
[58 FR 39305, July 22, 1993, as amended at 68 FR 61102, Oct. 27, 2003; 70 FR 50963, Aug. 29, 2005; 71 FR 20543, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 124.4
Deposit of signed agreements with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(a) The United States party to a manufacturing license or a technical assistance agreement must file one copy of the concluded agreement with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls not later than 30 days after it enters into force. If the agreement is not concluded within one year of the date of approval, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls must be notified in writing and be kept informed of the status of the agreement until the requirements of this paragraph or the requirements of § 124.5 are satisfied.
(b) In the case of concluded agreements involving coproduction or licensed production outside of the United States of defense articles of United States origin, a written statement must accompany filing of the concluded agreement with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which shall include:
(1) The identity of the foreign countries, international organization, or foreign firms involved;
(2) A description and the estimated value of the articles authorized to be produced, and an estimate of the quantity of the articles authorized to be produced:
(3) A description of any restrictions on third-party transfers of the foreign-manufactured articles; and
(4) If any such agreement does not provide for United States access to and verification of quantities of articles produced overseas and their disposition in the foreign country, a description of alternative measures and controls to ensure compliance with restrictions in the agreement on production quantities and third-party transfers.
[62 FR 67276, Dec. 24, 1997, as amended at 71 FR 20543, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 124.5
Proposed agreements that are not concluded.
The United States party to any proposed manufacturing license agreement or technical assistance agreement must inform the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls if a decision is made not to conclude the agreement. The information must be provided within 60 days of the date of the decision. These requirements apply only if the approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls was obtained for the agreement to be concluded (with or without any provisos).
[71 FR 20543, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 124.6
Termination of manufacturing license agreements and technical assistance agreements.
The U.S. party to a manufacturing license or a technical assistance agreement must inform the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls in writing of the impending termination of the agreement not less than 30 days prior to the expiration date of such agreement.
[71 FR 20543, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 124.7
Information required in all manufacturing license agreements and technical assistance agreements.
(a) The following information must be included in all proposed manufacturing license agreements and technical assistance agreements. The information should be provided in terms which are as precise as possible. If the applicant believes that a clause or that required information is not relevant or necessary, the applicant may request
the omission of the clause or information. The transmittal letter accompanying the agreement must state the reasons for any proposed variation in the clauses or required information.
(1) The agreement must describe the defense article to be manufactured and all defense articles to be exported, including any test and support equipment or advanced materials. They should be described by military nomenclature, contract number, National Stock Number, nameplate data, or other specific information. Only defense articles listed in the agreement will be eligible for export under the exemption in § 123.16(b)(1) of this subchapter.
(2) The agreement must specifically describe the assistance and technical data, including the design and manufacturing know-how involved, to be furnished and any manufacturing rights to be granted;
(3) The agreement must specify its duration; and
(4) The agreement must specifically identify the countries or areas in which manufacturing, production, processing, sale or other form of transfer is to be licensed.
(b) [Reserved]
[58 FR 39305, July 22, 1993, as amended at 81 FR 54736, Aug. 17, 2016]
§ 124.8
Clauses required both in manufacturing license agreements and technical assistance agreements.
(a) The following statements must be included both in manufacturing license agreements and in technical assistance agreements:
(1) “This agreement shall not enter into force, and shall not be amended or extended, without the prior written approval of the Department of State of the U.S. Government.”
(2) “This agreement is subject to all United States laws and regulations relating to exports and to all administrative acts of the U.S. Government pursuant to such laws and regulations.”
(3) “The parties to this agreement agree that the obligations contained in this agreement shall not affect the performance of any obligations created by prior contracts or subcontracts which the parties may have individually or collectively with the U.S. Government.”
(4) “No liability will be incurred by or attributed to the U.S. Government in connection with any possible infringement of privately owned patent or proprietary rights, either domestic or foreign, by reason of the U.S. Government's approval of this agreement.”
(5) “The technical data or defense service exported from the United States in furtherance of this agreement and any defense article which may be produced or manufactured from such technical data or defense service may not be transferred to a foreign person except pursuant to 22 CFR 126.7 or 126.18, as specifically authorized in this agreement, or where prior written approval of the Department of State has been obtained.”
(6) “All provisions in this agreement which refer to the United States Government and the Department of State will remain binding on the parties after the termination of the agreement.”
(b) [Reserved]
[58 FR 39305, July 22, 1993, as amended at 76 FR 28177, May 16, 2011; 81 FR 35616, June 3, 2016; 81 FR 54736, Aug. 17, 2016; 89 FR 67290, Aug. 20, 2024; 89 FR 68778, Aug. 28, 2024]
§ 124.9
Additional clauses required only in manufacturing license agreements.
(a)
Clauses for all manufacturing license agreements.
The following clauses must be included only in manufacturing license agreements:
(1) “No export, sale, transfer, or other disposition of the licensed article is authorized to any country outside the territory wherein manufacture or sale is herein licensed without the prior written approval of the U.S. Government unless otherwise exempted by the U.S. Government. Sales or other transfers of the licensed article shall be limited to governments of countries wherein manufacture or sale is hereby licensed and to private entities seeking to procure the licensed article pursuant to a contract with any such government unless the prior written approval of the U.S. Government is obtained.”
(2) “It is agreed that sales by licensee or its sub-licensees under contracts made through the U.S. Government
will not include either charges for patent rights in which the U.S. Government holds a royalty-free license, or charges for data which the U.S. Government has a right to use and disclose to others, which are in the public domain, or which the U.S. Government has acquired or is entitled to acquire without restrictions upon their use and disclosure to others.”
(3) “If the U.S. Government is obligated or becomes obligated to pay to the licensor royalties, fees, or other charges for the use of technical data or patents which are involved in the manufacture, use, or sale of any licensed article, any royalties, fees or other charges in connection with purchases of such licensed article from licensee or its sub-licensees with funds derived through the U.S. Government may not exceed the total amount the U.S. Government would have been obligated to pay the licensor directly.”
(4) “If the U.S. Government has made financial or other contributions to the design and development of any licensed article, any charges for technical assistance or know-how relating to the item in connection with purchases of such articles from licensee or sub-licensees with funds derived through the U.S. Government must be proportionately reduced to reflect the U.S. Government contributions, and subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section, no other royalties, or fees or other charges may be assessed against U.S. Government funded purchases of such articles. However, charges may be made for reasonable reproduction, handling, mailing, or similar administrative costs incident to the furnishing of such data.”
(5) “The parties to this agreement agree that an annual report of sales or other transfers pursuant to this agreement of the licensed articles, by quantity, type, U.S. dollar value, and purchaser or recipient, shall be provided by (applicant or licensee) to the Department of State.” This clause must specify which party is obligated to provide the annual report. Such reports may be submitted either directly by the licensee or indirectly through the licensor, and may cover calendar or fiscal years. Reports shall be deemed proprietary information by the Department of State and will not be disclosed to unauthorized persons. See § 126.10(b) of this subchapter.
(6) (Licensee) agrees to incorporate the following statement as an integral provision of a contract, commercial invoice or other appropriate document whenever the licensed articles are sold or otherwise transferred:
These items are controlled by the U.S. government and authorized for export only to the country of ultimate destination for use by the ultimate consignee or end-user(s) herein identified. They may not be resold, transferred, or otherwise disposed of, to any other country or to any person other than the authorized ultimate consignee or end-user(s), either in their original form or after being incorporated into other items, without first obtaining approval from the U.S. government or as otherwise authorized by U.S. law and regulations.
(b)
Special clause for agreements relating to significant military equipment.
With respect to an agreement for the production of significant military equipment, the following additional provisions must be included in the agreement:
(1) “A completed nontransfer and use certificate (DSP-83) must be executed by the foreign end-user and submitted to the Department of State of the United States before any transfer may take place.”
(2) “The prior written approval of the U.S. Government must be obtained before entering into a commitment for the transfer of the licensed article by sale or otherwise to any person or government outside of the approved sales territory.”
[58 FR 39305, July 22, 1993, as amended at 81 FR 54736, Aug. 17, 2016]
§ 124.10
Nontransfer and use assurances.
(a) Types of agreements requiring assurances. With respect to any manufacturing license agreement or technical assistance agreement which relates to significant military equipment or classified defense articles, including classified technical data, a Nontransfer and Use Certificate (Form DSP-83) (see § 123.10 of this subchapter) signed by the applicant and the foreign party must be submitted to the Directorate
of Defense Trade Controls. With respect to all agreements involving classified articles, including classified technical data, an authorized representative of the foreign government must sign the DSP-83 (or provide the same assurances in the form of a diplomatic note), unless the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls has granted an exception to this requirement. The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may require that a DSP-83 be provided in conjunction with an agreement that does not relate to significant military equipment or classified defense articles. The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may also require with respect to any agreement that an appropriate authority of the foreign party's government also sign the DSP-83 (or provide the same assurances in the form of a diplomatic note).
(b)
Timing of submission of assurances.
Submission of a Form DSP-83 and/or diplomatic note must occur as follows:
(1) Agreements which have been signed by all parties before being submitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may only be submitted along with any required DSP-83 and/or diplomatic note.
(2) If an agreement has not been signed by all parties before being submitted, the required DSP-83 and/or diplomatic note must be submitted along with the signed agreement.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
In no case may a transfer occur before a required DSP-83 and/or diplomatic note has been submitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
[59 FR 29951, June 10, 1994, as amended at 71 FR 20543, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 124.11
Congressional certification pursuant to Section 36(d) of the Arms Export Control Act.
(a) The Arms Export Control Act requires that a certification be provided to the Congress prior to the granting of any approval of a manufacturing license agreement or technical assistance agreement for the manufacturing abroad of any item of significant military equipment that is entered into with any country regardless of dollar value. Additionally, any manufacturing license agreement or technical assistance agreement providing for the export of major defense equipment shall also require a certification when meeting the requirements of § 123.15 of this subchapter.
(b) Unless an emergency exists which requires the immediate approval of the agreement in the national security interests of the United States, approval may not be granted until at least 15 calendar days have elapsed after receipt by the Congress of the certification required by 22 U.S.C. 2776(d)(1) involving the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, any member country of that Organization, or Australia, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, or the Republic of Korea or at least 30 calendar days have elapsed for any other country. Approvals may not be granted when the Congress has enacted a joint resolution prohibiting the export.
(c) Persons who intend to export defense articles and defense services pursuant to any exemption in this subchapter under the circumstances described in this section and section 123.15 must provide written notification to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and include a signed contract and a DSP-83 signed by the applicant, the foreign consignee and the end-user.
[70 FR 34654, June 15, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 38343, Aug. 3, 2009; 77 FR 16599, Mar. 21, 2012; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 124.12
Required information in letters of transmittal.
(a) An application for the approval of a manufacturing license or technical assistance agreement with a foreign person must be accompanied by an explanatory letter. The explanatory letter shall contain:
(1) A statement giving the applicant's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls registration number.
(2) A statement identifying the licensee and the scope of the agreement.
(3) A statement identifying the U.S. Government contract under which the equipment or technical data was generated, improved, or developed and supplied to the U.S. Government, and whether the equipment or technical data was derived from any bid or other proposal to the U.S. Government.
(4) A statement giving the military security classification of the equipment or technical data.
(5) A statement identifying any patent application which discloses any of the subject matter of the equipment or technical data covered by an invention secrecy order issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
(6) A statement of the actual or estimated value of the agreement, including the estimated value of all defense articles to be exported in furtherance of the agreement or amendments thereto. If the value is $500,000 or more, an additional statement must be made regarding the payment of political contributions, fees or commissions, pursuant to part 130 of this subchapter.
(7) A statement indicating whether any foreign military sales credits or loan guarantees are or will be involved in financing the agreement.
(8) The agreement must describe any classified information involved and identify, from Department of Defense form DD254, the address and telephone number of the U.S. Government office that classified the information.
(9) For agreements that may require the export of classified information, the Defense Security Service cognizant security offices that have responsibility for the facilities of the U.S. parties to the agreement shall be identified. The facility security clearance codes of the U.S. parties shall also be provided.
(b) The following statements must be made in the letter of transmittal:
(1) “If the agreement is approved by the Department of State, such approval will not be construed by (the applicant) as passing on the legality of the agreement from the standpoint of antitrust laws or other applicable statutes, nor will (the applicant) construe the Department's approval as constituting either approval or disapproval of any of the business terms or conditions between the parties to the agreement.”
(2) “The (applicant) will not permit the proposed agreement to enter into force until it has been approved by the Department of State.”
(3) “The (applicant) will furnish the Department of State with one copy of the signed agreement (or amendment) within 30 days from the date that the agreement is concluded and will inform the Department of its termination not less than 30 days prior to expiration and provide information on the continuation of any foreign rights or the flow of technical data to the foreign party. If a decision is made not to conclude the proposed agreement, the applicant will so inform the Department within 60 days.”
(4) “If this agreement grants any rights to sub-license, it will be amended to require that all sub-licensing arrangements incorporate all the provisions of the basic agreement that refer to the U.S. Government and the Department of State (
i.e.,
22 CFR 124.8 and 124.9).”
[58 FR 39305, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20543, Apr. 21, 2006; 72 FR 71786, Dec. 19, 2007; 81 FR 35617, June 3, 2016; 81 FR 54736, Aug. 17, 2016; 81 FR 87430, Dec. 5, 2016]
§ 124.13
Procurement by U.S. persons in foreign countries (offshore procurement).
Notwithstanding the other provisions in part 124 of this subchapter, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may authorize by means of a license (DSP-5) the export of unclassified technical data to foreign persons for offshore procurement of defense articles, provided that:
(a) The contract or purchase order for offshore procurement limits delivery of the defense articles to be produced only to the person in the United States or to an agency of the U.S. Government; and
(b) The technical data of U.S.-origin to be used in the foreign manufacture of defense articles does not exceed that required for bid purposes on a build-to-print basis; and
(c) The contract or purchase order between the person in the United States and the foreign person:
(1) Limits the use of the technical data to the manufacture of the defense articles required by the contract or purchase order only; and
(2) Prohibits the disclosure of the data to any other person except subcontractors within the same country; and
(3) Prohibits the acquisition of any rights in the data by any foreign person; and
(4) Provides that any subcontracts between foreign persons in the approved country for manufacture of
equipment for delivery pursuant to the contract or purchase order contain all the limitations of this paragraph (c); and
(5) Requires the foreign person, including subcontractors, to destroy or return to the person in the United States all of the technical data exported pursuant to the contract or purchase order upon fulfillment of their terms; and
(6) Requires delivery of the defense articles manufactured abroad only to the person in the United States or to an agency of the U.S. Government; and
(d) The person in the United States provides the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls with a copy of each contract, purchase order or subcontract for offshore procurement at the time it is accepted. Each such contract, purchase order or subcontract must clearly identify the article to be produced and must identify the license number or exemption under which the technical data was exported; and
(e) Licenses issued pursuant to this section must be renewed prior to their expiration if offshore procurement is to be extended beyond the period of validity of the original approved license. In all instances a license for offshore procurement must state as the purpose “Offshore procurement in accordance with the conditions established in the ITAR, including § 124.13. No other use will be made of the technical data.” If the technical data involved in an offshore procurement arrangement is otherwise exempt from the licensing requirements of this subchapter (e.g., § 126.4), the DSP-5 referred to in the first sentence of this section is not required. However, the exporter must comply with the other requirements of this section and provide a written certification to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls annually of the offshore procurement activity and cite the exemption under which the technical data was exported. The exemptions under § 125.4 of this subchapter may not be used to establish offshore procurement arrangements.
[58 FR 39305, July 22, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 17534, Apr. 12, 1999; 71 FR 20543, Apr. 21, 2006; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 124.14
Exports to warehouses or distribution points outside the United States.
(a)
Agreements.
Agreements (e.g., contracts) between U.S. persons and foreign persons for the warehousing and distribution of defense articles must be approved by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls before they enter into force. Such agreements will be limited to unclassified defense articles and must contain conditions for special distribution, end-use and reporting. Licenses for exports pursuant to such agreements must be obtained prior to exports of the defense articles unless an exemption under § 123.16(b)(1) of this subchapter is applicable.
(b)
Required information.
Proposed warehousing and distribution agreements (and amendments thereto) shall be submitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for approval. The following information must be included in all such agreements:
(1) A description of the defense articles involved including test and support equipment covered by the U.S. Munitions List. This shall include when applicable the military nomenclature, the Federal stock number, nameplate data, and any control numbers under which the defense articles were developed or procured by the U.S. Government. Only those defense articles specifically listed in the agreement will be eligible for export under the exemption in § 123.16(b)(1) of this subchapter.
(2) A detailed statement of the terms and conditions under which the defense articles will be exported and distributed;
(3) The duration of the proposed agreement;
(4) Specific identification of the country or countries that comprise the distribution territory. Distribution must be specifically limited to the governments of such countries or to private entities seeking to procure defense articles pursuant to a contract with a government within the distribution territory or to other eligible entities as specified by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Consequently, any deviation from this condition must be fully explained and justified. A nontransfer and use certificate (DSP-83)
will be required to the same extent required in licensing agreements under § 124.9(b).
(c)
Required statements.
The following statements must be included in all warehousing and distribution agreements:
(1) “This agreement shall not enter into force, and may not be amended or extended, without the prior written approval of the Department of State of U.S. Government.”
(2) “This agreement is subject to all United States laws and regulations related to exports and to all administrative acts of the United States Government pursuant to such laws and regulations.
(3) “The parties to this agreement agree that the obligations contained in this agreement shall not affect the performance of any obligations created by prior contracts or subcontracts which the parties may have individually or collectively with the U.S. Government.”
(4) “No liability will be incurred by or attributed to the U.S. Government in connection with any possible infringement of privately owned patent or proprietary rights, either domestic or foreign by reason of the U.S. Government's approval of this agreement.”
(5) “No export, sale, transfer, or other disposition of the defense articles covered by this agreement is authorized to any country outside the distribution territory without the prior written approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls of the U.S. Department of State.”
(6) “The parties to this agreement agree that an annual report of sales or other transfers pursuant to this agreement of the licensed articles, by quantity, type, U.S. dollar value, and purchaser or recipient shall be provided by (applicant or licensee) to the Department of State.” This clause must specify which party is obligated to provide the annual report. Such reports may be submitted either directly by the licensee or indirectly through the licensor, and may cover calendar or fiscal years. Reports shall be deemed proprietary information by the Department of State and will not be disclosed to unauthorized persons. (See § 126.10(b) of this subchapter.)
(7) “(Licensee) agrees to incorporate the following statement as an integral provision of a contract, invoice or other appropriate document whenever the articles covered by this agreement are sold or otherwise transferred: `These items are controlled by the U.S. government and authorized for export only to the country of ultimate destination for use by the ultimate consignee or end-user(s) herein identified. They may not be resold, transferred, or otherwise disposed of, to any other country or to any person other than the authorized ultimate consignee or end-user(s), either in their original form or after being incorporated into other items, without first obtaining approval from the U.S. government or as otherwise authorized by U.S. law and regulations.' ”
(8) “All provisions in this agreement which refer to the United States Government and the Department of State will remain binding on the parties after the termination of the agreement.”
(9) Unless the articles covered by the agreement are in fact intended to be distributed to private persons or entities (e.g., cryptographic devices and software for financial and business applications), the following clause must be included in all warehousing and distribution agreements: “Sales or other transfers of the licensed article shall be limited to governments of the countries in the distribution territory and to private entities seeking to procure the licensed article pursuant to a contract with a government within the distribution territory, unless the prior written approval of the U.S. Department of State is obtained.”
(d)
Special clauses for agreements relating to significant military equipment.
With respect to agreements for the warehousing and distribution of significant military equipment, the following additional provisions must be included in the agreement:
(1) A completed nontransfer and use certificate (DSP-83) must be executed by the foreign end-user and submitted to the U.S. Department of State before any transfer may take place.
(2) The prior written approval of the U.S. Department of State must be obtained before entering into a commitment for the transfer of the licensed
article by sale or otherwise to any person or government outside the approved distribution territory.
(e)
Transmittal letters.
Requests for approval of warehousing and distribution agreements with foreign persons must be made by letter. The letter shall contain:
(1) A statement giving the applicant's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls registration number.
(2) A statement identifying the foreign party to the agreement.
(3) A statement identifying the defense articles to be distributed under the agreement.
(4) A statement identifying any U.S. Government contract under which the equipment may have been generated, improved, developed or supplied to the U.S. Government, and whether the equipment was derived from any bid or other proposal to the U.S. Government.
(5) A statement that no classified defense articles or classified technical data are involved.
(6) A statement identifying any patent application which discloses any of the subject matter of the equipment or related technical data covered by an invention secrecy order issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
(f)
Required clauses.
The following statements must be made in the letter of transmittal:
(1) “If the agreement is approved by the Department of State, such approval will not be construed by (applicant) as passing on the legality of the agreement from the standpoint of antitrust laws or other applicable statutes, nor will (the applicant) construe the Department's approval as constituting either approval or disapproval of any of the business terms or conditions between the parties to the agreement.”
(2) “The (applicant) will not permit the proposed agreement to enter into force until it has been approved by the Department of State.”
(3) “(Applicant) will furnish the Department of State with one copy of the signed agreement (or amendment thereto) within 30 days from the date that the agreement is concluded, and will inform the Department of its termination not less than 30 days prior to expiration. If a decision is made not to conclude the proposed agreement, (applicant) will so inform the Department within 60 days.”
[58 FR 39305, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20544, Apr. 21, 2006; 81 FR 54736, Aug. 17, 2016; 85 FR 3833, Jan. 23, 2020]
§ 124.15
Special Export Controls for Defense Articles and Defense Services Controlled under Category XV: Space Systems and Space Launches.
(a) The export of a satellite or related item controlled by Category XV of part 121 of this subchapter or any defense service controlled by this subchapter associated with the launch in, or by nationals of, a country that is not a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) or a major non-NATO ally of the United States always requires special export controls, in addition to other export controls required by this subchapter, as follows:
(1) All licenses and other requests for approval require a technology transfer control plan (TTCP) approved by the Department of Defense and an encryption technology control plan approved by the National Security Agency. Drafts reflecting advance discussions with both agencies must accompany submission of the license application or proposed technical assistance agreement, and the letter of transmittal required in § 124.12 must identify the U.S. Government officials familiar with the preparation of the draft TTCPs. The TTCP must require any U.S. person or entity involved in the export to notify the Department of Defense in advance of all meetings and interactions with any foreign person or entity that is a party to the export and require such U.S. person or entity to certify that it has complied with this notification requirement within 30 days after launch.
(2) The U.S. person must make arrangements with the Department of Defense for monitoring. The costs of such monitoring services must be fully reimbursed to the Department of Defense by the U.S. person receiving such services. The letter of transmittal required under § 124.12 must also state that such reimbursement arrangements have been made with the Department of Defense and identify the specific Department of Defense official
with whom these arrangements have been made. As required by Public Law 105-261, such monitoring will cover, but not be limited to—
(i) Technical discussions and activities, including the design, development, operation, maintenance, modification, and repair of satellites, satellite components, missiles, other equipment, launch facilities, and launch vehicles;
(ii) Satellite processing and launch activities, including launch preparation, satellite transportation, integration of the satellite with the launch vehicle, testing and checkout prior to launch, satellite launch, and return of equipment to the United States;
(iii) Activities relating to launch failure, delay, or cancellation, including post-launch failure investigations or analyses with regard to either the launcher or the satellite; and
(iv) All other aspects of the launch.
(b) Mandatory licenses for launch failure (crash) investigations or analyses of any satellite controlled pursuant to this subchapter or subject to the EAR: In the event of a failure of a launch from a foreign country (including a post liftoff failure to reach proper orbit)—
(1) The activities of U.S. persons or entities in connection with any subsequent investigation or analysis of the failure continue to be subject to the controls established under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, including the requirements under this subchapter for express approval prior to participation in such investigations or analyses, regardless of whether a license was issued under this subchapter for the initial export of the satellite or satellite component;
(2) Officials of the Department of Defense must monitor all activities associated with the investigation or analyses to insure against unauthorized transfer of technical data or services and U.S. persons must follow the procedures set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
(c) Although Public Law 105-261 does not require the application of special export controls for the launch of U.S.-origin satellites and components from or by nationals of countries that are members of NATO or major non-NATO allies, such export controls may nonetheless be applied, in addition to any other export controls required under this subchapter, as appropriate in furtherance of the security and foreign policy of the United States. Further, the export of any article or defense service controlled under this subchapter to any destination may also require that the special export controls identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section be applied in furtherance of the security and foreign policy of the United States.
(d) Mandatory licenses for exports to insurance providers and underwriters: None of the exemptions or sub-licensing provisions available in this subchapter may be used for the export of technical data in order to obtain or satisfy insurance requirements. Such exports are always subject to the prior approval and re-transfer requirements of sections 3 and 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, as applied by relevant provisions of this subchapter.
[64 FR 13681, Mar. 22, 1999, as amended at 79 FR 27189, May 13, 2014]
§ 124.16
[Reserved]
Pt. 125

# PART 125—LICENSES FOR THE EXPORT OF TECHNICAL DATA AND CLASSIFIED DEFENSE ARTICLES
Sec.
125.1
Exports subject to this part.
125.2
Exports of unclassified technical data.
125.3
Exports of classified technical data and classified defense articles.
125.4
Exemptions of general applicability.
125.5
Exemptions for plant visits.
125.6
[Reserved]
125.7
Procedures for the export of classified technical data and other classified defense articles.
125.8
[Reserved]
125.9
Filing of licenses and other authorizations for exports of classified technical data and classified defense articles.

# Authority:
Secs. 2 and 38, Pub. L. 90-629, 90 Stat. 744 (22 U.S.C. 2752, 2778); 22 U.S.C. 2651a; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129.

# Source:
58 FR 39310, July 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 125.1
Exports subject to this part.
(a) The controls of this part apply to the export of technical data and the export of classified defense articles. Information which is in the public domain (see § 120.34 of this subchapter and § 125.4(b)(13)) is not subject to the controls of this subchapter.
(b) A license for the export of technical data and the exemptions in § 125.4 may not be used for foreign production purposes or for technical assistance unless the approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls has been obtained. Such approval is generally provided only pursuant to the procedures specified in part 124 of this subchapter.
(c) Technical data authorized for export may not be reexported, transferred or diverted from the country of ultimate end-use or from the authorized foreign end-user (as designated in the license or approval for export) or disclosed to a national of another country without the prior written approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(d) The controls of this part apply to the exports referred to in paragraph (a) of this section regardless of whether the person who intends to export the technical data produces or manufactures defense articles if the technical data is determined by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls to be subject to the controls of this subchapter.
(e) For the export of technical data related to articles in Category VI(e), Category XVI, and Category XX(b)(1) of § 121.1 of this subchapter, see § 120.5(c) of this subchapter.
(f) Unless limited by a condition set out in an agreement, the export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import authorized by a license is for the item(s), end-use(s), and parties described in the agreement, license, and any letters of explanation. DDTC approves agreements and grants licenses in reliance on representations the applicant made in or submitted in connection with the agreement, letters of explanation, and other documents submitted.
[58 FR 39310, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20544, Apr. 21, 2006; 78 FR 40933, July 8, 2013; 79 FR 47, Jan. 2, 2014; 81 FR 62008, Sept. 8, 2016; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 125.2
Exports of unclassified technical data.
(a)
License.
A license (DSP-5) is required for the export of unclassified technical data unless the export is exempt from the licensing requirements of this subchapter. In the case of a plant visit, details of the proposed discussions must be transmitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for an appraisal of the technical data.
(b)
Patents.
A license issued by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls is required for the export of technical data whenever the data exceeds that which is used to support a domestic filing of a patent application or to support a foreign filing of a patent application whenever no domestic application has been filed. Requests for the filing of patent applications in a foreign country, and requests for the filing of amendments, modifications or supplements to such patents, should follow the regulations of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in accordance with 37 CFR part 5. The export of technical data to support the filing and processing of patent applications in foreign countries is subject to regulations issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 184.
(c)
Disclosures.
Unless otherwise expressly exempted in this subchapter, a license is required for the oral, visual or documentary disclosure of technical data by U.S. persons to foreign persons. A license is required regardless of the manner in which the technical data is transmitted (e.g., in person, by telephone, correspondence, electronic means, etc.). A license is required for such disclosures by U.S. persons in connection with visits to foreign diplomatic missions and consular offices.
[58 FR 39310, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20544, Apr. 21, 2006; 81 FR 54737, Aug. 17, 2016]
§ 125.3
Exports of classified technical data and classified defense articles.
(a) A request for authority to export defense articles, including technical data, classified by a foreign government or pursuant to Executive Order 12356, successor orders, or other legal authority must be submitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for approval. The application must contain
full details of the proposed transaction. It should also list the facility security clearance code of all U.S. parties on the license and include the Defense Security Service cognizant security office of the party responsible for packaging the commodity for shipment. A nontransfer and use certificate (Form DSP-83) executed by the applicant, foreign consignee, end-user and an authorized representative of the foreign government involved will be required.
(b) Classified technical data which is approved by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls either for export or reexport after a temporary import will be transferred or disclosed only in accordance with the requirements in the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (unless such requirements are in direct conflict with guidance provided by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, in which case the latter guidance must be followed). Any other requirements imposed by cognizant U.S. departments and agencies must also be satisfied.
(c) The approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls must be obtained for the export of technical data by a U.S. person to a foreign person in the U.S. or in a foreign country unless the proposed export is exempt under the provisions of this subchapter.
(d) All communications relating to a patent application covered by an invention secrecy order are to be addressed to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (see 37 CFR 5.11).
[58 FR 39310, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20544, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 125.4
Exemptions of general applicability.
(a) The following exemptions apply to exports of technical data for which approval is not needed from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. The exemptions, except for paragraph (b)(13) of this section, do not apply to exports to proscribed destinations under § 126.1 of this subchapter or for persons considered generally ineligible under § 120.16 of this subchapter. The exemptions are also not applicable for purposes of establishing offshore procurement arrangements or producing defense articles offshore (
see
§ 124.13), except as authorized under § 125.4(c). Transmission of classified information must comply with the requirements of the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (unless such requirements are in direct conflict with guidance provided by the Directorate of Defense Trade controls, in which case the latter guidance must be followed) and the exporter must certify to the transmittal authority that the technical data does not exceed the technical limitation of the authorized export.
(b) The following exports are exempt from the licensing requirements of this subchapter.
(1) Technical data, including classified information, to be disclosed pursuant to an official written request or directive from the U.S. Department of Defense;
(2) Technical data, including classified information, in furtherance of a manufacturing license or technical assistance agreement approved by the Department of State under part 124 of this subchapter and which meet the requirements of § 124.3 of this subchapter;
(3) Technical data, including classified information, in furtherance of a contract between the exporter and an agency of the U.S. Government, if the contract provides for the export of the data and such data does not disclose the details of design, development, production, or manufacture of any defense article;
(4) Copies of technical data, including classified information, previously authorized for export to the same recipient. Revised copies of such technical data are also exempt if they pertain to the identical defense article, and if the revisions are solely editorial and do not add to the content of technology previously exported or authorized for export to the same recipient;
(5) Technical data, including classified information, in the form of basic operations, maintenance, and training information relating to a defense article lawfully exported or authorized for export to the same recipient. Intermediate or depot-level repair and maintenance information may be exported only under a license or agreement approved specifically for that purpose;
(6) Technical data, including classified information, related to firearms not in excess of caliber .50 and ammunition for such weapons, except detailed design, development, production or manufacturing information;
(7) Technical data, including classified information, being returned to the original source of import;
(8) Technical data directly related to classified information which has been previously exported or authorized for export in accordance with this part to the same recipient, and which does not disclose the details of the design, development, production, or manufacture of any defense article;
(9) Technical data, including classified information, regardless of media or format, exported, reexported, or retransferred by or to a U.S. person, or a foreign person employee of a U.S. person travelling or on temporary assignment abroad, subject to the following restrictions:
(i) Foreign persons may only export, reexport, retransfer, or receive such technical data as they are authorized to receive through a separate license or other approval.
(ii) The technical data exported, reexported, or retransferred under this authorization may only be possessed or used by a U.S. person or authorized foreign person. Sufficient security precautions must be taken to prevent the unauthorized release of the technical data. Such security precautions may include encryption of the technical data; the use of secure network connections, such as virtual private networks; the use of passwords or other access restrictions on the electronic device or media on which the technical data is stored; and the use of firewalls and other network security measures to prevent unauthorized access.
(iii) The individual is an employee of the U.S. government or is directly employed by a U.S. person and not by a foreign subsidiary.
(iv) Technical data authorized under this exception may not be used for foreign production purposes or for defense services unless authorized through a license or other separate approval.
(v) Classified information is sent or taken outside the United States in accordance with the requirements of the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (unless such requirements are in direct conflict with guidance provided by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, in which case such guidance must be followed).
(10) Disclosures of unclassified technical data in the U.S. by U.S. institutions of higher learning to foreign persons who are their bona fide and full time regular employees. This exemption is available only if:
(i) The employee's permanent abode throughout the period of employment is in the United States;
(ii) The employee is not a national of a country to which exports are prohibited pursuant to § 126.1 of this subchapter; and
(iii) The institution informs the individual in writing that the technical data may not be transferred to other foreign persons without the prior written approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls;
(11) Technical data, including classified information, for which the exporter, pursuant to an arrangement with the Department of Defense, Department of Energy or NASA which requires such exports, has been granted an exemption in writing from the licensing provisions of this part by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Such an exemption will normally be granted only if the arrangement directly implements an international agreement to which the United States is a party and if multiple exports are contemplated. The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, in consultation with the relevant U.S. Government agencies, will determine whether the interests of the United States Government are best served by expediting exports under an arrangement through an exemption (see also paragraph (b)(3) of this section for a related exemption);
(12) Technical data which is specifically exempt under part 126 of this subchapter; or
(13) Technical data approved for public release (
i.e.
, unlimited distribution) by the cognizant U.S. Government department or agency or Office of Freedom of Information and Security Review. This exemption is applicable to information approved by the cognizant
U.S. Government department or agency for public release in any form. It does not require that the information be published in order to qualify for the exemption.
(c) Defense services and related unclassified technical data are exempt from the licensing requirements of this subchapter, to nationals of NATO countries, Australia, Japan, and Sweden, for the purposes of responding to a written request from the Department of Defense for a quote or bid proposal. Such exports must be pursuant to an official written request or directive from an authorized official of the U.S. Department of Defense. The defense services and technical data are limited to paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) (build-to-print, build/design-to-specification, and basic research, respectively) of § 120.43 of this subchapter and must not include paragraph (c), (d), (e), or (i) (design methodology, engineering analysis, manufacturing know-how, and applied research, respectively) of § 120.43.
[58 FR 39310, July 22, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 45284, July 21, 2000; 66 FR 35900, July 10, 2001; 67 FR 15101, Mar. 29, 2002; 71 FR 20545, Apr. 21, 2006; 75 FR 52624, 52626, Aug. 27, 2010; 79 FR 66609, Nov. 10, 2014; 81 FR 35617, June 3, 2016; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 125.5
Exemptions for plant visits.
(a) A license is not required for the oral and visual disclosure of unclassified technical data during the course of a classified plant visit by a foreign person, provided: The classified visit has itself been authorized pursuant to a license issued by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls; or the classified visit was approved in connection with an actual or potential government-to-government program or project by a U.S. Government agency having classification jurisdiction over the classified defense article or classified technical data involved under Executive Order 12356 or other applicable Executive Order; and the unclassified information to be released is directly related to the classified defense article or technical data for which approval was obtained and does not disclose the details of the design, development, production or manufacture of any other defense articles. In the case of visits involving classified information, the requirements of the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual must be met (unless such requirements are in direct conflict with guidance provided by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, in which case the latter guidance must be followed).
(b) The approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls is not required for the disclosure of oral and visual classified information to a foreign person during the course of a plant visit approved by the appropriate U.S. Government agency if: The requirements of the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual have been met (unless such requirements are in direct conflict with guidance provided by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, in which case the latter guidance must be followed); the classified information is directly related to that which was approved by the U.S. Government agency; it does not exceed that for which approval was obtained; and it does not disclose the details of the design, development, production or manufacture of any defense articles.
(c) A license is not required for the disclosure to a foreign person of unclassified technical data during the course of a plant visit (either classified or unclassified) approved by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls or a cognizant U.S. Government agency provided the technical data does not contain information in excess of that approved for disclosure. This exemption does not apply to technical data which could be used for design, development, production or manufacture of a defense article.
[71 FR 20545, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 125.6
[Reserved]
§ 125.7
Procedures for the export of classified technical data and other classified defense articles.
(a) All applications for the export or temporary import of classified technical data or other classified defense articles must be submitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls on Form DSP-85.
(b) An application for the export of classified technical data or other classified defense articles must be accompanied by a completed form DSP-83 (
see
§ 123.10 of this subchapter). All classified materials accompanying an application must be transmitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls in accordance with the procedures contained in the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (unless such requirements are inconsistent with guidance provided by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, in which case the latter guidance must be followed).
[71 FR 20546, Apr. 21, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 54737, Aug. 17, 2016]
§ 125.8
[Reserved]
§ 125.9
Filing of licenses and other authorizations for exports of classified technical data and classified defense articles.
Licenses and other authorizations for the export of classified technical data or classified defense articles will be forwarded by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls to the Defense Security Service of the Department of Defense in accordance with the provisions of the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (unless such requirements are in direct conflict with guidance provided by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, in which case the latter guidance must be followed). The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will forward a copy of the license to the applicant for the applicant's information. The Defense Security Service will return the endorsed license to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls upon completion of the authorized export or expiration of the license, whichever occurs first.
[71 FR 20546, Apr. 21, 2006]
Pt. 126

# PART 126—GENERAL POLICIES AND PROVISIONS
Sec.
126.1
Prohibited exports, imports, and sales to or from certain countries.
126.2
Temporary suspension or modification of this subchapter.
126.3
Exceptions.
126.4
Transfers by or for the United States Government.
126.5
Canadian exemptions.
126.6
Foreign-owned military aircraft and naval vessels, and the Foreign Military Sales program.
126.7
Exemption for defense trade and cooperation among Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
126.8-126.12
[Reserved]
126.13
Required information.
126.14
Special comprehensive export authorizations for NATO, Australia, Japan, and Sweden.
126.15
Expedited processing of license applications for the export of defense articles and defense services to Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada.
126.16
Exemption pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia.
126.17
Exemption pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom.
126.18
Exemptions regarding intra-company, intra-organization, and intra-governmental transfers to employees who are dual nationals or third-country nationals.
Supplement No. 1 to Part 126
Supplement No. 2 to Part 126—Excluded Technology List

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 287c, 2651a, 2752, 2753, 2776, 2778, 2779, 2779a, 2780, 2791, 2797, 10423; sec. 1225, Pub. L. 108-375, 118 Stat. 2091; sec. 7045, Pub. L. 112-74, 125 Stat. 1232; sec. 1250A, Pub. L 116-92, 133 Stat. 1665; sec. 205, Pub. L. 116-94, 133 Stat. 3052; and E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129, 3 CFR, 2013 Comp., p. 223.

# Source:
58 FR 39312, July 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 126.1
Prohibited exports, imports, and sales to or from certain countries.
(a)
General.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses and other approvals for exports and imports of defense articles and defense services, destined for or originating in certain countries. The exemptions provided in this subchapter, except § 123.17 of this subchapter and §§ 126.4(a)(1) or (3) and (b)(1) (paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(2) when the export is destined for Russia and in support of government space cooperation), 126.6, and 126.18(e), or when the recipient is a U.S. Government department or agency, do not apply with respect to defense articles or defense services originating in or for export to any proscribed countries, areas, or persons. (See § 129.7 of this subchapter,
which imposes restrictions on brokering activities similar to those in this section.)
(b)
Shipments.
A defense article licensed or otherwise authorized for export, temporary import, reexport, or retransfer under this subchapter may not be shipped on a vessel, aircraft, spacecraft, or other means of conveyance that is owned by, operated by, leased to, or leased from any of the proscribed countries, areas, or other persons referred to in this section.
(c) Identification in § 126.1 of the ITAR may derive from:
(1)
Exports and sales prohibited by United Nations Security Council sanctions measures.
Whenever the United Nations Security Council mandates sanctions measures, all transactions that are prohibited by the aforementioned measures and involve U.S. persons (see § 120.62 of this subchapter) inside or outside of the United States, or any person in the United States, and defense articles or defense services described on the United States Munitions List (22 CFR part 121), irrespective of origin, are prohibited under the ITAR for the duration of the sanction, unless the Department of State publishes a notice in the
Federal Register
specifying different measures.
(2)
Terrorism.
Exports or temporary imports of defense articles or defense services to countries that the Secretary of State has determined to be State Sponsors of Terrorism are prohibited under the ITAR. These countries have repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism, which is contrary to the foreign policy of the United States and thus subject to the policy specified in paragraph (a) of this section and the requirements of section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780) and the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Anti-Terrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 4801). Exports to countries that the Secretary of State has determined and certified to Congress, pursuant to section 40A of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2781) and Executive Order 13637, are not cooperating fully with United States antiterrorism efforts are subject to the policy specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The Secretary of State makes such determinations and certifications annually.
(3)
Arms embargoes and sanctions.
The policy specified in paragraph (a) of this section applies to countries subject to a United States arms embargo or sanctions regime, such as those described in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151
et seq.
), the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6401
et seq.
), or the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2370c-2370c-2), or whenever an export of defense articles or defense services would not otherwise be in furtherance of world peace and the security and foreign policy of the United States.
(d)
Countries subject to certain prohibitions:
(1) For defense articles and defense services, the following countries have a policy of denial:

# Table 1 to Paragraph (d)(1)
Country
Belarus.
Burma.
China.
Cuba.
Iran.
North Korea.
Syria.
Venezuela.
(2) For defense articles and defense services, a policy of denial applies as specified in the associated paragraphs in the following table:
Table 2 to Paragraph (
d
)(2)
Country
Country specific paragraph location
Afghanistan
See also paragraph (g) of this section.
Central African Republic
See also paragraph (u) of this section.
Cyprus
See also paragraph (r) of this section.
Democratic Republic of Congo
See also paragraph (i) of this section.
Ethiopia
See also paragraph (n) of this section.
Eritrea
See also paragraph (h) of this section.
Haiti
See also paragraph (j) of this section.
Iraq
See also paragraph (f) of this section.
Lebanon
See also paragraph (t) of this section.
Libya
See also paragraph (k) of this section.
Nicaragua
See also paragraph (p) of this section.
Russia
See also paragraph (l) of this section.
Somalia
See also paragraph (m) of this section.
South Sudan
See also paragraph (w) of this section.
Sudan
See also paragraph (v) of this section.
Zimbabwe
See also paragraph (s) of this section.
(e)(1)
Proposed and final sales.
No sale, export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer of, and no proposal or presentation to sell, export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer, any defense articles or defense services subject to this subchapter may be made to any country referred to in this section (including the embassies or consulates of such a country), or to any person acting on its behalf, whether in the United States or abroad, without first obtaining a license or written approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. However, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, it is the policy of the Department of State to deny licenses and approvals in such cases.
(2)
Duty to notify.
Any person who knows or has reason to know of a proposed, final, or actual sale, export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer of articles, services, or data as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section must immediately inform the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Such notifications should be submitted to the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.

# Note to paragraph (
e

# ):
“Proposal” and “presentation” mean the communication of information in sufficient detail that it would permit an intended purchaser to decide to acquire the article in question or to enter into an agreement as described in part 124 of this subchapter. For example, communicating information on the equipment's performance characteristics, price, and probable availability for delivery would be a proposal or presentation requiring a license or other approval.
(f)
Iraq.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports and imports of defense articles and defense services, destined for or originating in Iraq, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis for:
(1) Non-lethal military equipment; and
(2) Lethal military equipment required by the Government of Iraq or coalition forces.
(g)
Afghanistan.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports and imports of defense articles and defense services, destined for or originating in Afghanistan, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for the Government of Afghanistan or coalition forces. In addition, the names of individuals, groups, undertakings, and entities subject to arms embargoes, due to their affiliation with the Taliban, Al-Qaida, or those associated with them, are published in lists maintained by the United Nations Security Council's Sanctions Committees (established pursuant to United Nations Security Council resolutions (UNSCR) 1267, 1988, and 1989).
(h)
Eritrea.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports of defense articles or defense services destined to or for the armed forces, police, intelligence, or other internal security forces of Eritrea.
(i)
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports or imports of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for:
(1) Defense articles and defense services for the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo as notified in advance to the Committee of the Security Council concerning the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
(2) Defense articles and defense services intended solely for the support of
or use by the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) or the African Union-Regional Task Force;
(3) Protective clothing, including flak jackets and military helmets, temporarily exported to the Democratic Republic of the Congo by United Nations personnel, representatives of the media, and humanitarian and development workers and associated personnel, for their personal use only;
(4) Non-lethal military equipment intended solely for humanitarian or protective use, and related technical assistance and training, as notified in advance to the Committee of the Security Council concerning the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
(5) Defense articles and defense services as approved by the relevant committee of the Security Council.
(j)
Haiti.
(1) It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports or imports of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in Haiti, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for:
(i) Defense articles and defense services intended solely for the support of or use by security units that operate under the command of the Government of Haiti, to include the Coast Guard;
(ii) Defense articles and defense services intended solely for the support of or use by the United Nations or a United Nations-authorized mission; and
(iii) Personal protective gear for use by personnel from the United Nations and other international organizations, representatives of the media, and development workers and associated personnel.
(2) All shipments of arms and related materials consistent with the above exceptions shall only be made to Haitian security units as designated by the Government of Haiti, in coordination with the U.S. Government.
(k)
Libya.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports or imports of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in Libya, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for:
(1) Arms and related materiel intended solely for security or disarmament assistance to the Libyan government, notified to the Committee of the Security Council concerning Libya in advance and in the absence of a negative decision by the Committee within five working days of such a notification;
(2) Non-lethal military equipment when intended solely for security or disarmament assistance to the Libyan government;
(3) The provision of any technical assistance or training when intended solely for security or disarmament assistance to the Libyan government;
(4) Small arms, light weapons, and related materiel temporarily exported to Libya for the sole use of United Nations personnel, representatives of the media, and humanitarian and development workers and associated personnel, notified to the Committee of the Security Council concerning Libya in advance and in the absence of a negative decision by the Committee within five working days of such a notification;
(5) Non-lethal military equipment intended solely for humanitarian or protective use, and related technical assistance or training; or
(6) Other sales or supply of arms and related materiel, or provision of assistance or personnel, as approved in advance by the Committee of the Security Council concerning Libya.
(l)
Russia.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports of defense articles and defense services destined for Russia, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis:
(1) For government space cooperation; and
(2) Prior to September 1, 2021, for commercial space launches.
(m)
Somalia.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports or imports of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in Somalia, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for:
(1) Defense articles and defense services intended solely for the support of or use by the following:
(i) The African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM);
(ii) United Nations personnel, including the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM);
(iii) AMISOM's strategic partners, operating solely under the African Union (AU) Strategic Concept of January 5, 2012 (or subsequent AU strategic concepts), and in cooperation and coordination with AMISOM; or
(iv) The European Union Training Mission (EUTM) in Somalia.
(2) Defense articles and defense services intended solely for the development of the Security Forces of the Federal Government of Somalia, to provide security for the Somali people, notified to the relevant committee of the Security Council at least five days in advance, except in relation to deliveries of the following articles, the supply of which needs to be approved in advance by the relevant committee of the Security Council:
(i) Surface to air missiles, including Man-Portable Air-Defense Systems (MANPADS);
(ii) Guns, howitzers, and cannons with a caliber greater than 12.7 mm, and ammunition and components specially designed for these (this does not include shoulder fired anti-tank rocket launchers such as RPGs or LAWs, rifle grenades, or grenade launchers);
(iii) Mortars with a caliber greater than 82 mm;
(iv) Anti-tank guided weapons, including Anti-tank Guided Missiles (ATGMs) and ammunition and components specially designed for these items;
(v) Charges and devices intended for military use containing energetic material; mines, and related materiel; and
(vi) Weapon sights with a night vision capability.
(3) Defense articles and defense services supplied by United Nations member states or international, regional, or subregional organizations intended solely for the purposes of helping develop Somali security sector institutions, other than the Security Forces of the Federal Government of Somalia, and in the absence of a negative decision by the relevant committee of the Security Council within five working days of receiving a notification of any such assistance from the supplying State, international, regional or subregional organization;
(4) Defense articles for the sole use by United Nations member states or international, regional, or subregional organizations undertaking measures to suppress acts of piracy and armed robbery at sea off the coast of Somalia, upon the request of the Federal Government of Somalia for which it has notified the Secretary-General, and provided that any measures undertaken shall be consistent with applicable international humanitarian and human rights laws;
(5) Personal protective clothing, including flak jackets and military helmets, temporarily exported to Somalia by United Nations personnel, representatives of the media, humanitarian or development workers, or associated personnel for their personal use only; or
(6) Supplies of non-lethal defense articles intended solely for humanitarian or protective use, notified to the relevant committee of the Security Council five days in advance for its information only, by the supplying State, international, regional, or subregional organization.
(n)
Ethiopia.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports of defense articles or defense services destined to or for the armed forces, police, intelligence, or other internal security forces of Ethiopia.
(o)
Cambodia.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports and imports of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in Cambodia, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for defense articles and defense services in furtherance of conventional weapons destruction or humanitarian mine action activities.
(p)
Nicaragua.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports and imports of defense articles or defense services, destined for or originating in Nicaragua, except that a license or other
approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for non-lethal military equipment intended solely for humanitarian assistance, to include natural disaster relief.
(q) [Reserved]
(r)
Cyprus.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports or imports of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in Cyprus, except that:
(1) A license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for the United Nations Forces in Cyprus (UNFICYP) or for civilian end-users; and
(2) From October 1, 2024, through September 30, 2025, the policy of denial and the status of Cyprus as a proscribed destination is suspended.
(s)
Zimbabwe.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports or imports of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in Zimbabwe, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for the temporary export of firearms and ammunition for personal use by individuals (not for resale or retransfer, including to the Government of Zimbabwe).
(t)
Lebanon.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports or imports of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in Lebanon, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) or as authorized by the Government of Lebanon.
(u)
Central African Republic.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports and imports of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in the Central African Republic, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for:
(1) Defense articles intended solely for the support of or use by the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA) and the European Union training missions deployed to the Central African Republic; French forces within the provisions of their bilateral agreement with the Central African Republic and the limits of their capacities and areas of deployment, and other Member States' forces providing training and assistance as notified in advance to the Committee of the Security Council concerning the Central African Republic;
(2) Non-lethal equipment and the provision of assistance, including operational and non-operational training to the Central African Republic security forces, including state civilian law enforcement institutions, intended solely for the support of or use in the Central African Republic process of security sector reform, in coordination with MINUSCA, and as notified in advance to the Committee of the Security Council concerning the Central African Republic;
(3) Supplies brought into the Central African Republic by Chadian or Sudanese forces solely for their use in international patrols of the tripartite force to enhance security in the common border areas, in cooperation with MINUSCA, as approved in advance by the Committee of the Security Council concerning the Central African Republic;
(4) Non-lethal military equipment and related technical assistance or training intended solely for humanitarian and protective use, as notified in advance to the Committee of the Security Council concerning the Central African Republic;
(5) Personal protective equipment temporarily exported to the Central African Republic by United Nations personnel, representatives of the media, and humanitarian and developmental workers and associated personnel, for their personal use only;
(6) Small arms and related equipment intended solely for use in international-led patrols providing security in the Sangha River Tri-national Protected Area and by armed wildlife rangers of the Chinko Project and the Bamingui-Bangoran National Park to defend against poaching, smuggling of ivory and arms, and other activities contrary to the laws of the Central African Republic or its international
legal obligations, as notified in advance to the Committee of the Security Council concerning the Central African Republic;
(7) Defense articles with a caliber of 14.5mm or less, and ammunition and components specially designed for such weapons, and defense articles that are unarmed ground military vehicles and ground military vehicles mounted with weapons with a caliber of 14.5mm or less, to the Central African Republic security forces, including state civilian law enforcement institutions, and intended solely for the support of or use in the Central African Republic security sector reform process, as notified in advance to the Committee of the Security Council concerning the Central African Republic;
(8) Defense articles and any related lethal equipment that are not listed in (u)(7) to the Central African Republic security forces, including state civilian law enforcement institutions, and intended solely for the support of or use in the Central African Republic process of security sector reform, as approved in advance by the Committee of the Security Council concerning the Central African Republic; or
(9) Other sales or supply of defense articles and related materiel, or provision of assistance or personnel, as approved in advance by the Committee of the Security Council concerning the Central African Republic.
(v)
Sudan.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports or imports of defense articles and defense services destined for or originating in the Republic of the Sudan, except a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for:
(1) Supplies and related technical training and assistance to monitoring, verification, or peace support operations, including those authorized by the United Nations or operating with the consent of the relevant parties;
(2) Supplies of non-lethal military equipment intended solely for humanitarian, human rights monitoring, or protective uses and related technical training and assistance;
(3) Personal protective gear for the personal use of United Nations personnel, human rights monitors, representatives of the media, and humanitarian and development workers and associated personnel; or
(4) Assistance and supplies provided in support of implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement.
(w)
South Sudan.
It is the policy of the United States to deny licenses or other approvals for exports of defense articles and defense services destined for South Sudan, except that a license or other approval may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, for:
(1) Defense articles and defense services for monitoring, verification, or peacekeeping support operations, including those authorized by the United Nations or operating with the consent of the relevant parties;
(2) Defense articles and defense services intended solely for the support of, or use by, African Union Regional Task Force (AU-RTF) or United Nations entities operating in South Sudan, including but not limited to the United Nations Mission in the Republic of South Sudan (UNMISS), the United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS), the United Nations Police (UNPOL), or the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA);
(3) Defense articles and defense services intended solely for the support of or use by non-governmental organizations in furtherance of conventional weapons destruction or humanitarian demining activities;
(4) Non-lethal defense articles intended solely for humanitarian or protective use and related technical training and assistance;
(5) Personal protective equipment including flak jackets and helmets, temporarily exported to South Sudan by United Nations personnel, human rights monitors, representatives of the media, and humanitarian and development workers and associated personnel, for their personal use only; or
(6) Any defense articles and defense services provided in support of implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, the Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan, or any successor agreement.
[58 FR 39312, July 22, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 126.1, see the List of CFR
Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 126.2
Temporary suspension or modification of this subchapter.
The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Defense Trade Controls may order the temporary suspension or modification of any or all of the regulations of this subchapter in the interest of the security and foreign policy of the United States.
[79 FR 8085, Feb. 11, 2014]
§ 126.3
Exceptions.
In a case of exceptional or undue hardship, or when it is otherwise in the interest of the United States Government, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls may make an exception to the provisions of this subchapter.
[79 FR 8085, Feb. 11, 2014]
§ 126.4
Transfers by or for the United States Government.
(a)
By a department or agency.
A license is not required for the export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import of a defense article or the performance of a defense service, when made by a department or agency of the U.S. Government:
(1) For official use by a department or agency of the U.S. Government, including:
(i) By employees of the U.S. Government acting within their official capacity; or
(ii) By persons or entities in a contractual relationship with the U.S. Government using the defense article or performing the defense service to conduct the contracted-for activities within the scope of the contractual relationship and:
(A) Within a U.S. Government-controlled facility;
(B) When an employee of the U.S. Government is empowered and responsible to ensure that the defense article is not diverted and is only used within the scope of the contractual relationship; or
(C) Use of the exemption in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) is authorized by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls at the request of a department or agency of the U.S. Government.
(D) The provision in this paragraph (a)(1)(ii) may not be used to release technical data to a person or entity of a country identified in § 126.1.
(2) For carrying out a cooperative project, program, or other activity in furtherance of an agreement or arrangement that provides for the export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import of the defense article, or the performance of activities that constitute the defense service, and is one of the following:
(i) A binding international agreement to which the United States or any agency thereof is a party; or
(ii) An arrangement with international partners authorized by Title 10 or 22 of the United States Code or pertinent National Defense Authorization Act provisions.
(3) For carrying out any foreign assistance or sales program authorized by law and subject to control by the President by other means.
(4) For any other security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense authorized by law and subject to control by the President by other means.
(i) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(4), “security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense” means any program, activity, or interaction of the Department of Defense with the security establishment of a foreign country to:
(A) Build and develop allied and friendly security capabilities for self-defense and multinational operations;
(B) Provide the armed forces with access to the foreign country during peacetime or a contingency operation; or
(C) Build relationships that promote specific United States security interests.
(ii) The U.S. Government must obtain appropriate end-use and retransfer assurances from the foreign party and to ensure that the recipient is aware of and will comply with paragraph (f) of this section.
(5) Authorization under this section is for compliance with the ITAR only and does not constitute any other U.S.
Government approval that may be required prior to the transfer of a defense article, and does not satisfy other obligations of U.S. law or regulation, or applicable Government process, procedure, or practice, including the requirement that any export of an item listed on the MTCR Annex receive the case-by-case review called for in the MTCR Guidelines.
(6) The exemption in this paragraph (a) does not apply when a U.S. Government department or agency acts as a transmittal agent on behalf of a private individual or firm, either as a convenience or in satisfaction of security requirements.
(7) The authorization requirement expressed in paragraph (f) of this section does not apply to defense articles and services exported from the United States pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section, provided the defense articles and services are subject to the terms thereof.
(b)
By a person on behalf of a department or agency.
A license is not required for the export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import of a defense article or the performance of a defense service, when made by another person for a department or agency of the U.S. Government:
(1) To a department or agency of the U.S. Government at its request; or
(2) To an entity other than the U.S. Government at the written direction of a department or agency of the U.S. Government or pursuant to an international agreement or arrangement, for an activity authorized for that department or agency in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(c)
Return to the United States.
No license is required under this subchapter for the return to the United States of a defense article exported pursuant to this section and not subsequently reexported or retransferred other than pursuant to this section, to:
(1) A department or agency of the U.S. Government; or
(2) The person who exported the item.
(d)
Prohibited activities and arms embargoes.
This section does not authorize any department or agency of the U.S. Government to make or authorize any export that is otherwise prohibited by any other administrative provisions or by any statute or that is inconsistent with U.S. arms embargoes or United Nations Security Council Resolutions (
see
§ 126.1).
(e)
Export clearance.
For exports shipped other than by a U.S. diplomatic pouch or a U.S. Government aircraft, vehicle, or vessel, an Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing must be submitted to U.S. Customs and Border Protection using its electronic system(s) at the time of export, unless electronic submission of such information is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection or the Department of Defense transmittal authority will issue instructions.
(f)
Change in end-use or end-user.
Any change in end-use or end-user of a defense article, to any party or use not authorized by this section, requires approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls through a license or other approval.
[84 FR 16401, Apr. 19, 2019]
§ 126.5
Canadian exemptions.
(a)
Temporary import of defense articles.
Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and postmasters shall permit the temporary import and return to Canada without a license of any unclassified defense articles that originate in Canada for temporary use in the United States and return to Canada. All other temporary imports shall be in accordance with §§ 123.3 and 123.4 of this subchapter.
(b)
Permanent and temporary export of defense articles.
Except as provided in Supplement No. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter and for exports that transit third countries, Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and postmasters shall permit, when for end-use in Canada by Canadian Federal or Provincial governmental authorities acting in an official capacity or by a Canadian-registered person, or for return to the United States, the permanent and temporary export to Canada without a license of unclassified defense articles and defense services identified on the U.S. Munitions List (22 CFR 121.1). The exceptions are subject to meeting the requirements of this subchapter, to include §§ 120.15(d) and 120.16, parts 122 and 123 (except insofar
as exemption from licensing requirements is herein authorized) and § 126.1, and the requirement to obtain non-transfer and use assurances for all significant military equipment. For purposes of this section, “Canadian-registered person” is any Canadian national (including Canadian business entities organized under the laws of Canada), dual citizen of Canada and a third country other than a country listed in § 126.1, and permanent resident registered in Canada in accordance with the Canadian Defense Production Act, and such other Canadian Crown Corporations identified by the Department of State in a list of such persons publicly available through the Internet Web site of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and by other means.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Reexports/retransfer.
Reexport/retransfer in Canada to another end-user or end-use or from Canada to another destination, except the United States, must in all instances have the prior approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Unless otherwise exempt in this subchapter, the original exporter is responsible, upon request from a Canadian-registered person, for obtaining or providing reexport/retransfer approval. In any instance when the U.S. exporter is no longer available to the Canadian end-user the request for reexport/retransfer may be made directly to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. All requests must include the information in § 123.9(c) of this subchapter. Reexport/retransfer approval is acquired by:
(1) If the reexport/retransfer being requested could be made pursuant to this section (
i.e.,
a retransfer within Canada to another eligible Canadian recipient under this section) if exported directly from the U.S., upon receipt by the U.S. company of a request by a Canadian end user, the original U.S. exporter is authorized to grant on behalf of the U.S. Government by confirming in writing to the Canadian requester that the reexport/retransfer is authorized subject to the conditions of this section; or
(2) If the reexport/retransfer is to an end use or end user that, if directly exported from the U.S. requires a license, retransfer must be handled in accordance with § 123.9 of this subchapter.

# Notes to § 126.5:
1. In any instance when the exporter has knowledge that the defense article exempt from licensing is being exported for use other than by a qualified Canadian-registered person or for export to another foreign destination, other than the United States, in its original form or incorporated into another item, an export license must be obtained prior to the transfer to Canada.
2. Additional exemptions exist in other sections of this subchapter that are applicable to Canada, for example §§ 123.9, 125.4, and 124.2, that allow for the performance of defense services related to training in basic operations and maintenance, without a license, for certain defense articles lawfully exported, including those identified in Supplement No. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter.
[66 FR 10576, Feb. 16, 2001; 66 FR 36834, July 13, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 78686, Dec. 26, 2002; 70 FR 34654, June 15, 2005; 70 FR 39919, July 12, 2005; 70 FR 50964, Aug. 29, 2005; 71 FR 20546, Apr. 21, 2006; 77 FR 16600, Mar. 21, 2012; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 126.6
Foreign-owned military aircraft and naval vessels, and the Foreign Military Sales program.
(a) A license from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls is not required if:
(1) The article or technical data to be exported was sold, leased, or loaned by the Department of Defense to a foreign country or international organization pursuant to the Arms Export Control Act or the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, and
(2) The article or technical data is delivered to representatives of such a country or organization in the United States; and
(3) The article or technical data is to be exported from the United States on a military aircraft or naval vessel of that government or organization or via the Defense Transportation Service (DTS).
(b)
Foreign military aircraft and naval vessels.
A license is not required for the entry into the United States of military aircraft or naval vessels of any foreign state if no overhaul, repair, or modification of the aircraft or naval vessel is to be performed. However, Department of State approval for overflight (pursuant to the 49 U.S.C. 40103) and naval visits must be obtained from
the Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, Office of International Security Operations.
(c)
Foreign Military Sales Program.
A license from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls is not required if the defense article or technical data or a defense service to be transferred was sold, leased or loaned by the Department of Defense to a foreign country or international organization under the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Program of the Arms Export Control Act pursuant to an Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA) authorizing such transfer which meets the criteria stated below:
(1) Transfers of the defense articles, technical data or defense services using this exemption may take place only during the period which the FMS Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA) and implementing USG FMS contracts and subcontracts are in effect and serve as authorization for the transfers hereunder in lieu of a license. After the USG FMS contracts and subcontracts have expired and the LOA no longer serves as such authorization, any further provision of defense articles, technical data or defense services shall not be covered by this section and shall instead be subject to other authorization requirements of this subchapter; and
(2) The defense article, technical data or defense service to be transferred are specifically identified in an executed LOA, in furtherance of the Foreign Military Sales Program signed by an authorized Department of Defense Representative and an authorized representative of the foreign government, and
(3) The transfer of the defense article and related technical data is effected during the duration of the relevant Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA), similarly a defense service is to be provided only during the duration of the USG FMS contract or subcontract and not to exceed the specified duration of the LOA, and
(4) The U.S. person responsible for the transfer maintains records of all transfers in accordance with part 122 of this subchapter, and
(5) For transfers of defense articles and technical data,
(i) The transfer is made by the relevant foreign diplomatic mission of the purchasing country or its authorized freight forwarder, provided that the freight forwarder is registered with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls pursuant to part 122 of this subchapter, and
(ii) At the time of shipment, U.S. Customs and Border Protection is provided the Electronic Export Information, Internal Transaction Number and any other documents required by U.S. Customs and Border Protection in carrying out its responsibilities. The invoices for the shipment must be annotated: “This shipment is authorized for export pursuant to 22 CFR 126.6(c), under FMS Case [insert case identification]. The U.S. Government point of contact is ____, telephone number ____,” and
(iii) Any classified hardware and related technical data involved in the transfer must have the requisite U.S. Government security clearance and transportation plan and be shipped in accordance with the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual. The exporter shall provide an electronic copy of the transportation plan via the U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s), unless electronic reporting of such information is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection will issue instructions, or
(6) For transfers of defense services:
(i) A contract or subcontract between the U.S. person(s) responsible for providing the defense service and the USG exists that:
(A) Specifically defines the scope of the defense service to be transferred;
(B) Identifies the FMS case identifier,
(C) Identifies the foreign recipients of the defense service
(D) Identifies any other U.S. or foreign parties that may be involved and their roles/responsibilities, to the extent known when the contract is executed,
(E) Provides a specified period of duration in which the defense service may be performed, and
(ii) The U.S. person(s) identified in the contract maintain a registration with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for the entire time that the
defense service is being provided. In any instance when the U.S. registered person(s) identified in the contract employs a subcontractor, the subcontractor may only use this exemption when registered with DDTC, and when such subcontract meets the above stated requirements, and
(iii) In instances when the defense service involves the transfer of classified technical data, the U.S. person transferring the defense service must have the appropriate USG security clearance and a transportation plan, if appropriate, in compliance with the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual.
[65 FR 45287, July 21, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 50964, Aug. 29, 2005; 71 FR 20546, Apr. 21, 2006; 79 FR 77885, Dec. 29, 2014; 82 FR 19, Jan. 3, 2017]
§ 126.7
Exemption for defense trade and cooperation among Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
(a) No license or other approval is required for the export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import of defense articles, the performance of defense services, or engaging in brokering activities as described in part 129 of this subchapter, between or among authorized users of this exemption, subject to the requirements and limitations in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The exemption described in paragraph (a) of this section is subject to the following requirements and limitations:
(1) The activity must be to or within the physical territory of Australia, the United Kingdom, or the United States;
(2) The transferor, recipient, or broker must each be:
(i) U.S. persons registered with the applicable Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) registration pursuant to §§ 122.1 and 129.3 of this subchapter, and not debarred under § 127.7 of this subchapter;
(ii) A U.S. Government department or agency; or
(iii) Authorized users identified through the DDTC website and, if engaging in brokering activities, registered with DDTC pursuant to § 129.3 of this subchapter;
(3) The defense article or defense service is not identified in supplement no. 2 to this part as ineligible for transfer under the exemption in paragraph (a) of this section;
(4) The value of the transfer does not exceed the amounts described in § 123.15 of this subchapter and does not involve the manufacturing abroad of significant military equipment as described in § 124.11 of this subchapter; and
(5) Transferors must comply with the requirements of § 123.9(b) of this subchapter.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
The exemption in paragraph (a) of this section does not remove other applicable U.S. statutory and regulatory requirements. For example, for U.S. authorized users, transfers of classified defense articles and defense services must still meet the requirements in 32 CFR part 117, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), in addition to all other applicable laws. Australian authorized users must, for example, meet the requirements in the Australian Protective Security Policy Framework, including appropriate security risk management for contracted providers. United Kingdom authorized users must, for example, meet the requirements in the Government Functional Standards GovS 007: Security.
[89 FR 67290, Aug. 20, 2024]
§§ 126.8-126.12
[Reserved]
§ 126.13
Required information.
(a) All applications for licenses (DSP-5, DSP-61, DSP-73, and DSP-85), all requests for approval of agreements and amendments thereto under part 124 of this subchapter, and all requests for other written authorizations (including requests for retransfer or reexport pursuant to § 123.9 of this subchapter) must include a letter signed by a responsible official empowered by the applicant and addressed to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, stating whether:
(1) The applicant or the chief executive officer, president, vice-presidents, secretary, partner, member, other senior officers or officials (e.g., comptroller, treasurer, general counsel) or any member of the board of directors is the subject of an indictment or has been otherwise charged (e.g., by criminal information in lieu of indictment) for, or has been convicted of, violating any of the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6 of this subchapter;
(2) The applicant or the chief executive officer, president, vice-presidents, secretary, partner, member, other senior officers or officials (e.g., comptroller, treasurer, general counsel) or any member of the board of directors is ineligible to contract with, or to receive a license or other approval to temporarily import or export defense articles or defense services from any agency of the U.S. Government;
(3) To the best of the applicant's knowledge, any party to the export as defined in § 120.68(a) of this subchapter has been convicted of violating any of the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6 of this subchapter, or is ineligible to contract with, or to receive a license or other approval to temporarily import or export defense articles or defense services from any agency of the U.S. government; and
(4) The natural person signing the application, notification, or other request for approval (including the statement required by this subchapter) is a citizen or national of the United States, has been lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence (and maintains such lawful permanent residence status) under the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20), 66 Stat. 163), or is an official of a foreign government entity in the United States, or is a foreign person making a request pursuant to § 123.9 of this subchapter.
(b) In addition, all applications for licenses must include the complete names and addresses of all U.S. consignors and freight forwarders, and all foreign consignees and foreign intermediate consignees involved in the transaction. Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and Department of Defense transmittal authorities will permit only those U.S. consignors or freight forwarders listed on the license to make shipments under the license, and only to those foreign consignees and foreign intermediate consignees listed on the license. Applicants should list all freight forwarders who may be involved with shipments under the license to ensure that the list is complete and to avoid the need for amendments after the license has been approved. If there are unusual or extraordinary circumstances that preclude the specific identification of all the U.S. consignors and freight forwarders and all foreign consignees and foreign intermediate consignees, the applicant must provide a letter of explanation with each application.
(c) In cases when natural foreign persons are employed at or assigned to security-cleared facilities, provision by the applicant of a technology control plan will facilitate processing.
[58 FR 39312, July 22, 1993, as amended at 70 FR 50965, Aug. 29, 2005; 71 FR 20547, Apr. 21, 2006; 75 FR 52624, Aug. 27, 2010; 77 FR 16601, Mar. 21, 2012; 78 FR 52688, Aug. 26, 2013; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 126.14
Special comprehensive export authorizations for NATO, Australia, Japan, and Sweden.
(a)
Comprehensive authorizations.
With respect to NATO members, Australia, Japan, and Sweden, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may provide the comprehensive authorizations described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for circumstances where the full parameters of a commercial export endeavor including the needed defense exports can be well anticipated and described in advance, thereby making use of such comprehensive authorizations appropriate.
(1)
Major project authorization.
With respect to NATO members, Australia, Japan, and Sweden, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may provide comprehensive authorizations for well circumscribed commercially developed “major projects”, where a principal registered U.S. exporter/prime contractor identifies in advance the broad parameters of a commercial project including defense exports needed, other participants (e.g., exporters with whom they have “teamed up,” or subcontractors), and foreign government end users. Projects eligible for such authorization may include a commercial export of a major weapons system for a foreign government involving, for example, multiple U.S. suppliers under a commercial teaming agreement to design, develop and manufacture defense articles to meet a foreign government's requirements. U.S. exporters seeking such authorization must provide detailed information concerning the
scope of the project, including other exporters, U.S. subcontractors, and planned exports (including re-exports) of defense articles, defense services, and technical data, and meet the other requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Major program authorization.
With respect to NATO members, Australia, Japan, and Sweden, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may provide comprehensive authorizations for well circumscribed commercially developed “major program”. This variant would be available where a single registered U.S. exporter defines in advance the parameters of a broad commercial program for which the registrant will be providing all phases of the necessary support (including the needed hardware, technical data, defense services, development, manufacturing, and logistic support). U.S. exporters seeking such authorization must provide detailed information concerning the scope of the program, including planned exports (including re-exports) of defense articles, defense services, and technical data, and meet the other requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(3)(i)
Global project authorization.
With respect to NATO members, Australia, Japan, and Sweden, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may provide a comprehensive “Global Project Authorization” to registered U.S. exporters for exports of defense articles, technical data or defense services in support of government to government cooperative projects (covering research and development or production) with one of these countries undertaken pursuant to an agreement between the U.S. Government and the government of such country, or a memorandum of understanding/agreement between the Department of Defense and the country's Ministry of Defense.
(ii) A set of standard terms and conditions derived from and corresponding to the breadth of the activities and phases covered in such a cooperative MOU will provide the basis for this comprehensive authorization for all U.S. exporters (and foreign end users) identified by DoD as participating in such cooperative project. Such authorizations may cover a broad range of defined activities in support of such programs including multiple shipments of defense articles and technical data and performance of defense services for extended periods, and re-exports to approved end users.
(iii) Eligible end users will be limited to ministries of defense of MOU signatory countries and foreign companies serving as contractors of such countries.
(iv) Any requirement for non-transfer and use assurances from a foreign government may be deemed satisfied by the signature by such government of a cooperative agreement or by its ministry of defense of a cooperative MOU/MOA where the agreement or MOU contains assurances that are comparable to that required by a DSP-83 with respect to foreign governments and that clarifies that the government is undertaking responsibility for all its participating companies. The authorized non-government participants or end users (e.g., the participating government's contractors) will still be required to execute DSP-83s.
(4)
Technical data supporting an acquisition, teaming arrangement, merger, joint venture authorization.
With respect to NATO member countries, Australia, Japan, and Sweden, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may provide a registered U.S. defense company a comprehensive authorization to export technical data in support of the U.S. exporter's consideration of entering into a teaming arrangement, joint venture, merger, acquisition, or similar arrangement with prospective foreign partners. Specifically, the authorization is designed to permit the export of a broadly defined set of technical data to qualifying well established foreign defense firms in NATO countries, Australia, Japan, or Sweden in order to better facilitate a sufficiently in depth assessment of the benefits, opportunities and other relevant considerations presented by such prospective arrangements. U.S. exporters seeking such authorization must provide detailed information concerning the arrangement, joint venture, merger or acquisition, including any planned exports of defense articles, defense services, and
technical data, and meet the other requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Provisions and requirements for comprehensive authorizations.
Requests for the special comprehensive authorizations set forth in paragraph (a) of this section should be by letter addressed to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. With regard to a commercial major program or project authorization, or technical data supporting a teaming arrangement, merger, joint venture or acquisition, registered U.S. exporters may consult the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls about eligibility for and obtaining available comprehensive authorizations set forth in paragraph (a) of this section or pursuant to § 126.9(b) of this subchapter.
(1) Requests for consideration of all such authorizations should be formulated to correspond to one of the authorizations set out in paragraph (a) of this section, and should include:
(i) A description of the proposed program or project, including where appropriate a comprehensive description of all phases or stages; and
(ii) Its value; and
(iii) Types of exports needed in support of the program or project; and
(iv) Projected duration of same, within permissible limits; and
(v) Description of the exporter's plan for record keeping and auditing of all phases of the program or project; and
(vi) In the case of authorizations for exports in support of government to government cooperative projects, identification of the cooperative project.
(2) Amendments to the requested authorization may be requested in writing as appropriate, and should include a detailed description of the aspects of the activities being proposed for amendment.
(3) The comprehensive authorizations set forth in paragraph (a) of this section may be made valid for the duration of the major commercial program or project, or cooperative project, not to exceed 10 years.
(4) Included among the criteria required for such authorizations are those set out in part 124, e.g., §§ 124.7, 124.8 and 124.9, as well as §§ 125.4 (technical data exported in furtherance of an agreement) and 123.16 (hardware being included in an agreement). Provisions required will also take into account the congressional notification requirements in §§ 123.15 and 124.11 of the ITAR. Specifically, comprehensive congressional notifications corresponding to the comprehensive parameters for the major program or project or cooperative project should be possible, with additional notifications such as those required by law for changes in value or other significant modifications.
(5) All authorizations will be consistent with all other applicable requirements of the ITAR, including requirements for non-transfer and use assurances (see §§ 123.10 and 124.10), congressional notifications (e.g., §§ 123.15 and 124.11), and other documentation (e.g., §§ 123.9 and 126.13).
(6) Special auditing and reporting requirements will also be required for these authorizations. Exporters using special authorizations are required to establish an electronic system for keeping records of all defense articles, defense services and technical data exported and comply with all applicable requirements for submitting shipping or export information within the allotted time.
[65 FR 45285, July 21, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 35900, July 10, 2001; 71 FR 20548, Apr. 21, 2006; 79 FR 8085, Feb. 11, 2014]
§ 126.15
Expedited processing of license applications for the export of defense articles and defense services to Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada.
(a) Any application submitted for authorization of the export of defense articles or services to Australia or the United Kingdom will be expeditiously processed by the Department of State, in consultation with the Department of Defense. Such license applications will not be referred to any other Federal department or agency, except when the defense articles or defense services are classified or exceptional circumstances apply. (See section 1225, Pub. L. 108-375).
(b) To be eligible for the expedited processing in paragraph (a) of this section, the destination of the prospective export must be limited to Australia or
the United Kingdom. No other country may be included as intermediary or ultimate end-user.
(c) Any application submitted for authorization of the export of defense articles or defense services to Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada, describing an export that cannot be undertaken under an exemption provided in this subchapter, will be expeditiously processed by the Department of State. The prospective export must occur wholly within, or between the physical territories of Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada, or the United States, and between governments or persons from such countries.
(d) To the extent practicable, any application in paragraph (c) of this section to export defense articles and defense services related to a government-to-government agreement between Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada, and the United States must be approved, returned, or denied within 30 days of submission. For all other license applications, any review shall be completed no later than 45 calendar days after the date of the application. The provisions of this paragraph (d) do not apply to any applications which require congressional certification.
[70 FR 39919, July 12, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 67291, Aug. 20, 2024]
§ 126.16
Exemption pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia.
(a)
Scope of exemption and required conditions
—(1)
Definitions.
(i) An
export
means, for purposes of this section only, the initial movement of defense articles or defense services from the United States Community to the Australian Community.
(ii) A
transfer
means, for purposes of this section only, the movement of a previously exported defense article or defense service by a member of the Australian Community within the Australian Community, or between a member of the United States Community and a member of the Australian Community.
(iii)
Reexport and retransfer.
(A) Reexport means, for purposes of this section only, the movement of previously Exported Defense Articles by a member of the Australian Community from the Approved Community to a location outside the Territory of Australia.
(B) Retransfer means, for purposes of this section only, the movement of previously Exported Defense Articles by a member of the Australian Community from the Approved Community to a location within the Territory of Australia;
(iv)
Intermediate consignee
means, for purposes of this section, an entity or person who receives, but does not have access to, defense articles, including technical data, for the sole purpose of effecting onward movement to members of the Approved Community (
see
paragraph (k) of this section).
(2) Persons or entities exporting or transferring defense articles or defense services are exempt from the otherwise applicable licensing requirements if such persons or entities comply with the regulations set forth in this section. Except as provided in supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter, Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and postmasters shall permit the permanent and temporary export without a license from members of the United States Community to members of the Australian Community (
see
paragraph (d) of this section regarding the identification of members of the Australian Community) of defense articles and defense services not listed in supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter, for the end-uses specifically identified pursuant to paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. The purpose of this section is to specify the requirements to export, transfer, reexport, retransfer, or otherwise dispose of a defense article or defense service pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia. All persons must continue to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements outside of this subchapter concerning the import of defense articles and defense services or the possession or transfer of defense articles, including, but not limited to, regulations issued by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives found at 27 CFR parts 447, 478, and 479, which are
unaffected by the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia.
(3)
Export.
In order for an exporter to export a defense article or defense service pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia, all of the following conditions must be met:
(i) The exporter must be registered with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) and must be eligible, according to the requirements and prohibitions of the Arms Export Control Act, this subchapter, and other provisions of United States law, to obtain an export license (or other forms of authorization to export) from any agency of the U.S. Government without restriction (
see
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for specific requirements);
(ii) The recipient of the export must be a member of the Australian Community (
see
paragraph (d) of this section regarding the identification of members of the Australian Community). Australian non-governmental entities and facilities that become ineligible for such membership will be removed from the Australian Community;
(iii) Intermediate consignees involved in the export must not be ineligible, according to the requirements and prohibitions of the Arms Export Control Act, this subchapter, and other provisions of United States law, to handle or receive a defense article or defense service without restriction (
see
paragraph (k) of this section for specific requirements);
(iv) The export must be for an end-use specified in the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and mutually agreed to by the U.S. Government and the Government of Australia pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and the Implementing Arrangement thereto (the Australia Implementing Arrangement) (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses);
(v) The defense article or defense service is not excluded from the scope of the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia (
see
paragraph (g) of this section and supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter for specific information on the scope of items excluded from export under this exemption) and is marked or identified, at a minimum, as “Restricted USML” (
see
paragraph (j) of this section for specific requirements on marking exports);
(vi) All required documentation of such export is maintained by the exporter and recipient and is available upon the request of the U.S. Government (
see
paragraph (l) of this section for specific requirements); and
(vii) The Department of State has provided advance notification to the Congress, as required, in accordance with this section (
see
paragraph (o) of this section for specific requirements).
(4)
Transfers.
In order for a member of the Approved Community (
i.e.,
the United States Community and Australian Community) to transfer a defense article or defense service under the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty within the Approved Community, all of the following conditions must be met:
(i) The defense article or defense service must have been previously exported in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section or transitioned from a license or other approval in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section;
(ii) The transferor and transferee of the defense article or defense service are members of the Australian Community (
see
paragraph (d) of this section regarding the identification of members of the Australian Community) or the United States Community (
see
paragraph (b) of this section for information on the United States Community/approved exporters);
(iii) The transfer is required for an end-use specified in the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and mutually agreed to by the Government of the United States and the Government of Australia pursuant to the terms of the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and the Australia Implementing Arrangement (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses);
(iv) The defense article or defense service is not identified in paragraph (g) of this section and supplement no. 1
to part 126 of this subchapter as ineligible for export under this exemption, and is marked or otherwise identified, at a minimum, as “Restricted USML” (
see
paragraph (j) of this section for specific requirements on marking exports);
(v) All required documentation of such transfer is maintained by the transferor and transferee and is available upon the request of the U.S. Government (
see
paragraph (l) of this section for specific requirements); and
(vi) The Department of State has provided advance notification to the Congress in accordance with this section (
see
paragraph (o) of this section for specific requirements).
(5) This section does not apply to the export of defense articles or defense services from the United States pursuant to the Foreign Military Sales program. Once such items are delivered to the Australian Government, they may be treated as if they were exported pursuant to the Treaty and then must be marked, identified, transmitted, stored and handled in accordance with the Treaty, the Australia Implementing Arrangement, and the provisions of this section.
(b)
United States Community.
The following persons compose the United States Community and may export or transfer defense articles and defense services pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia:
(1) Departments and agencies of the U.S. Government, including their personnel acting in their official capacity, with, as appropriate, a security clearance and a need-to-know; and
(2) Non-governmental U.S. persons registered with DDTC and eligible, according to the requirements and prohibitions of the Arms Export Control Act, this subchapter, and other provisions of United States law, to obtain an export license (or other forms of authorization to export) from any agency of the U.S. Government without restriction, including their employees acting in their official capacity with, as appropriate, a security clearance and a need-to-know.
(c) An exporter that is otherwise an authorized exporter pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may not export or transfer pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia if the exporter's president, chief executive officer, any vice-president, any other senior officer or official (e.g., comptroller, treasurer, general counsel); any member of the board of directors of the exporter; any party to the export; or any source or manufacturer is ineligible to receive export licenses (or other forms of authorization to export) from any agency of the U.S. Government.
(d)
Australian Community.
For purposes of the exemption provided by this section, the Australian Community consists of:
(1) Government of Australia authorities with entities identified as members of the Approved Community through the DDTC Web site at the time of a transaction under this section; and
(2) The non-governmental Australian entities and facilities identified as members of the Approved Community through the DDTC Web site at the time of a transaction under this section; non-governmental Australian entities and facilities that become ineligible for such membership will be removed from the Australian Community.
(e)
Authorized End-uses.
The following end-uses, subject to paragraph (f) of this section, are specified in the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia:
(1) United States and Australian combined military or counter-terrorism operations;
(2) United States and Australian cooperative security and defense research, development, production, and support programs;
(3) Mutually determined specific security and defense projects where the Government of Australia is the end-user; or
(4) U.S. Government end-use.
(f) Procedures for identifying authorized end-uses pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section:
(1) Operations, programs, and projects that can be publicly identified will be posted on the DDTC Web site;
(2) Operations, programs, and projects that cannot be publicly identified will be confirmed in written correspondence from DDTC; or
(3) U.S. Government end-use will be identified specifically in a U.S. Government contract or solicitation as being eligible under the Treaty.
(4) No other operations, programs, projects, or end-uses qualify for this exemption.
(g)
Items eligible under this section.
With the exception of items listed in supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter, defense articles and defense services may be exported under this section subject to the following:
(1) An exporter authorized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section may market a defense article to members of the Australian Community if that exporter has been licensed by DDTC to export (as defined by § 120.50 of this subchapter) the identical type of defense article to any foreign person and end-use of the article is for an end-use identified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) The export of any defense article specific to the existence of (e.g., reveals the existence of or details of) anti-tamper measures made at U.S. Government direction always requires prior written approval from DDTC.
(3) U.S.-origin classified defense articles or defense services may be exported only pursuant to a written request, directive, or contract from the U.S. Department of Defense that provides for the export of the classified defense article(s) or defense service(s).
(4) U.S.-origin defense articles specific to developmental systems that have not obtained written Milestone B approval from the U.S. Department of Defense milestone approval authority are not eligible for export unless such export is pursuant to a written solicitation or contract issued or awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense for an end-use identified pursuant to paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (4) of this section.
(5) Defense articles excluded by paragraph (g) of this section or supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter (e.g., USML Category XI (a)(3) electronically scanned array radar excluded by Note 2) that are embedded in a larger system that is eligible to ship under this section (e.g., a ship, an aircraft) must separately comply with any restrictions placed on that embedded defense article under this subchapter. The exporter must obtain a license or other authorization from DDTC for the export of such embedded defense articles (for example, USML Category XI (a)(3) electronically scanned array radar systems that are exempt from this section that are incorporated in an aircraft that is eligible to ship under this section continue to require separate authorization from DDTC for their export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer).
(6) No liability shall be incurred by or attributed to the U.S. Government in connection with any possible infringement of privately owned patent or proprietary rights, either domestic or foreign, by reason of an export conducted pursuant to this section.
(7) Sales by exporters made through the U.S. Government shall not include either charges for patent rights in which the U.S. Government holds a royalty-free license, or charges for information which the U.S. Government has a right to use and disclose to others, which is in the public domain, or which the U.S. Government has acquired or is entitled to acquire without restrictions upon its use and disclosure to others.
(h)
Transfers, retransfers, and reexports.
(1) Any transfer of a defense article or defense service not exempted in supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter by a member of the Australian Community (
see
paragraph (d) of this section for specific information on the identification of the Community) to another member of the Australian Community or the United States Community for an end-use that is authorized by this exemption (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) is authorized under this exemption.
(2) Any transfer or other provision of a defense article or defense service for an end-use that is not authorized by the exemption provided by this section is prohibited without a license or the prior written approval of DDTC (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses).
(3) Any retransfer or reexport, or other provision of a defense article or defense service by a member of the Australian Community to a foreign person that is not a member of the
Australian Community, or to a U.S. person that is not a member of the United States Community, is prohibited without a license or the prior written approval of DDTC (
see
paragraph (d) of this section for specific information on the identification of the Australian Community).
(4) Any change in the use of a defense article or defense service previously exported, transferred, or obtained under this exemption by any foreign person, including a member of the Australian Community, to an end-use that is not authorized by this exemption is prohibited without a license or other written approval of DDTC (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses).
(5) Any retransfer, reexport, or change in end-use requiring such approval of the U.S. Government shall be made in accordance with § 123.9 of this subchapter.
(6) Defense articles excluded by paragraph (g) of this section or supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter (e.g., USML Category XI (a)(3) electronically scanned array radar systems) that are embedded in a larger system that is eligible to ship under this section (e.g., a ship, an aircraft) must separately comply with any restrictions placed on that embedded defense article unless otherwise specified. A license or other authorization must be obtained from DDTC for the export, transfer, reexport, retransfer, or change in end-use of any such embedded defense article (for example, USML Category XI(a)(3) electronically scanned array radar systems that are excluded from this section by supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter, Note 2 that are incorporated in an aircraft that is eligible to ship under this section continue to require separate authorization from DDTC for their export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer).
(7) A license or prior approval from DDTC is not required for a transfer, retransfer, or reexport of an exported defense article or defense service under this section, if:
(i) The transfer of defense articles or defense services is made by a member of the United States Community to Australian Department of Defence (ADOD) elements deployed outside the Territory of Australia and engaged in an authorized end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) using ADOD transmission channels or the provisions of this section (Note: For purposes of paragraph (h)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section, per Section 9(9) of the Australia Implementing Arrangement, “ADOD Transmission channels” includes electronic transmission of a defense article and transmission of a defense article by an ADOD contracted carrier or freight forwarder that merely transports or arranges transport for the defense article in this instance.);
(ii) The transfer of defense articles or defense services is made by a member of the United States Community to an Approved Community member (either United States or Australian) that is operating in direct support of ADOD elements deployed outside the Territory of Australia and engaged in an authorized end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) using ADOD transmission channels or the provisions of this section;
(iii) The reexport is made by a member of the Australian Community to ADOD elements deployed outside the Territory of Australia engaged in an authorized end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) using ADOD transmission channels or the provisions of this section;
(iv) The reexport is made by a member of the Australian Community to an Approved Community member (either United States or Australian) that is operating in direct support of ADOD elements deployed outside the Territory of Australia engaged in an authorized end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) using ADOD transmission channels or the provisions of this section; or
(v) The defense article or defense service will be delivered to the ADOD for an authorized end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses); the ADOD may deploy the item as necessary when conducting official business within or outside the Territory of Australia. The
item must remain under the effective control of the ADOD while deployed and access may not be provided to unauthorized third parties.
(8) U.S. persons registered, or required to be registered, pursuant to part 122 of this subchapter and members of the Australian Community must immediately notify DDTC of any actual or proposed sale, retransfer, or reexport of a defense article or defense service on the U.S. Munitions List originally exported under this exemption to any of the countries listed in § 126.1 of this subchapter or any person acting on behalf of such countries, whether within or outside the United States. Any person knowing or having reason to know of such a proposed or actual sale, reexport, or retransfer shall submit such information in writing to the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(i)
Transitions.
(1) Any previous export of a defense article under a license or other approval of the U.S. Department of State remains subject to the conditions and limitations of the original license or authorization unless DDTC has approved in writing a transition to this section.
(2) If a U.S. exporter desires to transition from an existing license or other approval to the use of the provisions of this section, the following is required:
(i) The U.S. exporter must submit a written request to DDTC, which identifies the defense articles or defense services to be transitioned, the existing license(s) or other authorizations under which the defense articles or defense services were originally exported, and the Treaty-eligible end-use for which the defense articles or defense services will be used. Any license(s) filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection should remain on file until the exporter has received approval from DDTC to retire the license(s) and transition to this section. When this approval is conveyed to U.S. Customs and Border Protection by DDTC, the license(s) will be returned to DDTC by U.S. Customs and Border Protection in accord with existing procedures for the return of expired licenses in § 123.22(c) of this subchapter.
(ii) Any license(s) not filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection must be returned to DDTC with a letter citing approval by DDTC to transition to this section as the reason for returning the license(s).
(3) If a member of the Australian Community desires to transition defense articles received under an existing license or other approval to the processes established under the Treaty, the Australian Community member must submit a written request to the Government of Australia. The Government of Australia will submit the request to DDTC for review and approval. The defense article or defense service shall remain subject to the conditions and limitations of the existing license or other approval until the Australian Community member has received via the Government of Australia the approval from DDTC.
(4) Authorized exporters identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section who have exported a defense article or defense service that has subsequently been placed on the list of exempted items in supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter must review and adhere to the requirements in the relevant
Federal Register
notice announcing such removal. Once removed, the defense article or defense service will no longer be subject to this section, and such defense article or defense service previously exported shall remain on the U.S. Munitions List and be subject to the requirements of this subchapter unless the applicable
Federal Register
notice states otherwise. Subsequent reexport or retransfer must be made pursuant to § 123.9 of this subchapter.
(5) Any defense article or defense service transitioned from a license or other approval to treatment under this section must be marked in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section.
(j)
Marking of exports.
(1) All defense articles and defense services exported or transitioned pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and this section shall be marked or identified prior to movement as follows:
(i) For classified defense articles and defense services the standard marking
or identification shall read“//CLASSIFICATION LEVEL USML//REL AUS and USA Treaty Community//.” For example, for defense articles classified SECRET, the marking or identification shall be “//SECRET USML//REL AUS and USA Treaty Community//.”
(ii) Unclassified defense articles and defense services exported under or transitioned pursuant to this section shall be handled while in Australia as “Restricted USML” and the standard marking or identification shall read“//RESTRICTED USML//REL AUS and USA Treaty Community//.”
(2) Where U.S.-origin defense articles are returned to a member of the United States Community identified in paragraph (b) of this section, any defense articles marked or identified pursuant to paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section as “//RESTRICTED USML//REL AUS and USA Treaty Community//” will be considered unclassified and the marking or identification shall be removed; and
(3) The standard marking and identification requirements are as follows:
(i) Defense articles (other than technical data) shall be individually labeled with the appropriate identification detailed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section; or, where such labeling is impracticable (e.g., propellants, chemicals), shall be accompanied by documentation (such as contracts or invoices) clearly associating the defense articles with the appropriate markings as detailed in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (j)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii) Technical data (including data packages, technical papers, manuals, presentations, specifications, guides and reports), regardless of media or means of transmission (physical, oral, or electronic), shall be individually labeled with the appropriate identification detailed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section; or, where such labeling is impractical shall be accompanied by documentation (such as contracts or invoices) or verbal notification clearly associating the technical data with the appropriate markings as detailed in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (j)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(4) Defense services shall be accompanied by documentation (contracts, invoices, shipping bills, or bills of lading) clearly labeled with the appropriate identification detailed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section.
(5) The exporter shall incorporate the following statement as an integral part of the bill of lading and the invoice whenever defense articles are to be exported: “These U.S. Munitions List commodities are authorized by the U.S. Government under the U.S.-Australia Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty for export only to Australia for use in approved projects, programs or operations by members of the Australian Community. They may not be retransferred or reexported or used outside of an approved project, program, or operation, either in their original form or after being incorporated into other end-items, without the prior written approval of the U.S. Department of State.”
(k)
Intermediate consignees.
(1) Unclassified exports under this section may only be handled by:
(i) U.S. intermediate consignees who are:
(A) Exporters registered with DDTC and eligible;
(B) Licensed customs brokers who are subject to background investigation and have passed a comprehensive examination administered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection; or
(C) Commercial air freight and surface shipment carriers, freight forwarders, or other parties not exempt from registration under § 129.3(b)(3) of this subchapter, that are identified at the time of export as being on the U.S. Department of Defense Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) list of approved air carriers, a link to which is available on the DDTC Web site; or
(ii) Australian intermediate consignees who are:
(A) Members of the Australian Community; or
(B) Freight forwarders, customs brokers, commercial air freight and surface shipment carriers, or other Australian parties that are identified at the time of export as being on the list of Authorized Australian Intermediate Consignees, which is available on the DDTC Web site.
(2) Classified exports must comply with the security requirements of the National Industrial Security Program
Operating Manual (DoD 5220.22-M and supplements or successors).
(l)
Records.
(1) All exporters authorized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section who export defense articles or defense services pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and this section shall maintain detailed records of their exports, imports, and transfers. Exporters shall also maintain detailed records of any reexports and retransfers approved or otherwise authorized by DDTC of defense articles or defense services subject to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and this section. These records shall be maintained for a minimum of five years from the date of export, import, transfer, reexport, or retransfer and shall be made available upon request to DDTC or a person designated by DDTC (e.g., the Diplomatic Security Service) or U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Records in an electronic format must be maintained using a process or system capable of reproducing all records on paper. Such records when displayed on a viewer, monitor, or reproduced on paper, must exhibit a high degree of legibility and readability. (For the purpose of this section, “legible” and “legibility” mean the quality of a letter or numeral that enables the observer to identify it positively and quickly to the exclusion of all other letters or numerals. “Readable” and “readability” means the quality of a group of letters or numerals being recognized as complete words or numbers.). These records shall consist of the following:
(i) Port of entry/exit;
(ii) Date of export/import;
(iii) Method of export/import;
(iv) Commodity code and description of the commodity, including technical data;
(v) Value of export;
(vi) Reference to this section and justification for export under the Treaty;
(vii) End-user/end-use;
(viii) Identification of all U.S. and foreign parties to the transaction;
(ix) How the export was marked;
(x) Security classification of the export;
(xi) All written correspondence with the U.S. Government on the export;
(xii) All information relating to political contributions, fees, or commissions furnished or obtained, offered, solicited, or agreed upon as outlined in paragraph (m) of this section;
(xiii) Purchase order or contract;
(xiv) Technical data actually exported;
(xv) The Internal Transaction Number for the Electronic Export Information filing using U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s);
(xvi) All shipping documentation (including, but not limited to the airway bill, bill of lading, packing list, delivery verification, and invoice); and
(xvii) Statement of Registration (Form DS-2032).
(2)
Filing of export information.
All exporters of defense articles under the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and this section must electronically file Electronic Export Information (EEI) using U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s), citing one of the four below referenced codes in the appropriate field in the EEI for each shipment:
(i) For exports in support of United States and Australian combined military or counter-terrorism operations identify § 126.16(e)(1) (the name or an appropriate description of the operation shall be placed in the appropriate field in the EEI, as well);
(ii) For exports in support of United States and Australian cooperative security and defense research, development, production, and support programs identify § 126.16(e)(2) (the name or an appropriate description of the program shall be placed in the appropriate field in the EEI, as well);
(iii) For exports in support of mutually determined specific security and defense projects where the Government of Australia is the end-user identify § 126.16(e)(3) (the name or an appropriate description of the project shall be placed in the appropriate field in the EEI, as well); or
(iv) For exports that will have a U.S. Government end-use identify § 126.16(e)(4) (the U.S. Government contract number or solicitation number
(e.g., “U.S. Government contract number XXXXX”) shall be placed in the appropriate field in the EEI, as well). Such exports must meet the required export documentation and filing guidelines, including for defense services, of § 123.22(a), (b)(1), and (b)(2) of this subchapter.
(m)
Fees and commissions.
All exporters authorized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall, with respect to each export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer, pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and this section, submit a statement to DDTC containing the information identified in § 130.10 of this subchapter relating to fees, commissions, and political contributions on contracts or other instruments valued in an amount of $500,000 or more.
(n)
Violations and enforcement.
(1) Exports, transfers, reexports, and retransfers that do not comply with the conditions prescribed in this section will constitute violations of the Arms Export Control Act and this subchapter, and are subject to all relevant criminal, civil, and administrative penalties (
see
§ 127.1 of this subchapter), and may also be subject to penalty under other statutes or regulations.
(2) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers may take appropriate action to ensure compliance with this section as to the export or the attempted export of any defense article or technical data, including the inspection of loading or unloading of any vessel, vehicle, or aircraft.
(3) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers have the authority to investigate, detain, or seize any export or attempted export of defense articles or technical data that does not comply with this section or that is otherwise unlawful.
(4) DDTC or a person designated by DDTC (e.g., the Diplomatic Security Service), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or U.S. Customs and Border Protection may require the production of documents and information relating to any actual or attempted export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer pursuant to this section. Any foreign person refusing to provide such records within a reasonable period of time shall be suspended from the Australian Community and ineligible to receive defense articles or defense services pursuant to the exemption under this section or otherwise.
(o)
Procedures for legislative notification.
(1) Exports pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and this section by any person identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall not take place until 30 days after DDTC has acknowledged receipt of a written notification from the exporter notifying the Department of State if the export involves one or more of the following:
(i) A contract or other instrument for the export of major defense equipment in the amount of $25,000,000 or more, or for defense articles and defense services in the amount of $100,000,000 or more;
(ii) A contract for the export of firearms controlled under Category I of the U.S. Munitions List of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations in an amount of $1,000,000 or more;
(iii) A contract, regardless of value, for the manufacturing abroad of any item of significant military equipment (see § 120.36 of this subchapter); or
(iv) An amended contract that meets the requirements of paragraphs (o)(1)(i) through (o)(1)(iii) of this section.
(2) The written notification required in paragraph (o)(1) of this section shall indicate the item/model number, general item description, U.S. Munitions List category, value, and quantity of items to be exported pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia and this section, and shall be accompanied by the following additional information:
(i) The information identified in §§ 130.10 and 130.11 of this subchapter;
(ii) A statement regarding whether any offset agreement is final to be entered into in connection with the export and a description of any such offset agreement;
(iii) A copy of the signed contract; and
(iv) If the notification is for paragraph (o)(1)(ii) of this section, a statement of what will happen to the weapons in their inventory (for example, whether the current inventory will be sold, reassigned to another service branch, destroyed, etc.).
(3) The Department of State will notify the Congress of exports that meet the requirements of paragraph (o)(1) of this section.
[78 FR 21526, Apr. 11, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 62008, Sept. 8, 2016; 82 FR 19, Jan. 3, 2017; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 126.17
Exemption pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom.
(a)
Scope of exemption and required conditions
—(1)
Definitions.
(i) An
export
means, for purposes of this section only, the initial movement of defense articles or defense services from the United States Community to the United Kingdom Community.
(ii) A
transfer
means, for purposes of this section only, the movement of a previously exported defense article or defense service by a member of the United Kingdom Community within the United Kingdom Community, or between a member of the United States Community and a member of the United Kingdom Community.
(iii)
Reexport and retransfer.
(A)
Reexport
means, for purposes of this section only, movement of previously Exported Defense Articles by a member of the United Kingdom Community from the Approved Community to a location outside the Territory of the United Kingdom.
(B)
Retransfer
means, for purposes of this section only, the movement of previously Exported Defense Articles by a member of the United Kingdom Community from the Approved Community to a location within the Territory of the United Kingdom.
(iv)
Intermediate consignee
means, for purposes of this section, an approved entity or person who receives, but does not have access to, defense articles, including technical data, for the sole purpose of effecting onward movement to members of the Approved Community (
see
paragraph (k) of this section).
(2) Persons or entities exporting or transferring defense articles or defense services are exempt from the otherwise applicable licensing requirements if such persons or entities comply with the regulations set forth in this section. Except as provided in supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter, Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and postmasters shall permit the permanent and temporary export without a license from members of the United States Community to members of the United Kingdom Community (
see
paragraph (d) of this section regarding the identification of members of the United Kingdom Community) of defense articles and defense services not listed in supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter, for the end-uses specifically identified pursuant to paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. The purpose of this section is to specify the requirements to export, transfer, reexport, retransfer, or otherwise dispose of a defense article or defense service pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom. All persons must continue to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements outside of this subchapter concerning the import of defense articles and defense services or the possession or transfer of defense articles, including, but not limited to, regulations issued by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives found at 27 CFR parts 447, 478, and 479, which are unaffected by the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and continue to apply fully to defense articles and defense services subject to either of the aforementioned treaties and the exemptions contained in this section.
(3)
Export.
In order for an exporter to export a defense article or defense service pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom, all of the following conditions must be met:
(i) The exporter must be registered with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) and must be eligible, according to the requirements and prohibitions of the Arms Export Control
Act, this subchapter, and other provisions of United States law, to obtain an export license (or other forms of authorization to export) from any agency of the U.S. Government without restriction (
see
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for specific requirements);
(ii) The recipient of the export must be a member of the United Kingdom Community (
see
paragraph (d) of this section regarding the identification of members of the United Kingdom Community). United Kingdom non-governmental entities and facilities that become ineligible for such membership will be removed from the United Kingdom Community;
(iii) Intermediate consignees involved in the export must not be ineligible, according to the requirements and prohibitions of the Arms Export Control Act, this subchapter, and other provisions of United States law, to handle or receive a defense article or defense service without restriction (
see
paragraph (k) of this section for specific requirements);
(iv) The export must be for an end-use specified in the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and mutually agreed to by the U.S. Government and the Government of the United Kingdom pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and the Implementing Arrangement thereto (United Kingdom Implementing Arrangement) (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses);
(v) The defense article or defense service is not excluded from the scope of the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom (
see
paragraph (g) of this section and supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter for specific information on the scope of items excluded from export under this exemption) and is marked or identified, at a minimum, as “Restricted USML” (
see
paragraph (j) of this section for specific requirements on marking exports);
(vi) All required documentation of such export is maintained by the exporter and recipient and is available upon the request of the U.S. Government (
see
paragraph (l) of this section for specific requirements); and
(vii) The Department of State has provided advance notification to the Congress, as required, in accordance with this section (
see
paragraph (o) of this section for specific requirements).
(4)
Transfers.
In order for a member of the Approved Community (
i.e.,
the United States Community and United Kingdom Community) to transfer a defense article or defense service under the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty within the Approved Community, all of the following conditions must be met:
(i) The defense article or defense service must have been previously exported in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section or transitioned from a license or other approval in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section;
(ii) The transferor and transferee of the defense article or defense service are members of the United Kingdom Community (
see
paragraph (d) of this section regarding the identification of members of the United Kingdom Community) or the United States Community (
see
paragraph (b) of this section for information on the United States Community/approved exporters);
(iii) The transfer is required for an end-use specified in the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and mutually agreed to by the Government of the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom pursuant to the terms of the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom Implementing Arrangement (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses);
(iv) The defense article or defense service is not identified in paragraph (g) of this section and supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter as ineligible for export under this exemption, and is marked or otherwise identified, at a minimum, as “Restricted USML” (
see
paragraph (j) of this section for specific requirements on marking exports);
(v) All required documentation of such transfer is maintained by the
transferor and transferee and is available upon the request of the U.S. Government (
see
paragraph (l) of this section for specific requirements); and
(vi) The Department of State has provided advance notification to the Congress in accordance with this section (
see
paragraph (o) of this section for specific requirements).
(5) This section does not apply to the export of defense articles or defense services from the United States pursuant to the Foreign Military Sales program. Once such items are delivered to Her Majesty's Government, they may be treated as if they were exported pursuant to the Treaty and then must be marked, identified, transmitted, stored and handled in accordance with the Treaty, the United Kingdom Implementing Arrangement, and the provisions of this section.
(b)
United States Community.
The following persons compose the United States Community and may export or transfer defense articles and defense services pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom:
(1) Departments and agencies of the U.S. Government, including their personnel acting in their official capacity, with, as appropriate, a security clearance and a need-to-know; and
(2) Non-governmental U.S. persons registered with DDTC and eligible, according to the requirements and prohibitions of the Arms Export Control Act, this subchapter, and other provisions of United States law, to obtain an export license (or other form of authorization to export) from any agency of the U.S. Government without restriction, including their employees acting in their official capacity with, as appropriate, a security clearance and a need-to-know.
(c) An exporter that is otherwise an authorized exporter pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may not export or transfer pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom if the exporter's president, chief executive officer, any vice-president, any other senior officer or official (e.g., comptroller, treasurer, general counsel); any member of the board of directors of the exporter; any party to the export; or any source or manufacturer is ineligible to receive export licenses (or other forms of authorization to export) from any agency of the U.S. Government.
(d)
United Kingdom Community.
For purposes of the exemption provided by this section, the United Kingdom Community consists of:
(1) Her Majesty's Government entities and facilities identified as members of the Approved Community through the DDTC Web site at the time of a transaction under this section; and
(2) The non-governmental United Kingdom entities and facilities identified as members of the Approved Community through the DDTC Web site (
www.pmddtc.state.gov
) at the time of a transaction under this section; non-governmental United Kingdom entities and facilities that become ineligible for such membership will be removed from the United Kingdom Community.
(e)
Authorized End-uses.
The following end-uses, subject to paragraph (f) of this section, are specified in the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom:
(1) United States and United Kingdom combined military or counter-terrorism operations;
(2) United States and United Kingdom cooperative security and defense research, development, production, and support programs;
(3) Mutually determined specific security and defense projects where the Government of the United Kingdom is the end-user; or
(4) U.S. Government end-use.
(f) Procedures for identifying authorized end-uses pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section:
(1) Operations, programs, and projects that can be publicly identified will be posted on the DDTC Web site;
(2) Operations, programs, and projects that cannot be publicly identified will be confirmed in written correspondence from DDTC; or
(3) U.S. Government end-use will be identified specifically in a U.S. Government contract or solicitation as being eligible under the Treaty.
(4) No other operations, programs, projects, or end-uses qualify for this exemption.
(g)
Items eligible under this section.
With the exception of items listed in supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter, defense articles and defense services may be exported under this section subject to the following:
(1) An exporter authorized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section may market a defense article to members of the United Kingdom Community if that exporter has been licensed by DDTC to export (as defined by § 120.50 of this subchapter) the identical type of defense article to any foreign person and end-use of the article is for an end-use identified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) The export of any defense article specific to the existence of (e.g., reveals the existence of or details of) anti-tamper measures made at U.S. Government direction always requires prior written approval from DDTC.
(3) U.S.-origin classified defense articles or defense services may be exported only pursuant to a written request, directive, or contract from the U.S. Department of Defense that provides for the export of the classified defense article(s) or defense service(s).
(4) U.S.-origin defense articles specific to developmental systems that have not obtained written Milestone B approval from the U.S. Department of Defense milestone approval authority are not eligible for export unless such export is pursuant to a written solicitation or contract issued or awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense for an end-use identified pursuant to paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (4) of this section.
(5) Defense articles excluded by paragraph (g) of this section or supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter (e.g., USML Category XI (a)(3) electronically scanned array radar excluded by Note 2) that are embedded in a larger system that is eligible to ship under this section (e.g., a ship, an aircraft) must separately comply with any restrictions placed on that embedded defense article under this subchapter. The exporter must obtain a license or other authorization from DDTC for the export of such embedded defense articles (for example, USML Category XI (a)(3) electronically scanned array radar systems that are exempt from this section that are incorporated in an aircraft that is eligible to ship under this section continue to require separate authorization from DDTC for their export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer).
(6) No liability shall be incurred by or attributed to the U.S. Government in connection with any possible infringement of privately owned patent or proprietary rights, either domestic or foreign, by reason of an export conducted pursuant to this section.
(7) Sales by exporters made through the U.S. Government shall not include either charges for patent rights in which the U.S. Government holds a royalty-free license, or charges for information which the U.S. Government has a right to use and disclose to others, which is in the public domain, or which the U.S. Government has acquired or is entitled to acquire without restrictions upon its use and disclosure to others.
(8) Defense articles on the European Union Dual Use List (as described in Annex 1 to EC Council Regulation No. 428/2009) are not eligible for export under the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom. These articles have been identified and included in supplement no.1 to part 126.
(h)
Transfers, retransfers, and reexports.
(1) Any transfer of a defense article or defense service not exempted in supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter by a member of the United Kingdom Community (
see
paragraph (d) of this section for specific information on the identification of the Community) to another member of the United Kingdom Community or the United States Community for an end-use that is authorized by this exemption (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) is authorized under this exemption.
(2) Any transfer or other provision of a defense article or defense service for an end-use that is not authorized by the exemption provided by this section is prohibited without a license or the prior written approval of DDTC (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses).
(3) Any retransfer or reexport, or other provision of a defense article or defense service by a member of the
United Kingdom Community to a foreign person that is not a member of the United Kingdom Community, or to a U.S. person that is not a member of the United States Community, is prohibited without a license or the prior written approval of DDTC (
see
paragraph (d) of this section for specific information on the identification of the United Kingdom Community).
(4) Any change in the use of a defense article or defense service previously exported, transferred, or obtained under this exemption by any foreign person, including a member of the United Kingdom Community, to an end-use that is not authorized by this exemption is prohibited without a license or other written approval of DDTC (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses).
(5) Any retransfer, reexport, or change in end-use requiring such approval of the U.S. Government shall be made in accordance with § 123.9 of this subchapter.
(6) Defense articles excluded by paragraph (g) of this section or supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter (e.g., USML Category XI (a)(3) electronically scanned array radar systems) that are embedded in a larger system that is eligible to ship under this section (e.g., a ship, an aircraft) must separately comply with any restrictions placed on that embedded defense article unless otherwise specified. A license or other authorization must be obtained from DDTC for the export, transfer, reexport, retransfer, or change in end-use of any such embedded defense article (for example, USML Category XI(a)(3) electronically scanned array radar systems that are excluded from this section by supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter, Note 2 that are incorporated in an aircraft that is eligible to ship under this section continue to require separate authorization from DDTC for their export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer).
(7) A license or prior approval from DDTC is not required for a transfer, retransfer, or reexport of an exported defense article or defense service under this section, if:
(i) The transfer of defense articles or defense services is made by a member of the United States Community to United Kingdom Ministry of Defence (UK MOD) elements deployed outside the Territory of the United Kingdom and engaged in an authorized end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) using United Kingdom Armed Forces transmission channels or the provisions of this section;
(ii) The transfer of defense articles or defense services is made by a member of the United States Community to an Approved Community member (either United States or UK) that is operating in direct support of UK MOD elements deployed outside the Territory of the United Kingdom and engaged in an authorized end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) using United Kingdom Armed Forces transmission channels or the provisions of this section;
(iii) The reexport is made by a member of the United Kingdom Community to UK MOD elements deployed outside the Territory of the United Kingdom engaged in an authorized end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) using United Kingdom Armed Forces transmission channels or the provisions of this section;
(iv) The reexport is made by a member of the United Kingdom Community to an Approved Community member (either U.S. or UK) that is operating in direct support of UK MOD elements deployed outside the Territory of the United Kingdom engaged in an authorized end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) using United Kingdom Armed Forces transmission channels or the provisions of this section; or
(v) The defense article or defense service will be delivered to the UK MOD for an authorized end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses); the UK MOD may deploy the item as necessary when conducting official business within or outside the Territory of the United Kingdom. The item must remain under the effective control of the UK MOD while deployed and access may not be provided to unauthorized third parties.
(8) U.S. persons registered, or required to be registered, pursuant to part 122 of this subchapter and members of the United Kingdom Community must immediately notify DDTC of any actual or proposed sale, retransfer, or reexport of a defense article or defense service on the U.S. Munitions List originally exported under this exemption to any of the countries listed in § 126.1 of this subchapter or any person acting on behalf of such countries, whether within or outside the United States. Any person knowing or having reason to know of such a proposed or actual sale, reexport, or retransfer shall submit such information in writing to the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(i)
Transitions.
(1) Any previous export of a defense article under a license or other approval of the U.S. Department of State remains subject to the conditions and limitations of the original license or authorization unless DDTC has approved in writing a transition to this section.
(2) If a U.S. exporter desires to transition from an existing license or other approval to the use of the provisions of this section, the following is required:
(i) The U.S. exporter must submit a written request to DDTC, which identifies the defense articles or defense services to be transitioned, the existing license(s) or other authorizations under which the defense articles or defense services were originally exported, and the Treaty-eligible end-use for which the defense articles or defense services will be used. Any license(s) filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection should remain on file until the exporter has received approval from DDTC to retire the license(s) and transition to this section. When this approval is conveyed to U.S. Customs and Border Protection by DDTC, the license(s) will be returned to DDTC by U.S. Customs and Border Protection in accord with existing procedures for the return of expired licenses in § 123.22(c) of this subchapter.
(ii) Any license(s) not filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection must be returned to DDTC with a letter citing approval by DDTC to transition to this section as the reason for returning the license(s).
(3) If a member of the United Kingdom Community desires to transition defense articles received under an existing license or other approval to the processes established under the Treaty, the United Kingdom Community member must submit a written request to DDTC, either directly or through the original U.S. exporter, which identifies the defense articles or defense services to be transitioned, the existing license(s) or other authorizations under which the defense articles or defense services were received, and the Treaty-eligible end-use (
see
paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) for which the defense articles or defense services will be used. The defense article or defense service shall remain subject to the conditions and limitations of the existing license or other approval until the United Kingdom Community member has received approval from DDTC.
(4) Authorized exporters identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section who have exported a defense article or defense service that has subsequently been placed on the list of exempted items in supplement no. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter must review and adhere to the requirements in the relevant
Federal Register
notice announcing such removal. Once removed, the defense article or defense service will no longer be subject to this section, and such defense article or defense service previously exported shall remain on the U.S. Munitions List and be subject to the requirements of this subchapter unless the applicable
Federal Register
notice states otherwise. Subsequent reexport or retransfer must be made pursuant to § 123.9 of this subchapter.
(5) Any defense article or defense service transitioned from a license or other approval to treatment under this section must be marked in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section.
(j)
Marking of exports.
(1) All defense articles and defense services exported or transitioned pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and this section shall be marked or
identified prior to movement as follows:
(i) For classified defense articles and defense services the standard marking or identification shall read “//CLASSIFICATION LEVEL USML//REL USA and GBR Treaty Community//.” For example, for defense articles classified SECRET, the marking or identification shall be “//SECRET USML//REL USA and GBR Treaty Community//.”
(ii) Unclassified defense articles and defense services exported under or transitioned pursuant to this section shall be handled while in the UK as “Restricted USML” and the standard marking or identification shall read “//RESTRICTED USML//REL USA and GBR Treaty Community//.”
(2) Where U.S.-origin defense articles are returned to a member of the United States Community identified in paragraph (b) of this section, any defense articles marked or identified pursuant to paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section as “//RESTRICTED USML//REL USA and GBR Treaty Community//” will be considered unclassified and the marking or identification shall be removed; and
(3) The standard marking and identification requirements are as follows:
(i) Defense articles (other than technical data) shall be individually labeled with the appropriate identification detailed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section; or, where such labeling is impracticable (e.g., propellants, chemicals), shall be accompanied by documentation (such as contracts or invoices) clearly associating the defense articles with the appropriate markings as detailed in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (j)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii) Technical data (including data packages, technical papers, manuals, presentations, specifications, guides and reports), regardless of media or means of transmission (physical, oral, or electronic), shall be individually labeled with the appropriate identification detailed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section; or, where such labeling is impractical shall be accompanied by documentation (such as contracts or invoices) or verbal notification clearly associating the technical data with the appropriate markings as detailed in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (j)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(4) Defense services shall be accompanied by documentation (contracts, invoices, shipping bills, or bills of lading) clearly labeled with the appropriate identification detailed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section.
(5) The exporter shall incorporate the following statement as an integral part of the bill of lading and the invoice whenever defense articles are to be exported: “These U.S. Munitions List commodities are authorized by the U.S. Government under the U.S.-UK Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty for export only to United Kingdom for use in approved projects, programs or operations by members of the United Kingdom Community. They may not be retransferred or reexported or used outside of an approved project, program, or operation, either in their original form or after being incorporated into other end-items, without the prior written approval of the U.S. Department of State.”
(k)
Intermediate consignees.
(1) Unclassified exports under this section may only be handled by:
(i) U.S. intermediate consignees who are:
(A) Exporters registered with DDTC and eligible;
(B) Licensed customs brokers who are subject to background investigation and have passed a comprehensive examination administered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection; or
(C) Commercial air freight and surface shipment carriers, freight forwarders, or other parties not exempt from registration under § 129.3(b)(3) of this subchapter, that are identified at the time of export as being on the U.S. Department of Defense Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) list of approved air carriers, a link to which is available on the DDTC Web site; or
(ii) United Kingdom intermediate consignees who are:
(A) Members of the United Kingdom Community; or
(B) Freight forwarders, customs brokers, commercial air freight and surface shipment carriers, or other United Kingdom parties that are identified at the time of export as being on the list of Authorized United Kingdom Intermediate Consignees, which is available on the DDTC Web site.
(2) Classified exports must comply with the security requirements of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (DoD 5220.22-M and supplements or successors).
(l)
Records.
(1) All exporters authorized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section who export defense articles or defense services pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and this section shall maintain detailed records of their exports, imports, and transfers. Exporters shall also maintain detailed records of any reexports and retransfers approved or otherwise authorized by DDTC of defense articles or defense services subject to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and this section. These records shall be maintained for a minimum of five years from the date of export, import, transfer, reexport, or retransfer and shall be made available upon request to DDTC or a person designated by DDTC (e.g., U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Diplomatic Security) or U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Records in an electronic format must be maintained using a process or system capable of reproducing all records on paper. Such records when displayed on a viewer, monitor, or reproduced on paper, must exhibit a high degree of legibility and readability. (For the purpose of this section, “legible” and “legibility” mean the quality of a letter or numeral that enables the observer to identify it positively and quickly to the exclusion of all other letters or numerals. “Readable” and “readability” means the quality of a group of letters or numerals being recognized as complete words or numbers.) These records shall consist of the following:
(i) Port of entry/exit;
(ii) Date of export/import;
(iii) Method of export/import;
(iv) Commodity code and description of the commodity, including technical data;
(v) Value of export;
(vi) Reference to this section and justification for export under the Treaty;
(vii) End-user/end-use;
(viii) Identification of all U.S. and foreign parties to the transaction;
(ix) How the export was marked;
(x) Security classification of the export;
(xi) All written correspondence with the U.S. Government on the export;
(xii) All information relating to political contributions, fees, or commissions furnished or obtained, offered, solicited, or agreed upon as outlined in paragraph (m) of this section;
(xiii) Purchase order or contract;
(xiv) Technical data actually exported;
(xv) The Internal Transaction Number for the Electronic Export Information filing using U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s);
(xvi) All shipping documentation (including, but not limited to the airway bill, bill of lading, packing list, delivery verification, and invoice); and
(xvii) Statement of Registration (Form DS-2032).
(2)
Filing of export information.
All exporters of defense articles under the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and this section must electronically file Electronic Export Information (EEI) using U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s), citing one of the four below referenced codes in the appropriate field in the EEI for each shipment:
(i) For exports in support of United States and United Kingdom combined military or counter-terrorism operations identify § 126.17(e)(1) (the name or an appropriate description of the operation shall be placed in the appropriate field in the EEI, as well);
(ii) For exports in support of United States and United Kingdom cooperative security and defense research, development, production, and support programs identify § 126.17(e)(2) (the name or an appropriate description of the program shall be placed in the appropriate field in the EEI, as well);
(iii) For exports in support of mutually determined specific security and defense projects where the Government of the United Kingdom is the end-user identify § 126.17(e)(3) (the name or an appropriate description of the project shall be placed in the appropriate field in the EEI, as well); or
(iv) For exports that will have a U.S. Government end-use identify § 126.17(e)(4) (the U.S. Government contract number or solicitation number (e.g., “U.S. Government contract number XXXXX”) shall be placed in the appropriate field in the EEI, as well). Such exports must meet the required export documentation and filing guidelines, including for defense services, of § 123.22(a), (b)(1), and (b)(2) of this subchapter.
(m)
Fees and commissions.
All exporters authorized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall, with respect to each export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer, pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and this section, submit a statement to DDTC containing the information identified in § 130.10 of this subchapter relating to fees, commissions, and political contributions on contracts or other instruments valued in an amount of $500,000 or more.
(n)
Violations and enforcement.
(1) Exports, transfers, reexports, and retransfers that do not comply with the conditions prescribed in this section will constitute violations of the Arms Export Control Act and this subchapter, and are subject to all relevant criminal, civil, and administrative penalties (
see
§ 127.1 of this subchapter), and may also be subject to penalty under other statutes or regulations.
(2) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers may take appropriate action to ensure compliance with this section as to the export or the attempted export of any defense article or technical data, including the inspection of loading or unloading of any vessel, vehicle, or aircraft.
(3) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers have the authority to investigate, detain, or seize any export or attempted export of defense articles or technical data that does not comply with this section or that is otherwise unlawful.
(4) DDTC or a person designated by DDTC (e.g., U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Diplomatic Security), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or U.S. Customs and Border Protection may require the production of documents and information relating to any actual or attempted export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer pursuant to this section. Any foreign person refusing to provide such records within a reasonable period of time shall be suspended from the United Kingdom Community and ineligible to receive defense articles or defense services pursuant to the exemption under this section or otherwise.
(o)
Procedures for legislative notification.
(1) Exports pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and this section by any person identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall not take place until 30 days after DDTC has acknowledged receipt of a written notification from the exporter notifying the Department of State if the export involves one or more of the following:
(i) A contract or other instrument for the export of major defense equipment in the amount of $25,000,000 or more, or for defense articles and defense services in the amount of $100,000,000 or more;
(ii) A contract for the export of firearms controlled under Category I of the U.S. Munitions List of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations in an amount of $1,000,000 or more;
(iii) A contract, regardless of value, for the manufacturing abroad of any item of significant military equipment (see § 120.36 of this subchapter); or
(iv) An amended contract that meets the requirements of paragraphs (o)(1)(i) through (o)(1)(iii) of this section.
(2) The written notification required in paragraph (o)(1) of this section shall indicate the item/model number, general item description, U.S. Munitions List category, value, and quantity of items to be exported pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom and this section, and shall be accompanied by the following additional information:
(i) The information identified in §§ 130.10 and 130.11 of this subchapter;
(ii) A statement regarding whether any offset agreement is final to be entered into in connection with the export and a description of any such offset agreement;
(iii) A copy of the signed contract; and
(iv) If the notification is for paragraph (o)(1)(ii) of this section, a statement of what will happen to the weapons in their inventory (for example, whether the current inventory will be sold, reassigned to another service branch, destroyed, etc.).
(3) The Department of State will notify the Congress of exports that meet the requirements of paragraph (o)(1) of this section.
[77 FR 16601, Mar. 21, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 8085, Feb. 11, 2014; 79 FR 21616, Apr. 17, 2014; 81 FR 62008, Sept. 8, 2016; 82 FR 19, Jan. 3, 2017; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 126.18
Exemptions regarding intra-company, intra-organization, and intra-governmental transfers to employees who are dual nationals or third-country nationals.
(a) Subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, and where the exemption provided in paragraph (d) of this section cannot be implemented because of applicable domestic laws, no approval is needed from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) for the transfer of unclassified defense articles, which includes technical data, to or within a foreign business entity, foreign governmental entity, or international organization that is an authorized end-user or consignee (including approved sub-licensees) for those defense articles, including the transfer to dual nationals or third-country nationals who are bona fide regular employees, directly employed by the foreign consignee or end-user. The transfer of defense articles pursuant to this section must take place completely within the physical territory of the country where the end-user is located, where the governmental entity or international organization conducts official business, or where the consignee operates, and be within the scope of an approved export license, other export authorization, or license exemption.
(b) The provisions of § 127.1(b) of this subchapter are applicable to any transfer under this section. As a condition of transferring to foreign person employees described in paragraph (a) of this section any defense article under this provision, any foreign business entity, foreign governmental entity, or international organization, as a “foreign person” within the meaning of § 120.63 of this subchapter, that receives a defense article, must have effective procedures to prevent diversion to destinations, entities, or for purposes other than those authorized by the applicable export license or other authorization (e.g., written approval or exemption) in order to comply with the applicable provisions of the Arms Export Control Act and the ITAR.
(c) The end-user or consignee may satisfy the condition in paragraph (b) of this section, prior to transferring defense articles, by requiring:
(1) A security clearance approved by the host nation government for its employees, or
(2) The end-user or consignee to have in place a process to screen its employees and to have executed a Non-Disclosure Agreement that provides assurances that the employee will not transfer any defense articles to persons or entities unless specifically authorized by the consignee or end-user. The end-user or consignee must screen its employees for substantive contacts with restricted or prohibited countries listed in § 126.1. Substantive contacts include regular travel to such countries, recent or continuing contact with agents, brokers, and nationals of such countries, continued demonstrated allegiance to such countries, maintenance of business relationships with persons from such countries, maintenance of a residence in such countries, receiving salary or other continuing monetary compensation from such countries, or acts otherwise indicating a risk of diversion. Although nationality does not, in and of itself, prohibit access to defense articles, an employee who has substantive contacts with persons from countries listed in § 126.1(d)(1) shall be presumed to raise a
risk of diversion, unless DDTC determines otherwise. End-users and consignees must maintain a technology security/clearance plan that includes procedures for screening employees for such substantive contacts and maintain records of such screening for five years. The technology security/clearance plan and screening records shall be made available to DDTC or its agents for civil and criminal law enforcement purposes upon request.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no approval is needed from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) for the reexport of unclassified defense articles or defense services to individuals who are dual national or third-country national employees of a foreign business entity, foreign governmental entity, or international organization, that is an authorized end-user, foreign signatory, or consignee (including approved sub-licensees) for those defense articles or defense services, when such individuals are:
(1) Regular employees of the foreign business entity, foreign governmental entity, or international organization;
(2) Nationals exclusively of countries that are members of NATO, the European Union, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, or Switzerland;
(3) Within the physical territories of the countries listed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section or the United States during the reexport;
(4) Signatory to a Non-Disclosure Agreement, unless their employer is a signatory or sublicensee to an agreement under § 124.1 authorizing those defense articles or defense services; and
(5) Not the recipient of any permanent transfer of hardware.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no license is required for the retransfer or reexport of classified defense articles to citizens of Australia or the United Kingdom, provided such individuals:
(1) Are dual nationals of another country;
(2) Are authorized users or regular employees of an authorized user of the exemption in § 126.7;
(3) Hold a security clearance approved by Australia, the United Kingdom, or the United States that is equivalent to the classification level of SECRET or above in the United States; and
(4) Are either:
(i) Within the physical territory of Australia, the United Kingdom, or the United States; or
(ii) A member of the armed forces of Australia, the United Kingdom, or the United States acting in their official capacity.
[76 FR 28177, May 16, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 35617, June 3, 2016; 81 FR 62008, Sept. 8, 2016; 81 FR 66807, Sept. 29, 2016; 87 FR 16425, Mar. 23, 2022; 89 FR 67291, Aug. 20, 2024]
Pt. 126, Supp. No. 1

# Supplement No. 1 to Part 126
[Supplement No. 1*—*An “X” in the chart indicates that the item is excluded from use under the exemption referenced in the top of the column. An item excluded in any one row is excluded regardless of whether other rows may contain a description that would include the item.]
USML Category
Exclusion
(CA)
§ 126.5
(AS)
§ 126.16
(UK)
§ 126.17
I-XXI
Classified defense articles and services.
See
Note 1
X
X
X
I-XXI
Defense articles listed in the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) Annex
X
X
X
I-XXI
U.S. origin defense articles and services used for marketing purposes and not previously licensed for export in accordance with this subchapter
X
X
I-XXI
Defense services for or technical data related to defense articles identified in this supplement as excluded from the Canadian exemption
X
I-XXI
Any transaction involving the export of defense articles and services for which congressional notification is required in accordance with §§ 123.15 and 124.11 of this subchapter.
See
Note 17
X
I-XXI
U.S. origin defense articles and services specific to developmental systems that have not obtained written Milestone B approval from the U.S. Department of Defense milestone approval authority, unless such export is pursuant to a written solicitation or contract issued or awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense for an end-use identified in paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(4) of § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter and is consistent with other exclusions of this supplement
X
X
I-XXI
Nuclear weapons strategic delivery systems and all components, parts, accessories, and attachments specifically designed for such systems and associated equipment
X
I-XXI
Defense articles and services specific to the existence or method of compliance with anti-tamper measures, where such measures are readily identifiable, made at originating Government direction
X
X
I-XXI
Defense articles and services specific to reduced observables or counter low observables in any part of the spectrum.
See
Note 2
X
X
I-XXI
Defense articles and services specific to sensor fusion beyond that required for display or identification correlation.
See
Note 3
X
X
I-XXI
Defense articles and services specific to the automatic target acquisition or recognition and cueing of multiple autonomous unmanned systems
X
X
I-XXI
Nuclear power generating equipment or propulsion equipment (e.g., nuclear reactors), specifically designed for military use and components therefor, specifically designed for military use.
See
also § 123.20 of this subchapter
X
I-XXI
Libraries (parametric technical databases) specially designed for military use with equipment controlled on the USML.
See
Note 13
X
I-XXI
Defense services or technical data specific to applied research as defined in § 120.43(i) of this subchapter, design methodology as defined in § 120.43(c) of this subchapter, engineering analysis as defined in § 120.43(d) of this subchapter, or manufacturing know-how as defined in § 120.43(e) of this subchapter.
See
Note 12
X
I-XXI
Defense services other than those required to prepare a quote or bid proposal in response to a written request from a department or agency of the United States Federal Government or from a Canadian Federal, Provincial, or Territorial Government; or defense services other than those required to produce, design, assemble, maintain or service a defense article for use by a registered U.S. company, or a U.S. Federal Government Program, or for end-use in a Canadian Federal, Provincial, or Territorial Government Program.
See
Note 14
X
I
Firearms, close assault weapons, and combat shotguns
X
II(k)
Software source code related to USML Category II(c), II(d), or II(i).
See
Note 4
X
X
II(k)
Manufacturing know-how related to USML Category II(d).
See
Note 5
X
X
X
III
Ammunition for firearms, close assault weapons, and combat shotguns listed in USML Category I
X
III
Defense articles and services specific to ammunition and fuse setting devices for guns and armament controlled in USML Category II
X
III(e)
Manufacturing know-how related to USML Category III(d)(1) or III(d)(2) and their specially designed components.
See
Note 5
X
X
X
III(e)
Software source code related to USML Category III(d)(1) or III(d)(2).
See
Note 4
X
X
IV
Defense articles and services specific to man-portable air defense systems (MANPADS).
See
Note 6
X
X
X
IV
Defense articles and services specific to rockets, designed or modified for non-military applications that do not have a range of 300 km (
i.e.,
not controlled on the MTCR Annex)
X
IV
Defense articles and services specific to the warhead or the sonar, guidance, and control section of torpedoes
X
X
IV
Defense articles and services specific to anti-personnel landmines.
See
Note 15
X
X
X
IV
Defense articles and services specific to cluster munitions
X
X
X
IV(i)
Software source code directly related to defense articles described in USML Category IV(a), (b), (c), or (g).
See
Note 4
X
X
IV(i)
Manufacturing know-how directly related to defense articles described in USML Category IV(a), (b), (d), (g), or (h).
See
Note 5
X
X
X
V
The following energetic materials and related substances:
X
a. TATB (triaminotrinitrobenzene) (CAS 3058-38-6);
b. Explosives controlled in USML Category V(a)(38);
c. Iron powder (CAS 7439-89-6) with particle size of 3 micrometers or less produced by reduction of iron oxide with hydrogen;
d. BOBBA-8 (bis(2-methylaziridinyl)2-(2-hydroxypropanoxy) propylamino phosphine oxide), and other MAPO derivatives;
e. N-methyl-p-nitroaniline (CAS 100-15-2); or
f. Trinitrophenylmethylnitramine (tetryl) (CAS 479-45-8)
V(a)(13)
ANF or ANAzF as described in USML Category V(a)(13)(iii) and (iv)
X
V(a)(23)
Difluoraminated derivative of RDX as described in USML Category V(a)(23)(iii)
X
V(c)(7)
Pyrotechnics and pyrophorics specifically formulated for military purposes to enhance or control radiated energy in any part of the IR spectrum
X
V(d)(3)
Bis-2, 2-dinitropropylnitrate (BDNPN)
X
V(i)
Developmental explosives, propellants, pyrotechnics, fuels, oxidizers, binders, additives, or precursors therefor, funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization in accordance with notes 1 to 3 for USML Category V(i). This exclusion does not apply if such export is pursuant to a written solicitation or contract issued or awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense for an end-use identified in paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(4) of § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter and is consistent with other exclusions of this supplement
X
X
VI
Defense articles and services specific to cryogenic equipment, and specially designed components or accessories therefor, specially designed or configured to be installed in a vehicle for military ground, marine, airborne or space applications, capable of operating while in motion and of producing or maintaining temperatures below 103 K (−170 °C)
X
VI
Defense articles and services specific to superconductive electrical equipment (rotating machinery and transformers) specially designed or configured to be installed in a vehicle for military ground, marine, airborne, or space applications and capable of operating while in motion. This, however, does not include direct current hybrid homopolar generators which have single-pole normal metal armatures that rotate in a magnetic field produced by superconducting windings, provided those windings are the only superconducting component in the generator
X
VI
Defense articles and services specific to naval technology and systems relating to acoustic spectrum control and awareness.
See
Note 10
X
X
VI(a)
Nuclear powered vessels.
X
X
X
VI(e)
Defense articles and services specific to naval nuclear propulsion equipment.
See
Note 7
X
X
X
VI(g)
Software source code related to USML Category VI(a) or VI(c).
See
Note 4
X
X
VII
Defense articles and services specific to cryogenic equipment, and specially designed components or accessories therefor, specially designed or configured to be installed in a vehicle for military ground, marine, airborne or space applications, capable of operating while in motion and of producing or maintaining temperatures below 103 K (−170 °C)
X
VII
Defense articles and services specific to superconductive electrical equipment (rotating machinery and transformers) specially designed or configured to be installed in a vehicle for military ground, marine, airborne, or space applications and capable of operating while in motion. This, however, does not include direct current hybrid homopolar generators which have single-pole normal metal armatures that rotate in a magnetic field produced by superconducting windings, provided those windings are the only superconducting component in the generator
X
VIII
Defense articles and services specific to cryogenic equipment, and specially designed components and accessories therefor, specially designed or configured to be installed in a vehicle for military ground, marine, airborne or space applications, capable of operating while in motion and of producing or maintaining temperatures below 103 K (−170 °C)
X
VIII
Defense articles and services specific to superconductive electrical equipment (rotating machinery and transformers) specially designed or configured to be installed in a vehicle for military ground, marine, airborne, or space applications and capable of operating while in motion. This, however, does not include direct current hybrid homopolar generators which have single-pole normal metal armatures that rotate in a magnetic field produced by superconducting windings, provided those windings are the only superconducting component in the generator
X
VIII(a)
All USML Category VIII(a) items.
X
VIII(f)
Developmental aircraft parts, components, accessories, and attachments identified in USML Category VIII(f)
X
VIII(i)
Manufacturing know-how related to USML Category VIII(a) or VIII(e), and specially designed parts or components therefor.
See
Note 5
X
X
X
VIII(i)
Software source code related to USML Category VIII(a) or VIII(e).
See
Note 4
X
X
IX
Training or simulation equipment for Man Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS).
See
Note 6
X
X
IX(e)
Software source code related to USML Category IX(a) or IX(b).
See
Note 4
X
X
IX(e)
Software that is both specifically designed or modified for military use and specifically designed or modified for modeling or simulating military operational scenarios
X
X(e)
Manufacturing know-how related to USML Category X(a)(1) or X(a)(2), and specially designed components therefor.
See
Note 5
X
X
X
XI(a), (c), (d)
Defense articles and services specific to countermeasures and counter- countermeasures, other than Underwater Acoustic Decoy Countermeasures (ADC) Mk2 Mods 1 through 7.
See
Note 9
X
X
XI(a)
High Frequency and Phased Array Microwave Radar systems, with capabilities such as search, acquisition, tracking, moving target indication, and imaging radar systems.
See
Note 16
X
XI(a), (c), and (d)
Defense articles and services specific to naval technology and systems relating to acoustic spectrum control and awareness.
See
Note 10
X
X
XI(a), (c), and (d)
Defense articles and services specific to USML Category XI(b) (e.g., communications security (COMSEC) and TEMPEST)
X
X
XI(d)
Software source code related to USML Category XI(a).
See
Note 4
X
X
XI(d)
Manufacturing know-how related to USML Category XI(a)(3) or XI(a)(4), and specially designed components therefor.
See
Note 5
X
X
X
XII
Defense articles and services specific to countermeasures and counter- countermeasures, other than Underwater Acoustic Decoy Countermeasures (ADC) Mk 2 Mods 1 through 7.
See
Note 9
X
X
XII
Defense articles and services specific to USML Category XII(c) articles, except:
—2nd-generation image intensification tubes,
—2nd-generation image intensification night sighting equipment, and
—end-items in paragraph (c) and components in paragraphs (e)(4) through (7) of USML Category XII, and the following technical data directly related thereto:
—technical data limited to basic operations, maintenance, and training information as authorized under the exemption in § 125.4(b)(5) of this subchapter for export directly to a Canadian Government entity (
i.e.,
federal, provincial, territorial, or municipal) consistent with § 126.5, other exclusions, and the provisions of this subchapter
X
XII(f)
Technical data and defense services directly related to night vision commodities beyond basic operations, maintenance, and training information, unless pursuant to a written solicitation or contract issued or awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense for an end-use identified in paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (4) of § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter
X
X
X
XII(f)
Manufacturing know-how directly related to any of the following:
—defense articles described in USML Category XII(d), and
—specially designed parts and components therefor.
See
Note 5
X
X
X
XII(f)
Software source code directly related to defense articles described in USML Category XII(a), (b), (c), or (d).
See
Note 4
X
X
XIII(b)
Defense articles and services specific to USML Category XIII(b) (Military Information Security Assurance Systems, cryptographic devices, software, and components)
X
X
XIII(d)
Carbon/carbon billets and preforms which are reinforced in three or more dimensional planes, specifically designed, developed, modified, configured or adapted for defense articles
X
XIII(e)
Defense articles and services specific to armored plate manufactured to comply with a military standard or specification or suitable for military use.
See
Note 11
X
XIII(g)
Defense articles and services related to concealment and deception equipment and materials
X
XIII(h)
Energy conversion devices other than fuel cells
X
XIII(j)
Defense articles and services related to hardware associated with the measurement or modification of system signatures for detection of defense articles as described in Note 2
X
X
XIII(l)
Software source code related to USML Category XIII(a).
See
Note 4
X
X
XIV
Defense articles and services related to toxicological agents, including chemical agents, biological agents, and associated equipment
X
X
XIV(a), XIV(b), XIV(d), XIV(e), XIV(f)
Chemical agents listed in USML Category XIV(a), (d) and (e), biological agents and biologically derived substances in USML Category XIV(b), and equipment listed in USML Category XIV(f) for dissemination of the chemical agents and biological agents listed in USML Category XIV(a), (b), (d), and (e)
X
XV(a)
Defense articles and services specific to spacecraft/satellites. However, the Canadian exemption may be used for commercial communications satellites that have no other type of payload
X
X
X
XV(b)
Defense articles and services specific to ground control stations for spacecraft telemetry, tracking, and control. Defense articles and services are not excluded under this entry if they do not control the spacecraft. Receivers for receiving satellite transmissions are also not excluded under this entry
X
X
XV(c)
Defense articles and services specific to GPS/PPS security modules
X
X
XV(c)
Defense articles controlled in USML Category XV(c) except end-items for end-use by the Federal Government of Canada exported directly or indirectly through a Canadian-registered person
X
XV(e)
Anti-jam systems with the ability to respond to incoming interference by adaptively reducing antenna gain (nulling) in the direction of the interference
X
XV(e)(1)
Antennas having any of the following:
X
a. Aperture (overall dimension of the radiating portions of the antenna) greater than 30 feet;
b. All sidelobes less than or equal to −35 dB relative to the peak of the main beam; or
c. Designed, modified, or configured to provide coverage area on the surface of the earth less than 200 nautical miles in diameter, where “coverage area” is defined as that area on the surface of the earth that is illuminated by the main beam width of the antenna (which is the angular distance between half power points of the beam)
XV(e)(12)
Propulsion systems which permit acceleration of the satellite on-orbit (
i.e.,
after mission orbit injection) at rates greater than 0.1 g
X
XV(e)(10)
Attitude determination and control systems designed to provide spacecraft pointing determination and control or payload pointing system control better than 0.02 degrees per axis
X
XV(e)
All parts, components, accessories, attachments, equipment, or systems for USML Category XV(a) items, except when specially designed for use in commercial communications satellites
X
XV(e)
Defense articles and services specific to spacecraft, ground control station systems (only for spacecraft control as controlled in USML Category XV(b)), subsystems, components, parts, accessories, attachments, and associated equipment controlled in Category XV
X
X
XV(f)
Technical data and defense services directly related to the other defense articles excluded from the exemptions for USML Category XV
X
X
X
XVI
Defense articles and services specific to design and testing of nuclear weapons
X
X
X
XVII
Classified articles, and technical data and defense services relating thereto, not elsewhere enumerated.
See
Note 1
X
X
X
XVIII
Defense articles and services specific to directed energy weapon systems
X
X
XIX(e), XIX(f)(1), XIX(f)(2), XIX(g)
Defense articles and services specific to gas turbine engine hot section components and to Full Authority Digital Engine Control Systems (FADEC) or Digital Electronic Engine Controls (DEEC).
See
Note 8
X
X
XIX(g)
Technical data and defense services for gas turbine engine hot sections. (This does not include hardware).
See
Note 8
X
X
X
XX
Defense articles and services related to submersible vessels, oceanographic, and associated equipment
X
X
X
XX
Defense articles and services specific to naval technology and systems relating to acoustic spectrum control and awareness.
See
Note 10
X
X
XX
Defense articles specific to cryogenic equipment, and specially designed components or accessories therefor, specially designed or configured to be installed in a vehicle for military ground, marine, airborne or space applications, capable of operating while in motion and of producing or maintaining temperatures below 103 K (−170 °C)
X
XX
Defense articles specific to superconductive electrical equipment (rotating machinery and transformers) specially designed or configured to be installed in a vehicle for military ground, marine, airborne, or space applications and capable of operating while in motion. This, however, does not include direct current hybrid homopolar generators that have single-pole normal metal armatures which rotate in a magnetic field produced by superconducting windings, provided those windings are the only superconducting component in the generator
X
XX(a)
Nuclear powered vessels.
X
X
X
XX(b)
Defense articles and services specific to naval nuclear propulsion equipment.
See
Note 7
X
X
X
XX(c)
Defense articles and services specific to submarine combat control systems other than mounting racks and cabinets
X
X
XX(d)
Software source code related to USML Category XX(a).
See
Note 4
X
X
XXI
Articles, and technical data and defense services relating thereto, not otherwise enumerated on the USML, but placed in this category by the Director, Office of Defense Trade Controls Policy
X
X
X
Note 1:
Classified defense articles and services are not eligible for export under the Canadian exemptions. U.S. origin articles, technical data, and services controlled in USML Category XVII are not eligible for export under the UK Treaty exemption. U.S. origin classified defense articles and services are not eligible for export under either the UK or AS Treaty exemptions except when being released pursuant to a U.S. Department of Defense written request, directive, or contract that provides for the export of the defense article or service.
Note 2:
The phrase “any part of the spectrum” includes radio frequency (RF), infrared (IR), electro-optical, visual, ultraviolet (UV), acoustic, and magnetic. Defense articles related to reduced observables or counter reduced observables are defined as:
(a) Signature reduction (radio frequency (RF), infrared (IR), Electro-Optical, visual, ultraviolet (UV), acoustic, magnetic, RF emissions) of defense platforms, including systems, subsystems, components, materials (including dual-purpose materials used for Electromagnetic Interference (EM) reduction), technologies, and signature prediction, test and measurement equipment and software, and material transmissivity/reflectivity prediction codes and optimization software.
(b) Electronically scanned array radar, high power radars, radar processing algorithms, periscope-mounted radar systems (PATRIOT), LADAR, multistatic and IR focal plane array-based sensors, to include systems, subsystems, components, materials, and technologies.
Note 3:
Defense articles and services related to sensor fusion beyond that required for display or identification correlation is defined as techniques designed to automatically combine information from two or more sensors/sources for the purpose of target identification, tracking, designation, or passing of data in support of surveillance or weapons engagement. Sensor fusion involves sensors such as acoustic, infrared, electro optical, frequency, etc. Display or identification correlation refers to the combination of target detections from multiple sources for assignment of common target track designation.
Note 4:
Software source code beyond that source code required for basic operation, maintenance, and training for programs, systems, and/or subsystems is not eligible for use of the UK or AS Treaty exemptions, unless such export is pursuant to a written solicitation or contract issued or awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense for an end-use identified in paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(4) of § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter and is consistent with other exclusions of this supplement.
Note 5:
Manufacturing know-how, as defined in § 120.43(g) of this subchapter, is not eligible for use of the UK or AS Treaty exemptions, unless such export is pursuant to a written solicitation or contract issued or awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense for an end-use identified in paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (4) of § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter and is consistent with other exclusions of this supplement.
Note 6:
Defense articles and services specific to Man Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS) includes missiles that can be used without modification in other applications. It also includes production and test equipment and components specifically designed or modified for MANPAD systems, as well as training equipment specifically designed or modified for MANPAD systems.
Note 7:
Naval nuclear propulsion plants includes all of USML Category VI(e). Naval nuclear propulsion information consists of technical data that concern the design, arrangement, development, manufacture, testing, operation, administration, training, maintenance, and repair of the propulsion plants of naval nuclear-powered ships and prototypes, including the associated shipboard and shore-based nuclear support facilities. Examples of defense articles covered by this exclusion include nuclear propulsion plants and nuclear submarine technologies or systems; nuclear powered vessels (
see
USML Categories VI and XX).
Note 8:
A complete gas turbine engine with embedded hot section components or digital engine controls is eligible for export or transfer under the Treaties. Technical data, other than those data required for routine external maintenance and operation, related to the hot section is not eligible for export under the Canadian exemption. Technical data, other than those data required for routine external maintenance and operation, related to the hot section or digital engine controls, as well as individual hot section parts or components are not eligible for the Treaty exemption whether shipped separately or accompanying a complete engine. Gas turbine engine hot section exempted defense article components and technology are combustion chambers and liners; high pressure turbine blades, vanes, disks and related cooled structure; cooled low pressure turbine blades, vanes, disks and related cooled structure; cooled augmenters; and cooled nozzles. Examples of gas turbine engine hot section developmental technologies are Integrated High Performance Turbine Engine Technology (IHPTET), Versatile, Affordable Advanced Turbine Engine (VAATE), and Ultra-Efficient Engine Technology (UEET), which are also excluded from export under the exemptions.
Note 9:
Examples of countermeasures and counter-countermeasures related to defense articles not exportable under the AS or UK treaty exemptions are:
(a) IR countermeasures;
(b) Classified techniques and capabilities;
(c) Exports for precision radio frequency (RF) location that directly or indirectly supports fire control and is used for situation awareness, target identification, target acquisition, and weapons targeting and radio direction finding capabilities. Precision RF location is defined as root mean square (RMS) angle of arrival accuracy of less than five degrees (5° RMS) and RF emitter location of less than ten percent (10%) range error;
(d) Providing the capability to reprogram; and
(e) Acoustics (including underwater), active and passive countermeasures, and counter-countermeasures other than the Underwater Acoustic Decoy Countermeasures (ADC) Mk 2 Mods 1 through 7.
Note 10:
Examples of defense articles covered by this exclusion include underwater acoustic vector sensors; acoustic reduction; off-board, underwater, active and passive sensing, propeller/propulsor technologies; fixed mobile/floating/powered detection systems which include in-buoy signal processing for target detection and classification; autonomous underwater vehicles capable of long endurance in ocean environments (manned submarines excluded); automated control algorithms embedded in on-board autonomous platforms which enable (a) group behaviors for target detection and classification, (b) adaptation to the environment or tactical situation for enhancing target detection and classification; “intelligent autonomy” algorithms that define the status, group (greater than 2) behaviors, and responses to detection stimuli by autonomous, underwater vehicles; and low frequency, broad band “acoustic color,” active acoustic “fingerprint” sensing for the purpose of long range, single pass identification of ocean bottom objects, buried or otherwise (controlled under Category USML XI(a)(1), (a)(2), (b), (c), and (d)).
Note 11:
This exclusion does not apply to the platforms (e.g., vehicles) for which the armored plates are applied. For exclusions related to the platforms, refer to the other exclusions in this list, particularly for the category in which the platform is controlled.
The excluded defense articles include constructions of metallic or non-metallic materials or combinations thereof specially designed to provide protection for military systems. The phrase “suitable for military use” applies to any articles or materials which have been tested to level IIIA or above IAW NIJ standard 0108.01 or comparable national standard. This exclusion does not include military helmets, body armor, or other protective garments which may be exported IAW the terms of the AS or UK Treaty.
Note 12:
Defense services or technical data specific to applied research (§ 120.43(i) of this subchapter), design methodology (§ 120.43(c) of this subchapter), engineering analysis (§ 120.43(d) of this subchapter), or manufacturing know-how (§ 120.43(e) of this subchapter) are not eligible for export under the Canadian exemptions. However, this exclusion does not include defense services or technical data specific to build-to-print as defined in § 120.43(f) of this subchapter, build/design-to-specification as defined in § 120.43(g) of this subchapter, or basic research as defined in § 120.43(h) of this subchapter, or maintenance (
i.e.,
inspection, testing, calibration or repair, including overhaul, reconditioning and one-to-one replacement of any defective items parts or components, but excluding any modification, enhancement, upgrade or other form of alteration or improvement that changes the basic performance of the item) of non-excluded defense articles which may be exported subject to other exclusions or terms of the Canadian exemptions.
Note 13:
The term “libraries” (parametric technical databases) means a collection of technical information of a military nature, reference to which may enhance the performance of military equipment or systems.
Note 14:
In order to utilize the authorized defense services under the Canadian exemption, the following must be complied with:
(a) The Canadian contractor and subcontractor must certify, in writing, to the U.S. exporter that the technical data and defense services being exported will be used only for an activity identified in Supplement No. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter and in accordance with § 126.5 of this subchapter; and
(b) A written arrangement between the U.S. exporter and the Canadian recipient must:
(1) Limit delivery of the defense articles being produced directly to an identified manufacturer in the United States registered in accordance with part 122 of this subchapter; a department or agency of the United States Federal Government; a Canadian-registered person authorized in writing to manufacture defense articles by and for the Government of Canada; a Canadian Federal, Provincial, or Territorial Government;
(2) Prohibit the disclosure of the technical data to any other contractor or subcontractor who is not a Canadian-registered person;
(3) Provide that any subcontract contain all the limitations of § 126.5 of this subchapter;
(4) Require that the Canadian contractor, including subcontractors, destroy or return to the U.S. exporter in the United States all of the technical data exported pursuant to the contract or purchase order upon fulfillment of the contract, unless for use by a Canadian or United States Government entity that requires in writing the technical data be maintained. The U.S. exporter must be provided written certification that the technical data is being retained or destroyed; and
(5) Include a clause requiring that all documentation created from U.S. origin technical data contain the statement that, “This document contains technical data, the use of which is restricted by the U.S. Arms Export Control Act. This data has been provided in accordance with, and is subject to, the limitations specified in § 126.5 of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). By accepting this data, the consignee agrees to honor the requirements of the ITAR.”
(c) The U.S. exporter must provide the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls a semi-annual report regarding all of their on-going activities authorized under § 126.5 of this subchapter. The report shall include the article(s) being produced; the end-user(s); the end-item into which the product is to be incorporated; the intended end-use of the product; and the names and addresses of all the Canadian contractors and subcontractors.
Note 15:
This exclusion does not apply to demining equipment in support of the clearance of landmines and unexploded ordnance for humanitarian purposes.
As used in this exclusion, “anti-personnel landmine” means any mine placed under, on, or near the ground or other surface area, or delivered by artillery, rocket, mortar, or similar means or dropped from an aircraft and which is designed to be detonated or exploded by the presence, proximity, or contact of a person; any device or material which is designed, constructed, or adapted to kill or injure and which functions unexpectedly when a person disturbs or approaches an apparently harmless object or performs an apparently safe act; any manually-emplaced munition or device designed to kill, injure, or damage and which is actuated by remote control or automatically after a lapse of time.
Note 16:
The radar systems described are controlled in USML Category XI(a)(3)(i) through (v). As used in this entry, the term “systems” includes equipment, devices, software, assemblies, modules, components, practices, processes, methods, approaches, schema, frameworks, and models.
Note 17:
This exclusion does not apply to the export of defense articles previously notified to Congress pursuant to § 123.15 or § 124.11 of this subchapter. For use of the Australian and UK exemptions for congressional notification, see §§ 126.16(o) and 126.17(o).
[79 FR 77885, Dec. 29, 2014; as amended at 87 FR 16425, Mar. 23, 2022; 88 FR 21911, Apr. 12, 2023]
Pt. 126, Supp. No. 2

# Supplement No. 2 to Part 126—Excluded Technology List
This supplement lists the defense articles and defense services excluded from the scope of the exemption provided at § 126.7. The United States Munitions List (USML), see 22
CFR 121.1, entries in column 1 represent the location of the excluded defense articles and defense services within the USML and does not indicate the entire USML entry in column 1 is excluded; only the portions of those entries that are further described in column 2 are excluded.
USML entry
Exclusion
I through XV, and XX
Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) articles, as annotated on the USML by an “MT” designation, except for articles described in USML Category VIII(h)(12); and directly related technical data and defense services.
I through XX
Articles having anti-tamper features developed in accordance with a U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) Program Protection Plan, not already installed in the commodity they are intended to protect; and directly related technical data and defense services.
II(k), III(e), IV(i), X(e), and XIX(g)
Manufacturing know-how (see § 120.43(e) of this subchapter) directly related to:
—articles described in USML Categories II(d), III(d)(1) or (2), IV(a), (b), (d), (g), or (h), X(a)(1) or (2), or XIX; or
—parts, components, accessories, or attachments that are only used in those articles.
II(j)(9) through (11), and (k)
Articles described in USML Category II(j)(9) through (11) that are not an element of an armament, weapon, or military platform; and directly related technical data and defense services.
III(a)(9) and (e); IV(a)(5) and (6), (b)(2), (c), (g), (h), and (i); VI(f)(6) and (g); VIII(h)(6) and (i); XI(c) and (d); XII(a), (d), (e), and (f); and XX(c) and (d)
Cluster munitions and articles specially designed for cluster munitions; and directly related technical data and defense services.
IV(a)(3), (9), (10), and (11), (b)(2), (h)(5), and (i)
Articles described in USML Category IV(a)(3), (9), (10), or (11), or (h)(5); launcher mechanisms for MANPADS; and directly related technical data and defense services.
V(a)(13)(iii) and (iv), (a)(23)(iii), (d)(3), (i), and (j)
Articles described in USML Category V(a)(13)(iii) or (iv), (a)(23)(iii), or (d)(3); articles, other than propellants, described in USML Category V(i); and directly related technical data and defense services.
VI(e), (f)(5), and (g); and XX(b)(1), (c), and (d)
Articles described in USML Category VI(e) or (f)(5), or XX(b)(1); articles specially designed for articles described in USML Category XX(b)(1); and directly related technical data and defense services.
VIII(a)(2), (h)(1), and (i)
The F-22 aircraft and articles specially designed for the F-22, other than those also used in aircraft other than the F-22; and directly related technical data and defense services.
X(a)(7)(ii), (d)(2) and (3), and (e)
Articles described in USML Category X(a)(7)(ii); articles specially designed therefor; and directly related technical data and defense services.
XI(a)(1)(i) and (ii), and (d)
Articles described in USML Category XI(a)(1)(i) or (ii); and directly related technical data and defense services.
XI(a)(2),(c)(1) through (3), and (d)
Classified articles described in USML Category XI(a)(2), other than underwater acoustic decoy countermeasures; classified articles specially designed therefor; and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
XI(a)(3)(xviii),(c)(1) through (3), and (d)
Classified articles described in USML Category XI(a)(3)(xviii); classified articles specially designed therefor; and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
XI(a)(4)(i),(c)(1) through (3), and (d)
Classified articles described in USML Category XI(a)(4)(i); classified articles specially designed therefor; and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
XI(a)(4)(iii),(c)(1) through (3), and (d)
Classified countermeasure and counter-countermeasure equipment described in USML Category XI(a)(4)(iii); classified articles specially designed therefor; and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
XI(a)(5)(iii),(c)(1) through (3) and (18), and (d)
Classified articles described in USML Category XI(a)(5)(iii); classified articles specially designed therefor; and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
XI(b) and (d)
Classified articles described in USML Category XI(b); and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
XI(c) and (d)
(1) Articles described in USML Category XI(c) or (d) specially designed for articles described in USML Category XI(a)(1)(i) or (ii); and directly related technical data and defense services.
(2) Classified articles described in USML Category XI(c) or (d) that implement countermeasures or counter-countermeasures for defense articles described in USML Category XI(a); and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
(3) Classified articles described in USML Category XI(c) specially designed for articles described in USML Category XIII(b); and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
XIII(b) and (l)
Classified articles described in USML Category XIII(b); and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
XIII(d)(2) and (l)
Articles described in USML Category XIII(d)(2); and directly related technical data and defense services.
XIV(a), (b), (c)(5), (f)(1), (i), and (m)
Articles described in USML Category XIV(a), (b), (c)(5), (f)(1), or (i); and directly related technical data and defense services.
XV(a), (e), and (f)
Classified articles described in USML Category XV(a) or (e); and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
XVI
Articles described in USML Category XVI; and directly related technical data and defense services.
XVIII
Classified articles described in USML Category XVIII specially designed for counter-space operations; and classified, directly related technical data and defense services.
XIX(e), (f)(1), (2), (7), and (12), and (g)
(1) Classified articles described in USML Category XIX(e), (f)(1), or (f)(2), not already integrated into a complete engine; and directly related technical data and defense services.
(2) Classified articles described in USML Category XIX(f)(7) or (12) for excluded articles described in USML Category XIX(f)(1) or (2); and directly related technical data and defense services.
XX(b)(2), (c), and (d)
Articles described in USML Category XX(b)(2); articles specially designed therefor; and directly related technical data and defense services.
XX(d)
Design methodology, engineering analysis, and manufacturing know-how (see § 120.43 of this subchapter) directly related to:
—crewed vessels described in USML Category XX(a); or
—articles described in USML Category XX(b) or (c) that are used only in:
○ crewed vessels,
○ classified payloads, or
○ classified Uncrewed Underwater Vehicle (UUV) signature reduction techniques.
XXI
Commodities, software, technical data, and defense services, unless specifically designated as eligible for the exemption provided at § 126.7 in State's written Category XXI determination.
[89 FR 67291, Aug. 20, 2024]
Pt. 127

# PART 127—VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
Sec.
127.1
Violations.
127.2
Misrepresentation and omission of facts.
127.3
Penalties for violations.
127.4
Authority of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers.
127.5
Authority of the Defense Security Service.
126.6
Seizure and forfeiture in attempts at illegal exports.
127.7
Debarment.
127.8
[Reserved]
127.9
Applicability of orders.
127.10
Civil penalty.
127.11
Past violations.
127.12
Voluntary disclosures.

# Authority:
Sections 2, 38, and 42, Pub. L. 90-629, 90 Stat. 744 (22 U.S.C. 2752, 2778, 2791); 22 U.S.C. 401; 22 U.S.C. 2651a; 22 U.S.C. 2779a; 22 U.S.C. 2780; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129; Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 584.

# Source:
58 FR 39316, July 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 127.1
Violations.
(a) Without first obtaining the required license or other written approval from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, it is unlawful:
(1) To export or attempt to export from the United States any defense article or technical data or to furnish or attempt to furnish any defense service for which a license or written approval is required by this subchapter;
(2) To reexport or retransfer or attempt to reexport or retransfer any defense article, technical data, or defense service from one foreign end-user, end-use, or destination to another foreign end-user, end-use, or destination for which a license or written approval is required by this subchapter, including, as specified in §§ 126.16(h) and 126.17(h) of this subchapter, any defense article, technical data, or defense service that was exported from the United States without a license pursuant to any exemption under this subchapter;
(3) To import or attempt to import any defense article whenever a license is required by this subchapter;
(4) To conspire to export, import, reexport, retransfer, furnish or cause to be exported, imported, reexported, retransferred or furnished, any defense article, technical data, or defense service for which a license or written approval is required by this subchapter; or
(5) To possess or attempt to possess any defense article with intent to export or transfer such defense article in violation of 22 U.S.C. 2778 and 2779, or any regulation, license, approval, or order issued thereunder.
(b) It is unlawful:
(1) To violate any of the terms or conditions of a license or approval granted pursuant to this subchapter, any exemption contained in this subchapter, or any rule or regulation contained in this subchapter;
(2) To engage in the business of brokering activities for which registration and a license or written approval is required by this subchapter without first registering or obtaining the required license or written approval from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. For the purposes of this subchapter, engaging in the business of brokering activities requires only one occasion of engaging in an activity as reflected in § 129.2(b) of this subchapter.
(3) To engage in the United States in the business of either manufacturing or exporting defense articles or furnishing defense services without complying with the registration requirements. For the purposes of this subchapter, engaging in the business of manufacturing or exporting defense articles or furnishing defense services requires only one occasion of manufacturing or exporting a defense article or furnishing a defense service.
(c) Any person who is granted a license or other approval or acts pursuant to an exemption under this subchapter is responsible for the acts of employees, agents, brokers, and all authorized persons to whom possession of the defense article, which includes technical data, has been entrusted regarding the operation, use, possession, transportation, and handling of such defense article abroad. All persons abroad subject to U.S. jurisdiction who obtain custody of a defense article exported from the United States or produced under an agreement described in part 124 of this subchapter, and regardless of the number of intermediate transfers, are bound by the regulations of this subchapter in the same manner and to the same extent as the original owner or transferor.
(d) A person who is ineligible pursuant to § 120.16(c) of this subchapter, or a person with knowledge that another person is ineligible pursuant to § 120.16(c) of this subchapter, may not, directly or indirectly, in any manner or capacity, without prior disclosure of the facts to and written authorization from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls:
(1) Apply for, obtain, or use any export control document as defined in § 127.2(b) for such ineligible person; or
(2) Order, buy, receive, use, sell, deliver, store, dispose of, forward, transport, finance, or otherwise service or participate in any manner in any transaction subject to this subchapter that may involve any defense article, which includes technical data, defense services, or brokering activities, where such ineligible person may obtain any benefit therefrom or have any direct or indirect interest therein.
(e) No person may knowingly or willfully attempt, solicit, cause, or aid, abet, counsel, demand, induce, procure, or permit the commission of any act prohibited by, or the omission of any act required by 22 U.S.C. 2778, 22 U.S.C. 2779, or any regulation, license, approval, or order issued thereunder.
[77 FR 16641, Mar. 21, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 52688, Aug. 26, 2013; 79 FR 8088, Feb. 11, 2014; 87 FR 16425, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 127.2
Misrepresentation and omission of facts.
(a) It is unlawful to use or attempt to use any export or temporary import control document containing a false statement or misrepresenting or omitting a material fact for the purpose of exporting, transferring, reexporting, retransferring, obtaining, or furnishing any defense article, technical data, or defense service. Any false statement, misrepresentation, or omission of material fact in an export or temporary import control document will be considered as made in a matter within the jurisdiction of a department or agency of the United States for the purposes of 18 U.S.C. 1001, 22 U.S.C. 2778, and 22 U.S.C. 2779.
(b) For the purpose of this subchapter,
export or temporary import control documents
include the following:
(1) An application for a permanent export, reexport, retransfer, or a temporary import license and supporting documents.
(2) Electronic Export Information filing.
(3) Invoice.
(4) Declaration of destination.
(5) Delivery verification.
(6) Application for temporary export.
(7) Application for registration.
(8) Purchase order.
(9) Foreign import certificate.
(10) Bill-of-lading.
(11) Airway bill.
(12) Nontransfer and use certificate.
(13) Any other document used in the regulation or control of a defense article, defense service, or brokering activity regulated by this subchapter.
(14) Any other shipping document that has information related to the export of the defense article or defense service.
[58 FR 39316, July 22, 1993, as amended at 77 FR 16642, Mar. 21, 2012; 78 FR 52689, Aug. 26, 2013]
§ 127.3
Penalties for violations.
Any person who willfully:
(a) Violates any provision of § 38 or § 39 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778 and 2779) or any rule or regulation issued under either § 38 or § 39 of the Act, or any undertaking specifically required by part 124 of this subchapter; or
(b) In a registration, license application, or report required by § 38 or § 39 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778 and 2779) or by any rule or regulation issued under either section, makes any untrue statement of a material fact or omits a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, shall upon conviction be subject to a fine or imprisonment, or both, as prescribed by 22 U.S.C. 2778(c).
[77 FR 16642, Mar. 21, 2012]
§ 127.4
Authority of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers.
(a) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers may take appropriate action to ensure observance of this subchapter as to the export or the attempted export or the temporary import of any defense article or technical data, including the inspection of loading or unloading of any vessel, vehicle, or aircraft. This applies whether the export is authorized by license or by written approval issued under this subchapter or by exemption.
(b) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers have the authority to investigate, detain or seize any export or attempted export of defense articles or technical data contrary to this subchapter.
(c) Upon the presentation to a U.S. Customs and Border Protection Officer of a license or written approval, or claim of an exemption, authorizing the export of any defense article, the customs officer may require the production of other relevant documents and information relating to the final export. This includes an invoice, order, packing list, shipping document, correspondence, instructions, and the documents otherwise required by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection or U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
(d) If an exemption under this subchapter is used or claimed to export, transfer, reexport or retransfer, furnish, or obtain a defense article, technical data, or defense service, law enforcement officers may rely upon the authorities noted, additional authority identified in the language of the exemption, and any other lawful means or authorities to investigate such a matter.
[70 FR 50965, Aug. 29, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 16642, Mar. 21, 2012]
§ 127.5
Authority of the Defense Security Service.
In the case of exports involving classified technical data or defense articles, the Defense Security Service may take appropriate action to ensure compliance with the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (unless such requirements are in direct conflict with guidance provided by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, in which case the latter guidance must be
followed). Upon a request to the Defense Security Service regarding the export of any classified defense article or technical data, the Defense Security Service official or a designated government transmittal authority may require the production of other relevant documents and information relating to the proposed export.
[71 FR 20549, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 127.6
Seizure and forfeiture in attempts at illegal exports.
(a) An attempt to export from the United States any defense articles in violation of the provisions of this subchapter constitutes an offense punishable under section 401 of title 22 of the United States Code. Whenever it is known or there is probable cause to believe that any defense article is intended to be or is being or has been exported or removed from the United States in violation of law, such article and any vessel, vehicle or aircraft involved in such attempt is subject to seizure, forfeiture and disposition as provided in section 401 of title 22 of the United States Code.
(b) Similarly, an attempt to violate any of the conditions under which a temporary export or temporary import license was issued pursuant to this subchapter or to violate the requirements of § 123.2 of this subchapter also constitutes an offense punishable under section 401 of title 22 of the United States Code, and such article, together with any vessel, vehicle or aircraft involved in any such attempt is subject to seizure, forfeiture, and disposition as provided in section 401 of title 22 of the United States Code.
§ 127.7
Debarment.
(a)
Administrative debarment.
In implementing section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs may debar and thereby prohibit any person from participating directly or indirectly in any activities that are subject to this subchapter for any of the reasons listed below. Any such prohibition is referred to as an administrative debarment for purposes of this subchapter. The Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs shall determine the appropriate period of time for administrative debarment, which generally shall be for a period of three years. Reinstatement is not automatic, however, and in all cases the debarred persons must submit a request for reinstatement and be approved for reinstatement before engaging in any activities subject to this subchapter. (
See
part 128 of this subchapter for administrative procedures.)
(b)
Statutory debarment.
It is the policy of the Department of State not to consider applications for licenses or requests for approvals involving any person who has been convicted of violating the Arms Export Control Act or convicted of conspiracy to violate that Act for a three year period following conviction and to prohibit that person from participating directly or indirectly in any activities that are subject to this subchapter. Such individuals shall be notified in writing that they are statutorily debarred pursuant to this policy. A list of persons who have been convicted of such offenses and debarred for this reason shall be published periodically in the
Federal Register.
Statutory debarment in such cases is based solely upon the outcome of a criminal proceeding, conducted by a court of the United States, which established guilt beyond a reasonable doubt in accordance with due process. Reinstatement is not automatic, and in all cases the debarred person must submit a request for reinstatement to the Department of State and be approved for reinstatement before engaging in any activities subject to this subchapter. The procedures of part 128 of this subchapter are not applicable in such cases.
(c)
Grounds.
(1) The basis for statutory debarment, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, is any conviction for violating the Arms Export Control Act (
see
§ 127.3) or any conspiracy to violate the Arms Export Control Act.
(2) The basis for administrative debarment, as described in paragraph (a) of this section and in part 128 of this subchapter, is any violation of 22 U.S.C. 2778 or any rule or regulation issued thereunder when such a violation is of such a character as to provide a reasonable basis for the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls to believe
that the violator cannot be relied upon to comply with the statute or these rules or regulations in the future, and when such violation is established in accordance with part 128 of this subchapter.
(d)
Appeals.
Any person who is ineligible pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may appeal to the Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security for reconsideration of the ineligibility determination. The procedures specified in § 128.13 of this subchapter will be used in submitting a reconsideration appeal.
[78 FR 52689, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 87430, Dec. 5, 2016]
§ 127.8
[Reserved]
§ 127.9
Applicability of orders.
For the purpose of preventing evasion, orders of the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs debarring a person under § 127.7 may be made applicable to any other person who may then or thereafter (during the term of the order) be related to the debarred person by affiliation, ownership, control, position of responsibility, or other commercial connection. Appropriate notice and opportunity to respond to the basis for the suspension will be given.
[78 FR 52689, Aug. 26, 2013]
§ 127.10
Civil penalty.
(a)(1) The Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs is authorized to impose a civil penalty, as follows:
(i) For each violation of 22 U.S.C. 2778, an amount not to exceed the greater of $1,271,078 or the amount that is twice the value of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed;
(ii) For each violation of 22 U.S.C. 2779a, an amount not to exceed $1,055.721, or five times the amount of the prohibited incentive payment, whichever is greater; and
(iii) For each violation of 22 U.S.C. 2780, an amount not to exceed $1,256,607.
(2) The civil penalty may be either in addition to, or in lieu of, any other liability or penalty which may be imposed.
(b) The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may make:
(1) The payment of a civil penalty under this section or
(2) The completion of any administrative action pursuant to this part 127 or 128 of this subchapter a prior condition for the issuance, restoration, or continuing validity of any export license or other approval.
[58 FR 39316, July 22, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 67276, Dec. 24, 1997; 71 FR 20550, Apr. 21, 2006; 77 FR 16642, Mar. 21, 2012; 81 FR 36793, June 8, 2016; 82 FR 3170, Jan. 11, 2017; 83 FR 237, Jan. 3, 2018; 83 FR 2738, Jan. 19, 2018; 84 FR 9959, Mar. 19, 2019; 85 FR 2022, Jan. 14, 2020; 86 FR 7807, Feb. 2, 2021; 87 FR 1074, Jan. 10, 2022; 88 FR 1507, Jan. 11, 2023; 89 FR 702, Jan. 5, 2024; 90 FR 1868, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 127.11
Past violations.
(a)
Presumption of denial.
Pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, licenses or other approvals may not be granted to persons who have been convicted of violating any of the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6 of this subchapter or who are ineligible to receive any export licenses from any agency of the U.S. Government, subject to a narrowly defined statutory exception. This provision establishes a presumption of denial for licenses or other approvals involving such persons. This presumption is applied by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls to all persons convicted or deemed ineligible in this manner since the effective date of the Arms Export Control Act (Public Law 94-329; 90 Stat. 729) (June 30, 1976).
(b)
Policy.
An exception to the policy of the Department of State to deny applications for licenses or other approvals that involve persons described in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be considered unless there are extraordinary circumstances surrounding the conviction or ineligibility to export, and only if the applicant demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs, that the applicant has taken appropriate steps to mitigate any law enforcement and other legitimate concerns, and to deal with the causes that resulted in the conviction, ineligibility, or debarment. Any person
described in paragraph (a) of this section who wishes to request consideration of any application must explain, in a letter to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls the reasons why the application should be considered. If the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs concludes that the application and written explanation have sufficient merit, the Assistant Secretary shall consult with the Office of the Legal Adviser and the Department of the Treasury regarding law enforcement concerns, and may also request the views of other departments, including the Department of Justice. If the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls does grant the license or other approval, subsequent applications from the same person need not repeat the information previously provided but should instead refer to the favorable decision.
(c)
Debarred persons.
Persons debarred pursuant to § 127.7(b) (statutory debarment) may not utilize the procedures provided by paragraph (b) of this section while the statutory debarment is in force. Such persons may utilize only the procedures provided by § 127.7(d).
[71 FR 20550, Apr. 21, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 8088, Feb. 11, 2014; 81 FR 87430, Dec. 5, 2016; 87 FR 16425, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 127.12
Voluntary disclosures.
(a)
General policy.
The Department strongly encourages the disclosure of information to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls by persons that believe they may have violated any export control provision of the Arms Export Control Act, or any regulation, order, license, or other authorization issued under the authority of the Arms Export Control Act. The Department may consider a voluntary disclosure as a mitigating factor in determining the administrative penalties, if any, that should be imposed. Failure to report a violation may result in circumstances detrimental to U.S. national security and foreign policy interests, and will be an adverse factor in determining the appropriate disposition of such violations.
(b)
Limitations.
(1) The provisions of this section apply only when information is provided to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for its review in determining whether to take administrative action under part 128 of this subchapter concerning a violation of the export control provisions of the Arms Export Control Act and these regulations.
(2) The provisions of this section apply only when information is received by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for review prior to such time that either the Department of State or any other agency, bureau, or department of the United States Government obtains knowledge of either the same or substantially similar information from another source and commences an investigation or inquiry that involves that information, and that is intended to determine whether the Arms Export Control Act or these regulations, or any other license, order, or other authorization issued under the Arms Export Control Act has been violated.
(3) The violation(s) in question, despite the voluntary nature of the disclosure, may merit penalties, administrative actions, sanctions, or referrals to the Department of Justice to consider criminal prosecution. In the latter case, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will notify the Department of Justice of the voluntary nature of the disclosure, although the Department of Justice is not required to give that fact any weight. The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls has the sole discretion to consider whether “voluntary disclosure,” in context with other relevant information in a particular case, should be a mitigating factor in determining what, if any, administrative action will be imposed. Some of the mitigating factors the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may consider are:
(i) Whether the transaction would have been authorized, and under what conditions, had a proper license request been made;
(ii) Why the violation occurred;
(iii) The degree of cooperation with the ensuing investigation;
(iv) Whether the person has instituted or improved an internal compliance program to reduce the likelihood of future violation;
(v) Whether the person making the disclosure did so with the full knowledge and authorization of the person's senior management. (If not, then the Directorate will not deem the disclosure voluntary as covered in this section.)
(4) The provisions of this section do not, nor should they be relied on to, create, confer, or grant any rights, benefits, privileges, or protection enforceable at law or in equity by any person in any civil, criminal, administrative, or other matter.
(5) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to negate or lessen the affirmative duty pursuant to §§ 126.1(e), 126.16(h)(5), and 126.17(h)(5) of this subchapter upon persons to inform the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls of the actual or final sale, export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer of a defense article, technical data, or defense service to any country referred to in § 126.1 of this subchapter, any citizen of such country, or any person acting on its behalf.
(c)
Notification.
(1) Any person wanting to disclose information that constitutes a voluntary disclosure should, in the manner outlined below, initially notify the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls immediately after a violation is discovered and then conduct a thorough review of all defense trade transactions where a violation is suspected.
(i) If the notification does not contain all the information required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a full disclosure must be submitted within 60 calendar days of the notification, or the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will not deem the notification to qualify as a voluntary disclosure.
(ii) If the person is unable to provide a full disclosure within the 60 calendar day deadline, an empowered official (see § 120.67 of this subchapter) or a senior officer may request an extension of time in writing. A request for an extension must specify what information required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section could not be immediately provided and the reasons why.
(iii) Before approving an extension of time to provide the full disclosure, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may require the requester to certify in writing that they will provide the full disclosure within a specific time period.
(iv) Failure to provide a full disclosure within a reasonable time may result in a decision by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls not to consider the notification as a mitigating factor in determining the appropriate disposition of the violation. In addition, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may direct the requester to furnish all relevant information surrounding the violation.
(2) Notification of a violation must be in writing and should include the following information:
(i) A precise description of the nature and extent of the violation (e.g., an unauthorized shipment, doing business with a party denied U.S. export privileges, etc.);
(ii) The exact circumstances surrounding the violation (a thorough explanation of why, when, where, and how the violation occurred);
(iii) The complete identities and addresses of all persons known or suspected to be involved in the activities giving rise to the violation (including mailing, shipping, and e-mail addresses; telephone and fax/facsimile numbers; and any other known identifying information);
(iv) Department of State license numbers, exemption citation, or description of any other authorization, if applicable;
(v) U.S. Munitions List category and subcategory, product description, quantity, and characteristics or technological capability of the hardware, technical data or defense service involved;
(vi) A description of corrective actions already undertaken that clearly identifies the new compliance initiatives implemented to address the causes of the violations set forth in the voluntary disclosure and any internal disciplinary action taken; and how these corrective actions are designed to deter those particular violations from occurring again;
(vii) The name and address of the person making the disclosure and a point of contact, if different, should further information be needed.
(3) Factors to be addressed in the voluntary disclosure include, for example,
whether the violation was intentional or inadvertent; the degree to which the person responsible for the violation was familiar with the laws and regulations, and whether the person was the subject of prior administrative or criminal action under the AECA; whether the violations are systemic; and the details of compliance measures, processes and programs, including training, that were in place to prevent such violations, if any. In addition to immediately providing written notification, persons are strongly urged to conduct a thorough review of all export-related transactions where a possible violation is suspected.
(d)
Documentation.
The written disclosure should be accompanied by copies of substantiating documents. Where appropriate, the documentation should include, but not be limited to:
(1) Licensing documents (e.g., license applications, export licenses, and end-user statements), exemption citation, or other authorization description, if any;
(2) Shipping documents (e.g., Electronic Export Information filing, including the Internal Transaction Number, air waybills, and bills of laden, invoices, and any other associated documents); and
(3) Any other relevant documents must be retained by the person making the disclosure until the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls requests them or until a final decision on the disclosed information has been made.
(e)
Certification.
A certification must be submitted stating that all of the representations made in connection with the voluntary disclosure are true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief. Certifications should be executed by an empowered official (see § 120.67 of this subchapter), or by a senior officer (e.g. chief executive officer, president, vice-president, comptroller, treasurer, general counsel, or member of the board of directors). If the violation is a major violation, reveals a systemic pattern of violations, or reflects the absence of an effective compliance program, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may require that such certification be made by a senior officer of the company.
(f)
Oral presentations.
Oral presentation is generally not necessary to augment the written presentation. However, if the person making the disclosure believes a meeting is desirable, a request should be included with the written presentation.
(g) Send voluntary disclosures to the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Consult the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls Web site at
http://www.pmddtc.state.gov
for the appropriate street address.
[58 FR 39316, July 22, 1993, as amended at 70 FR 34655, June 15, 2005; 71 FR 20550, Apr. 21, 2006; 72 FR 70778, Dec. 13, 2007; 77 FR 16642, Mar. 21, 2012; 87 FR 16425, Mar. 23, 2022]
Pt. 128

# PART 128—ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
Sec.
128.1
Exclusion of functions from the Administrative Procedure Act.
128.2
Administrative Law Judge.
128.3
Institution of Administrative Proceedings.
128.4
Default.
128.5
Answer and demand for oral hearing.
128.6
Discovery.
128.7
Prehearing conference.
128.8
Hearings.
128.9
Proceedings before and report of Administrative Law Judge.
128.10
Disposition of proceedings.
128.11
Consent agreements.
128.12
Rehearings.
128.13
Appeals.
128.14
Confidentiality of proceedings.
128.15
Orders containing probationary periods.
128.16
Extension of time.
128.17
Availability of orders.

# Authority:
Sections. 2, 38, 40, 42, and 71, Arms Export Control Act. 90 Stat. 744 (22 U.S.C. 2752, 2778, 2780, 2791, and 2797); 22 U.S.C. 2651a; E.O. 12291, 46 FR 1981; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129.

# Source:
58 FR 39320, July 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 128.1
Exclusion of functions from the Administrative Procedure Act.
The Arms Export Control Act (AECA) authorizes the President to control the import and export of defense articles and services in furtherance of world peace and the security and foreign policy of the United States. Pursuant to delegated authorities, the
Secretary of State is authorized to make decisions on whether license applications or other written requests for approval shall be granted, or whether exemptions may be used. The Secretary of State is also authorized to revoke, suspend, or amend licenses or other written approvals whenever such action is deemed to be advisable. The administration of the AECA is a foreign affairs function encompassed within the meaning of the military and foreign affairs exclusion of the Administrative Procedure Act and is thereby expressly exempt from various provisions of that Act. Because the exercising of the foreign affairs function, including the decisions required to implement the AECA, is highly discretionary, it is excluded from review under the Administrative Procedure Act.
[87 FR 16425, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 128.2
Administrative Law Judge.
The Administrative Law Judge referred to in this part is an Administrative Law Judge appointed by the Department of State. The Administrative Law Judge is authorized to exercise the powers and perform the duties provided for in §§ 128.3 through 128.16.
[87 FR 16425, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 128.3
Institution of Administrative Proceedings.
(a)
Charging letters.
The Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls or the Director, Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, with the concurrence of the Office of the Legal Adviser, Department of State, may initiate proceedings to impose debarment or civil penalties in accordance with § 127.7 or § 127.10 of this subchapter, respectively. Administrative proceedings shall be initiated by means of a charging letter. The charging letter will state the essential facts constituting the alleged violation and refer to the regulatory or other provision involved. It will give notice to the respondent to answer the charges within 30 days, as provided in § 128.5(a), and indicate that a failure to answer will be taken as an admission of the truth of the charges. It will inform the respondent that he or she is entitled to an oral hearing if a written demand for one is filed with the answer or within seven days after service of the answer. The respondent will also be informed that he or she may, if so desired, be represented by counsel of his or her choosing. Charging letters may be amended from time to time, upon reasonable notice.
(b)
Service.
A charging letter is served upon a respondent:
(1) If the respondent is a resident of the United States, when it is mailed postage prepaid in a wrapper addressed to the respondent at that person's last known address; or when left with the respondent or the agent or employee of the respondent; or when left at the respondent's dwelling with some person of suitable age and discretion then residing herein; or
(2) If the respondent is a non-resident of the United States, when served upon the respondent by any of the foregoing means. If such methods of service are not practicable or appropriate, the charging letter may be tendered for service on the respondent to an official of the government of the country wherein the respondent resides, provided that there is an agreement or understanding between the United States Government and the government of the country wherein the respondent resident permitting this action.
[61 FR 48831, Sept. 17, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 20551, Apr. 21, 2006; 78 FR 52689, Aug. 26, 2013]
§ 128.4
Default.
(a)
Failure to answer.
If the respondent fails to answer the charging letter, the respondent may be held in default. The case shall then be referred to the Administrative Law Judge for consideration in a manner as the Administrative Law Judge may consider appropriate. Any order issued shall have the same effect as an order issued following the disposition of contested charges.
(b)
Petition to set aside defaults.
Upon showing good cause, any respondent against whom a default order has been issued may apply to set aside the default and vacate the order entered thereon. The petition shall be submitted to duplicate to the Assistant
Secretary for Political-Military Affairs, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20520. The Director will refer the petition to the Administrative Law Judge for consideration and a recommendation. The Administrative law Judge will consider the application and may order a hearing and require the respondent to submit further evidence in support of his or her petition. The filing of a petition to set aside a default does not in any manner affect an order entered upon default and such order continues in full force and effect unless a further order is made modifying or terminating it.
[61 FR 48832, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 128.5
Answer and demand for oral hearing.
(a)
When to answer.
The respondent is required to answer the charging letter within 30 days after service.
(b)
Contents of answer.
An answer must be responsive to the charging letter. It must fully set forth the nature of the respondent's defense or defenses. In the answer, the respondent must admit or deny specifically each separate allegation of the charging letter, unless the respondent is without knowledge, in which case the respondent's answer shall so state and the statement shall operate as denial. Failure to deny or controvert any particular allegation will be deemed an admission thereof. The answer may set forth such additional or new matter as the respondent believes support a defense or claim of mitigation. Any defense or partial defense not specifically set forth in an answer shall be deemed waived. Evidence offered thereon by the respondent at a hearing may be refused except upon good cause being shown. If the respondent does not demand an oral hearing, he or she shall transmit, within seven (7) days after the service of his or her answer, original or photocopies of all correspondence, papers, records, affidavits, and other documentary or written evidence having any bearing upon or connection with the matters in issue. If any such materials are in language other than English, translations into English shall be submitted at the same time.
(c)
Submission of answer.
The answer, written demand for oral hearing (if any) and supporting evidence required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be in duplicate and mailed or delivered to the designated Administrative Law Judge. A copy shall be simultaneously mailed to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, SA-1, Room 1200, Department of State, Washington, DC 20522-0112, or delivered to 2401 Street NW., Washington, DC addressed to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, SA-1, Room 1200, Department of State, Washington, DC 20037.
[58 FR 39320, July 22, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 48832, Sept. 17, 1996; 71 FR 20551, Apr. 21, 2006; 79 FR 8089, Feb. 11, 2014]
§ 128.6
Discovery.
(a)
Discovery by the respondent.
The respondent, through the Administrative Law Judge, may request from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls any relevant information, not privileged or otherwise not authorized for release, that may be necessary or helpful in preparing a defense. The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may provide any relevant information, not privileged or otherwise not authorized for release, that may be necessary or helpful in preparing a defense. The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may supply summaries in place of original documents and may withhold information from discovery if the interests of national security or foreign policy so require, or if necessary to comply with any statute, executive order or regulation requiring that the information not be disclosed. The respondent may request the Administrative Law Judge to request any relevant information, books, records, or other evidence, from any other person or government agency so long as the request is reasonable in scope and not unduly burdensome.
(b)
Discovery by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls or the Administrative Law Judge may make reasonable requests from the respondent of admissions of facts, answers to interrogatories, the production of books, records, or other relevant evidence, so long as the request is relevant and material.
(c)
Subpoenas.
At the request of any party, the Administrative Law Judge may issue subpoenas, returnable before him, requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of books, records, and other documentary or physical evidence determined by he Administrative Law Judge to be relevant and material to the proceedings, reasonable in scope, and not unduly burdensome.
(d)
Enforcement of discovery rights.
If the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls fails to provide the respondent with information in its possession which is not otherwise available and which is necessary to the respondent's defense, the Administrative Law Judge may dismiss the charges on her or his own motion or on a motion of the respondent. If the respondent fails to respond with reasonable diligence to the requests for discovery by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls or the Administrative Law Judge, on her or his own motion or motion of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, and upon such notice to the respondent as the Administrative Law Judge may direct, may strike respondent's answer and declare the respondent in default, or make any other ruling which the Administrative Law Judge deems necessary and just under the circumstances. If a third party fails to respond to the request for information, the Administrative Law Judge shall consider whether the evidence sought is necessary to a fair hearing, and if it is so necessary that a fair hearing may not be held without it, the Administrative Law Judge shall determine whether substitute information is adequate to protect the rights of the respondent. If the Administrative Law Judge decides that a fair hearing may be held with the substitute information, then the proceedings may continue. If not, then the Administrative Law Judge may dismiss the charges.
[61 FR 48832, Sept. 17, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 20551, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 128.7
Prehearing conference.
(a)(1) The Administrative Law Judge may, upon his own motion or upon motion of any party, request the parties or their counsel to a prehearing conference to consider:
(i) Simplification of issues;
(ii) The necessity or desirability of amendments to pleadings;
(iii) Obtaining stipulations of fact and of documents to avoid unnecessary proof; or
(iv) Such other matter as may expedite the disposition of the proceeding.
(2) The Administrative Law Judge will prepare a summary of the action agreed upon or taken at the conference, and will incorporate therein any written stipulations or agreements made by the parties.
(3) The conference proceedings may be recorded magnetically or taken by a reporter and transcribed, and filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
(b) If a conference is impracticable , the Administrative Law Judge may request the parties to correspond with the person to achieve the purposes of a conference. The Administrative Law Judge shall prepare a summary of action taken as in the case of a conference.
[61 FR 48832, Sept. 17, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 20551, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 128.8
Hearings.
(a) A respondent who had not filed a timely written answer is not entitled to a hearing, and the case may be considered by the Administrative Law Judge as provided in § 128.4(a). If any answer is filed, but no oral hearing demanded, the Administrative Law Judge may proceed to consider the case upon the written pleadings and evidence available. The Administrative Law Judge may provide for the making of the record in such manner as the Administrative Law Judge deems appropriate. If respondent answers and demands an oral hearing, the Administrative Law Judge, upon due notice, shall set the case for hearing, unless a respondent has raised in his answer no issues of material fact to be determined. If respondent fails to appear at a scheduled hearing, the hearing nevertheless may proceed in respondent's absence. The respondent's failure to appear will not affect the validity of the hearing or any proceedings or action thereafter.
(b) The Administrative Law Judge may administer oaths and affirmations. Respondent may be represented
by counsel. Unless otherwise agreed by the parties and the Administrative Law Judge the proceeding will be taken by a reporter or by magnetic recording, transcribed, and filed with the Administrative Law Judge. Respondent may examine the transcript and may obtain a copy upon payment of proper costs.
[61 FR 48833, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 128.9
Proceedings before and report of Administrative Law Judge.
(a) The Administrative Law Judge may conform any part of the proceedings before him or her to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The record may be made available in any other administrative or other proceeding involving the same respondent.
(b) The Administrative Law Judge, after considering the record, will prepare a written report. The report will include findings of fact, findings of law, a finding whether a law or regulation has been violated, and the Administrative Law Judge's recommendations. It shall be transmitted to the Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs, Department of State.
[61 FR 48833, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 128.10
Disposition of proceedings.
Where the evidence is not sufficient to support the charges, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls or the Administrative Law Judge will dismiss the charges. Where the Administrative Law Judge finds that a violation has been committed, the Administrative Law Judge's recommendation shall be advisory only. The Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs will review the record, consider the report of the Administrative Law Judge, and make an appropriate disposition of the case. The Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls may issue an order debarring the respondent from participating in the export of defense articles or technical data or the furnishing of defense services as provided in § 127.7 of this subchapter, impose a civil penalty as provided in § 127.10 of this subchapter, or take such action as the Administrative Law Judge may recommend. Any debarment order will be effective for the period of time specified therein and may contain such additional terms and conditions as are deemed appropriate. A copy of the order together with a copy of the Administrative Law Judge's report will be served upon the respondent.
[79 FR 8089, Feb. 11, 2014]
§ 128.11
Consent agreements.
(a) The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the respondent may, by agreement, submit to the Administrative Law Judge a proposal for the issuance of a consent order. The Administrative Law Judge will review the facts of the case and the proposal and may conduct conferences with the parties and may require the presentation of evidence in the case. If the Administrative Law Judge does not approve the proposal, the Administrative Law Judge will notify the parties and the case will proceed as though no consent proposal had been made. If the proposal is approved, the Administrative Law Judge will report the facts of the case along with recommendations to the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs. If the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs does not approve the proposal, the case will proceed as though no consent proposal had been made. If the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs approves the proposal, an appropriate order may be issued.
(b) Cases may also be settled prior to service of a charging letter. In such an event, a proposed charging letter shall be prepared, and a consent agreement and order shall be submitted for the approval and signature of the Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs, and no action by the Administrative Law Judge shall be required. Cases which are settled may not be reopened or appealed.
[61 FR 48833, Sept. 17, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 20552, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 128.12
Rehearings.
The Administrative Law Judge may grant a rehearing or reopen a proceeding at any time for the purpose of
hearing any relevant and material evidence which was not known or obtainable at the time of the original hearing. A report for rehearing or reopening must contain a summary of such evidence, and must explain the reasons why it could not have been presented at the original hearing. The Administrative Law Judge will inform the parties of any further hearing, and will conduct such hearing and submit a report and recommendations in the same manner as provided for the original proceeding (Described in § 128.10).
[61 FR 48833, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 128.13
Appeals.
(a)
Filing of appeals.
An appeal must be in writing, and be addressed to and filed with the Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520. An appeal from a final order denying export privileges or imposing civil penalties must be filed within 30 days after receipt of a copy of the order. If the Under Secretary cannot for any reason act on the appeal, he or she may designate another Department of State official to receive and act on the appeal.
(b)
Grounds and conditions for appeal.
The respondent may appeal from the debarment or from the imposition of a civil penalty (except the imposition of civil penalties pursuant to a consent order pursuant to § 128.11) upon the ground: (1) That the findings of a violation are not supported by any substantial evidence; (2) that a prejudicial error of law was committed: or (3) that the provisions of the order are arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion. The appeal must specify upon which of these grounds the appeal is based and must indicate from which provisions of the order the appeal is taken. An appeal from an order issued upon default will not be entertained if the respondent has failed to seek relief as provided in § 128.4(b).
(c)
Matters considered on appeal.
An appeal will be considered upon the basis of the assembled record. This record consists of (but is not limited to) the charging letter, the respondent's answer, the transcript or magnetic recording of the hearing before the Administrative Law Judge, the report of the Administrative Law Judge, the order of the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs, and any other relevant documents involved in the proceedings before the Administrative Law Judge. The Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security may direct a rehearing and reopening of the proceedings before the Administrative Law Judge if he or she finds that the record is insufficient or that new evidence is relevant and material to the issues and was not known and was not reasonably available to the respondent at the time of the original hearings.
(d)
Effect of appeals.
The taking of an appeal will not stay the operation of any order.
(e)
Preparation of appeals
—(1)
General requirements.
An appeal shall be in letter form. The appeal and accompanying material should be filed in duplicate, unless otherwise indicated, and a copy simultaneously mailed to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, SA-1, Room 1200, Department of State, Washington, DC 20522-0112 or delivered to 2401 E Street NW., Washington, DC addressed to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, SA-1, Room 1200, Department of State, Washington, DC 20037.
(2)
Oral presentation.
The Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security may grant the appellant an opportunity for oral argument and will set the time and place for oral argument and will notify the parties, ordinarily at least 10 days before the date set.
(f)
Decisions.
All appeals will be considered and decided within a reasonable time after they are filed. An appeal may be granted or denied in whole or in part, or dismissed at the request of the appellant. The decision of the Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security will be final.
[58 FR 39320, July 22, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 48833, Sept. 17, 1996; 71 FR 20552, Apr. 21, 2006; 79 FR 8089, Feb. 11, 2014]
§ 128.14
Confidentiality of proceedings.
Proceedings under this part are confidential. The documents referred to in
§ 128.17 are not, however, deemed to be confidential. Reports of the Administrative Law Judge and copies of transcripts or recordings of hearings will be available to parties and, to the extent of their own testimony, to witnesses. All records are available to any U.S. Government agency showing a proper interest therein.
[61 FR 48834, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 128.15
Orders containing probationary periods.
(a)
Revocation of probationary periods.
A debarment order may set a probationary period during which the order may be held in abeyance for all or part of the debarment period, subject to the conditions stated therein. The Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls may apply, without notice to any person to be affected thereby, to the Administrative Law Judge for a recommendation on the appropriateness of revoking probation when it appears that the conditions of the probation have been breached. The facts in support of the application will be presented to the Administrative Law Judge, who will report thereon and make a recommendation to the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs. The latter will make a determination whether to revoke probation and will issue an appropriate order. The party affected by this action may request the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs to reconsider the decision by submitting a request within 10 days of the date of the order.
(b)
Hearings
—(1)
Objections upon notice.
Any person affected by an application upon notice to revoke probation, within the time specified in the notice, may file objections with the Administrative Law Judge.
(2)
Objections to order without notice.
Any person adversely affected by an order revoking probation, without notice may request that the order be set aside by filing his objections thereto with the Administrative Law Judge. The request will not stay the effective date of the order or revocation.
(3)
Requirements for filing objections.
Objections filed with the Administrative Law Judge must be submitted in writing and in duplicate. A copy must be simultaneously submitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Denials and admissions, as well as any mitigating circumstances, which the person affected intends to present must be set forth in or accompany the letter of objection and must be supported by evidence. A request for an oral hearing may be made at the time of filing objections.
(4)
Determination.
The application and objections thereto will be referred to the Administrative Law Judge. An oral hearing if requested, will be conducted at an early convenient date, unless the objections filed raise no issues of material fact to be determined. The Administrative Law Judge will report the facts and make a recommendation to the Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs, who will determine whether the application should be granted or denied and will issue an appropriate order. A copy of the order and of the Administrative Law Judge's report will be furnished to any person affected thereby.
(5)
Effect of revocation on other actions.
The revocation of a probationary period will not preclude any other action concerning a further violation, even where revocation is based on the further violation.
[61 FR 48834, Sept. 17, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 20552, Apr. 21, 2006; 78 FR 52689, Aug. 26, 2013; 79 FR 8089, Feb. 11, 2014]
§ 128.16
Extension of time.
The Administrative Law Judge, for good cause shown, may extend the time within which to prepare and submit an answer to a charging letter or to perform any other act required by this part.
[61 FR 48834, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 128.17
Availability of orders.
All charging letters, debarment orders, and orders imposing civil penalties and probationary periods are available for public inspection in the Public Reading Room of the Department of State.
[78 FR 52690, Aug. 26, 2013]
Pt. 129

# PART 129—REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF BROKERS
Sec.
129.1
Purpose.
129.2
Definitions.
129.3
Requirement to register.
129.4
Requirement for approval.
129.5
Exemption from requirement for approval.
129.6
Procedures for obtaining approval.
129.7
Policy on embargoes and other proscriptions.
129.8
Submission of Statement of Registration, registration fees, and notification of changes in information furnished by registrants.
129.9
Guidance.
129.10
Reports.
129.11
Maintenance of brokering records by registrants.

# Authority:
Section 38, Pub. L. 104-164, 110 Stat. 1437, (22 U.S.C. 2778); E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129.

# Source:
62 FR 67276, Dec. 24, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 129.1
Purpose.
(a) Section 38(b)(1)(A)(ii) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778) provides that persons engaged in the business of brokering activities shall register and pay a registration fee as prescribed in regulations, and that no person may engage in the business of brokering activities without a license issued in accordance with the Act.
(b) All brokering activities identified in this subchapter apply equally to those defense articles and defense services designated in § 121.1 of this subchapter and those items designated in 27 CFR 447.21 (U.S. Munitions Import List).
[78 FR 52690, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 3833, Jan. 23, 2020]
§ 129.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Broker
means any person (
see
§ 120.61 of this subchapter) described below who engages in the business of brokering activities:
(1) Any U.S. person (see § 120.62 of this subchapter) wherever located;
(2) Any foreign person (see § 120.63 of this subchapter) located in the United States; or
(3) Any foreign person located outside the United States where the foreign person is owned or controlled by a U.S. person.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3):
For purposes of this paragraph, “owned by a U.S. person” means more than 50 percent of the outstanding voting securities of the firm are owned by a U.S. person, and “controlled by a U.S. person” means one or more U.S. persons have the authority or ability to establish or direct the general policies or day-to-day operations of the firm. U.S. person control is rebuttably presumed to exist where U.S. persons own 25 percent or more of the outstanding voting securities unless one foreign person controls an equal or larger percentage.
(b)
Brokering activities
means any action on behalf of another to facilitate the manufacture, export, permanent import, transfer, reexport, or retransfer of a U.S. or foreign defense article or defense service, regardless of its origin.
(1) Such action includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Financing, insuring, transporting, or freight forwarding defense articles and defense services; or
(ii) Soliciting, promoting, negotiating, contracting for, arranging, or otherwise assisting in the purchase, sale, transfer, loan, or lease of a defense article or defense service.
(2) Such action does not include:
(i) Activities by a U.S. person in the United States that are limited exclusively to U.S. domestic sales or transfers (e.g., not for export);
(ii) Activities by employees of the U.S. Government acting in an official capacity;
(iii) Activities by regular employees (see § 120.64 of this subchapter) acting on behalf of their employer, including those regular employees who are dual nationals or third-country nationals that satisfy the requirements of § 126.18 of this subchapter;

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(2)(
iii

# ):
The exclusion does not apply to persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction with respect to activities involving a defense article or defense service originating in or destined for any proscribed country, area, or person identified in § 126.1 of this subchapter.
(iv) Activities that do not extend beyond administrative services, such as providing or arranging office space and equipment, hospitality, advertising, or clerical, visa, or translation services,
collecting product and pricing information to prepare a response to Request for Proposal, generally promoting company goodwill at trade shows, or activities by an attorney that do not extend beyond the provision of legal advice to clients;
(v) Activities performed by an affiliate, as defined in § 120.66 of this subchapter, on behalf of another affiliate;
(vi) Activities by persons, including their regular employees (see § 120.64 of this subchapter), that do not extend beyond acting as an end-user of a defense article or defense service exported pursuant to a license or other approval under part 123, 124, or 125 of this subchapter, or subsequently acting as a reexporter or retransferor of such article or service under such license or other approval, or under an approval pursuant to § 123.9 of this subchapter;
(vii) Activities by persons to facilitate the manufacture in the United States or export of an item subject to the EAR; or
(viii) Activities by persons to facilitate the reexport, or transfer of an item subject to the EAR that has been approved pursuant to a license, license exception, or no license required authorization under the EAR or a license or other approval under this subchapter.
(c) For the purposes of this subchapter, engaging in the business of brokering activities requires only one occasion of brokering as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
[78 FR 52690, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 3833, Jan. 23, 2020; 87 FR 16425, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 129.3
Requirement to register.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any person who engages in brokering activities (
see
§ 129.2) is required to register with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Registration under this section is generally a precondition for the issuance of approval for brokering activities required under this part 129 or the use of exemptions.
(b)
Exemptions.
Registration, approval, recordkeeping, and reporting under this section are not required for:
(1) Foreign governments or international organizations, including their employees, acting in an official capacity; or
(2) Persons exclusively in the business of financing, insuring, transporting, customs brokering, or freight forwarding, whose activities do not extend beyond financing, insuring, transporting, customs brokering, or freight forwarding. Examples include air carriers or freight forwarders that merely transport or arrange transportation for licensed defense articles, and banks or credit companies who merely provide commercially available lines or letters of credit to persons registered or required to register in accordance with parts 122 or 129 of this subchapter. However, banks, firms, or other persons providing financing for defense articles or defense services are required to register under certain circumstances, such as when the bank or its employees are directly involved in arranging transactions involving defense articles or defense services or hold title to defense articles, even when no physical custody of defense articles is involved. In such circumstances, the banks, firms, or other persons providing financing for defense articles or defense services are not exempt.
(c) Persons exempt from registration, approval, recordkeeping, and reporting as provided in § 129.3(b) are subject to the policy on embargoes and other proscriptions as outlined in § 129.7.
(d) U.S. persons who are registered as a manufacturer or exporter in accordance with part 122 of this subchapter, including their U.S. or foreign subsidiaries and other affiliates listed on their Statement of Registration who are required to register under this part, are not required to submit a separate broker registration or pay a separate broker registration fee when more than 50 percent of the voting securities are owned by the registrant or such subsidiaries and affiliates are otherwise controlled by the registrant (see § 120.66 of this subchapter), and they are listed and identified as brokers within their manufacturer or exporter Statement of Registration. All other requirements of this part apply to such brokers and their brokering activities.
(e) Registration under this section is a precondition for the issuance of approval for brokering activities required under this section or the use of exemptions, unless an exception is granted by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
[78 FR 52690, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 87 FR 16426, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 129.4
Requirement for approval.
(a) Except as provided in § 129.5, no person who is required to register as a broker pursuant to § 129.3 of this subchapter may engage in the business of brokering activities pursuant to § 129.2(b) without first obtaining the approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for the brokering of any of the following:
(1) Any foreign defense article or defense service enumerated in part 121 of this subchapter (see § 120.39 of this subchapter, and § 129.5 for exemptions) and those foreign origin items on the U.S. Munitions Import List (
see
27 CFR 447.21); or
(2) Any of the following U.S. origin defense articles or defense services:
(i) Firearms and other weapons of a nature described by Category I(a) through (d), Category II(a) and (d), and Category III(a) of § 121.1 of this subchapter or Category I(a) through (c), Category II(a), and Category III(a) of the U.S. Munitions Import List (
see
27 CFR 447.21);
(ii) Rockets, bombs, and grenades as well as launchers for such defense articles of a nature described by Category IV(a), and launch vehicles and missile and anti-missile systems of a nature described by Category IV(b) of § 121.1 of this subchapter (including man-portable air-defense systems);
(iii) Vessels of war described by Category VI of § 121.1 of this subchapter;
(iv) Tanks and military vehicles described by Category VII of § 121.1 of this subchapter;
(v) Aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles described by Category VIII of § 121.1 of this subchapter;
(vi) Night vision-related defense articles and inertial platform, sensor, and guidance-related systems of a nature described by Category XII(c) and (d) of § 121.1 of this subchapter;
(vii) Chemical agents and precursors described by Category XIV(a), (c), and (e) of § 121.1 of this subchapter, biological agents and biologically derived substances described by Category XIV(b) of § 121.1 of this subchapter, and equipment described by Category XIV(f) of § 121.1 of this subchapter for dissemination of the chemical agents and biological agents described by Category XIV(a), (b), and (e) of § 121.1 of this subchapter;
(viii) Submersible vessels described by Category XX of § 121.1 of this subchapter; and
(ix) Miscellaneous articles of a nature described by Category XXI of § 121.1 of this subchapter.
(b) [Reserved]
[78 FR 52691, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 3833, Jan 23, 2020; 87 FR 16426, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 129.5
Exemption from requirement for approval.
(a) Unless paragraph (c) of this section applies, brokering activities undertaken for an agency of the U.S. Government pursuant to a contract between the broker and that agency are exempt from the requirement for approval provided that:
(1) The brokering activities concern defense articles or defense services solely for the use of the agency; or
(2) The brokering activities are undertaken for carrying out a foreign assistance or sales program authorized by law and subject to control by the President by other means, as demonstrated by one of the following conditions being met:
(i) The U.S. Government agency contract with the broker contains an explicit provision stating the contract supports a foreign assistance or sales program authorized by law and the contracting agency has established control of the activity covered by the contract by other means equivalent to that established under this subchapter; or
(ii) The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls provides written concurrence in advance that the condition is met.
(b) Unless paragraph (c) of this section applies, brokering activities regarding a foreign defense article or defense service (see § 120.39 of this subchapter) are exempt from the requirement for approval when arranged wholly within and destined exclusively for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, any member country of that organization, Australia, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, or the Republic of Korea, except in the case of the defense articles or defense services specified in § 129.4(a)(2), for which approval is required.
(c) Brokers engaging in brokering activities described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are not exempt from obtaining approval from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls if:
(1) The broker is not registered as required by § 129.3;
(2) The broker or any person who has a direct or indirect interest in or may benefit from the brokering activities, including any related defense article or defense service transaction, is ineligible as defined in § 120.16(c) of this subchapter; or
(3) A country or person referred to in § 126.1 of this subchapter is involved in the brokering activities or such activities are otherwise subject to § 129.7.
(d) Brokers who use the exemptions in this section must comply with all other provisions of this part 129.
[78 FR 52691, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 87 FR 16426, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 129.6
Procedures for obtaining approval.
(a) All requests for approval of brokering activities must be made to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, be signed by an empowered official, and include the following information:
(1) The applicant's name, address and registration code;
(2) A certification on whether:
(i) The applicant or the chief executive officer, president, vice presidents, secretary, partner, member, other senior officers or officials (e.g., comptroller, treasurer, general counsel), or any member of the board of directors is the subject of an indictment or has been otherwise charged (e.g., by criminal information in lieu of indictment) for, or has been convicted of, violating any of the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6 of this subchapter;
(ii) The applicant or the chief executive officer, president, vice presidents, secretary, partner, member, other senior officers or officials (e.g., comptroller, treasurer, general counsel), or any member of the board of directors is ineligible to contract with, or to receive a license or other approval to import defense articles or defense services from, or to receive an export license or other approval from, any agency of the U.S. Government; and
(iii) To the best of the applicant's knowledge, any other person involved in the brokering activities enumerated in the request for approval as defined in § 129.2 is the subject of an indictment or has been otherwise charged (e.g., charged by criminal information in lieu of indictment) for or has been convicted of violating any of the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6 of this subchapter, or is ineligible to contract with, or to receive a license or other approval to import defense articles or defense services from, or to receive an export license or other approval from, any agency of the U.S. Government.
(b) The request for approval shall describe fully the brokering activities that will be undertaken, including:
(1) The action to be taken by the applicant to facilitate the manufacture, export, import, or transfer of a defense article or defense service (which may be referred to as a “defense article or defense service transaction”);
(2) The name, nationality, address, and place of business of all persons who may participate in the brokering activities;
(3) A description of each defense article or defense service that may be involved, including:
(i) The U.S. Munitions List (
see
§ 121.1 of this subchapter) or U.S. Munitions Import List (
see
27 CFR 447.21) category and sub-category for each article;
(ii) The name or military nomenclature of each defense article;
(iii) Whether the defense article is significant military equipment;
(iv) Estimated quantity of each defense article;
(v) Estimated U.S. dollar value of defense articles and defense services;
(vi) Security classification; and
(vii) End-user and end-use; and
(4) A statement whether the brokering activities are related to a sale through direct commercial sale or under the U.S. Foreign Military Sales program or other activity in support of the U.S. Government.
(c) The empowered official signing the request for approval shall include a certification that the request is complete and accurate.
(d) If at the time of submission certain information required by paragraph (b) of this section is not yet available, this fact must be stated and explained in the certification required by paragraph (c) of this section. The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will take any such explanation into account in deciding whether to approve the request.
(e) The period of validity for an approval may not exceed four years.
[78 FR 52691, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 3833, Jan. 23, 2020; 87 FR 16426, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 129.7
Policy on embargoes and other proscriptions.
(a) This section applies to brokering activities defined in § 129.2, regardless of whether the person involved in such activities has registered or is exempt from registration under § 129.3. The exemptions in § 129.5 from the requirement for approval are not applicable to brokering activities subject to this section.
(b) No person may engage in or make a proposal to engage in brokering activities that involve any country, area, or person referred to in § 126.1 of this subchapter without first obtaining the approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(c) No person may engage in or make a proposal to engage in brokering activities without first obtaining approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls if such activities involve countries or persons identified by the Department of State through notice in the
Federal Register,
with respect to which certain limitations on defense articles or defense services are imposed for reasons of U.S. national security, foreign policy, or law enforcement interests (e.g., an individual subject to debarment pursuant to § 127.7 of this subchapter). (
See
§ 127.1(c) of this subchapter for additional disclosure and approval requirements applicable to brokering activities.)
(d) It is the policy of the Department of State to deny requests for approval of brokering activities or proposals to engage in brokering activities involving the countries or persons referred to in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. Any person who knows or has reason to know of brokering activities involving such countries or persons must immediately inform the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
[78 FR 52692, Aug. 26, 2013]
§ 129.8
Submission of Statement of Registration, registration fees, and notification of changes in information furnished by registrants.
(a) An intended registrant must submit a Department of State form DS-2032 (Statement of Registration) to the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance by following the submission guidelines available on the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls Web site at
www.pmddtc.state.gov.
The Statement of Registration must be signed by a U.S. person senior officer (e.g., chief executive officer, president, secretary, partner, member, treasurer, general counsel) who has been empowered by the intended registrant to sign such documents, with the exception that a foreign senior officer may sign the Statement of Registration if the intended registrant seeks only to register as a foreign broker. The Statement of Registration may include subsidiaries and affiliates when more than 50 percent of the voting securities are owned by the registrant or the subsidiaries and affiliates are otherwise controlled by the registrant (see § 120.66 of this subchapter). The intended registrant, whether a U.S. or foreign person, shall submit documentation that demonstrates it is incorporated or otherwise authorized to do business in its respective country. Foreign persons who are required to register shall provide information that is substantially similar in content to that which a U.S. person would provide under this provision
(e.g., foreign business license or similar authorization to do business). The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will notify the registrant if the Statement of Registration (form DS-2032) is incomplete either by notifying the registrant of what information is required or through the return of the entire registration package.
(b)(1)
Frequency of registration and fee.
A person who is required to register must do so on an annual basis by submitting a completed Statement of Registration (form DS-2032) and the Tier 1 fee specified in § 122.3(a)(1) of this subchapter, regardless of how many favorable determinations the person received during the 12-month period ending 90 days prior to the expiration of their current registration. Registrants are not required to submit a separate statement of registration and pay an additional fee when provisions in § 129.3(d) are met.
(2)
Expiration of registration.
A registrant must submit its request for registration renewal at least 30 days, but no earlier than 60 days, prior to the expiration date.
(3)
Lapse in registration.
A registrant who fails to renew a registration and, after an intervening period, seeks to register again must pay registration fees for any part of such intervening period during which the registrant engaged in the business of brokering defense articles or defense services.
(c)
Statement of Registration Certification.
The Statement of Registration (form DS-2032) of the intended registrant shall include a certification by an authorized senior officer of the following:
(1) Whether the intended registrant or its parent, subsidiary, or other affiliate listed in the Statement of Registration, or any of its chief executive officers, presidents, vice presidents, secretaries, partners, members, other senior officers or officials (e.g., comptroller, treasurer, general counsel), or any member of the board of directors of the intended registrant, or of any parent, subsidiary, or other affiliate listed in the Statement of Registration:
(i) Has ever been indicted or otherwise charged (e.g., charged by criminal information in lieu of indictment) for or has been convicted of violating any U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6 of this subchapter or violating a foreign criminal law on exportation of defense articles where conviction of such law carries a minimum term of imprisonment of greater than 1 year; or
(ii) Is ineligible to contract with, or to receive a license or other approval to import defense articles or defense services from, or to receive an export license or other approval from, any agency of the U.S. Government; and
(2) Whether the intended registrant is foreign owned or foreign controlled (see § 120.65 of this subchapter). If the intended registrant is foreign owned or foreign controlled, the certification shall include an explanation of such ownership or control, including the identities of the foreign person or persons who ultimately own or control the registrant. This requirement applies to a registrant who is a U.S. person and is owned or controlled by a foreign person. It also applies to a registrant who is a foreign person and is owned or controlled by a foreign person from the same country or a foreign person from another country.
(d) A registrant must, within five days of the event, provide to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls a written notification, signed by a senior officer (e.g., chief executive officer, president, secretary, partner, member, treasurer, general counsel), if:
(1) Any of the persons referred to in § 129.8(c) is indicted or otherwise charged (e.g., charged by criminal information in lieu of indictment) for or convicted of violating any of the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6 of this subchapter or violating a foreign criminal law on exportation of defense articles where conviction of such law carries a minimum term of imprisonment of greater than 1 year; or becomes ineligible to contract with, or to receive a license or other approval to export or import defense articles or defense services from, any agency of the U.S.Government; or
(2) There is a change in the following information contained in the Statement of Registration (form DS-2032):
(i) Registrant's name;
(ii) Registrant's address;
(iii) Registrant's legal organization structure;
(iv) Ownership or control;
(v) The establishment, acquisition or divestment of a U.S. or foreign subsidiary or other affiliate who is engaged in brokering activities or otherwise required to be listed in registrant's Statement of Registration; or
(vi) Board of directors, senior officers, partners and owners.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
d

# ):
All other changes in the Statement of Registration must be provided as part of annual registration renewal.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
d

# ):
For one year from October 25, 2013, “Amendment to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations: Registration and Licensing of Brokers, Brokering Activities, and Related Provisions,” RIN 1400-AC37, the following changes must be provided as part of the annual registration renewal: pursuant to § 129.3(d), changes to combine an existing broker registration with an existing manufacturer/exporter registration, and pursuant to § 129.8(a), changes to an existing registration to remove partially owned and not otherwise controlled subsidiaries or affiliates, which are not the subject of an internal reorganization, merger, acquisition, or divestiture.
(e) A U.S. or foreign registrant must provide written notification to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls at least sixty (60) days in advance of any intended sale or transfer to a foreign person of ownership or control of the registrant or any parent, subsidiary, or other affiliate listed and covered in its Statement of Registration. Such notice does not relieve the registrant from obtaining any prior approval required under this subchapter.
(f) The new entity formed when a registrant merges with another company or acquires, or is acquired by, another company or a subsidiary or division of another company, shall advise the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls of the following:
(1) The new firm name and all previous firm names;
(2) The registration number that will continue and those that are to be discontinued (if any); and
(3) The numbers of all approvals for brokering activities under the continuing registration number, since any approval not the subject of notification will be considered invalid.
(g) A registrant whose registration lapses because of failure to renew and, after an intervening period, seeks to register again must pay registration fees for any part of such intervening period during which the registrant engaged in the business of brokering activities.
[78 FR 52692, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 87 FR 16426, Mar. 23, 2022; 89 FR 99085, Dec. 10, 2024]
§ 129.9
Guidance.
(a) Any person desiring guidance on whether an activity constitutes a brokering activity within the scope of this part 129 may request in writing guidance from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. The request for guidance shall identify the applicant and registrant code (if applicable) and describe fully the activities that will be undertaken, including:
(1) The specific activities to be undertaken by the applicant and any other U.S. or foreign person;
(2) The name, nationality, and geographic location of all U.S. and foreign persons who may participate in the activities;
(3) A description of each defense article or defense service that may be involved, including:
(i) The U.S. Munitions List category and sub-category for each article;
(ii) The name or military nomenclature of each defense article;
(iii) Whether the defense article is significant military equipment;
(iv) Estimated quantity of each defense article;
(v) Estimated U.S. dollar value of defense articles and defense services; and
(vi) Security classification;
(4) End-user and end-use; and
(5) A copy of any agreement or documentation, if available, between or among the requester and other persons who will be involved in the activity or related transactions that describes the activity to be taken by such persons.
(b) If at the time of submission certain information is not yet available, this circumstance must be stated and explained. The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will take the completeness of the information into account in providing guidance on whether the activities constitute brokering activities.
The guidance will constitute an official determination by the Department of State. The guidance shall not substitute for approval when required under § 129.4.
(c) Persons desiring guidance on other aspects of this part may also request guidance from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls in a similar manner by submitting a description of the relevant facts or copies of relevant documentation.
[78 FR 52693, Aug. 26, 2013]
§ 129.10
Reports.
(a) Any person required to register under this part (including those registered in accordance with § 129.3(d)) shall provide to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls on an annual basis a report of its brokering activities in the previous twelve months. Such report shall be submitted along with the registrant's annual renewal submission or, if not renewing, within 30 days after expiration of registration.
(b) The report shall include brokering activities that received or were exempt from approval as follows:
(1) The report shall identify the broker's name, address, and registration code and be signed by an empowered official who shall certify that the report is complete and accurate. The report shall describe each of the brokering activities, including the number assigned by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls to the approval or the exemption claimed; and
(2) For each of the brokering activities, the report shall identify all persons who participated in the activities, including each person's name, address, nationality, and country where located and role or function; the quantity, description, and U.S. dollar value of the defense articles or defense services; the type and U.S. dollar value of any consideration received or expected to be received, directly or indirectly, by any person who participated in the brokering activities, and the source thereof.
(c) If there were no brokering activities, the report shall certify that there were no such activities.
[78 FR 52694, Aug. 26, 2013]
§ 129.11
Maintenance of brokering records by registrants.
A person who is required to register pursuant to this part (including those registered in accordance with § 129.3(d)) must maintain records concerning brokering activities in accordance with § 122.5 of this subchapter.
[78 FR 52694, Aug. 26, 2013]
Pt. 130

# PART 130—POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS, FEES AND COMMISSIONS
Sec.
130.1
Purpose.
130.2
Applicant.
130.3
Armed forces.
130.4
Defense articles and defense services.
130.5
Fee or commission.
130.6
Political contribution.
130.7
Supplier.
130.8
Vendor.
130.9
Obligation to furnish information to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
130.10
Information to be furnished by applicant or supplier to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
130.11
Supplementary reports.
130.12
Information to be furnished by vendor to applicant or supplier.
130.13
Information to be furnished to applicant, supplier or vendor by a recipient of a fee or commission.
130.14
Recordkeeping.
130.15
Confidential business information.
130.16
Other reporting requirements.
130.17
Utilization of and access to reports and records.

# Authority:
Sec. 39, Pub. L. 94-329, 90 Stat. 767 (22 U.S.C. 2779); 22 U.S.C. 2651a; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129.

# Source:
58 FR 39323, July 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 130.1
Purpose.
Section 39(a) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2779) provides that the Secretary of State shall prescribe regulations with respect to reporting on certain payments relating to sales of defense articles and defense services. The provisions of this part implement that requirement. Definitions which apply to this part are contained in §§ 130.2 through 130.8.
§ 130.2
Applicant.
Applicant
means any person who applies to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for any license or approval required under this subchapter for the export, reexport, or retransfer of defense articles or defense services valued in an amount of $500,000 or more which are being sold commercially to or for the use of the armed forces of a foreign country or international organization. This term also includes a person to whom the required license or approval has been given.
[81 FR 62008, Sept. 8, 2016]
§ 130.3
Armed forces.
Armed forces
means the army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard, as well as the national guard and national police, of a foreign country. This term also includes any military unit or military personnel organized under or assigned to an international organization.
§ 130.4
Defense articles and defense services.
Defense articles and defense services
have the meaning given those terms in paragraphs (3), (4) and (7) of section 47 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794 (3), (4), and (7)). When used with reference to commercial sales, the definitions in §§ 120.31 and 120.32 of this subchapter apply.
[58 FR 39323, July 22, 1993, as amended at 87 FR 16426, Mar. 23, 2022]
§ 130.5
Fee or commission.
(a)
Fee or commission
means, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any loan, gift, donation or other payment of $1,000 or more made, or offered or agreed to be made directly or indirectly, whether in cash or in kind, and whether or not pursuant to a written contract, which is:
(1) To or at the direction of any person, irrespective of nationality, whether or not employed by or affiliated with an applicant, a supplier or a vendor; and
(2) For the solicitation or promotion or otherwise to secure the conclusion of a sale of defense articles or defense services to or for the use of the armed forces of a foreign country or international organization.
(b) The term fee or commission does not include:
(1) A political contribution or a payment excluded by § 130.6 from the definition of political contribution;
(2) A normal salary (excluding contingent compensation) established at an annual rate and paid to a regular employee of an applicant, supplier or vendor;
(3) General advertising or promotional expenses not directed to any particular sale or purchaser; or
(4) Payments made, or offered or agreed to be made, solely for the purchase by an applicant, supplier or vendor of specific goods or technical, operational or advisory services, which payments are not disproportionate in amount with the value of the specific goods or services actually furnished.
[58 FR 39323, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20554, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 130.6
Political contribution.
Political contribution
means any loan, gift, donation or other payment of $1,000 or more made, or offered or agreed to be made, directly or indirectly, whether in cash or in kind, which is:
(a) To or for the benefit of, or at the direction of, any foreign candidate, committee, political party, political faction, or government or governmental subdivision, or any individual elected, appointed or otherwise designated as an employee or officer thereof; and
(b) For the solicitation or promotion or otherwise to secure the conclusion of a sale of defense articles or defense services to or for the use of the armed forces of a foreign country or international organization. Taxes, customs duties, license fees, and other charges required to be paid by applicable law or regulation are not regarded as political contributions.
§ 130.7
Supplier.
Supplier
means any person who enters into a contract with the Department of Defense for the sale of defense articles or defense services valued in an
amount of $500,000 or more under section 22 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2762).
§ 130.8
Vendor.
(a)
Vendor
means any distributor or manufacturer who, directly or indirectly, furnishes to an applicant or supplier defense articles valued in an amount of $500,000 or more which are end-items or major components as defined in § 120.45 of this subchapter. It also means any person who, directly or indirectly, furnishes to an applicant or supplier defense articles or services valued in an amount of $500,000 or more when such articles or services are to be delivered (or incorporated in defense articles or defense services to be delivered) to or for the use of the armed forces of a foreign country or international organization under:
(1) A sale requiring a license or approval from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls under this subchapter; or
(2) A sale pursuant to a contract with the Department of Defense under section 22 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2762).
(b) [Reserved]
[58 FR 39323, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20554, Apr. 21, 2006; 79 FR 61236, Oct. 10, 2014]
§ 130.9
Obligation to furnish information to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(a)(1) Each applicant must inform the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls as to whether the applicant or its vendors have paid, or offered or agreed to pay, in respect of any sale for which a license or approval is requested:
(i) Political contributions in an aggregate amount of $5,000 or more, or
(ii) Fees or commissions in an aggregate amount of $100,000 or more. If so, applicant must furnish to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls the information specified in § 130.10. The furnishing of such information or an explanation satisfactory to the Director of the Office of Defense Trade Controls Licensing as to why all the information cannot be furnished at that time is a condition precedent to the granting of the relevant license or approval.
(2) The requirements of this paragraph do not apply in the case of an application with respect to a sale for which all the information specified in § 130.10 which is required by this section to be reported shall already have been furnished.
(b) Each supplier must inform the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls as to whether the supplier or its vendors have paid, or offered or agreed to pay, in respect of any sale:
(1) Political contributions in an aggregate amount of $5,000 or more, or
(2) Fees or commissions in an aggregate amount of $100,000 or more. If so, the supplier must furnish to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls the information specified in § 130.10. The information required to be furnished pursuant to this paragraph must be so furnished no later than 30 days after the contract award to such supplier, or such earlier date as may be specified by the Department of Defense. For purposes of this paragraph, a contract award includes a purchase order, exercise of an option, or other procurement action requiring a supplier to furnish defense articles or defense services to the Department of Defense for the purposes of § 22 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2762).
(c) In determining whether an applicant or its vendors, or a supplier or its vendors, as the case may be, have paid, or offered or agreed to pay, political contributions in an aggregate amount of $5,000 or more in respect of any sale so as to require a report under this section, there must be included in the computation of such aggregate amount any political contributions in respect of the sale which are paid by or on behalf of, or at the direction of, any person to whom the applicant, supplier or vendor has paid, or offered or agreed to pay, a fee or commission in respect of the sale. Any such political contributions are deemed for purposes of this part to be political contributions by the applicant, supplier or vendor who paid or offered or agreed to pay the fee or commission.
(d) Any applicant or supplier which has informed the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls under this section that neither it nor its vendors have
paid, or offered or agreed to pay, political contributions or fees or commissions in an aggregate amount requiring the information specified in § 130.10 to be furnished, must subsequently furnish such information within 30 days after learning that it or its vendors had paid, or offered or agreed to pay, political contributions or fees or commissions in respect of a sale in an aggregate amount which, if known to applicant or supplier at the time of its previous communication with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, would have required the furnishing of information under § 130.10 at that time. Any report furnished under this paragraph must, in addition to the information specified in § 130.10, include a detailed statement of the reasons why applicant or supplier did not furnish the information at the time specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable.
[58 FR 39323, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20554, Apr. 21, 2006; 79 FR 8089, Feb. 11, 2014]
§ 130.10
Information to be furnished by applicant or supplier to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(a) Every person required under § 130.9 to furnish information specified in this section in respect to any sale must furnish to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls:
(1) The total contract price of the sale to the foreign purchaser;
(2) The name, nationality, address and principal place of business of the applicant or supplier, as the case may be, and, if applicable, the employer and title;
(3) The name, nationality, address and principal place of business, and if applicable, employer and title of each foreign purchaser, including the ultimate end-user involved in the sale;
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a statement setting forth with respect to such sale:
(i) The amount of each political contribution paid, or offered or agreed to be paid, or the amount of each fee or commission paid, or offered or agreed to be paid;
(ii) The date or dates on which each reported amount was paid, or offered or agreed to be paid;
(iii) The recipient of each such amount paid, or intended recipient if not yet paid;
(iv) The person who paid, or offered or agreed to pay such amount; and
(v) The aggregate amounts of political contributions and of fees or commission, respectively, which shall have been reported.
(b) In responding to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the statement must:
(1) With respect to each payment reported, state whether such payment was in cash or in kind. If in kind, it must include a description and valuation thereof. Where precise amounts are not available because a payment has not yet been made, an estimate of the amount offered or agreed to be paid must be provided;
(2) With respect to each recipient, state:
(i) Its name;
(ii) Its nationality;
(iii) Its address and principal place of business;
(iv) Its employer and title; and
(v) Its relationship, if any, to applicant, supplier, or vendor, and to any foreign purchaser or end-user.
(c) In submitting a report required by § 130.9, the detailed information specified in paragraph (a)(4) and (b) of this section need not be included if the payments do not exceed:
(1) $2,500 in the case of political contributions; and
(2) $50,000 in the case of fees or commissions.
In lieu of reporting detailed information with respect to such payments, the aggregate amount thereof must be reported, identified as miscellaneous political contributions or miscellaneous fees or commissions, as the case may be.
(d) Every person required to furnish the information specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must respond fully to each subdivision of those paragraphs and, where the correct response is “none” or “not applicable,” must so state.
[58 FR 39323, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20554, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 130.11
Supplementary reports.
(a) Every applicant or supplier who is required under § 130.9 to furnish the information specified in § 130.10 must submit a supplementary report in connection with each sale in respect of which applicant or supplier has previously been required to furnish information if:
(1) Any political contributions aggregating $2,500 or more or fees or commissions aggregating $50,000 or more not previously reported or paid, or offered or agreed to be paid by applicant or supplier or any vendor;
(2) Subsequent developments cause the information initially reported to be no longer accurate or complete (as in the case where a payment actually made is substantially different in amount from a previously reported estimate of an amount offered or agreed to be paid); or
(3) Additional details are requested by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls with respect to any miscellaneous payments reported under § 130.10(c).
(b) Supplementary reports must be sent to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls within 30 days after the payment, offer or agreement reported therein or, when requested by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, within 30 days after such request, and must include:
(1) Any information specified in § 130.10 required or requested to be reported and which was not previously reported; and
(2) The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls license number, if any, and the Department of Defense contract number, if any, related to the sale.
[58 FR 39323, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20554, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 130.12
Information to be furnished by vendor to applicant or supplier.
(a) In order to determine whether it is obliged under § 130.9 to furnish the information specified in § 130.10 with respect to a sale, every applicant or supplier must obtain from each vendor, from or through whom the applicant acquired defense articles or defense services forming the whole or a part of the sale, a full disclosure by the vendor of all political contributions or fees or commission paid, by vendor with respect to such sale. Such disclosure must include responses to all the information pertaining to vendor required to enable applicant or supplier, as the case may be, to comply fully with §§ 130.9 and 130.10. If so required, they must include the information furnished by each vendor in providing the information specified.
(b) Any vendor which has been requested by an applicant or supplier to furnish an initial statement under paragraph (a) of this section must, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, furnish such statement in a timely manner and not later than 20 days after receipt of such request.
(c) If the vendor believes that furnishing information to an applicant or supplier in a requested statement would unreasonably risk injury to the vendor's commercial interests, the vendor may furnish in lieu of the statement an abbreviated statement disclosing only the aggregate amount of all political contributions and the aggregate amount of all fees or commissions which have been paid, or offered or agreed to be paid, or offered or agreed to be paid, by the vendor with respect to the sale. Any abbreviated statement furnished to an applicant or supplier under this paragraph must be accompanied by a certification that the requested information has been reported by the vendor directly to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. The vendor must simultaneously report fully to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls all information which the vendor would otherwise have been required to report to the applicant or supplier under this section. Each such report must clearly identify the sale with respect to which the reported information pertains.
(d)(1) If upon the 25th day after the date of its request to vendor, an applicant or supplier has not received from the vendor the initial statement required by paragraph (a) of this section, the applicant or supplier must submit to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls a signed statement attesting to:
(i) The manner and extent of applicant's or supplier's attempt to obtain from the vendor the initial statement
required under paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) Vendor's failure to comply with this section; and
(iii) The amount of time which has elapsed between the date of applicant's or supplier's request and the date of the signed statement;
(2) The failure of a vendor to comply with this section does not relieve any applicant or supplier otherwise required by § 130.9 to submit a report to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls from submitting such a report.
[58 FR 39323, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20555, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 130.13
Information to be furnished to applicant, supplier or vendor by a recipient of a fee or commission.
(a) Every applicant or supplier, and each vendor thereof;
(1) In order to determine whether it is obliged under § 130.9 or § 130.12 to furnish information specified in § 130.10 with respect to a sale; and
(2) Prior to furnishing such information, must obtain from each person, if any, to whom it has paid, or offered or agreed to pay, a fee or commission in respect of such sale, a timely statement containing a full disclosure by such a person of all political contributions paid, or offered or agreed to be paid, by it or on its behalf, or at its direction, in respect of such sale. Such disclosure must include responses to all the information required to enable the applicant, supplier or vendor, as the case may be, to comply fully with §§ 130.9, 130.10, and 130.12.
(b) In obtaining information under paragraph (a) of this section, the applicant, supplier or vendor, as the case may be, must also require each person to whom a fee or commission is paid, or offered or agreed to be paid, to furnish from time to time such reports of its political contributions as may be necessary to enable the applicant, supplier or vendor, as the case may be, to comply fully with §§ 130.9, 130.10, 130.11, and 130.12.
(c) The applicant supplier or vendor, as the case may be, must include any political contributions paid, or offered or agreed to be paid, by or on behalf of, or at the direction of, any person to whom it has paid, or offered or agreed to pay a fee or commission in determining whether applicant, supplier or vendor is required by §§ 130.9, 130.11, and 130.12 to furnish information specified in § 130.10.
§ 130.14
Recordkeeping.
Each applicant, supplier and vendor must maintain a record of any information it was required to furnish or obtain under this part and all records upon which its reports are based for a period of not less than five years following the date of the report to which they pertain.
§ 130.15
Confidential business information.
(a) Any person who is required to furnish information under this part may identify any information furnished hereunder which the person considers to be confidential business information. No person, including any applicant or supplier, shall publish, divulge, disclose, or make known in any manner, any information so identified by a vendor or other person unless authorized by law or regulation.
(b) For purposes of this section,
confidential business information
means commercial or financial information which by law is entitled to protection from disclosure. (See, e.g., 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (3) and (4); 18 U.S.C. 1905; 22 U.S.C. 2778(e); Rule 26(c)(7), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.)
§ 130.16
Other reporting requirements.
The submission of reports under this part does not relieve any person of any requirements to furnish information to any federal, state, or municipal agency, department or other instrumentality as required by law, regulation or contract.
§ 130.17
Utilization of and access to reports and records.
(a) All information reported and records maintained under this part will be made available, upon request for utilization by standing committees of the Congress and subcommittees thereof, and by United States Government agencies, in accordance with § 39(d) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2779(d)), and reports based upon such
information will be submitted to Congress in accordance with sections 36(a)(7) and 36(b)(1) of that Act (22 U.S.C. 2776(a)(7) and (b)(1)) or any other applicable law.
(b) All confidential business information provided pursuant to this part shall be protected against disclosure to the extent provided by law.
(c) Nothing in this section shall preclude the furnishing of information to foreign governments for law enforcement or regulatory purposes under international arrangements between the United States and any foreign government.
[58 FR 39323, July 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 20555, Apr. 21, 2006]

# SUBCHAPTER N—MISCELLANEOUS
Pt. 131

# PART 131—CERTIFICATES OF AUTHENTICATION
Sec.
131.1
Certification of documents.
131.2
Refusal of certification for unlawful purpose.
§ 131.1
Certification of documents.
The Authentication Officer, Acting Authentication Officer, or any Assistant Authentication Officer designated by either of the former officers may, and is hereby authorized to, sign and issue certificates of authentication under the seal of the Department of State for and in the name of the Secretary of State or the Acting Secretary of State. The form of authentication shall be as follows:
In testimony whereof, I, ____________________, Secretary of State have hereunto caused the seal of the Department of State to be affixed and my name subscribed by the Authentication Officer, Acting Authentication Officer, or an Assistant Authentication Officer, of the said Department, at________. in ____________, this ________________ day of ________________ 19____
(Secretary of State)
By
(____________________ Authentication Officer, Department of State)
(22 U.S.C. 2651a)
[61 FR 39585, July 30, 1996]
§ 131.2
Refusal of certification for unlawful purpose.
(a) The Department will not certify to a document when it has good reason to believe that the certification is desired for an unlawful or improper purpose. It is therefore the duty of the Authentication Officer to examine not only the document which the Department is asked to authenticate, but also the fundamental document to which previous seals or other certifications may have been affixed by other authorities. The Authentication Officer shall request such additional information as may be necessary to establish that the requested authentication will serve the interests of justice and is not contrary to public policy.
(b) In accordance with section 3, paragraph 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1969 (83 Stat. 841, Pub. L. 91-184) approved December 30, 1969, documents which have the effect of furthering or supporting the restrictive trade practices or boycotts fostered or imposed by foreign countries against countries friendly to the United States shall be considered contrary to public policy for purposes of these regulations.
(R.S. 203. sec. 4, 63 Stat. 111, as amended, sec. 1733, 62 Stat. 946, secs. 104, 332, 66 Stat. 174, 252; 22 U.S.C. 2657, 2658, 28 U.S.C. 1733, 8 U.S.C. 1104, 1443)
[22 FR 10882, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 30 FR 12732, Oct. 6, 1965; Dept. Reg. 108.621, 35 FR 8887, June 9, 1970]
Pt. 132

# PART 132—BOOKS, MAPS, NEWSPAPERS, ETC.
§ 132.1
Purchase.
The purchase by the Department of State of books, maps, newspapers, periodicals, and other publications shall be made without regard to the provisions of the act approved March 3, 1933 (sec. 2, 47 Stat. 1520; 41 U.S.C. 10a), since determination has been made by the Secretary, as permitted by the provisions of the act, that such purchase is inconsistent with the public interest.
(80 Stat. 379; 5 U.S.C. 301)
[22 FR 10883, Dec. 27, 1957]
Pt. 133

# PART 133—GOVERNMENTWIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
Sec.
133.100
What does this part do?
133.105
Does this part apply to me?
133.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
133.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
133.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
133.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
133.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
133.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
133.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
133.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
133.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
133.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
133.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Department of State Awarding Officials
133.400
What are my responsibilities as a Department of State awarding official?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
133.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
133.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
133.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
133.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?

# Subpart F—Definitions
133.605
Award.
133.610
Controlled substance.
133.615
Conviction.
133.620
Cooperative agreement.
133.625
Criminal drug statute.
133.630
Debarment.
133.635
Drug-free workplace.
133.640
Employee.
133.645
Federal agency or agency.
133.650
Grant.
133.655
Individual.
133.660
Recipient.
133.665
State.
133.670
Suspension.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2658; 41 U.S.C. 701,
et seq.

# Source:
68 FR 66557, 66582, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 133 appear at 68 FR 66582, Nov. 26, 2003.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
§ 133.100
What does this part do?
This part carries out the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.,
as amended) that applies to grants. It also applies the provisions of the Act to cooperative agreements and other financial assistance awards, as a matter of Federal Government policy.
§ 133.105
Does this part apply to me?
(a) Portions of this part apply to you if you are either—
(1) A recipient of an assistance award from the Department of State; or
(2) A Department of State awarding official. (See definitions of award and recipient in §§ 133.605 and 133.660, respectively.)
(b) The following table shows the subparts that apply to you:
If you are . . .
see subparts . . .
(1) A recipient who is not an individual
A, B and E.
(2) A recipient who is an individual
A, C and E.
(3) A Department of State awarding official
A, D and E.
§ 133.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
This part does not apply to any award that the Procurement Executive determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government.
§ 133.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?
It will affect future contract awards indirectly if you are debarred or suspended for a violation of the requirements of this part, as described in § 133.510(c). However, this part does not apply directly to procurement contracts. The portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 that applies to
Federal procurement contracts is carried out through the Federal Acquisition Regulation in chapter 1 of title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations (the drug-free workplace coverage currently is in 48 CFR part 23, subpart 23.5).

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 133.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
There are two general requirements if you are a recipient other than an individual.
(a) First, you must make a good faith effort, on a continuing basis, to maintain a drug-free workplace. You must agree to do so as a condition for receiving any award covered by this part. The specific measures that you must take in this regard are described in more detail in subsequent sections of this subpart. Briefly, those measures are to—
(1) Publish a drug-free workplace statement and establish a drug-free awareness program for your employees (see §§ 133.205 through 133.220); and
(2) Take actions concerning employees who are convicted of violating drug statutes in the workplace (see § 133.225).
(b) Second, you must identify all known workplaces under your Federal awards (see § 133.230).
§ 133.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
You must publish a statement that—
(a) Tells your employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in your workplace;
(b) Specifies the actions that you will take against employees for violating that prohibition; and
(c) Lets each employee know that, as a condition of employment under any award, he or she:
(1) Will abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Must notify you in writing if he or she is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace and must do so no more than five calendar days after the conviction.
§ 133.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
You must require that a copy of the statement described in § 133.205 be given to each employee who will be engaged in the performance of any Federal award.
§ 133.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
You must establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(a) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(b) Your policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(c) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(d) The penalties that you may impose upon them for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.
§ 133.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
If you are a new recipient that does not already have a policy statement as described in § 133.205 and an ongoing awareness program as described in § 133.215, you must publish the statement and establish the program by the time given in the following table:
If . . .
then you . . .
(a) The performance period of the award is less than 30 days
must have the policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but before the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(b) The performance period of the award is 30 days or more
must have the policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(c) You believe there are extraordinary circumstances that will require more than 30 days for you to publish the policy statement and establish the awareness program
may ask the Department of State awarding official to give you more time to do so. The amount of additional time, if any, to be given is at the discretion of the awarding official.
§ 133.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
There are two actions you must take if an employee is convicted of a drug violation in the workplace:
(a) First, you must notify Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, as required by § 133.205(c)(2), or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must__
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Second, within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either__
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
§ 133.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?
(a) You must identify all known workplaces under each Department of State award. A failure to do so is a violation of your drug-free workplace requirements. You may identify the workplaces__
(1) To the Department of State official that is making the award, either at the time of application or upon award; or
(2) In documents that you keep on file in your offices during the performance of the award, in which case you must make the information available for inspection upon request by Department of State officials or their designated representatives.
(b) Your workplace identification for an award must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under the award takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (e.g., all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
(c) If you identified workplaces to the Department of State awarding official at the time of application or award, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any workplace that you identified changes during the performance of the award, you must inform the Department of State awarding official.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 133.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
As a condition of receiving a Department of State award, if you are an individual recipient, you must agree that—
(a) You will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity related to the award; and
(b) If you are convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity, you will report the conviction:
(1) In writing.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the conviction.
(3) To the Department of State awarding official or other designee for each award that you currently have, unless § 133.301 or the award document designates a central point for the receipt of the notices. When notice is made to a central point, it must include the identification number(s) of each affected award.
§ 133.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Department of State Awarding Officials
§ 133.400
What are my responsibilities as a Department of State awarding official?
As a Department of State awarding official, you must obtain each recipient's agreement, as a condition of the award, to comply with the requirements in—
(a) Subpart B of this part, if the recipient is not an individual; or
(b) Subpart C of this part, if the recipient is an individual.

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 133.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Procurement Executive determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
§ 133.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Procurement Executive determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
§ 133.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
If a recipient is determined to have violated this part, as described in § 133.500 or § 133.505, the Department of State may take one or more of the following actions—
(a) Suspension of payments under the award;
(b) Suspension or termination of the award; and
(c) Suspension or debarment of the recipient under 2 CFR part 601, for a period not to exceed five years.
[68 FR 66557, 66582, Nov. 26, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 10035, Mar. 7, 2007]
§ 133.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
The Procurement Executive may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award, suspension or termination of an award, or suspension or debarment of a recipient if the Procurement Executive determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.

# Subpart F—Definitions
§ 133.605
Award.
Award
means an award of financial assistance by the Department of State or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) A block grant or a grant in an entitlement program, whether or not the grant is exempted from coverage under the Governmentwide rule 22 CFR part 135 that implements OMB Circular A-102 (for availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3) and specifies uniform administrative requirements.
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (
i.e.,
any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
§ 133.610
Controlled substance.
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.
§ 133.615
Conviction.
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.
§ 133.620
Cooperative agreement.
Cooperative agreement
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of grant in § 133.650), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
§ 133.625
Criminal drug statute.
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.
§ 133.630
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689.
§ 133.635
Drug-free workplace.
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.
§ 133.640
Employee.
(a)
Employee
means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
(1) All direct charge employees;
(2) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement in the performance of work under the award is insignificant to the performance of the award; and
(3) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the award and who are on the recipient's payroll.
(b) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the recipient (e.g., volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces).
§ 133.645
Federal agency or agency.
Federal agency or agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
§ 133.650
Grant.
Grant
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship—
(a) The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government's direct benefit or use; and
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.
§ 133.655
Individual.
Individual
means a natural person.
§ 133.660
Recipient.
Recipient
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.
§ 133.665
State.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 133.670
Suspension.
Suspension
means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.
Pt. 134

# PART 134—EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT; IMPLEMENTATION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
134.1
Purpose of these rules.
134.2
When the Act applies.
134.3
Proceedings covered.
134.4
Eligibility of applicants.
134.5
Standard for awards.
134.6
Allowable fees and expenses.
134.7
Rulemaking on maximum rates for attorney fees.
134.8
Official authorized to take final action under the Act.

# Subpart B—Information Required From Applicants
134.11
Contents of application.
134.12
Net worth exhibit.
134.13
Documentation of fees and expenses.
134.14
When application may be filed.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
134.21
Filing and service of documents.
134.22
Answer to application.
134.23
Reply.
134.24
Comments by other parties.
134.25
Settlement.
134.26
Further proceedings.
134.27
Decision.
134.28
Further Department of State review.
134.29
Judicial review.
134.30
Payment of award.

# Authority:
Sec. 203(a)(1), Pub. L. 96-481, 94 Stat. 2325 (5 U.S.C. 504(c)(1)).

# Source:
46 FR 58301, Dec. 1, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 134.1
Purpose of these rules.
The Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504 (called “the Act” in this part), provides for the award of attorney fees and other expenses to eligible individuals and entities who are parties to certain administrative proceedings (called “adversary adjudications”) before the Department of State. An eligible party may receive an award when it prevails over the Department of State, unless the Department of State's position in the proceeding was substantially justified or special circumstances make an award unjust. The rules in this part describe the parties eligible for awards and the proceedings that are covered. They also explain how to apply for awards, and the procedures and standards that the Department will observe to make them.
§ 134.2
When the Act applies.
The Act applies to any adversary adjudication pending before the Department of State at any time between October 1, 1981 and September 30, 1984. This includes proceedings begun before October 1, 1981 if final agency action has not been taken before that date, and proceedings pending on September 30, 1984, regardless of when they were
initiated or when final agency action occurs.
§ 134.3
Proceedings covered.
(a) The Act applies to adversary adjudications conducted by the Department of State. These are adjudications under 5 U.S.C. 554 in which the position of the Department of State is presented by an attorney or other representative who enters an appearance and participates in the proceeding. For the Department of State, the type of proceeding covered are proceedings relative to controlling export of defense articles through administrative sanctions pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2778 and 50 U.S.C. App. 2410 (c)(2)(B).
(b) The Department of State may also designate a proceeding not listed in paragraph (a) of this section as an adversary adjudication for purposes of the Act by so stating in an order initiating the proceeding or designating the matter for hearing. The failure to designate a proceeding as an adversary adjudication shall not preclude the filing of an application by a party who believes the proceeding is covered by the Act; whether the proceeding is covered will then be an issue for resolution in proceedings on the application.
(c) If a proceeding includes matters covered by the Act and matters specifically excluded from coverage, any award made will include only fees and expenses related to covered issues.
§ 134.4
Eligibility of applicants.
(a) To be eligible for an award of attorney fees and other expenses under the Act, the applicant must be a party to the adversary adjudication for which it seeks an award. The term “party” is defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(3). The applicant must show by clear and convincing evidence that it meets all conditions of eligibility set out in this subpart and in subpart B and must submit additional information to verify its eligibility upon order by the adjudicative officer.
(b) The types of eligible applicants are as follows:
(1) An individual with a net worth of not more than $1 million;
(2) The sole owner of an unincorporated business who has a net worth of not more than $5 million, including both personal and business interests, and not more than 500 employees;
(3) A charitable or other tax-exempt organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) with not more than 500 employees;
(4) A cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)) with not more than 500 employees; and
(5) Any other partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization with a net worth of not more than $5 million and not more than 500 employees.
(c) For the purpose of eligibility, the net worth and number of employees of an applicant shall be determined as of the date the proceeding was initiated.
(d) An applicant who owns an unincorporated business will be considered as an “individual” rather than a “sole owner of an unincorporated business” if the issues on which the applicant prevails are related primarily to personal interests rather than to business interests.
(e) The employees of an applicant include all persons who regularly perform services for remuneration for the applicant, under the applicant's direction and control. Part-time employees shall be included on a proportional basis.
(f) The net worth and number of employees of the applicant and all of its affiliates shall be aggregated to determine eligibility. Any individual, corporation or other entity that directly or indirectly controls or owns a majority of the voting shares or other interest of the applicant, or any corporation or other entity of which the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other interest, will be considered an affiliate for purposes of this part, unless the adjudicative officer determines that such treatment would be unjust and contrary to the purposes of the Act in light of the actual relationship between the affiliated entities. In addition, the adjudicative officer may determine that financial relationships of the applicant other than those described in this paragraph constitute special circumstances that would make an award unjust.
(g) An applicant that participates in a proceeding primarily on behalf of one or more other persons or entities that would be ineligible is not itself eligible for an award.
§ 134.5
Standard for awards.
(a) A prevailing applicant may receive an award for fees and expenses incurred in connection with a proceeding, or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, unless the position of the agency over which the applicant has prevailed was substantially justified. The burden of proof that an award should not be made to an eligible prevailing applicant is on the Department of State which may avoid an award by showing that its position was reasonable in law and fact.
(b) An award will be reduced or denied if the applicant has unduly or unreasonably protracted the proceeding or if special circumstances make the award sought unjust.
§ 134.6
Allowable fees and expenses.
(a) Awards will be based on rates customarily charged by persons engaged in the business of acting as attorneys, agents and expert witnesses, even if the services were made available without charge or at a reduced rate to the applicant.
(b) No award for the fee of an attorney or agent under these rules may exceed $75.00 per hour. No award to compensate an expert witness may exceed the highest rate at which the Department of State pays expert witnesses, which is generally $50.00 per hour. However, an award may also include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent or witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily charges clients separately for such expenses.
(c) In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent or expert witness, the adjudicative officer shall consider the following:
(1) If the attorney, agent or witness is in private practice, his or her customary fee for similar services, or, if an employee of the applicant, the fully allocated cost of the services;
(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily performs services;
(3) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant;
(4) the time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty or complexity of the issues in the proceeding; and
(5) Such other factors as may bear on the value of the services provided.
(d) The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project or similar matter prepared on behalf of a party may be awarded, to the extent that the charge for the service does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary for preparation of applicant's case.
§ 134.7
Rulemaking on maximum rates for attorney fees.
(a) If warranted by an increase in the cost of living or by special circumstances (such as limited availability of attorneys qualified to handle certain types of proceedings), the Department of State may adopt regulations providing that attorney fees may be awarded at a rate higher than $75 per hour in some or all of the types of proceedings covered by this part. The Department of State will conduct any rulemaking proceedings for this purpose under the informal rulemaking procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act.
(b) Any person may request the Department of State to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to increase the maximum rate for attorney fees. The request should identify the rate the person believes the Department of State should establish and the types of proceedings in which the rate should be used. It should also explain fully the reasons why the higher rate is warranted. The Department of State will respond to the request within 60 days after it is filed, by determining to initiate a rulemaking proceeding, denying the request, or taking other appropriate action.
§ 134.8
Official authorized to take final action under the Act.
The Department of State official who renders the final agency decision in a covered proceeding is authorized to take final action on matters pertaining
to the Equal Access to Justice Act as applied to the proceeding.

# Subpart B—Information Required From Applicants
§ 134.11
Contents of application.
(a) An application for an award of fees and expenses under the Act shall identify the applicant and the proceeding for which an award is sought. The application shall show that the applicant has prevailed and identify the position of the Department of State in the proceeding that the applicant alleges was not substantially justified. Unless the applicant is an individual, the application shall also state the number of employees of the applicant and describe briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business.
(b) The application shall also include a statement that the applicant's net worth does not exceed $1 million (if an individual) or $5 million (for all other applicants, including their affiliates). However, an applicant may omit this statement if:
(1) It attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualfies under such section; or
(2) It states on the application that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)).
(c) The application shall state the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought.
(d) The application may also include any other matters that the applicant wishes the Department of State to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.
(e) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of prejury that the information provided in the application is true and correct.
§ 134.12
Net worth exhibit.
(a) Each applicant except a qualifed tax-exempt organization or cooperative association must provide with its application a detailed exhibit showing the net worth of the applicant and any affiliates (as defined in § 960.4(f)) when the proceeding was initiated. The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates' assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant qualifies under the standards in his part. The adjudicative officer may require an applicant to file additional information to determine its eligibility for an award.
(b) Ordinarily, the net worth exhibit will be included in the public record of the proceeding. However, an applicant that objects to public disclosure of information in any portion of the exhibit and believes there are legal grounds for withholding it from disclosure may submit that portion of the exhibit directly to the adjudicative officer in a sealed envelope labeled “Confidential Financial Information”, accompanied by a motion to withhold the information from public disclosure. The motion shall describe the information sought to be withheld and explain, in detail, why it falls within one or more of the specific exemptions from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 551(b) (1)-(9), why public disclosure of the information would adversely affect the applicant, and why disclosure is not required in the public interest. The material in question shall be served on counsel representing the agency against which the applicant seeks an award, but need not be served on any other party to the proceeding. If the adjudicative officer finds that the information should not be withheld from disclosure, it shall be placed in the public record of the proceeding. Otherwise, any request to inspect or copy the exhibit shall be disposed of in accordance with the Department of State established procedures under the Freedom of Information Act, part 6 of this title.
§ 134.13
Documentation of fees and expenses.
The application shall be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses, including the cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test project or similar matter, for which an award is sought. A separate itemized statement shall be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing the hours spent in connection with the proceeding by each individual, a description of the specific services performed, the rate at which each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. The adjudicative officer may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed.
§ 134.14
When application may be filed.
(a) An application may be filed whenever the applicant has prevailed in the proceeding or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, but in no case later than 30 days after the Department of State's final disposition of the proceeding.
(b) If review or reconsideration is sought or taken of a decision as to which an applicant believes it has prevailed, proceedings for the award of fees shall be stayed pending final disposition of the underlying controversy.
(c) For purposes of this rule, final disposition means the later of (1) the date on which an initial decision or other recommended disposition of the merits of the proceeding by an adjudicative officer or intermediate review board becomes administratively final; (2) issuance of an order disposing of any petitions for reconsideration of the Department of State's final order in the proceeding; (3) if no petition for reconsideration is filed, the last date on which such a petition could have been filed; or (4) issuance of a final order or any other final resolution of a proceeding, such as a settlement or voluntary dismissal, which is not subject to a petition for reconsideration or to a petition for judicial review; or (5) completion of judicial action on the underlying controversy and any subsequent Department of State action pursuant to judicial mandate.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
§ 134.21
Filing and service of documents.
Any application for an award or other pleading or document related to an application shall be filed and served on all parties to the proceeding in the same manner as other pleadings in the proceeding, except as provided in § 134.12(b) for confidential financial information.
§ 134.22
Answer to application.
(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, counsel representing the Department of State may file an answer to the application. Unless the Department of State counsel requests an extension of time for filing or files a statement of intent to negotiate under paragraph (b) of this section, failure to file an answer within the 30 day period may be treated as a consent to the award requested.
(b) If the Department of State counsel and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate a settlement. The filing of this statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 30 days, and further extensions may be granted by the adjudicative officer upon request by Department of State counsel and the applicant.
(c) The answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of the Department of State position. If the answer is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding the Department of State shall include with the answer either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 134.26.
§ 134.23
Reply.
Within 15 days after service of an answer, the applicant may file a reply. If the reply is based on any alleged facts
not already in the record of the proceeding, the applicant shall include with the reply either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 134.26.
§ 134.24
Comments by other parties.
Any party to a proceeding other than the applicant and Department of State may file comments on an application within 30 days after it is served or on an answer within 15 days after it is served. A commenting party may not participate further in proceedings on the application unless the adjudicative officer determines that the public interest requires such participation in order to permit full exploration of matters raised in the comment.
§ 134.25
Settlement.
The applicant and the Department of State may agree on a proposed settlement of the award before final action on the application, either in connection with a settlement of the underlying proceeding, or after the underlying proceeding has been concluded. If a prevailing party and Department of State counsel agree on a proposed settlement of an award before an application has been filed, the application shall be filed with the proposed settlement.
§ 134.26
Further proceedings.
(a) Ordinarily, the determination of an award will be made on the basis of the written record. However, on request of either the applicant or Department of State counsel, or on his or her own initiative, the adjudicative officer may order further proceedings, such as an informal conference, oral argument, additional written submissions, or an evidentiary hearing. Such further proceedings shall be held only when necessary for full and fair resolution of the issues arising from the application, and shall be conducted as promptly as possible.
(b) A request that the adjudicative officer order further proceedings under this section shall specifically identify the information sought or the disputed issues and shall explain why the additional proceedings are necessary to resolve the issues.
§ 134.27
Decision.
The adjudicative officer shall issue an initial decision on the application as promptly as possible after completion of proceedings on the application. The decision shall include written fundings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and status as a prevailing party, and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The decision shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether the Department of State position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust. If the applicant has sought an award against the Department of State and another agency, the decision shall allocate responsibility for payment of any award made between the Department of State and the other agency, and shall explain the reasons for the allocation made.
§ 134.28
Further Department of State review.
Either the applicant or Department of State counsel may seek review of the initial decision. If neither the applicant nor the Department of State counsel seeks review, the initial decision shall become a final decision of the Department of State 30 days after it is issued. If review is taken the Judicial Officer will issue a final decision on the application or remand the application to the adjudicative officer for further proceedings.
§ 134.29
Judicial review.
Judicial review of final Department of State decisions on awards as may be sought as provided in 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(2).
§ 134.30
Payment of award.
An applicant seeking payment of an award shall submit to the Comptroller or other disbursing official of the Department of State a copy of the final decision granting the award accompanied by a statement that the applicant will not seek review of the decision in the United States courts. Requests for payment should be sent to: Executive Director, Office of the Comptroller, Room 1328, Department of
State, 2201 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20520. The Department of State will pay the amount awarded to the applicant within 60 days, unless judicial review of the award or of the underlying decision of the adversary adjudication has been sought by the applicant or any other party to the proceeding.
Pt. 135

# PART 135—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE HAVANA ACT OF 2021
Sec.
135.1
Authority.
135.2
Definitions.
135.3
Eligibility for payments by the Department of State.
135.4
Consultation with other agencies.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2651a; 22 U.S.C. 2680b.

# Source:
87 FR 38984, June 30, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 135.1
Authority.
(a) Under section 3 of the HAVANA Act of 2021 (Pub. L. 117-46), codified in 22 U.S.C. 2680b(i), the Secretary of State or other agency heads may provide a payment for a qualifying injury to the brain to a covered employee or covered dependent, who incurred a qualifying injury to the brain on or after January 1, 2016. The authority to provide such payments is at the sole discretion of the Secretary or their designee.
(b) These regulations are issued in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 2680b(i)(4) and also apply to former covered employees of the Department of State and their covered dependents.
(c) For current employees of the Department of State (hereinafter, “the Department”), applicable procedures are located in the Foreign Affairs Manual (3 FAM 3660 and its subchapters).
§ 135.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Covered employee.
(1) An employee of the Department who, on or after January 1, 2016, becomes injured by reason of a qualifying injury to the brain.
(2) The following are considered employees of the Department (see procedures in 3 FAM 3660 and its subchapters) for the purposes of this part: Department of State Foreign Service Officers; Department of State Foreign Service Specialists; Department of State Civil Service employees; Consular Affairs—Appointment Eligible Family Member Adjudicator positions; Expanded Professional Associates Program members; Family Member Appointments; Foreign Service Family Reserve Corps; employees on Limited Non-Career Appointments; Temporary Appointments; students providing volunteer services under 5 U.S.C. 3111; personnel on a Personal Services Contract; Locally Employed Staff, whether employed on a Personal Services Agreement, Personal Services Contract, or appointed to the position; and Embassy Science Fellows, unless they are an employee of another Federal agency.
(3) The following are not considered employees of the Department for purposes of these regulations (see § 135.4): employees or retired employees of other agencies.
Covered dependent:
A family member of a Department current or former employee who, on or after January 1, 2016, becomes injured by reason of a qualifying injury to the brain while the dependent's sponsor was a covered employee of the Department.
Covered individual:
A former employee of the Department who, on or after January 1, 2016, becomes injured by reason of a qualifying injury to the brain while they were a covered employee of the Department.
Family member:
For purposes of determining “covered dependent”, a family member is defined as follows:
(1) Children who are unmarried and under 21 years of age or, regardless of age, are unmarried and due to mental and/or physical limitations are incapable of self-support. The term “children” must include natural offspring, step-children, adopted children, and those under permanent legal guardianship (at least until age 18), or comparable permanent custody arrangement, of the employee or spouse or domestic partner (as defined in 3 FAM 1610) when dependent upon and normally residing with the guardian or custodial party, and U.S. citizen children placed for adoption if a U.S. court grants temporary guardianship of the child to the employee and specifically authorizes the child to reside with the
employee in the country of assignment before the adoption is finalized;
(2) Parents (including stepparents and legally adoptive parents) of the employee or of the spouse or of the domestic partner as defined in 3 FAM 1610.
(3) Sisters and brothers (including stepsisters or stepbrothers, or adoptive sisters or brothers) of the employee, or of the spouse when such sisters and brothers are at least 51 percent dependent on the employee for support, unmarried and under 21 years of age, or regardless of age, are physically and/or mentally incapable of self-support; and
(4) Spouse.
Other incident:
A new onset of physical manifestations that cannot otherwise be readily explained.
Qualifying injury to the brain.
(1) The injury must have occurred in connection with war, insurgency, hostile act, terrorist activity, or other incidents designated by the Secretary of State, and that was not the result of the willful misconduct of the covered individual; and
(2) The individual must have:
(i) An acute injury to the brain such as, but not limited to, a concussion, penetrating injury, or as the consequence of an event that leads to permanent alterations in brain function as demonstrated by confirming correlative findings on imaging studies (to include computed tomography scan (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging scan (MRI)) or electroencephalogram (EEG); or
(ii) A medical diagnosis of a traumatic brain injury (TBI) that required active medical treatment for 12 months or more; or
(iii) Acute onset of new persistent, disabling neurologic symptoms as demonstrated by confirming correlative findings on imaging studies (to include CT or MRI), or EEG, or physical exam, or other appropriate testing, and that required active medical treatment for 12 months or more.
[87 FR 38984, June 30, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 4726, Jan. 25, 2023]
§ 135.3
Eligibility for payments by the Department of State.
(a) The Department of State may provide a payment to covered individuals, as defined in this part, if the qualifying injury to the brain was assessed and diagnosed in person by a currently board-certified physician from the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (ABPN), the American Osteopathic Board of Neurology and Psychiatry (AOBNP), the American Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (ABPMR), or the American Osteopathic Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (AOBPMR); occurred on or after January 1, 2016; and while the individual was a covered employee of the Department.
(b) The Department of State may provide a payment to covered employees, as defined in this part, if the qualifying injury to the brain was assessed and diagnosed in person by a currently board-certified physician from the ABPN, AOBNP, ABPMR, or AOBPMR; occurred on or after January 1, 2016; and while the employee was a covered employee of the Department.
(c) The Department of State may provide a payment to a covered dependent, if the qualifying injury to the brain was assessed and diagnosed in person by a currently board-certified physician from the ABPN, AOBNP, ABPMR, or AOBPMR; occurred on or after January 1, 2016; and the dependent's sponsor was a covered employee of the Department at the time of the dependent's injury.
(d) Payment for a qualifying injury to the brain will be a non-taxable, one-time lump sum payment.
(e) The Department will determine the amount paid to each eligible person based on the following factors:
(1) The responses on the DS-4316, “Eligibility Questionnaire for HAVANA Act Payments”; and
(2) Whether the Department of Labor (Workers' Compensation) has determined that the requester has no reemployment potential; or the Social Security Administration has approved the requester for either Social Security Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Insurance (SSI) benefits; or the requester's ABPN, AOBNP, ABPMR, or AOBPMR board-certified physician has certified that the individual requires a full-time caregiver for activities of daily living, as defined
by the Katz Index of Independence of Daily Living.
(3) The award thresholds are based on Level III of the Senior Executive Schedule: Base will be 75 percent of Level III pay, and Base+ will be 100 percent of Level III pay. If the requestor meets any of the criteria listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the requestor will be eligible to receive a Base+ payment. Requestors whose neurologists confirm that the definition of “qualifying injury to the brain” has been met but have not met any of the criteria listed paragraph (e)(2) of this section, will be eligible to receive a Base payment. If a requestor who received a Base payment later s meets any of the criteria listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the requestor may apply for an additional payment that will be the difference between the Base and Base+ payment.
(f) The Under Secretary of State for Management may approve payments under the rule. The Bureau of Global Talent Management (GTM) will notify individuals of the decision in writing.
(g) An appeal of a decision made by the Under Secretary of State for Management may be directed to the Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources in writing. The Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources is the final appeal authority. GTM will notify individuals of the decision in writing.
[87 FR 38984, June 30, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 48444, Aug. 9, 2022; 88 FR 4726, Jan. 25, 2023]
§ 135.4
Consultation with other agencies.
(a) The Department of State will, to the extent possible, consult with the appropriate officials in other federal agencies to identify their current and former covered employees, and current and former dependents who reported an anomalous health incident while working under Chief of Mission authority. This consultation is solely to assist the other agencies in determining who might be initially eligible for payment under the HAVANA Act. The Department of State will not process payment for employees, former employees, or dependents of current or former employees of other agencies.
(b) Under the HAVANA Act, the heads of other employing federal agencies are responsible for prescribing regulations to carry out the HAVANA Act, including regulations for approving any payment.
Pt. 136

# PART 136—PERSONAL PROPERTY DISPOSITION AT POSTS ABROAD
Sec.
136.1
Purpose.
136.2
Authority.
136.3
Definitions.
136.4
Restrictions on dispositions of personal property.
136.5
Chief of mission policies, rules or procedures.
136.6
Contractors.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4341.

# Source:
53 FR 23188, June 20, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 136.1
Purpose.
The primary purpose of these regulations is to ensure that employees and members of their families do not profit personally from sales or other transactions with persons who are not themselves entitled to exemption from import restrictions, duties, or taxes.
§ 136.2
Authority.
Section 303(a) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 authorizes the Secretary of State to issue regulations to carry out the purposes of title III of that Act.
§ 136.3
Definitions.
(a)
Basis
of an item shall include the initial price paid (or retail value at the time of acquisition if acquired by gift), inland and overseas transportation costs (if not reimbursed by the United States Government), shipping insurance, taxes, customs fees, duties or other charges, and capital improvements, but shall not include insurance on an item while in use or storage, maintenance, repair or related costs, or financing charges.
(b)
Charitable contribution
means a contribution or gift as defined in section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, or other similar contribution or gift to a bona fide charitable foreign
entity as determined pursuant to policies, rules or procedures issued by the chief of mission pursuant to § 136.5(b).
(c)
Chief of mission
has the meaning given such term by section 102(e) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 2902(3).
(d)
Contractor
means: (1) An individual employed by personal services contract pursuant to section 2(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2669(c)), pursuant to section 636(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2396(a)(3)), or pursuant to any other similar authority including, in the case of an organization performing services under such authority, an individual involved in the performance of such service; and (2) any other individual or firm that enjoys exemptions from import limitations, customs duties or taxes on personal property from a foreign country in connection with performance of a contract for goods or services when such contract is with the United States Government or an agency or instrumentality thereof or when such contract is directly financed by grant assistance from the United States Government or an agency or instrumentality thereof and the individual or firm is a party to the contract, a subcontractor, or an employee of a contractor or subcontractor.
(e)
Employee
means an individual who is under the jurisdiction of a chief of mission to a foreign country as provided under section 207 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980. (22 U.S.C. 3927) and who is—
(1) An employee as defined by section 2105 of title 5, United States Code;
(2) An officer or employee of the United States Postal Service or of the Postal Rate Commission;
(3) A member of a uniformed service who is not under the command of an area military commander, or
(4) An expert or consultant as authorized pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, with the United States or any agency, department, or establishment thereof; but is not a national or permanent resident of the foreign country in which employed.
(f)
Family member
means any member of the family of an employee who is entitled to exemption from import limitation, customs duties, or taxes which would otherwise apply by virtue of his or her status as a dependent or member of the household of the employee.
(g)
Foreign country
means any country or territory, excluding the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and other territories and possessions of the United States.
(h) Except as otherwise provided by a chief of mission in policies, rules or procedures issued pursuant to § 136.5(b), an item shall be deemed of “minimal value” if its acquisition cost in U.S. dollars (or retail value if received as a gift) is within the limit determined by the Administrator of General Services for “minimal value” of foreign gifts under 5 U.S.C. 7342, currently $180. For purposes of determining “minimal value,” all constitutent parts of components of an audio or visual system, automobile, boat, computer system, or other integrated machine, system or item of equipment must be valued as a single item even if acquired separately, except that spare or superseded parts (e.g., an old set of tires that has been replaced on vehicle) may be valued as separate items.
(i)
Personal property
means any item of personal property, including automobiles, computers, boats, audio and video equipment and any other items acquired for personal use, except that items properly determined to be of “minimal value” shall not be subject to limitations on disposition except for purposes of § 136.4(d) or as prescribed in policies, rules or procedures issued by a chief of mission.
(j)
Profit
means any proceeds (including cash and other valuable consideration but not including amounts of such proceeds given as charitable contributions) for the sale, disposition or assignment of personal property in excess of the basis for such property.
§ 136.4
Restrictions on dispositions of personal property.
(a) An employee or family member shall not sell, assign or otherwise dispose of personal property within a foreign country except with the prior
written approval of the chief of mission or designee, except where the category of dispositions has been authorized to be undertaken without prior written approval in policies, rules or procedures issued by the chief of mission (cf. § 136.5(b)(1)).
(b) An employee or family member shall not retain any profit from the sale, assignment or other disposition within a foreign country of personal property that was imported into or purchased in that foreign country and that, by virtue of the official status of the employee, was exempt from import restrictions, customs duties, or taxes which would otherwise apply, when such sale, assignment or other disposition is made to persons not entitled to exemptions from import restrictions, duties, or taxes. An employee or family member shall not profit from an indirect disposition to persons not entitled to such exemptions, such as sale through a third country diplomat acting as a middleman, where the employee or family member knows or should know that the property is being acquired by the third party for resale to persons not entitled to exemptions, except that this restriction shall not apply to sales of personal property to official agencies of the foreign country in accordance with the laws or regulations of that country.
(c) Profits obtained from dispositions of personal property by an employee or family member that cannot be retained under paragraph (b) of this section including any interest earned by the employee or family member on such profits, shall be disposed of within 90 days of receipt by contribution or gift as defined in section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code or by other similar contribution or gift to a bona fide charitable foreign entity as designated by the chief of mission pursuant to § 136.5(b)(11) of this part.
(d) Except as authorized in advance by the chief of mission on a case-by-case basis, no employee or family member shall sell, assign or otherwise dispose of personal property within a foreign country that was not acquired for bona fide personal use. There shall be a presumption that property that is new, unused or held by the employer or family member in unusual or commercial quantities was not acquired for bona fide personal use. For purposes of this subsection, there is no exemption for items of minimal value § 136.3(h)).
(e) No employee or family member shall import, sell, assign or otherwise dispose of personal property within a foreign country in a manner that violates the law or regulations of that country or governing international law.
(f) Violations of the restrictions or requirements of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section shall be grounds for disciplinary actions against the employee in accordance with the employing agency's procedures and regulations. Employees shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with these regulations by family members.
(g) For purposes of computing profits on personal property dispositions subject to these regulations, where acquisition and disposition of the property were transacted in different currencies, proceeds received and costs incurred in a foreign currency shall be valued in United States dollars at the time of receipt or payment at the rate of exchange that was in effect for reverse accommodation exchanges at U.S. missions at the time of such receipt or payment. Where property was acquired and sold in the same currency, no conversion is required.
§ 136.5
Chief of mission policies, rules or procedures.
(a) Each chief of mission shall establish a procedure under which employees may request approval for the sale of personal property and for conversion of proceeds of such sale from local currency into U.S. dollars, if applicable. This procedure may be modified to meet local conditions, but must produce a documentary record to be held by the post of the following:
(1) The employee's signed request for permission to sell personal property, and, if applicable, to convert local currency proceeds to U.S. dollars;
(2) A description of each item of personal property having more than minimal value, and the cost basis and actual sales price for each item;
(3) All profits received and whether profit is retainable;
(4) Donation to charities or other authorized recipients of non-retainable profits;
(5) Approvals to sell and, if applicable, to exchange proceeds, with any restrictions or refusals of the employee's request noted, signed by the chief of mission or designee; and
(6) For privately owned vehicle transactions, data on purchaser and statement that customs requirements have been met and title has been transferred or arranged with an agent identified on document.
(b) In order to ensure that due account is taken of local conditions, including applicable laws, markets, exchange rate factors, and accommodation exchange facilities, the chief of mission to each foreign country is authorized to establish policies, rules, and procedures governing the disposition of personal property by employees and family members in that country under the chief of mission's jurisdiction. Policies, rules and procedures issued by the chief of mission shall be consistent with the general restrictions set forth in § 136.4 and may include at least the following:
(1) Identification of categories of dispositions (e.g., sales of minimal value items) that may be made without prior written approval;
(2) Identification of categories of individuals or entities to whom sales of personal property can be made without restrictions on profits (e.g., other employees, third country diplomats), individuals or entities to whom sales can be made but profits not retained, and individuals or entities to whom sales may not be made;
(3) Requirements to report the total estimated and actual proceeds for all minimal value items, even if such items are otherwise exempted from limitations on profits of sale;
(4) Categories of items of personal property excluded from restrictions on disposition because generally exempt from taxation and import duties under local law;
(5) More restrictive definition of “minimal value” (see § 136.3(h) of this part);
(6) Limitations on manner of disposition (e.g., restrictions on advertising or yard sales);
(7) Limitations on total proceeds that may be generated by dispositions of personal property, including limitations on proceeds from disposition of “minimal value” items;
(8) Limitations on total profits that may be generated by dispositions of personal property, including limitations on profits from dispositions of “minimal value” items;
(9) Limitations on total proceeds from dispositions of personal property that may be converted into dollars by reverse accommodation exchange;
(10) Limitations on the timing and number of reverse accommodation exchanges permitted for proceeds of dispositions of personal property (e.g., only in last six months of tour and no more than two exchange conversions);
(11) Designation of bona fide charitable foreign entities to whom an employee or family member may donate profits that cannot be retained under these regulations.
(12) Designation of post officials authorized to approve on behalf of chief of mission employee requests for permission to sell personal property and requests to convert local currency proceeds of sale to U.S. dollars by reverse accommodation exchange.
(c) All policies, rules, and procedures that are issued by the chief of mission pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be announced by notice circulated to all affected mission employees and copies of all such policies, rules and procedures shall be made readily accessible to all affected employees and family members.
(d) Violations of restrictions or requirements established by a chief of mission in policies, rules, or procedures issued by a chief of mission pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be grounds for disciplinary actions against the employee in accordance with the employing agency's procedures and regulations. Employees shall ensure compliance by family members with policies, rules or procedures issued by the chief of mission.
§ 136.6
Contractors.
To the extent that contractors enjoy importation or tax privileges in a foreign country because of their contractual relationship to the United States
Government, contracting agencies shall include provisions in their contracts that require the contractors to observe the requirements of these regulations and all policies, rules, and procedures issued by the chief of mission in that foreign country.
Pt. 138

# PART 138—RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
138.100
Conditions on use of funds.
138.105
Definitions.
138.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
138.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
138.205
Professional and technical services.
138.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
138.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
138.400
Penalties.
138.405
Penalty procedures.
138.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
138.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
138.600
Semi-annual compilation.
138.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 138—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 138—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2651a; 31 U.S.C. 1352; Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 584.

# Source:
55 FR 6737, 6749, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

# Subpart A—General
§ 138.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative ageement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a
Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 138.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the
normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to perfessional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 138.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000,
Unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,
Shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 138.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 138.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 138.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 138.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract,
grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 138.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 138.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 138.100 (a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 138.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational
capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 138.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $25,132 and not more than $251,322 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $25,132 and not more than $251,322 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $24,726, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $25,132 and $251,322, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
[55 FR 6737, 6749, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 81 FR 36793, June 8, 2016; 82 FR 3170, Jan. 11, 2017; 83 FR 237, Jan. 3, 2018; 84 FR 9959, Mar. 19, 2019; 85 FR 2022, Jan. 14, 2020; 86 FR 7807, Feb. 2, 2021; 87 FR 1074, Jan. 10, 2022; 88 FR 1507, Jan. 11, 2023; 89 FR 702, Jan. 5, 2024; 90 FR 1868, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 138.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil
Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 138.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 138.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 138.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 138.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the
agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 138, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 138—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 138, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 138—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
EC06OC91.000
EC06OC91.001
EC06OC91.002
PART 139 [RESERVED]
Pt. 140

# PART 140—PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO DRUG TRAFFICKERS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
140.1
Purpose.
140.2
Authorities.
140.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Applicability
140.4
Applicability.

# Subpart C—Enforcement
140.5
Overview.
140.6
Foreign government entities.
140.7
Multilateral institutions and international organizations.
140.8
Recipients of scholarships, fellowships, and participant training.
140.9
Other non-governmental entities and individuals.
140.10
Intermediate credit institutions.
140.11
Minimum enforcement procedures.
140.12
Interagency review procedures.
140.13
Notification to foreign entities and individuals.
140.14
Special procedures for U.S. entities and individuals.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2651a(a)(4).

# Source:
63 FR 36574, July 7, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 140.1
Purpose.
(a) This part implements Section 487 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. Sec. 2291f).
(b) Section 487(a) directs the President to “take all reasonable steps” to ensure that assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA) and the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) “is not provided to or through any individual or entity that the President knows or has reason to believe”:
(1) Has been convicted of a violation of, or a conspiracy to violate, any law or regulation of the United States, a State or the District of Columbia, or a foreign country relating [to] narcotic or psychotropic drugs or other controlled substances; or
(2) Is or has been an illicit trafficker in any such controlled substance or is or has been a knowing assistor, abettor, conspirator, or colluder with others in the illicit trafficking in any such substance.
§ 140.2
Authorities.
Authority to implement FAA Section 487 was delegated by the President to the Secretary of State by E.O. 12163, as amended, and further delegated by the Secretary to the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs by Delegation of Authority No. 145, dated Feb. 4, 1980 (45 FR 11655), as amended.
§ 140.3
Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply for the purpose of this part:
(a)
Convicted.
The act of being found guilty of or legally responsible for a criminal offense, and receiving a conviction or judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction, whether by verdict or plea, and including convictions entered upon a plea of nolo contendere.
(b)
Country Narcotics Coordinator.
The individual assigned by the Chief of Mission of a U.S. diplomatic post, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, in each foreign country to coordinate United States government policies and activities within a country related to counternarcotics efforts.
(c)
Covered assistance.
Any assistance provided by an agency of the United States government under the FAA or AECA, except that it does
not
include:
(1) Assistance that by operation of the law is not subject to FAA Section 487, such as:
(i) Disaster relief and rehabilitation provided under Chapter 9 of Part I of the FAA; and
(ii) Assistance provided to small farmers when part of a community-based alternative development program under Part I or Chapter 4 of Part II of the FAA;
(2) Assistance in a total amount less than $100,000 regarding a specific activity, program, or agreement, except that the procedures in § 140.8 for recipients of scholarships, fellowships, and participant training shall apply regardless of amount. However, assistance shall be deemed covered assistance regardless of amount if the agency providing assistance has reasonable
grounds to suspect that a covered individual or entity may be or may have been involved in drug trafficking; or
(3) Payments of dues or other assessed contributions to an international organization.
(d)
Covered country.
A country that has been determined by the President to be either a “major illicit drug producing” or “major drug-transit” country under Chapter 8 of Part I of the FAA. The list of covered countries is submitted to Congress annually and set forth in the International Narcotics Control Strategy Report.
(e)
Drug trafficking.
Any activity undertaken illicitly to cultivate, produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, finance or transport, or to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with others in illicit activities, including money laundering, relating to narcotic or psychotropic drugs, precursor chemicals, or other controlled substances.
(f)
Money laundering.
The process whereby proceeds of criminal activity are transported, transferred, transformed, converted, or intermingled with legally acquired funds, for the purpose of concealing or disguising the true nature, source, disposition, movement, or ownership of those proceeds. The goal of money laundering is to make funds derived from or associated with illicit activity appear to have been acquired legally.
(g)
Narcotics offense.
A violation of, or a conspiracy to violate, any law or regulation of the United States, a State or the District of Columbia, or a foreign country relating to narcotic or psychotropic drugs or other controlled substances.

# Subpart B—Applicability
§ 140.4
Applicability.
Except as otherwise provided herein or as otherwise specially determined by the Secretary of State or the Secretary's designee (except that decisions on notification and/or disclosure shall in all cases be subject to the provisions of §§ 140.13 through 140.14), the procedures prescribed by this part apply to any “covered individual or entity,”
i.e.
, any individual or entity, including a foreign government entity, a multilateral institution or international organization, or a U.S. or foreign non-governmental entity:
(a)(1) That is receiving or providing covered assistance as a party to a grant, loan, guarantee, cooperative agreement, contract, or other direct agreement with an agency of the United States (a “first-tier” recipient); or
(2) That is receiving covered assistance
(A) Beyond the first tier if specifically designated to receive such assistance by a U.S. government agency; or
(B) In the form of a scholarship, fellowship, or participant training, except certain recipients funded through a multilateral institution or international organization, as provided in § 140.7(c); and
(b)(1) That is located in or providing covered assistance within a covered country or within any other country, or portion thereof, that the Secretary of State or the Secretary's designee may at any time determine should be treated, in order to fulfill the purpose of this part, as if it were a covered country; or
(2) As to which the agency providing assistance or any other interested agency has reasonable grounds to suspect current or past involvement in drug trafficking or conviction of a narcotics offense, regardless of whether the assistance is provided within a covered country.

# Examples:
(1) Under a $500,000 bilateral grant agreement with the Agency for International Development providing covered assistance, Ministry Y of Government A, the government of a covered country, enters into a $150,000 contract with Corporation X. Ministry Y is a covered entity. However, Corporation X is
not
a covered entity because the contract is
not
a direct contract with an agency of the United States.
(2) Under a $1,000,000 grant from the Department of State providing covered assistance, Corporation B makes a $120,000 subgrant to University Y for the training of 12 individuals. If Corporation B is located in or providing assistance within a covered country, it is a covered entity and the 12 individuals receiving participant training are covered individuals. University Y is
not
a covered entity.
(3) University C, which is not located in a covered country, receives a $1 million regional assistance research project grant from the Agency for International development, $80,000 of which is provided for research in
covered countries. University C is
not
a covered entity. (However, if $100,000 or more were provided for research in a covered country or countries, or if University C were located in a covered country, then University C would be a covered entity.)

# Subpart C—Enforcement
§ 140.5
Overview.
This subpart sets forth the enforcement procedures applicable pursuant to § 140.4 to the various types of covered individuals and entities with respect to covered assistance. Section 140.6 establishes the procedures applicable to foreign government entities, including any such entity that is covered by the definition of a “foreign state” set forth in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, 28 U.S.C. Sec. 1603(a). Section 140.7 establishes the procedures applicable to multilateral institutions and international organizations. Section 140.8 establishes the procedures applicable to recipients of scholarships and fellowships and participant trainees. Section 140.9 establishes the procedures applicable to non-governmental entities. Section 140.10 sets forth additional procedures applicable to intermediate credit institutions. Sections 140.11 through 140.14 contain general provisions related to the enforcement process.
§ 140.6
Foreign government entities.
(a)
Determination procedures.
(1) The Country Narcotics Coordinator shall be responsible for establishing a system for reviewing available information regarding narcotics offense convictions and drug trafficking of proposed assistance recipients under this section and, except under the circumstances described in § 140.6(a)(6), determining whether a proposed recipient is to be denied such assistance or other measures are to be taken as a result of the application of FAA Section 487.
(2) Prior to providing covered assistance to or through a proposed recipient, the agency providing the assistance shall provide the Country Narcotics Coordinator in the country in which the proposed recipient is located or, as appropriate, where assistance is to be provided, the information specified in § 140.6(a)(3) in order that the Country Narcotics Coordinator may carry out his or her responsibilities under this part.
(3) In each case, the agency proposing the assistance shall provide to the Country Narcotics Coordinator the name of each key individual within the recipient entity who may be expected to control or benefit from assistance as well as other relevant identifying information (e.g., address, date of birth) that is readily available. If a question arises concerning who should be included within the group of key individuals of an entity, the agency providing the assistance shall consult with the Country Narcotics Coordinator, and the decision shall be made by the Country Narcotics Coordinator. If the agency proposing the assistance disagrees with the Country Narcotics Coordinator's decision regarding who should be included within the group of key individuals, the agency may request that the decision be reviewed by the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs in consultation with other appropriate bureaus and agencies. Any such review undertaken by the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs shall be completed expeditiously.
(4) Within fourteen calendar days after receiving the name of a proposed recipient and other relevant information, the Country Narcotics Coordinator shall determine whether any available information may warrant withholding assistance or taking other measures under this part, based on the criteria set forth in § 140.6(b). If, during that period, the Country Narcotics Coordinator determines that available information does not so indicate, he or she shall notify the proposing agency that the assistance may be provided to the proposed recipient.
(5) If, during the initial fourteen-day period, the Country Narcotics Coordinator determines that information exists that may warrant withholding assistance or taking other measures under this part, then the Country Narcotics Coordinator shall have another fourteen calendar days to make a final determination whether the assistance
shall be provided or withheld or such other measures taken.
(6) A decision to withhold assistance or to take other measures based on information or allegations that a key individual who is a senior government official of the host nation has been convicted of a narcotics offense or has been engaged in drug trafficking shall be made by the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, or by a higher ranking official of the Department of State, in consultation with other appropriate bureaus and agencies. For the purpose of this part, “senior government official” includes host nation officials at or above the vice minister level, heads of host nation law enforcement agencies, and general or flag officers of the host nation armed forces.
(b)
Criteria to be applied.
(1) A decision to withhold assistance or take other measures shall be based on knowledge or reason to believe that the proposed recipient, within the past ten years, has:
(i) Been
convicted
of a narcotics offense as defined in this part; or
(ii) Been
engaged
in drug trafficking, regardless of whether there has been a conviction.
(2) Factors that may support a decision to withhold assistance or take other measures based on reason to believe that the proposed recipient has been engaged in drug trafficking activities within the past ten years when there has been no conviction of such an offense may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Admission of participation in such activities;
(ii) A long record of arrests for drug trafficking activities with an unexplained failure to prosecute by the local government;
(iii) Adequate reliable information indicating involvement in drug trafficking.
(3) If the Country Narcotics Coordinator knows or has reason to believe that a key individual (as described in § 140.6(a)(3)) within a proposed recipient entity has been convicted of a narcotics offense or has been engaged in drug trafficking under the terms of this part, the Country Narcotics Coordinator must then decide whether withholding assistance from the entity or taking other measures to structure the provision of assistance to meet the requirements of section 487 is warranted. This decision shall be made in consultation with the agency proposing the assistance and other appropriate bureaus and agencies. In making this determination, the Country Narcotics Coordinator shall take into account:
(i) The extent to which such individual would have control over assistance received;
(ii) The extent to which such individual could benefit personally from the assistance;
(iii) Whether such individual has acted alone or in collaboration with others associated with the entity;
(iv) The degree to which financial or other resources of the entity itself have been used to support drug trafficking; and
(v) Whether the provision of assistance to the entity can be structured in such a way as to exclude from the effective control or benefit of the assistance any key individuals with respect to whom a negative determination has been made.
(c)
Violations identified subsequent to obligation.
The foregoing procedures provide for a determination before funds are obligated. If, however, subsequent to an obligation of funds an assistance recipient or a key individual of such recipient is found to have been convicted of a narcotics offense or to have been engaged in drug trafficking (e.g., the head of a recipient entity changes during the course of an activity and the new head is found to have been engaged in drug trafficking), appropriate action should be taken, including, if necessary, termination of the assistance. Agreements shall be written to permit termination of assistance in such circumstances.
§ 140.7
Multilateral institutions and international organizations.
Assistance provided to or through multilateral institutions or international organizations is subject to this part as follows:
(a) Where the government agency providing assistance has reasonable grounds to suspect that a recipient
multilateral institution or international organization may be or may have been involved in drug trafficking, the provisions of § 140.6 shall apply.
(b) Where the government agency providing assistance designates the recipient of assistance from the multilateral institution or international organization and the designated recipient is a covered individual or entity, the provisions of this part shall apply as if the assistance were provided directly to the designated recipient.
(c) Where the government agency providing assistance does not designate the recipient of assistance from the multilateral institution or international organization, this part do not apply, other than as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, except that the agency's agreement with the multilateral institution or international organization shall stipulate that such entity is to make reasonable efforts, as necessary, to ensure that the assistance is not diverted in support of drug trafficking.

# Example:
The State Department provides $600,000 to the United Nations for the United Nations Drug Control Program, specifically designating that Government D of a covered country receive $150,000 and Corporation E receive $60,000 for training programs in a covered country. Individuals who will receive training are not specifically designated by the State Department. The United Nations is a covered entity based on § 140.4(a)(1); Government D is a covered entity based on §§ 140.4(b) and 140.7(b); Corporation E is not a covered entity under §§ 140.4(b) and 140.7(b) because it has been designated to receive less than $100,000 in assistance (§ 140.3(c)(2)). Participant trainees are not covered individuals because they fall under the exception contained in § 140.7(c) (see also § 140.4(a)(2)).
§ 140.8
Recipients of scholarships, fellowships, and participant training.
(a)
Procedures.
Individuals who are located in a covered country and who are proposed recipients of scholarships, fellowships, or participant training, except those falling under the exception contained in § 140.7(c), are subject to the review procedures, criteria, and procedures concerning violations identified subsequent to obligation of funds set forth in § 140.6. Such review of recipient individuals is in addition to the provisions applicable to the recipient entity providing the assistance.
(b)
Certifications.
Individuals who are located in a covered country and who are proposed recipients of scholarships, fellowships, or participant training shall also be required to certify prior to approval that, within the last ten years, they have not been convicted of a narcotics offense, have not been engaged in drug trafficking, and have not knowingly assisted, abetted, conspired, or colluded with others in drug trafficking. False certification may subject the assistance recipient to U.S. criminal prosecution under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1001 and to withdrawal of assistance under this part.
§ 140.9
Other non-governmental entities and individuals.
(a)
Procedures.
Section 140.9 applies to private voluntary agencies, educational institutions, for-profit firms, other non-governmental entities and private individuals. A non-governmental entity that is not organized under the laws of the United States shall be subject to the review procedures and criteria set forth in § 140.6(a) and (b). A non-governmental entity that is organized under the laws of the United States shall not be subject to such review procedures and criteria. However, an agency providing assistance shall follow such review procedures and criteria, as modified by section § 140.14, if the agency has reasonable grounds to suspect that a proposed U.S. non-governmental entity or a key individual of such entity may be or may have been involved in drug trafficking or may have been convicted of a narcotics offense. Procedures set forth in § 140.6(c) concerning violations identified subsequent to obligation shall apply to both U.S. and foreign non-governmental entities.

# Examples:
(1) A $100,000 grant to a covered U.S. university for participant training would not be subject to the review procedures and criteria in § 140.6(a) and (b). However, a proposed participant would be subject to the review procedures and criteria in § 140.6(a) and (b) as part of the agency's approval process.
(2) A $100,000 grant to a covered foreign private voluntary agency for participant training would be subject to the review procedures and criteria in § 140.6(a) and (b). In addition, each proposed participant would be subject to the review procedures and criteria
in § 140.6(a) and (b) as part of the agency's approval process.
(b)
Refunds.
A clause shall be included in grants, contracts, and other agreements with both U.S. and foreign non-governmental entities requiring that assistance provided to or through such an entity that is subsequently found to have been engaged in drug trafficking, as defined in this part, shall be subject to refund or recall.
(c)
Certifications.
Prior to approval of covered assistance, key individuals (as described in § 140.6(a)(3)) in both U.S. and foreign non-governmental entities shall be required to certify that, within the last ten years, they have not been convicted of a narcotics offense, have not been engaged in drug trafficking and have not knowingly assisted, abetted, conspired, or colluded with others in drug trafficking. False certification may subject the signatory to U.S. criminal prosecution under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1001.
§ 140.10
Intermediate credit institutions.
(a)
Treatment as non-governmental entity or as a foreign government entity.
Intermediate credit institutions (“ICIs”) shall be subject to either the procedures applicable to foreign government entities or those applicable to non-governmental entities, depending on the nature of the specific entity. The Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs or the Assistant Secretary's designee, in consultation with the agency proposing the assistance and other appropriate bureaus and agencies, shall determine (consistent with the definition of “foreign state” set forth in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, 28 U.S.C. 1603(a) and made applicable by § 140.5) whether the ICI will be treated as a non-governmental entity or a foreign government entity.
(b)
Refunds.
In addition to measures required as a consequence of an ICI's treatment as a non-governmental entity or a foreign government entity, a clause shall be included in agreements with all ICIs requiring that any loan greater than $1,000 provided by the ICI to an individual or entity subsequently found to have been convicted of a narcotics offense or engaged in drug trafficking, as defined in this part, shall be subject to refund or recall.
§ 140.11
Minimum enforcement procedures.
Sections 140.6 through 140.10 represent the minimum procedures that each agency providing assistance must apply in order to implement FAA Section 487. Under individual circumstances, however, additional measures may be appropriate. In those cases, agencies providing assistance are encouraged to take additional steps, as necessary, to ensure that the statutory restrictions are enforced.
§ 140.12
Interagency review procedures.
If the agency proposing the assistance disagrees with a determination by the Country Narcotics Coordinator to withhold assistance or take other measures, the agency may request that the determination be reviewed by the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs in coordination with other appropriate bureaus and agencies. Unless otherwise determined by the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, the assistance shall continue to be withheld pending resolution of the review.
§ 140.13
Notification to foreign entities and individuals.
(a) Unless otherwise determined under § 140.13(b), if a determination has been made that assistance to a foreign entity or individual is to be withheld, suspended, or terminated under this part, the agency administering such assistance shall so inform the affected entity or individual. Except as the agency administering such assistance, the Country Narcotics Coordinator, and the agency or agencies that are the source of information that formed the basis for withholding, suspending, or terminating assistance may otherwise agree, the entity or individual shall be notified solely of the statutory basis for withholding, suspending, or terminating assistance.
(b) Before such notification, the Country Narcotics Coordinator shall be
responsible for ascertaining, in coordination with the investigating agency, that notification would not interfere with an on-going criminal investigation. If the investigating agency believes that there is a significant risk of such interference, the Country Narcotics Coordinator, in coordination with the investigating agency, shall determine the means of compliance with this statute that best minimizes such risk.
§ 140.14
Special procedures for U.S. entities and individuals.
(a) If the Country Narcotics Coordinator makes a preliminary decision that evidence exists to justify withholding, suspending, or terminating assistance to a U.S. entity, U.S. citizen, or permanent U.S. resident, the matter shall be referred immediately to the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs for appropriate action, to be taken in consultation with the agency proposing the assistance and the agency or agencies that provided information reviewed or relied upon in making the preliminary decision.
(b) If a determination is made that assistance is to be withheld, suspended, or terminated under this part, the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, or the Assistant Secretary's designee, shall notify the affected U.S. entity, U.S. citizen, or permanent U.S. resident and provide such entity or individual with an opportunity to respond before action is taken. In no event, shall this part be interpreted to create a right to classified information or law enforcement investigatory information by such entity or individual.

# SUBCHAPTER O—CIVIL RIGHTS
Pt. 141

# PART 141—NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE—EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
Sec.
141.1
Purpose.
141.2
Application of this part.
141.3
Discrimination prohibited.
141.4
Assurances required.
141.5
Compliance information.
141.6
Conduct of investigation.
141.7
Procedure for effecting compliance.
141.8
Hearings.
141.9
Decisions and notices.
141.10
Judicial review.
141.11
Effect on other regulations; forms and instructions.
141.12
Definitions.
Appendix A to Part 141—Federal Financial Assistance to Which This Part Applies

# Authority:
Sec. 602, 78 Stat. 252, sec. 4, 63 Stat. 111, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 2000d-1, 22 U.S.C. 2658.

# Source:
30 FR 314, Jan. 9, 1965, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 141 appear at 68 FR 51358, Aug. 26, 2003.
§ 141.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to effectuate the provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (hereafter referred to as the “Act”) to the end that no person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department of State.
§ 141.2
Application of this part.
This part applies to any program for which Federal financial assistance, as defined in this part, is authorized under a law administered by the Department including, but not limited to, the types of Federal financial assistance listed in appendix A of this part. It applies to Federal financial assistance of any form, including property which may be acquired as a result of and in connection with such assistance, extended program after the effective date of this regulation, even if the application is approved prior to such effective date. This part does not apply to (a) any Federal financial assistance by way of insurance of guaranty contracts; (b) money paid, property transferred, or other assistance extended before the effective date of this regulation; (c) any assistance to any individual who is the ultimate beneficiary; or (d) any employment practice, under any such program, of any employer, employment agency, or labor organization, except to the extent described in § 141.3 (d), or (e) any assistance to an activity carried on outside the United States by a person, institution, or other entity not located in the United States. The fact that a type of Federal financial assistance is not listed in appendix A of this part shall not mean, if title VI of the Act is otherwise applicable, that a program is not covered. Transfers of surplus property in the United States are subject to regulations issued by the Administrator of General Services (41 CFR 101-6.2).
[38 FR 17945, July 5, 1973]
§ 141.3
Discrimination prohibited.
(a)
General.
No person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program to which this part applies.
(b)
Specific discriminatory actions prohibited.
(1) A recipient to which this part applies may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements on ground of race, color or national origin:
(i) Deny an individual any service, financial aid, or other benefits provided under the program;
(ii) Provide any service, financial aid, or other benefits to an individual which is different, or is provided in a different manner, from that provided to others under the program;
(iii) Subject an individual to segregation or separate treatment in any matter related to his receipt of any service, financial aid, or other benefit under the program;
(iv) Restrict an individual in any way in the enjoyment of any advantage or privilege enjoyed by others receiving any service, financial aid, or other benefit under the program;
(v) Treat an individual differently from others in determining whether he satisfies any admission, enrollment, quota, eligibility, membership or other requirement or condition which individuals must meet in order to be provided any service, financial aid, or other benefit provided under the program;
(vi) Deny an individual an opportunity to participate in the program through the provision of services or otherwise afford him an opportunity to do so which is different from that afforded others under the program, including the opportunity to participate in the program as an employee in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(vii) Deny a person the opportunity to participate as a member of a planning or advisory body which is an integral part of the program.
(2) A recipient, in determining the types of services, financial aid, or other benefits, or facilities which will be provided under any such program, or the location or site of any facilities, or services, or the class of individuals to whom, or the situations in which, such services, financial aid, other benefits, or facilities will be provided under any such program or the class of individuals to be afforded an opportunity to participate in any such program, may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration or select locations or sites for any facilities or services, which have the effect of subjecting individuals to discrimination because of their race, color, or national origin, or have the effect of defeating or substantially impairing accomplishment of the objectives of the program as respect individuals of a particular race, color, or national origin.
(3) As used in this section the services, financial aid, or other benefits provided under a program receiving Federal financial assistance shall be deemed to include any service, financial aid, or other benefit provided in or through a facility provided with the aid of Federal financial assistance.
(4) The enumeration of specific forms of prohibited discrimination in this paragraph does not limit the generality of the prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section.
(5)(i) In administering a program regarding which the recipient has previously discriminated against persons on the ground of race, color, or national origin, the recipient must take affirmative action to overcome the effects of prior discrimination.
(ii) Even in the absence of such prior discrimination, a recipient in administering a program may take affirmative action to overcome the effects of conditions which resulted in limiting participation by persons of a particular race, color, or national origin.
(c)
Special benefits.
An individual shall not be deemed subjected to discrimination by reason of his exclusion from benefits limited by Federal law to individuals of a particular race, color, or national origin different from his.
(d)
Employment practices.
(1) Where a primary objective of the Federal financial assistance to a program to which this part applies is to provide employment, a recipient may not (directly or through contractual or other arrangements) subject an individual to discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in its employment practices under such program (including recruitment or recruitment advertising, employment layoff or termination, upgrading, demotion, or transfer, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and use of facilities), including programs where a primary objective of the Federal financial assistance is: (i) To reduce the unemployment of such individuals or to help them through employment to meet subsistence needs; (ii) to assist such individuals through employment to meet expenses incident to the commencement or continuation of their education or training; (iii) to provide work experience which contributes to the education or training of such individuals;
or (iv) to provide remunerative activity to such individuals who because of severe handicaps cannot be readily absorbed in the competitive labor market.
(2) Where a primary objective of the Federal financial assistance is not to provide employment, but discrimination on the grounds of race, color, or national origin in the employment practices of the recipient or other persons subject to the regulation tends, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, to exclude individuals from participation in, to deny them the benefits of, or to subject them to discrimination under any program to which this regulation applies, the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall apply to the employment practices of the recipient or other persons subject to the regulation, to the extent necessary to assure equality of opportunity to, and nondiscriminatory treatment of, beneficiaries.
[30 FR 314, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17946, July 5, 1973; 68 FR 51358, Aug. 26, 2003]
§ 141.4
Assurances required.
(a)
General.
(1) Every application for Federal financial assistance to which this part applies, as a condition to its approval and the extension of any Federal financial assistance pursuant to the application, shall contain or be accompanied by an assurance that the program will be conducted or the facility operated in compliance with all requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part. The assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended pursuant to the application.
(2) In any case where the Federal assistance is to provide, or is in the form of personal property, or real property or structures or any interest therein, or such property is acquired as a result of and in connection with such assistance, the assurance shall obligate the recipient, or, in case of subsequent transfers, the transferees, for the period during which the property is used for a purpose for which the Federal assistance was, or is extended, or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services and benefits, or for as long as the recipient retains ownership or possession of the property, whichever is longer. Any assurance relating to property provided under or acquired as a result of or in connection with such assistance shall as appropriate require any instrument effecting or recording transfer, title or other evidence of ownership or right to possession, to include a covenant or condition assuring nondiscrimination for the period of obligation of the recipient or any transferee, which may contain a right to be reserved to the Department to revert title or right to possession. Where no transfer of property is involved, but property is improved or any interest of the recipient or transferee therein is increased as a result of Federal financial assistance, the recipient or transferee shall agree to include such covenant or condition in any subsequent transfer of such property. Failure to comply with any such conditions or requirements contained in such assurances shall render the recipient and the transferees, where appropriate, presumptively in noncompliance.
(3) The responsible Departmental official shall specify the form of the foregoing assurances, and the extent to which like assurances will be required of subgrantees, contractors and subcontractors, transferees, successors in interest, and other participants. Any such assurance shall include provisions which give the United States a right to seek its judicial enforcement.
(b)
Assurances from institutions.
(1) In the case of any application for Federal financial assistance to an institution of higher education, including assistance for construction, for research, for a special training project, for student loans, or for any other purpose, the assurance required by this section shall extend to admission practices and to all other practices relating to the treatment of students.
(2) The assurance required with respect to an institution of higher education, or any other institution, insofar as the assurance relates to the institution's practices with respect to admission or other treatment of individuals as students, or clients of the institution or to the opportunity to participate in the provision of services or other benefits to such individuals, shall be applicable to the entire institution.
(c)
Elementary and secondary schools.
The requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, with respect to any elementary or secondary school or school system shall be deemed to be satisfied if such school or school system (1) is subject to a final order of a court of the United States for the desegregation of such school or school system, and provides an assurance that it will comply with such order, or (2) submits a plan the desegregation of such school or school system which the responsible official of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare determines is adequate to accomplish the purposes of the Act and this part within the earliest practicable time, and provides reasonable assurance that it will carry out such plan; in any case of continuing Federal financial assistance the responsible official of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare may reserve the right to redetermine, after such period as may be specified by him the adequacy of the plan to accomplish the purposes of the Act and this part. In any case in which a final order of a court of the United States for the desegregation of such school or school system is entered after submission of such a plan, such plan shall be revised to conform to such final order, including any future modification of such order.
[30 FR 314, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17946, July 5, 1973; 68 FR 51358, Aug. 26, 2003]
§ 141.5
Compliance information.
(a)
Cooperation and assistance.
Each responsible Department official shall to the fullest extent practicable seek the cooperation of recipients in obtaining compliance with this regulation and shall provide assistance and guidance to recipients to help them comply voluntarily with this part.
(b)
Compliance reports.
Each recipient shall keep such records and submit to the responsible Departmental official or his designee timely, complete and accurate compliance reports at such times, and in such form and containing such information, as a responsible Departmental official or his designee may determine to be necessary to enable him to ascertain whether the recipient has complied or is complying with this part. In general, recipients should have available for the Department racial and ethnic data showing the extent to which members of minority groups are beneficiaries of Federally assisted programs. In the case in which a primary recipient extends Federal financial assistance to any other recipient, such other recipient shall also submit such compliance reports to the primary recipient as may be necessary to enable the primary recipient to carry out his obligations under this part.
(c)
Access to sources of information.
Each recipient shall permit access by the responsible Department official or his designee during normal business hours to such of its books, records, accounts, and other sources of information, and its facilities as may be pertinent to ascertain compliance with this part. Where any information required of a recipient is in the exclusive possession of any other agency, institution or person and this agency, institution or person shall fail or refuse to furnish this information, the recipient shall so certify in its report and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information.
(d)
Information to beneficiaries and participants.
Each recipient shall make available to participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the program for which the recipient receives Federal financial assistance, and make such information available to them in such manner, as the responsible Department official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by the Act and this part.
[30 FR 314, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17947, July 5, 1973]
§ 141.6
Conduct of investigation.
(a)
Periodic compliance reviews.
The responsible Department official or his designee shall from time to time review the practices of recipients to determine whether they are complying with this part.
(b)
Complaints.
Any person who believes himself or any specific class of individual to be subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may by himself or by a representative file with the responsible Departmental official a
written complaint. A complaint must be filed not later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the responsible Departmental official or his designee.
(c)
Investigations.
The responsible Department official or his designee will make a prompt investigation whenever a compliance review, report, complaint, or any other information indicates a possible failure to comply with this part. The investigation should include, where appropriate, a review of the pertinent practices and policies of the recipient, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with this part occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether the recipient has failed to comply with this part.
(d)
Resolution of matters.
(1) If an investigation pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section indicates a failure to comply with this part, the responsible Department official or his designee will so inform the recipient and the matter will be resolved by informal means whenever possible. If it has been determined that the matter cannot be resolved by informal means, action will be taken as provided for in § 141.7.
(2) If an investigation does not warrant action pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section the responsible Department official or his designee will so inform the recipient and the complainant, if any, in writing.
(e)
Intimidatory or retaliatory acts prohibited.
No recipient or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by section 601 of the Act or this part, or because he has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this part. The identity of complainants shall be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding arising thereunder.
[30 FR 314, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17947, July 5, 1973]
§ 141.7
Procedure for effecting compliance.
(a)
General.
If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part, and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with this part may be effected by the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance or by any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not limited to, (1) a reference to Department of Justice with a recommendation that appropriate proceedings be brought to enforce any rights of the United States under any law of the United States (including other titles of the Act), or any assurance or other contractual undertaking, and (2) any applicable proceeding under State or local law.
(b)
Noncompliance with § 141.4.
If an applicant fails or refused to furnish an assurance required under § 141.4 or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to that section Federal financial assistance may be refused in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section. The Department shall not be required to provide assistance in such a case during the pendency of the administrative proceedings under such paragraph except that the Department shall continue assistance during the pendency of such proceedings where such assistance is due and payable pursuant to an application therefor approved prior to the effective date of this part.
(c)
Termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance.
No order suspending, terminating or refusing to grant or continue Federal financial assistance shall become effective until (1) the responsible Department official has advised the applicant or recipient of his failure to comply and has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means, (2) there has been an express finding on the record, after opportunity for hearing, of a failure by the applicant or recipient to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to this part, (3) the action has been approved by the Secretary pursuant to § 141.9(e), and (4)
the expiration of 30 days after the Secretary has filed with the committee of the House and the committee of the Senate having legislative jurisdiction over the program involved, a full written report of the circumstances and the grounds for such action. Any action to suspend or terminate or to refuse to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance shall be limited to the particular political entity, or part thereof, or other applicant or recipient as to whom such a finding has been made and shall be limited in its effect to the particular program, or part thereof, in which such noncompliance has been so found.
(d)
Other means authorized by law.
No action to effect compliance by any other means authorized by law shall be taken until (1) the responsible Department official has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means, (2) the action has been approved by the Deputy Under Secretary for Administration, (3) the recipient or other person has been notified of its failure to comply and of the action to be taken to effect compliance, and (4) the expiration of at least 10 days from the mailing of such notice to the recipient or other person. During this period of at least 10 days additional efforts shall be made to persuade the recipient or other person to comply with this part and to take such corrective action as may be appropriate.
[30 FR 314, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17947 July 5, 1973]
§ 141.8
Hearings.
(a)
Opportunity for hearing.
Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by § 141.7(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either (1) fix a date not less than 20 days after the date or such notice within which the applicant or recipient may request of the responsible Department official that the matter be scheduled for hearing or (2) advise the applicant or recipient that the matter in question has been set down for hearing at a stated place and time. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing under this paragraph or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing under section 602 of the Act and § 141.7(c) of this part and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of such information as is available.
(b)
Time and place of hearing.
Hearings shall normally be held at the offices of the Department in Washington, DC, at a time fixed by the responsible Department official. Hearings shall be held before an official designated by the Secretary other than the responsible Department official, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3105 and 3344 (formerly Section 11 of the Administrative Procedure Act).
(c)
Right to counsel.
In all proceedings under this section, the applicant or recipient and the Department shall have the right to be represented by counsel.
(d)
Procedures, evidence, and record.
(1) The hearing, decision, and any administrative review thereof shall be conducted with as much conformity as is practicable with 5 U.S.C. 554-557 (formerly sections 5-8 of the Administrative Procedure Act) and in accordance with such rules of procedure as are proper (and not inconsistent with this section) relating to the conduct of the hearing, giving of notices subsequent to those provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, taking of testimony, exhibits, arguments and briefs, requests for findings, and other related matters. Both the Department and the applicant or recipient shall be entitled to introduce all relevant evidence on the issues as stated in the notice for hearing or as determined by the officer conducting the hearing at the outset of or during the hearing.
(2) Technical rules of evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to this part, but rules or principles
designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination shall be applied where reasonably necessary by the officer conducting the hearing. The office presiding at the hearing may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by the parties and opportunity shall be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues. A transcript shall be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record. All decisions shall be based upon the hearing record and written findings shall be made.
(e)
Consolidated or joint hearings; hearings before other agencies.
In cases in which the same or related facts are asserted to constitute noncompliance with this part with respect to two or more Federal statutes, authorities, or other means by which Federal financial assistance is extended and to which this part applies, or noncompliance with this part and regulations of one or more other Federal departments or agencies issued under title VI of the Act, the Secretary may, by agreement with such other departments or agencies where applicable, provide for the conduct of consolidated or joint hearings, and for the application to such hearings of rules of procedures not inconsistent with this part, except that procedural requirements of the hearing agency if other than this Department may be adopted insofar as it is determined by the Secretary that variations from the procedures described in this section or elsewhere as may be required under this part do not impair the rights of the parties. The Secretary may also transfer the hearing of any complaint to any other department or agency, with the consent of that Department or Agency (1) where Federal financial assistance to the applicant or recipient of the other Department or Agency is substantially greater than that of the Department of State, or (2) upon determination by the Secretary that such transfer would be in the best interests of the Government of effectuating this part. Final decisions in all such cases, insofar as this part is concerned, shall be made in accordance with § 141.9.
[30 FR 314, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17947, July 5, 1973]
§ 141.9
Decisions and notices.
(a)
Decisions on record or review by the responsible Department official.
The applicant or recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with the officer presiding at the hearing briefs or other written statements of its contentions, and a copy of the final decision shall be given in writing to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any. The officer presiding at the hearing shall render a decision on the matter.
(b)
Decisions on record where a hearing is waived.
Whenever a hearing is waived pursuant to § 141.8(a) a decision shall be made by the responsible Departmental official on the record and a copy of such decision shall be given in writing to the applicant or recipient, and to the complainant, if any.
(c)
Rulings required.
Each decision of an officer presiding at the hearing shall set forth his ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part with which it is found that the applicant or recipient has failed to comply.
(d)
Appeal.
Either party may appeal from a decision of the officer presiding at the hearing to the responsible Department official within 30 days of the mailing of the officer's decision. In the absence of such an appeal the decision of the officer presiding at the hearings shall constitute the final decision of the Department subject to paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Approval by Secretary.
Any final decision by an officer (other than the Secretary) which provides for the suspension or termination of, or the refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, or the imposition of any other sanction available under this part or the Act, shall promptly be transmitted to the Secretary who may approve such decision, may vacate it, or remit or mitigate any sanction imposed.
(f)
Content of orders.
The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to which this regulation applies, and may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of the Act and this part, including provisions designed to assure that no Federal financial assistance to which this regulation applies will thereafter be extended to the applicant or recipient determined by such decision to be in default in its performance of an assurance given by it pursuant to this part, or to have otherwise failed to comply with this part, unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies the responsible Department official that it will fully comply with this part.
(g)
Post-termination proceedings.
(1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with this regulation and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this regulation.
(2) Any applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request the responsible Departmental official to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information establishing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If the responsible Departmental official determines that those requirements have been satisfied, he shall restore such eligibility, but such determination shall be in writing and shall be supported by evidence and findings of fact which shall be retained by the Department.
(3) If the responsible Departmental official denies any such request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying why it believes such official to have been in error. It shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record, in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the responsible Departmental official. The burden of substantiating compliance with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be on the applicant or recipient. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall remain in effect.
[30 FR 314, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17947, July 5, 1973]
§ 141.10
Judicial review.
Action taken pursuant to section 602 of the Act is subject to judicial review as provided in section 603 of the Act.
§ 141.11
Effect on other regulations; forms and instructions.
Nothing in this part shall be deemed to supersede: Executive Orders 10925 and 11114 and regulations issued thereunder, or any other regulations or instructions, insofar as such regulations, or instructions prohibit discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in any program or situation to which this regulation is inapplicable, or prohibit discrimination on any other ground.
(a)
Forms and instructions.
Each responsible Department official shall issue, and promptly make available to interested persons, forms and detailed instructions and procedures for effectuating this part as applied to programs to which this part applies and for which he is responsible.
(b)
Supervision and coordination.
The Secretary may, from time to time, assign to officials of the Department, or to officials of other departments or agencies of the Government with the consent of such department or agencies, responsibilities in connection with the effectuation of the purposes of title VI of the Act and this part including the achievement of effectiveness coordination and maximum uniformity within the Department and within the executive branch of the Government in the application of title VI and this part to similar programs and in similar situations. Any action taken, determination made, or requirement imposed by an official of another department or
agency acting pursuant to an assignment of responsibility under this subsection shall have the same effect as though such action had been taken by the responsible official of this Department.
[22 FR 10882, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 38 FR 19748, July 5, 1973]
§ 141.12
Definitions.
As used in this part—
(a) The term
Department
means the Department of State and includes each of its operating agencies and other organizational units except the Agency for International Development.
(b) The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of State.
(c) The term
responsible Department official
with respect to any program receiving Federal financial assistance means the official of the Department having responsibility within the Department for such assistance or such official of the Department as the Secretary designates.
(d) The term
United States
means the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Wake Island, the Canal Zone, and the territories and possessions of the United States, and the term
State
means any one of the foregoing.
(e) The term
Federal financial assistance
includes (1) grants and loans of Federal funds, (2) the grant or donation of Federal property and interests in property, (3) the detail of Federal personnel, and (4) any Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance or other benefits to individuals whether provided through employees of the recipient of Federal financial assistance or provided by others through contracts or other arrangements with the recipient.
(f) The terms
program or activity
and
program
mean all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:
(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or
(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;
(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or
(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;
(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—
(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or
(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or
(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (f)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(g) The term
recipient
means any State, political subdivision of any State, or instrumentality of any State or political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or other entity, or any individual, in any State to whom Federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assign, or transferee thereof, but such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary.
(h) The term
primary recipient
means any recipient which is authorized or required to extend Federal financial assistance to another recipient.
(i) The term
applicant
means one who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by a responsible Department official, or by a primary recipient, as a condition to
eligibility for Federal financial assistance, and the term
application
means such an application, request, or plan.
(j) The term
facility
includes all or any portion of structures, equipment, or other real or personal property or interests therein, and the provision of facilities includes the construction, expansion, renovation, remodeling, alteration, or acquisition of facilities.
[30 FR 314, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17948, July 5, 1973; 68 FR 51358, Aug. 26, 2003]
Pt. 141, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 141—Federal Financial Assistance to Which This Part Applies
1. Mutual understanding between people of the United States and the people of other countries by educational and cultural exchange—studies, research, instruction and other educational activities—cultural exchanges (Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961—75 Stat. 527-538).
2. Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between East and West—grant to State of Hawaii (Pub. L. 86-472, 74 Stat. 141).
3. Assistance to or in behalf of refugees designated by the President (Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962—76 Stat. 121-124).
4. Donations of certain foreign language tapes and other training material to public and private institutions (Regulations of Administrator of General Services relating to surplus property—41 CFR 101-6.2).
[30 FR 314, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17948, July 5, 1973]
Pt. 142

# PART 142—NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
142.1
Purpose.
142.2
Application.
142.3
Definitions.
142.4
Discrimination prohibited.
142.5
Assurances required.
142.6
Remedial action, voluntary action, and self-evaluation.
142.7
Designation of responsible employee and adoption of grievance procedures.
142.8
Notice.
142.9
Administrative requirements for small recipients.
142.10
Effect of state and local law or other requirements and effect of employment opportunities.

# Subpart B—Employment Practices
142.11
Discrimination prohibited.
142.12
Reasonable accommodation.
142.13
Employment criteria.
142.14
Preemployment inquiries.

# Subpart C—Accessibility
142.15
Discrimination prohibited.
142.16
Existing facilities.
142.17
New construction.
142.18-142.40
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Postsecondary Education
142.41
Application of this subpart.
142.42
Admissions and recruitment.
142.43
Treatment of students; general.
142.44
Academic adjustments.
142.45
Housing.
142.46
Financial and employment assistance to students.
142.47
Nonacademic services.
142.48-142.60
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Health, Welfare, Social, and Other Services
142.61
Application of this subpart.
142.62
Health, welfare, social, and other services.
142.63
Drug and alcohol addicts.

# Subpart F—Procedures
142.70
Procedures.
Appendix A to Part 142—Federal Financial Assistance to Which This Part Applies

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
45 FR 69438, Oct. 21, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 142 appear at 68 FR 51359, Aug. 26, 2003.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 142.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to effectuate section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which is designed to eliminate discrimination on the basis of handicap in any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
§ 142.2
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities directly affecting handicapped individuals in the United States
carried on by recipients of Federal financial assistance pursuant to any authority held or delegated by the Secretary of State, including the types of Federal financial assistance listed in appendix A of this part. (appendix A may be revised from time-to-time by notice in the
Federal Register.
) It applies to money paid, property transferred, or other Federal financial assistance extended after the effective date of this regulation, even if the application for such assistance is approved prior to such effective date. This part does not apply to:
(a) Any Federal financial assistance by way of insurance or guaranty contracts;
(b) Money paid, property transferred or other assistance extended before the effective date of this part;
(c) Any assistance to any individual who is the ultimate beneficiary; and
(d) Any procurement of goods or services, including the procurement of training. This part does not bar selection and treatment reasonably related to the foreign affairs objective or such other authorized purpose as the Federal assistance may have. It does not bar selections which are limited to particular groups where the purpose of the Federal financial assistance calls for such a limitation, nor does it bar special treatment including special courses of training, orientation or counseling consistent with such purpose.
§ 142.3
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
(a)
Executive order
means Executive Order 11914, entitled “Nondiscrimination with Respect to the Handicapped in Federally-Assisted Programs,” issued April 28, 1976.
(b)
The Act
means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Pub. L. 93-112, as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974, Pub. L. 93-516, and the Rehabilitation Act of Amendments of 1978, Pub. L. 95-602.
(c)
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Pub. L. 93-112, as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974, Pub. L. 93-516, 29 U.S.C. 794: amendments of 1978, Pub. L. 95-602.
(d)
Department
means the Department of State and includes each of its organizational units. It does not include the Agency for International Development.
(e)
Secretary
means the Secretary of State or any officer or employee of the Department to whom the Secretary has heretofore delegated, or to whom the Secretary may hereafter delegate, the authority to act under the regulations in this part.
(f)
Recipient
means any State or its political subdivision, any instrumentality of a state or its political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assignee, or transferee of a recipient, but excluding the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance and any sovereign foreign government.
(g)
Applicant for Assistance
means one who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by a Department official or by a recipient as a condition or becoming a recipient.
(h)
Federal financial assistance
means any grant, loan, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), cooperative agreement, or any other arrangement by which the Department provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of:
(1) Funds;
(2) Services of Federal personnel; or
(3) Real and personal property or any interest in or use of such property, including:
(i) Transfers or leases of such property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and
(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of such property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government.
(i)
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, or other real or personal property or interest in such property.
(j)
Handicapped person.
(1) means any person who: (i) has a physical or mental impairment which substantially
limits one or more major life activities, (ii) has a record of such an impairment, or (iii) is regarded as having such an impairment.
(2) As used in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the phrase:
(i)
Physical or mental impairment
means (A) any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive, digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or (B) any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term “physical or mental impairment” includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness and drug addiction and alcoholism.
(ii)
Major life activities
means functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(iii)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a story of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(iv)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means (A) has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but that is treated by a recipient as constituting such a limitation; (B) has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairments, or (C) has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section but is treated by a recipient as having such an impairment.
(k)
Qualified handicapped person
means:
(1) With respect to employment, a handicapped person who, with reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the job in question;
(2) With respect to public pre-school, elementary, secondary, or adult educational services, a handicapped person, (i) of an age during which nonhandicapped persons are provided such services, (ii) of any age during which it is mandatory under State law to provide such services to handicapped persons, or (iii) to whom a State is required to provide a free appropriate public education under section 612 of the Education of the Handicapped Act; and
(3) With respect to postsecondary and vocational education services, a handicapped person who meets the academic and technical standard requisite to admission or participation in the recipient's education program or activity;
(4) With respect to other services, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for the recipient of such services.
(l)
Handicap
means any conditions or characteristic that renders a person a handicapped person as defined in paragraph (j) of this section.
(m)
Program or activity
means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (m)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:
(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or (ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;
(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or
(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;
(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—
(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or
(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or
(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (m)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
[45 FR 69438, Oct. 21, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51359, Aug. 26, 2003]
§ 142.4
Discrimination prohibited.
(a)
General.
No qualified handicapped person shall on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity which receives Federal financial assistance.
(b)
Discriminatory actions prohibited.
(1) A recipient, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap:
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped person unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Aid or perpetuate discrimination against a qualified handicapped person by providing significant assistance to any agency, organization, or person that discriminates on the basis of handicap in providing any aid, benefit, or service to beneficiaries of the recipient's program or activity;
(vi) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vii) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving an aid, benefit, or service.
(2) For purposes of this part, aids, benefits, and services to be effective, are not required to produce identical result or level of achievement for handicapped and nonhandicapped persons, but must afford handicapped person equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement, in the most integrated setting appropriate to the person's needs.
(3) Despite the existence of separate or different programs or activities provided in accordance with this part, a recipient may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in such aid, benefits, or services that are not separate or different.
(4) A recipient may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration (i) that have the effect of subjecting qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap, (ii) that have the purpose or effect of defeating or substantially impairing accomplishment of the objectives of the recipient's program or activity with respect to handicapped persons, or (iii) that perpetuate the discrimination with respect to another recipient if both recipients are subject to common administrative control or are agencies of the same State.
(5) In determining the site or location or a facility, an applicant for assistance or a recipient may not make selections (i) that have the effect of excluding handicapped persons from, denying them the benefits of, or otherwise subjecting them to discrimination
under any program or activity that receives Federal financial assistance of (ii) that have the purpose or effect of defeating or substantially impairing the accomplishment of the objectives of the program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(6) As used in this section, the aid, benefit, or service provided under a program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance includes any aid, benefit, or service provided in or through a facility that has been constructed, expanded, altered, leased or rented, or otherwise acquired, in whole or in part with Federal financial assistance.
(c)
Aid, benefits, or services limited by Federal law.
The exclusion of a handicapped person from aid, benefits, or services limited by Federal statute or executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) Recipients shall administer programs or activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
(e) Recipients shall ensure that communications with their applicants, employees, and handicapped persons participating in their programs or activities, or receiving aids, or benefits of services, are available to persons with impaired vision and hearing in appropriate modes, including braille, enlarged type, sign language and telecommunication devices for the deaf.
§ 142.5
Assurances required.
(a)
Assurances.
An applicant for Federal financial assistance to which this part applies shall submit an assurance on a form specified by the Secretary, that the program or activity will be operated in compliance with this part. An applicant may incorporate these assurances by reference in subsequent applications to the Department.
(b)
Duration of obligations.
(1) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended in the form of real property or to provide real property or structures on the property, the assurance will obligate the recipient or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used for the purposes for which Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits.
(2) Where no transfer of property is involved but property is purchased or improved with Federal financial assistance, the recipient shall agree to include the covenant described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in the instrument effecting or recording any subsequent transfer of the property.
(3) Where Federal financial assistance is provided by the Department in the form of real property or interest in real property, the covenant shall also include a condition coupled with a right to be reserved by the Department to revert title to the property in the event of a breach of the covenant. If a transferee of real property proposes to mortgage or otherwise encumber the real property as security for financing construction of new, or improvement of existing facilities on the property for the purposes for which the property was transferred, the Secretary may, upon request of the transferee and if necessary to accomplish such financing and upon such conditions as the Secretary deems appropriate, agree to forbear the exercise of such right to revert title for so long as the lien of such mortgage or other encumbrance remains effective.
§ 142.6
Remedial action, voluntary action, and self-evaluation.
(a)
Remedial action.
(1) If the Secretary finds that a recipient has discriminated against persons on the basis of handicap in violation of section 504 of the Act or this part, the recipient shall take such remedial action as the Secretary deems necessary to overcome the effects of the discrimination.
(2) Where a recipient is found to have discriminated against persons on the basis of handicap in violation of section 504 of the Act or this part and where another recipient exercises control over the recipient that has discriminated, the Secretary, where appropriate, may require either or both recipients to take remedial action.
(3) The Secretary may, where necessary to overcome the effects of discrimination in violation of section 504 of the Act or this part, require a recipient to take action (i) with respect to
handicapped persons who are no longer participants in the recipient's program or activity but who were participants in the program when such discrimination occurred, or (ii), with respect to handicapped persons who would have been participants in the program or activity had the discrimination not occurred.
(b)
Voluntary action.
A recipient may take steps, in addition to any action required by this part, to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited participation in the recipient's program or activity by qualified handicapped persons.
(c)
Self-evaluation.
(1) A recipient shall, within six months of the effective date of this part:
(i) Evaluate, with the assistance of interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, its current policies and practices and the effects thereof that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part;
(ii) Modify, after consultation with interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, any policies and practices that do not meet the requirements of this part; and
(iii) Take, after consultation with interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, appropriate remedial steps to eliminate the effects of any discrimination that resulted from adherence to these policies and practices.
(2) A recipient shall, for at least three years following completion of the evaluation required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, maintain on file, make available for public inspection, and provide to the Secretary upon request: (i) A list of the interested persons consulted, (ii) a description of areas examined and any problems identified, and (iii) a description of any modifications made and of any remedial steps taken.
§ 142.7
Designation of responsible employee and adoption of grievance procedures.
(a)
Designation of responsible employee.
A recipient that employs 15 or more persons shall designate at least one person to coordinate its efforts to comply with this part.
(b)
Adoption of grievance procedures.
A recipient that employs 15 or more persons shall adopt grievance procedures that incorporate appropriate due process for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by this part.
§ 142.8
Notice.
(a) A recipient shall take appropriate initial and continuing steps to notify participants, beneficiaries, applicants, and employees, including those with impaired vision or hearing, and unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient that it does not discriminate on the basis of handicap in violation of section 504 of the Act or this part. The notification shall state, where appropriate, that the recipient does not discriminate in admission or access to, or treatment or employment in, its programs or activities. The notification shall also include an identification of the responsible employee designated pursuant to § 142.7(a). A recipient shall make the initial notification required by this paragraph within 90 days of the effective date of this part. Methods of initial and continuing notification may include but are not limited to the posting of notices, publication in newspapers and magazines, placement of notices in recipients' publications, distribution of memoranda or other written communications; and with persons with impaired vision and hearing, through appropriate modes including braille, enlarged type, sign language, and telecommunication devices for the deaf.
(b) If a recipient publishes or uses recruitment materials or publications containing general information that it makes available to participants, beneficiaries, applicants or employees, it shall include in those materials or publications a statement of the policy described in paragraph (a) of this section. A recipient may meet the requirement of the paragraph either by including appropriate inserts in existing materials and publications or by revising and reprinting the materials and publications.
§ 142.9
Administrative requirements for small recipients.
The Secretary may require any recipient with fewer than fifteen employees, or any class of such recipients, to comply with § 142.7, in whole or in part, when the Secretary finds a violation of this part or finds that such compliance will not significantly impair the ability of the recipient or class of recipients to provide benefits or services.
§ 142.10
Effect of State or local law or other requirements and effect of employment opportunities.
(a) The obligation to comply with this part is not obviated or alleviated by the existence of any State or local law or other requirement that, on the basis of handicap, imposes prohibitions or limits upon the eligibility of qualified handicapped persons to receive services or to practice any occupation or profession.
(b) The obligation to comply with this part is not obviated or alleviated because employment opportunities in any occupation or profession are or may be more limited for handicapped persons than for nonhandicapped persons.

# Subpart B—Employment Practices
§ 142.11
Discrimination prohibited.
(a)
General.
(1) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
(2) A recipient shall make all decisions concerning employment under any program or activity to which this part applies in a manner which ensures that discrimination on the basis of handicap does not occur and may not limit, segregate, or classify applicants or employees in any way that adversely affects their opportunities or status because of handicap.
(3) A recipient may not participate in a contractual or other relationship that has the effect of subjecting qualified handicapped applicants or employees to discrimination prohibited by this subpart. This includes relationships with employment and referral agencies, with labor unions, with organizations providing or administering fringe benefits to employees of the recipient, and with organizations providing training and apprenticeships.
(b)
Specific activities.
The provisions of this part apply to:
(1) Recruitment, advertising, and the processing of applications for employment;
(2) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right to return from layoff, and rehiring;
(3) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation and changes in compensation;
(4) Job assignments, job classification, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists;
(5) Leaves of absence, sick leave, or any other leave;
(6) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment whether or not administered by the recipient;
(7) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, professional meetings, conferences and other related activities, and selection for leaves of absence to pursue training;
(8) Employer sponsored activities, including those that are social or recreational; and
(9) Any other condition, or privilege of employment.
(c) A recipient's obligation to comply with this subpart is not affected by any inconsistent term of any collective bargaining agreement to which it is a party.
§ 142.12
Reasonable accommodation.
(a) A recipient shall make reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified handicapped applicant or employee unless the recipient can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the program or activity.
(b) Reasonable accommodation may include: (1) Making facilities used by employees readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons, and (2) job restructuring, part-time or modified work schedules, acquisition or modification of equipment or devices,
the provision of readers or interpreters, and other similar actions.
(c) In determining pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section whether an accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of a recipient's program or activity, factors to be considered include:
(1) The overall size of the recipient's program with respect to number and type of facilities, and size of budget;
(2) Job restructuring, part-time or modified work schedules, acquisition and or modification of equipment of devices such as telecommunication devices for the deaf, the provision of readers or interpreters and other similar actions including the use of braille, enlarged type, and sign language, when appropriate.
(3) The nature and cost of the accommodation needed.
(d) A recipient may not deny any employment opportunity to a qualified handicapped employee or applicant if the basis for the denial is the need to make reasonable accommodation to the physical or mental limitations of the employee or applicant.
§ 142.13
Employment criteria.
(a) A recipient may not make use of any employment test or other selection criterion that screens out or tends to screen out handicapped persons or any class of handicapped persons unless:
(1) The test score or other selection criterion, as used by the recipient, is shown to be job-related for the position in question, and
(2) Alternative job-related tests or criteria that do not screen out or tend to screen out as many handicapped persons are not shown by the Secretary to be available.
(b) A recipient shall select and administer tests concerning employment to ensure that when administered to any applicant or employee who has a handicap that impairs sensory, manual, speaking, or other skills, the test results accurately reflect the applicant's or employee's job skills, aptitude, or whatever factor the test purports to measure, rather then reflecting the applicant's impaired sensory, manual, speaking, or other skills (except where those skills are the factors that the test purports to measure).
§ 142.14
Preemployment inquiries.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a recipient may not conduct a preemployment medical examination or may not make preemployment inquiry of an applicant as to whether the applicant is a handicapped person or as to the nature or severity of a handicap. A recipient may, however, make preemployment inquiry into an applicant's ability to perform job-related functions.
(b) When a recipient is taking remedial action to correct the effects of past discrimination pursuant to § 142.6(a), when a recipient is taking voluntary action to overcome the effect of conditions that resulted in limited participation in its federally assisted program or activity pursuant to § 142.6(b), or when a recipient is taking affirmative action pursuant to section 503 of the Act, the recipient may invite applicants for employment to indicate whether and to what extent they are handicapped:
Provided,
That:
(1) The recipient states clearly on any written questionnaire used for this purpose or makes clear orally, if no written questionnaire is used, that the information requested is intended for use solely in connection with its remedial action obligations or its voluntary or affirmative action efforts; and
(2) The recipient states clearly that the information is being requested on a voluntary basis, that it will be kept confidential as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, that refusal to provide it will not subject the applicant or employee to any adverse treatment, and that is will be used only in accordance with this part.
(c) Nothing in this section shall prohibit a recipient from conditioning an offer of employment on the results of a medical examination conducted prior to the employee's entrance on duty.
Provided,
That: (1) All entering employees are subjected to such an examination regardless of handicap, and (2) the results of such an examination are used only in accordance with the requirement of this part.
(d) Information obtained in accordance with this section as to the medical condition or history of the applicant shall be collected and maintained
on separate forms that shall be accorded confidentiality as medical records except that:
(1) Supervisors and managers may be informed regarding restrictions on the work or duties of handicapped persons and regarding necessary accommodation;
(2) First aid and safety personnel may be informed, where appropriate, if the condition might require emergency treatment; and
(3) Government officials investigating compliance with the Act shall be provided relevant information upon request.

# Subpart C—Accessibility
§ 142.15
Discrimination prohibited.
No qualified handicapped person shall, because a recipient's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity to which the part applies.
§ 142.16
Existing facilities.
(a)
Accessibility.
A recipient shall operate each program or activity to which this part applies so that when each part is viewed in its entirety it is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not require a recipient to make each of its existing facilities or every part of an existing facility accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(b)
Methods.
A recipient may comply with the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section through such means as the addition of equipment (e.g., telecommunication device for the deaf) redesign of equipment, reassignment of classes or other services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of health, welfare, or other social services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities in conformance with the requirement of § 142.18, or any other method that results in making its program or activity accessible to handicapped persons. A recipient is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with paragraph (a) of this section. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient shall give priority to those methods that serve handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(c)
Time period.
A recipient shall comply with the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section within 60 days of the effective date of this part except that where structural changes in facilities are necessary, such changes shall be made within three years of the effective date of this part, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities are necessary to meet the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient shall develop, within six months of the effective date of this part, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The plan shall be developed with the assistance of interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons. A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum:
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the recipient's facilities that limit the accessibility of its program or activity to handicapped persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve full accessibility under paragraph (a) of this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period;
(4) Indicate the person responsible for implementation of the plan; and
(5) A list of all handicapped persons and organizations consulted in the plan formulation process.
(e)
Notice.
The recipient shall adopt and implement procedures to ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing,
can obtain information as to the existence and location of services, activities, and facilities that are accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
[45 FR 69438, Oct. 21, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51359, Aug. 26, 2003]
§ 142.17
New construction.
(a)
Design and construction.
Each facility or part of a facility constructed by, on behalf of, or for the use of a recipient shall be designed, constructed, and operated in a manner so that the facility or part of the facility is accessible to and usable by persons with handicaps, if the construction was commenced after the effective date of this part.
(b)
Alteration.
Each facility or part of a facility which is altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of a recipient after the effective date of this part in a manner that effects or could affect the usability of the facility or part of the facility shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be altered so that the altered portion of the facility is readily accessible to and usable by persons with handicaps.
(c)
Conformance with Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards.
(1) Effective as of January 18, 1991, design, construction, or alteration of buildings in conformance with sections 3-8 of the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (USAF) (appendix A to 41 CFR subpart 101-19.6) shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of this section with respect to those buildings. Departures from particular technical and scoping requirements of UFAS by the use of other methods are permitted where substantially equivalent or greater access to and usability of the building is provided.
(2) For purposes of this section, section 4.1.6(1)(g) of UFAS shall be interpreted to exempt from the requirements of UFAS only mechanical rooms and other spaces that, because of their intended use, will not require accessibility to the public or beneficiaries or result in the employment or residence therein of persons with physical handicaps.
(3) This section does not require recipients to make building alterations that have little likelihood of being accomplished without removing or altering a load-bearing structural member.
[55 FR 52138, 52140, Dec. 19, 1990]
§§ 142.18-142.40
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Postsecondary Education
§ 142.41
Application of this subpart.
Subpart D applies to postsecondary education programs and activities, including postsecondary vocational education programs or activities, that receive Federal financial assistance from the Department of State, and to recipients that operate, or that receive or benefit from Federal financial assistance for the operation of, such programs or activities.
§ 142.42
Admissions and recruitment.
(a)
General.
Qualified handicapped persons may not, on the basis of handicap, be denied admission or be subjected to discrimination in admission or recruitment by a recipient to which this subpart applies.
(b)
Admissions.
In administering its admission policies, a recipient to which this subpart applies:
(1) May not apply limitations upon the number or proportion of handicapped persons who may be admitted;
(2) May not make use of any test or criterion for admission that has a disproportionate, adverse effect on handicapped persons or any class of handicapped persons unless (i) the test or criterion, as used by the recipient, has been validated as a predictor of success in the education program of activity in question and (ii) alternate tests or criteria that have a less disproportionate, adverse effect are not shown by the Secretary to be available;
(3) Shall assure itself that (i) admissions tests are selected and administered so as to ensure that, when a test is administered to an applicant who has a handicap that impairs sensory, manual, or speaking skills, the test results accurately reflect the applicant's aptitude or achievement level or whatever other factor the test purports to measure, rather than reflecting the applicant's impaired sensory, manual, speaking or other skills (except where
those skills are the factors that the test purports to measure); (ii) admissions tests that are designed for persons with impaired sensory, manual, speaking or other skills are offered as often and in as timely a manner as are other admissions tests; and (iii) admissions tests are administered in facilities that, are accessible to handicapped persons; and
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, may not make preadmission inquiry as to whether an applicant for admission is a handicapped person but, after admission, may make inquiries on a confidential basis as to handicaps that may require accommodation.
(c)
Preadmission inquiry exception.
When a recipient is taking remedial action to correct the effects of past discrimination pursuant to § 142.6(a) or when a recipient is taking voluntary action to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited participation in its federally assisted program or activity pursuant to § 142.6(b), the recipient may invite applicants for admissions to indicate whether and to what extent they are handicapped;
Provided,
That: (1) The recipient states clearly on any written questionnaire used for this purpose or makes clear orally if no written questionnaire is used that the information requested is intended for use solely in connection with its remedial action obligations or its voluntary action efforts; and
(2) The recipient states clearly that the information is being requested on a voluntary basis, that it will be kept confidential, that refusal to provide it will not subject the applicant to any adverse treatment, and that it will be used only in accordance with this part.
(d)
Validity studies.
For the purpose of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a recipient may base prediction equations on first year grades, but shall conduct periodic validity studies against the criterion of overall success in the education program or activity in question in order to monitor the general validity of the test scores.
§ 142.43
Treatment of students; general.
(a) No qualified handicapped student shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any academic, research, occupational, training, housing, health, insurance, counseling, financial aid, physical education, athletics, recreation, transportation, other extracurricular, or other postsecondary education aid, benefits, or services to which this subpart applies.
(b) A recipient to which this subpart applies that considers participation by students in education programs or activities not operated wholly by the recipient as part of, or equivalent to, an education program or activity operated by the recipient shall assure itself that the other education program or activity, as a whole, provides an equal opportunity for the participation of qualified handicapped persons.
(c) A recipient to which this subpart applies may not, on the basis of handicap, exclude any qualified handicapped student from any course, course of study, or other part of its education program or activity.
(d) A recipient to which this subpart applies shall operate its programs or activities in the most integrated setting appropriate.
§ 142.44
Academic adjustments.
(a)
Academic requirements.
A recipient to which this subpart applies shall make such modifications to its academic requirements as are necessary to ensure that such requirements do not discriminate or have the effect of discrimination, on the basis of handicap, against a qualified handicapped applicant or student. Academic requirements that the recipient can demonstrate are essential to the instruction being pursued by such student or to any directly related licensing requirement will not be regarded as discriminatory within the meaning of this section. Modifications may include changes in the length of time permitted for the completion of degree requirements, substitution of specific courses required for the completion of degree requirements, and adaptation of the manner in which specific courses are conducted.
(b)
Other rules.
A recipient to which this subpart applies may not impose
upon handicapped students other rules, such as the prohibition of tape recorders in classrooms or of dog guides in campus buildings, that have the effect of limiting the participation of handicapped students in the recipient's education program or activity.
(c)
Course examinations.
In its examinations or other procedures for evaluating students' academic achievement, a recipient to which this subpart applies shall provide such methods for evaluating the achievement of students who have a handicap that impairs sensory, manual, speaking or other skills as will best ensure that the results of the evaluation represent the student's achievement in the course, rather than reflecting the student's impaired sensory, manual, speaking or other skills (except where such skills are the factors that the test purports to measure).
(d)
Auxiliary aids.
(1) A recipient to which this subpart applies shall take such steps as are necessary to ensure that no handicapped student is denied the benefits of, excluded from participation in, or otherwise subjected to discrimination because of the absence of educational auxiliary aids for students with impaired sensory, manual, speaking or other skills.
(2) Auxiliary aids may include taped texts, interpreters, telecommunication devices for the deaf or other effective methods of making orally delivered materials available to students with hearing impairments, readers in libraries for students with visual impairments, classroom equipment adapted for use by students with manual impairments, and other similar services and actions. Recipients need not provide attendants, individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices or services of a personal nature.
§ 142.45
Housing.
(a)
Housing provided by the recipient.
A recipient that provides housing to its nonhandicapped students shall provide comparable, convenient, and accessible housing to handicapped students at the same cost as to others. At the end of the transition period provided for in subpart C of this part, such housing shall be available in sufficient quantity and variety so that the scope of handicapped students' choice of living accommodation is, as a whole, comparable to that of nonhandicapped students.
(b)
Other housing.
A recipient that assists any agency, organization, or person in making housing available to any of its students shall take such action as may be necessary to assure itself that such housing is, as a whole, made available in a manner that does not result in discrimination on the basis of handicap.
§ 142.46
Financial and employment assistance to students.
(a)
Provisions of financial assistance.
(1) In providing financial assistance of qualified handicapped persons, a recipient to which this subpart applies may not:
(i) On the basis of handicap, provide less assistance than is provided to nonhandicapped persons, limit eligibility for assistance, or otherwise discriminate; or
(ii) Assist any entity or person that provides assistance to any of the recipient's students in a manner that discriminates against qualified handicapped persons on the basis of handicap.
(2) A recipient may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other forms of financial assistance established under wills, trusts, bequests, or similar legal instruments that require awards to be made on the basis of factors that discriminate or have the effect of discriminating on the basis of handicap only if the overall effect of the award of scholarships, fellowships, and other forms of financial assistance is not discriminatory on the basis of handicap.
(b)
Assistance in making available outside employment.
A recipient that assists any agency, organization, or person in providing employment opportunities to any of its students shall assure itself that such employment opportunities, as a whole, are made available in a manner that would not violate subpart B if they were provided by the recipient.
(c)
Employment of students by recipients.
A recipient that employs any of its students may not do so in a manner that violates subpart B.
§ 142.47
Non-academic services.
(a)
Physical education and athletics.
(1) In providing physical education courses, athletics and similar aid, benefits, or services to any of its students, a recipient to which this subpart applies may not discriminate on the basis of handicap. A recipient that offers physical education courses or that operates or sponsors intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics shall provide to qualified handicapped students an equal opportunity for participation in these activities.
(2) A recipient may offer to handicapped students physical education and athletic activities that are separate or different only if separate or differentiation is consistent with the requirements of § 142.43(d) and only if no qualified handicapped student is denied the opportunity to compete for teams or to participate in courses that are not separate or different.
(b)
Counseling and placement services.
A recipient to which this subpart applies that provides personal, academic or vocational counseling, guidance, or placement services to its students shall provide these services without discrimination on the basis of handicap. The recipient shall ensure that qualified handicapped students are not counseled toward more restrictive career objectives than are nonhandicapped students with similar interests and abilities. This requirement does not preclude a recipient from providing factural information about licensing and certification requirements that may present obstacles to handicapped persons in their pursuit of particular careers.
(c)
Social organizations.
A recipient that provides significant assistance to fraternities, sororities, or similar organizations shall assure itself that the membership practices of such organizations do not permit discrimination otherwise prohibited by this subpart.
§§ 142.48-142.60
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Health, Welfare, Social, and Other Services
§ 142.61
Application of this subpart.
Subpart E applies to health, welfare, social and other programs or activities that receive Federal financial assistance and to recipients that operate, or that receive or benefit from Federal financial assistance for the operation of such programs or activities.
§ 142.62
Health, welfare, social, and other services.
(a)
General.
In providing health, welfare, social and other services or benefits, a recipient may not, on the basis of handicap:
(1) Deny a qualified handicapped person these benefits or services;
(2) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to receive benefits or services that are not equal to those offered nonhandicapped persons;
(3) Provide a qualified handicapped person with benefits or services that are not as effective (as defined in § 142.4(b)) as the benefits or services provided to others;
(4) Provide benefits or services in a manner that limits or has the effect of limiting the participation of qualified handicapped persons; or
(5) Provide different or separate benefits or services to handicapped persons except where necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with benefits and services that are as effective as those provided to others.
(b)
Notice.
A recipient that provides notice concerning benefits or services or written material concerning waivers of rights or consent to treatment shall take such steps as are necessary to ensure that qualified handicapped persons, including those with impaired sensory or speaking skills, are not denied effective notice because of their handicap.
(c)
Emergency treatment for the hearing impaired.
A recipient hospital that provides health services or benefits shall establish a procedure for effective communication with persons with impaired hearing for the purpose of providing emergency health care.
(d)
Auxiliary aids.
(1) A recipient to which this subpart applies that employs 15 or more persons shall provide appropriate auxiliary aids to persons with impaired sensory, manual, speaking or other skills (where necessary) to afford such persons an equal opportunity to benefit from the service in question.
(2) The Secretary may require recipients with fewer than 15 employees to provide auxiliary aids where the provision of aids would not significantly impair the ability of the recipient to provide its benefits or services.
(e) For the purpose of this paragraph, auxiliary aids may include brailled and taped material, interpreters, and other aids for persons with impaired hearing or vision.
§ 142.63
Drug and alcohol addicts.
A recipient to which this subpart applies that operates a general hospital or outpatient facility may not discriminate in admission or treatment against a drug or alcohol abuser or alcoholic who is suffering from a medical condition, because of the person's drug or alcohol abuse or alcoholism.

# Subpart F—Procedures
§ 142.70
Procedures.
The procedural provisions applicable to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 apply to this part. These procedures are found in 22 CFR subchapter O, part 141.
Pt. 142, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 142—Federal Financial Assistance to Which This Part Applies
Types of Federal Financial Assistance Administered by the Department of State Subject to Handicap Discrimination Regulations.
1. Resettlement of Refugees in the United States Under the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.
(1976)).
2. Non-reimbursable assignment of Foreign Service officers to State or local governments, public schools, community colleges, and other public or private nonprofit organizations designated by the Secretary of State (section 576 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended; 22 U.S.C. 966 (1976)).
3. Diplomat-in-Residence Program of the Foreign Service Institute under Title VII of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1041,
et seq.
(1976)).
[45 FR 69438, Oct. 21, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51359, Aug. 26, 2003]
Pt. 143

# PART 143—NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
143.1
What is the purpose of age discrimination regulations?
143.2
To what programs or activities do these regulations apply?
143.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Standards for Determining Age Discrimination
143.11
Standards.

# Subpart C—Duties of Agency Recipients
143.21
General responsibilities.
143.22
Notice to subrecipients.
143.23
Self-evaluation.
143.24
Information requirements.

# Subpart D—Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
143.31
Compliance reviews.
143.32
Complaints.
143.33
Mediation.
143.34
Investigation.
143.35
Prohibition against intimidation or retaliation.
143.36
Compliance procedure.
143.37
Hearings, decisions, post-termination proceedings.
143.38
Remedial action by recipient.
143.39
Alternate funds disbursal procedure.
Appendix A to Part 143—List of Affected Federal Financial Assistance
Appendix B to Part 143—List of Affected Federal Financial Assistance
Appendix C to Part 143—List of Affected Programs

# Authority:
Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 6101
et seq.
); 22 U.S.C. 2658; 45 CFR part 90.

# Source:
45 FR 31713, May 14, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 143 appear at 68 FR 51360, Aug. 26, 2003.

# Subpart A—General
§ 143.1
What is the purpose of the age discrimination regulations?
The purpose of these regulations is to set out the policies and procedures for the three foreign affairs agencies (State, USICA and AID) under the Age
Discrimination Act of 1975 and the government-wide age discrimination regulations at 45 CFR part 90 (published at 44 FR 33768, June 12, 1979). The Act and the government-wide regulations prohibit discrimination on the basis of age in programs or activities in the United States receiving federal financial assistance. The Act and the government-wide regulations permit federally assisted programs and activities, and recipients of federal funds, to continue to use age distinctions and factors other than age which meet the requirements of the Act and the government-wide regulations.
§ 143.2
To what programs or activities do these regulations apply?
These regulations apply to each foreign affairs agency recipient and to each program or activity in the United States operated by the recipient which receives or benefits from federal financial assistance provided by any of these agencies.
§ 143.3
Definitions.
(a) The following terms used in this part are defined in the government-wide regulations (45 CFR 90.4, 44 FR 33768):
Act
Action
Age
Age distinction
Age-related term
Federal financial assistance
Recipient (including subrecipients)
United States
(b) As used in this part:
(1)
Agency
means the Department of State, the U.S. International Communication Agency, and the Agency for International Development.
(2)
Program or activity
means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (iv) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:
(i)(A) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or
(B) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;
(ii)(A) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or
(B) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;
(iii)(A) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—
(
1
) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
(
2
) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or
(B) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or
(iv) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (b)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(3)
Secretary
means the Secretary of State, the Director of the U.S. International Communication Agency, and the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, or the designee of such officer.
(4)
Subrecipient
means any of the entities in the definition of “recipient” to which a recipient extends or passes on Federal financial assistance. A subrecipient is generally regarded as a recipient of Federal financial assistance and has all the duties of a recipient in these regulations.
[45 FR 31713, May 14, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51360, Aug. 26, 2003]

# Subpart B—Standards for Determining Age Discrimination
§ 143.11
Standards.
The standards each agency uses to determine whether an age distinction or age-related term is prohibited are set out in part 90 (primarily subpart B) of 45 CFR.

# Subpart C—Duties of Agency Recipients
§ 143.21
General responsibilities.
Each agency recipient has primary responsibility to ensure that its programs and activities are in compliance with the Act, the government-wide regulations, and these regulations.
§ 143.22
Notice to subrecipients.
Where a recipient passes on Federal financial assistance from an agency to subrecipients, the recipient shall provide the subrecipients written notice to their obligations under these regulations.
§ 143.23
Self-evaluation.
(a) Each recipient employing the equivalent of 15 or more full-time employees shall complete a one-time written self-evaluation of its compliance under the Act within 18 months of the effective date of these regulations.
(b) In its self-evaluation each recipient shall identify each age distinction it uses and justify each age distinction it imposes on the program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from an agency.
(c) Each recipient shall take corrective action whenever a self-evaluation indicates a violation of these regulations.
(d) Each recipient shall make the self-evaluation available on request to the agency and to the public for a period of three years following its completion.
§ 143.24
Information requirements.
Each recipient shall:
(a) Make available upon request to the agency information necessary to determine whether the recipient is complying with the regulations.
(b) Permit reasonable access by the agency to the books, records, accounts, and other recipient facilities and sources of information to the extent necessary to determine whether a recipient is in compliance with these regulations.

# Subpart D—Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
§ 143.31
Compliance reviews.
(a) The agency may conduct compliance reviews and pre-award reviews of recipients that will permit it to investigate and correct violations of these regulations. The agency may conduct these reviews even in the absence of a complaint against a recipient. The review may be as comprehensive as necessary to determine whether a violation of these regulations has occurred.
(b) If a compliance review or pre-award review indicates a violation of this part, the agency will attempt to achieve voluntary compliance with the Act. If voluntary compliance cannot be achieved, the agency will arrange for enforcement as described in § 143.36.
§ 143.32
Complaints.
(a) Any person, individually or as a member of a class or on behalf of others, may file a complaint with an agency, alleging discrimination prohibited by these regulations based on an action occurring on or after July 1, 1979. A complainant shall file a complaint within 180 days from the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged act of discrimination. However, for good cause shown, the agency may extend this time limit.
(b) The agency will attempt to facilitate the filing of complaints wherever possible, including taking the following measures:
(1) Accepting as a sufficient complaint, any written statement which identifies the parties involved, describes generally the action or practice complained of, and is signed by the complainant.
(2) Freely permitting a complainant to add information to the complaint to meet the requirements of a sufficient complaint.
(3) Widely disseminating information regarding the obligations of recipients under the Act and these regulations.
(4) Notifying the complainant and the recipient of their rights under the complaint procedure, including the right to have a representative at all stages of the complaint process.
(5) Notifying the complainant and the recipient (or their representatives) of their right to contact the agency for information and assistance regarding the complaint resolution process.
(c) The agency will return to the complainant any complaint outside the jurisdiction of these regulations and will state the reason(s) why it is outside the jurisdiction of these regulations.
§ 143.33
Mediation.
(a)
Referral of complaints for mediation.
The agency will refer to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service all complaints that:
(1) Fall within the jurisdiction of these regulations; and
(2) Contain all information necessary for further processing.
(b) Both the complainant and the recipient shall participate in the mediation process to the extent necessary to reach an agreement or make an informed judgment that an agreement is not possible. There must be at least one meeting with the mediator, before the agency will accept a judgment that an agreement is not possible. However, the recipient and the complainant need not meet with the mediator at the same time.
(c) If the complainant and the recipient reach an agreement, the mediator shall prepare a written statement of the agreement and have the complainant and recipient sign it. The mediator shall send a copy of the agreement to the agency. The agency shall take no further action on the complaint unless the complainant or the recipient fails to comply with the agreement.
(d) The mediator shall protect the confidentiality of all information obtained in the course of the mediation process. No mediator shall testify in any adjudicative proceeding, produce any document, or otherwise disclose any information obtained in the course of the mediation process without prior approval of the head of the mediation agency.
(e) The agency will use the mediation process for a maximum of 60 days after receiving a complaint. Mediation ends if:
(1) Sixty days elapse from the time the agency receives the complaint;
or
(2) Prior to the end of that 60-day period, an agreement is reached;
or
(3) Prior to the end of that 60-day period, the mediator determines that an agreement cannot be reached.
(f) The mediator shall return unresolved complaints to the agency.
§ 143.34
Investigation.
(a)
Informal investigation.
(1) The agency will investigate complaints that are unresolved after mediation or are reopened because of a violation of a mediation agreement.
(2) As part of the initial investigation, the agency will use informal fact finding methods, including joint or separate discussions with the complainant and recipient to establish the facts, and, if possible, settle the complaint on terms that are mutually agreeable. The agency may seek the assistance of any involved State program agency.
(3) The agency will put any agreement in writing and have it signed by the parties and an authorized official of the agency.
(4) The settlement shall not affect the operation of any other enforcement efforts of the agency, including compliance reviews and other individual complaints which may involve the recipient.
(5) The settlement is not a finding of discrimination against a recipient.
(b)
Formal investigation.
If the agency cannot resolve the complaint through informal investigation, it will begin to develop formal findings through further investigation of the complaint. If the investigation indicates a violation of these regulations, the agency will attempt to obtain voluntary compliance. If the agency cannot obtain voluntary compliance, it will begin enforcement as described in § 143.36.
§ 143.35
Prohibition against intimidation or retaliation.
A recipient may not engage in acts of intimidation or retaliation against any person who:
(a) Attempts to assert a right protected by these regulations; or
(b) Cooperates in any mediation, investigation, hearing, or other part of the agency's investigation, conciliation, and enforcement process.
§ 143.36
Compliance procedure.
(a) An agency may enforce the Act and these regulations through:
(1) Termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from the agency under the program or activity involved where the recipient has violated the Act and these regulations. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge. Therefore, cases which are settled in mediation or prior to a hearing, will not involve termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from the agency.
(2) Any other means authorized by law including but not limited to:
(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations by the Act and these regulations.
(ii) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, state, or local government agency which will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or these regulations.
(b) The agency will limit any termination under § 143.36(a)(1) to the particular recipient and particular program or activity the agency finds in violation of these regulations. The agency will not base any part of a termination on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient which does not receive Federal financial assistance from the agency.
(c) The agency will take no action under paragraph (a) of this section until:
(1) The agency head has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with these regulations and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained.
(2) Thirty days have lapsed after the agency head has sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of the Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the Federal program or activity involved. The agency head shall file a report whenever any action is taken under paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) The agency head also may defer granting new Federal financial assistance from the agency to a recipient when a hearing under § 143.36(a)(1) is initiated.
(1) New Federal financial assistance from the agency includes all assistance for which the agency requires an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities, or authorization of the new activities, during the deferral period. New Federal financial assistance from the agency does not include increases in funding as a result of changed computation of formula awards or assistance approved prior to the beginning of a hearing under § 143.36(a)(1).
(2) The agency will not begin a deferral until the recipient has received a notice of opportunity for a hearing under § 143.36(a)(1). The agency will not continue a deferral for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within that time or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient and the agency head. The agency will not continue a deferral for more than 30 days after the close of a hearing unless the hearing results in a finding against the recipient.
§ 143.37
Hearings, decisions, post-termination proceedings.
Certain procedural provisions applicable to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 apply to enforcement of this part. They are 22 CFR 141.8 through 141.10.
§ 143.38
Remedial action by recipient.
Where the agency head finds a recipient has discriminated on the basis of age, the recipient shall take any remedial action that the agency head may require to overcome the effects of the discrimination. If another recipient exercises control over the recipient that has discriminated, the agency head may require both recipients to take remedial action.
§ 143.39
Alternate funds disbursal procedure.
(a) When an agency withholds funds from a recipient under these regulations, the agency head may disburse the withheld funds directly to an alternate recipient, any public or non-profit private organization or agency, or
State or political subdivision of the State.
(b) The agency head will require any alternate recipient to demonstrate:
(1) The ability to comply with these regulations; and
(2) The ability to achieve the goals of the Federal statute authorizing the program or activity.
Pt. 143, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 143—List of Affected Federal Financial Assistance

# Types of Federal Financial Assistance Administered by the Department of State Subject to Age Discrimination Regulations
Resettlement of Refugees in the United States Under the Migration and Refugee Assistant Act of 1962, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.
).
Diplomat in Residence Program of the Foreign Service Institute Under Title VII of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1041
et seq.
).
Assignments under section 576 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended (22 U.S.C. 966)
Pt. 143, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 143—List of Affected Federal Financial Assistance

# Types of Federal Financial Assistance Administered by the United States International Communication Agency Subject to Age Discrimination Regulations
Educational and Cultural Exchanges under the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1431-1479).
Pt. 143, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 143—List of Affected Programs

# Types of Federal Financial Assistance Administered by AID Subject to Age Discrimination Regulations
1. Grants to research and educational institutions in the United States to strengthen their capacity to develop and carry out programs concerned with the economic and social development of developing countries (Section 122(d), Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2151(d)).
2. Grants to land grant and other qualified agricultural universities and colleges in the United States to develop their capabilities to assist developing countries in agricultural teaching, research and extension services (Section 297, Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2220(b)).
3. Grants to private and voluntary agencies, non-profit organizations, educational institutions, and other qualified organizations for programs in the United States to promote the economic and social development of developing countries (Sections 103-106, Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2151a-2151d).
Pt. 144

# PART 144—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sec.
144.101
Purpose.
144.102
Application.
144.103
Definitions.
144.104-144.109
[Reserved]
144.110
Self-evaluation.
144.111
Notice.
144.112-144.129
[Reserved]
144.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
144.131-144.139
[Reserved]
144.140
Employment.
144.141-144.148
[Reserved]
144.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
144.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
144.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
144.152-144.159
[Reserved]
144.160
Communications.
144.161-144.169
[Reserved]
144.170
Compliance procedures.
144.171-144.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
51 FR 22890, 22896, June 23, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 144.101
Purpose.
This part effectuates section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 144.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency.
§ 144.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, brailled materials, audio recordings, telecommunications devices and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Handicapped person
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term “physical or mental impairment” includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alocoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Qualified handicapped person
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, a handicapped person who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute,
regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency.
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can acheive the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 144.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 144.104-144.109
[Reserved]
§ 144.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by August 24, 1987, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part, and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, until three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified, and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 144.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 144.112-144.129
[Reserved]
§ 144.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangments, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude handicapped persons from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
§§ 144.131-144.139
[Reserved]
§ 144.140
Employment.
No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 144.141-144.148
[Reserved]
§ 144.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 144.150, no qualified handicapped person shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 144.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and
usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 144.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 144.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to handicapped persons. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 144.150(a)(2) or (a)(3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide handicapped persons into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by October 21, 1986, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by August 22, 1989, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by February 23, 1987, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan
shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to handicapped persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 144.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 144.152-144.159
[Reserved]
§ 144.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford a handicapped person an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the handicapped person.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf person (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and adminstrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 144.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 144.161-144.169
[Reserved]
§ 144.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Equal Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to Deputy Assistant Secretary for Equal Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights, Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW., Room 3214, Washington, DC 20520.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), or section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 792), is not readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 144.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[51 FR 22890, 22896, June 23, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 22890, June 23, 1986]
§§ 144.171-144.999
[Reserved]
Pt. 146

# PART 146—NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF SEX IN EDUCATION PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

# Subpart A—Introduction
Sec.
146.100
Purpose and effective date.
146.105
Definitions.
146.110
Remedial and affirmative action and self-evaluation.
146.115
Assurance required.
146.120
Transfers of property.
146.125
Effect of other requirements.
146.130
Effect of employment opportunities.
146.135
Designation of responsible employee and adoption of grievance procedures.
146.140
Dissemination of policy.

# Subpart B—Coverage
146.200
Application
146.205
Educational institutions and other entities controlled by religious organizations.
146.210
Military and merchant marine educational institutions.
146.215
Membership practices of certain organizations.
146.220
Admissions.
146.225
Educational institutions eligible to submit transition plans.
146.230
Transition plans.
146.235
Statutory amendments.

# Subpart C—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Admission and Recruitment Prohibited
146.300
Admission.
146.305
Preference in admission.
146.310
Recruitment.

# Subpart D—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Prohibited
146.400
Education programs or activities.
146.405
Housing.
146.410
Comparable facilities.
146.415
Access to course offerings.
146.420
Access to schools operated by LEAs.
146.425
Counseling and use of appraisal and counseling materials.
146.430
Financial assistance.
146.435
Employment assistance to students.
146.440
Health and insurance benefits and services.
146.445
Marital or parental status.
146.450
Athletics.
146.455
Textbooks and curricular material.

# Subpart E—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Employment in Education Programs or Activities Prohibited
146.500
Employment.
146.505
Employment criteria.
146.510
Recruitment.
146.515
Compensation.
146.520
Job classification and structure.
146.525
Fringe benefits.
146.530
Marital or parental status.
146.535
Effect of state or local law or other requirements.
146.540
Advertising.
146.545
Pre-employment inquiries.
146.550
Sex as a bona fide occupational qualification.

# Subpart F—Procedures
146.600
Notice of covered programs.
146.605
Enforcement procedures.

# Authority:
20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688.

# Source:
65 FR 52865, 52878, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Introduction
§ 146.100
Purpose and effective date.
The purpose of these Title IX regulations is to effectuate Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (except sections 904 and 906 of those Amendments) (20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688), which is designed to eliminate (with certain exceptions) discrimination on the basis of sex in any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, whether or not such program or activity is offered or sponsored by an educational institution as defined in these Title IX regulations. The effective date of these Title IX regulations shall be September 29, 2000.
§ 146.105
Definitions.
As used in these Title IX regulations, the term:
Administratively separate unit
means a school, department, or college of an educational institution (other than a local educational agency) admission to which is independent of admission to any other component of such institution.
Admission
means selection for part-time, full-time, special, associate, transfer, exchange, or any other enrollment, membership, or matriculation in or at an education program or activity operated by a recipient.
Applicant
means one who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by an official of the Federal agency that awards Federal financial assistance, or by a recipient, as a condition to becoming a recipient.
Designated agency official
means Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights'.
Educational institution
means a local educational agency (LEA) as defined by 20 U.S.C. 8801(18), a preschool, a private elementary or secondary school, or an applicant or recipient that is an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education, as defined in this section.
Federal financial assistance
means any of the following, when authorized or extended under a law administered by the Federal agency that awards such assistance:
(1) A grant or loan of Federal financial assistance, including funds made available for:
(i) The acquisition, construction, renovation, restoration, or repair of a
building or facility or any portion thereof; and
(ii) Scholarships, loans, grants, wages, or other funds extended to any entity for payment to or on behalf of students admitted to that entity, or extended directly to such students for payment to that entity.
(2) A grant of Federal real or personal property or any interest therein, including surplus property, and the proceeds of the sale or transfer of such property, if the Federal share of the fair market value of the property is not, upon such sale or transfer, properly accounted for to the Federal Government.
(3) Provision of the services of Federal personnel.
(4) Sale or lease of Federal property or any interest therein at nominal consideration, or at consideration reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient or in recognition of public interest to be served thereby, or permission to use Federal property or any interest therein without consideration.
(5) Any other contract, agreement, or arrangement that has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance to any education program or activity, except a contract of insurance or guaranty.
Institution of graduate higher education
means an institution that:
(1) Offers academic study beyond the bachelor of arts or bachelor of science degree, whether or not leading to a certificate of any higher degree in the liberal arts and sciences;
(2) Awards any degree in a professional field beyond the first professional degree (regardless of whether the first professional degree in such field is awarded by an institution of undergraduate higher education or professional education); or
(3) Awards no degree and offers no further academic study, but operates ordinarily for the purpose of facilitating research by persons who have received the highest graduate degree in any field of study.
Institution of professional education
means an institution (except any institution of undergraduate higher education) that offers a program of academic study that leads to a first professional degree in a field for which there is a national specialized accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of Education.
Institution of undergraduate higher education
means:
(1) An institution offering at least two but less than four years of college-level study beyond the high school level, leading to a diploma or an associate degree, or wholly or principally creditable toward a baccalaureate degree; or
(2) An institution offering academic study leading to a baccalaureate degree; or
(3) An agency or body that certifies credentials or offers degrees, but that may or may not offer academic study.
Institution of vocational education
means a school or institution (except an institution of professional or graduate or undergraduate higher education) that has as its primary purpose preparation of students to pursue a technical, skilled, or semiskilled occupation or trade, or to pursue study in a technical field, whether or not the school or institution offers certificates, diplomas, or degrees and whether or not it offers full-time study.
Recipient
means any State or political subdivision thereof, or any instrumentality of a State or political subdivision thereof, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or other entity, or any person, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient and that operates an education program or activity that receives such assistance, including any subunit, successor, assignee, or transferee thereof.
Student
means a person who has gained admission.
Title IX
means Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Public Law 92-318, 86 Stat. 235, 373 (codified as amended at 20 U.S.C. 1681-1688) (except sections 904 and 906 thereof), as amended by section 3 of Public Law 93-568, 88 Stat. 1855, by section 412 of the Education Amendments of 1976, Public Law 94-482, 90 Stat. 2234, and by Section 3 of Public Law 100-259, 102 Stat. 28, 28-29 (20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688).
Title IX regulations
means the provisions set forth at §§ 146.100 through 146.605.
Transition plan
means a plan subject to the approval of the Secretary of Education pursuant to section 901(a)(2) of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681(a)(2), under which an educational institution operates in making the transition from being an educational institution that admits only students of one sex to being one that admits students of both sexes without discrimination.
[65 FR 52865, 52878, Aug. 30, 2000]
§ 146.110
Remedial and affirmative action and self-evaluation.
(a)
Remedial action.
If the designated agency official finds that a recipient has discriminated against persons on the basis of sex in an education program or activity, such recipient shall take such remedial action as the designated agency official deems necessary to overcome the effects of such discrimination.
(b)
Affirmative action.
In the absence of a finding of discrimination on the basis of sex in an education program or activity, a recipient may take affirmative action consistent with law to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited participation therein by persons of a particular sex. Nothing in these Title IX regulations shall be interpreted to alter any affirmative action obligations that a recipient may have under Executive Order 11246, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339; as amended by Executive Order 11375, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 684; as amended by Executive Order 11478, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 803; as amended by Executive Order 12086, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 230; as amended by Executive Order 12107, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 264.
(c)
Self-evaluation.
Each recipient education institution shall, within one year of September 29, 2000:
(1) Evaluate, in terms of the requirements of these Title IX regulations, its current policies and practices and the effects thereof concerning admission of students, treatment of students, and employment of both academic and non-academic personnel working in connection with the recipient's education program or activity;
(2) Modify any of these policies and practices that do not or may not meet the requirements of these Title IX regulations; and
(3) Take appropriate remedial steps to eliminate the effects of any discrimination that resulted or may have resulted from adherence to these policies and practices.
(d)
Availability of self-evaluation and related materials.
Recipients shall maintain on file for at least three years following completion of the evaluation required under paragraph (c) of this section, and shall provide to the designated agency official upon request, a description of any modifications made pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section and of any remedial steps taken pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
§ 146.115
Assurance required.
(a)
General.
Either at the application stage or the award stage, Federal agencies must ensure that applications for Federal financial assistance or awards of Federal financial assistance contain, be accompanied by, or be covered by a specifically identified assurance from the applicant or recipient, satisfactory to the designated agency official, that each education program or activity operated by the applicant or recipient and to which these Title IX regulations apply will be operated in compliance with these Title IX regulations. An assurance of compliance with these Title IX regulations shall not be satisfactory to the designated agency official if the applicant or recipient to whom such assurance applies fails to commit itself to take whatever remedial action is necessary in accordance with § 146.110(a) to eliminate existing discrimination on the basis of sex or to eliminate the effects of past discrimination whether occurring prior to or subsequent to the submission to the designated agency official of such assurance.
(b)
Duration of obligation.
(1) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide real property or structures thereon, such assurance shall obligate the recipient or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used to provide an education program or activity.
(2) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide personal property, such assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which it retains ownership or possession of the property.
(3) In all other cases such assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended.
(c)
Form.
(1) The assurances required by paragraph (a) of this section, which may be included as part of a document that addresses other assurances or obligations, shall include that the applicant or recipient will comply with all applicable Federal statutes relating to nondiscrimination. These include but are not limited to: Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681-1683, 1685-1688).
(2) The designated agency official will specify the extent to which such assurances will be required of the applicant's or recipient's subgrantees, contractors, subcontractors, transferees, or successors in interest.
§ 146.120
Transfers of property.
If a recipient sells or otherwise transfers property financed in whole or in part with Federal financial assistance to a transferee that operates any education program or activity, and the Federal share of the fair market value of the property is not upon such sale or transfer properly accounted for to the Federal Government, both the transferor and the transferee shall be deemed to be recipients, subject to the provisions of §§ 146.205 through 146.235(a).
§ 146.125
Effect of other requirements.
(a)
Effect of other Federal provisions.
The obligations imposed by these Title IX regulations are independent of, and do not alter, obligations not to discriminate on the basis of sex imposed by Executive Order 11246, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339; as amended by Executive Order 11375, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 684; as amended by Executive Order 11478, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 803; as amended by Executive Order 12087, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 230; as amended by Executive Order 12107, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 264; sections 704 and 855 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 295m, 298b-2); Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e
et seq.
); the Equal Pay Act of 1963 (29 U.S.C. 206); and any other Act of Congress or Federal regulation.
(b)
Effect of State or local law or other requirements.
The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated by any State or local law or other requirement that would render any applicant or student ineligible, or limit the eligibility of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, to practice any occupation or profession.
(c)
Effect of rules or regulations of private organizations.
The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated by any rule or regulation of any organization, club, athletic or other league, or association that would render any applicant or student ineligible to participate or limit the eligibility or participation of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, in any education program or activity operated by a recipient and that receives Federal financial assistance.
§ 146.130
Effect of employment opportunities.
The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated because employment opportunities in any occupation or profession are or may be more limited for members of one sex than for members of the other sex.
§ 146.135
Designation of responsible employee and adoption of grievance procedures.
(a)
Designation of responsible employee.
Each recipient shall designate at least one employee to coordinate its efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under these Title IX regulations, including any investigation of any complaint communicated to such recipient alleging its noncompliance with these Title IX regulations or alleging any actions that would be prohibited by these Title IX regulations. The recipient shall notify all its students and employees of the name, office address, and telephone number of the employee or employees appointed pursuant to this paragraph.
(b)
Complaint procedure of recipient.
A recipient shall adopt and publish grievance procedures providing for prompt and equitable resolution of student and employee complaints alleging any action that would be prohibited by these Title IX regulations.
§ 146.140
Dissemination of policy.
(a)
Notification of policy.
(1) Each recipient shall implement specific and continuing steps to notify applicants for admission and employment, students and parents of elementary and secondary school students, employees, sources of referral of applicants for admission and employment, and all unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient, that it does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the educational programs or activities that it operates, and that it is required by Title IX and these Title IX regulations not to discriminate in such a manner. Such notification shall contain such information, and be made in such manner, as the designated agency official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by Title IX and these Title IX regulations, but shall state at least that the requirement not to discriminate in education programs or activities extends to employment therein, and to admission thereto unless §§ 146.300 through 146.310 do not apply to the recipient, and that inquiries concerning the application of Title IX and these Title IX regulations to such recipient may be referred to the employee designated pursuant to § 146.135, or to the designated agency official.
(2) Each recipient shall make the initial notification required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section within 90 days of September 29, 2000 or of the date these Title IX regulations first apply to such recipient, whichever comes later, which notification shall include publication in:
(i) Newspapers and magazines operated by such recipient or by student, alumnae, or alumni groups for or in connection with such recipient; and
(ii) Memoranda or other written communications distributed to every student and employee of such recipient.
(b)
Publications.
(1) Each recipient shall prominently include a statement of the policy described in paragraph (a) of this section in each announcement, bulletin, catalog, or application form that it makes available to any person of a type, described in paragraph (a) of this section, or which is otherwise used in connection with the recruitment of students or employees.
(2) A recipient shall not use or distribute a publication of the type described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that suggests, by text or illustration, that such recipient treats applicants, students, or employees differently on the basis of sex except as such treatment is permitted by these Title IX regulations.
(c)
Distribution.
Each recipient shall distribute without discrimination on the basis of sex each publication described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and shall apprise each of its admission and employment recruitment representatives of the policy of nondiscrimination described in paragraph (a) of this section, and shall require such representatives to adhere to such policy.

# Subpart B—Coverage
§ 146.200
Application.
Except as provided in §§ 146.205 through 146.235(a), these Title IX regulations apply to every recipient and to each education program or activity operated by such recipient that receives Federal financial assistance.
§ 146.205
Educational institutions and other entities controlled by religious organizations.
(a)
Exemption.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to any operation of an educational institution or other entity that is controlled by a religious organization to the extent that application of these Title IX regulations would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.
(b)
Exemption claims.
An educational institution or other entity that wishes to claim the exemption set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall do so by submitting in writing to the designated agency official a statement by
the highest-ranking official of the institution, identifying the provisions of these Title IX regulations that conflict with a specific tenet of the religious organization.
§ 146.210
Military and merchant marine educational institutions.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to an educational institution whose primary purpose is the training of individuals for a military service of the United States or for the merchant marine.
§ 146.215
Membership practices of certain organizations.
(a)
Social fraternities and sororities.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of social fraternities and sororities that are exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. 501(a), the active membership of which consists primarily of students in attendance at institutions of higher education.
(b)
YMCA, YWCA, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA), the Girl Scouts, the Boy Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls.
(c)
Voluntary youth service organizations.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of a voluntary youth service organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. 501(a), and the membership of which has been traditionally limited to members of one sex and principally to persons of less than nineteen years of age.
§ 146.220
Admissions.
(a) Admissions to educational institutions prior to June 24, 1973, are not covered by these Title IX regulations.
(b)
Administratively separate units.
For the purposes only of this section, §§ 146.225 and 146.230, and §§ 146.300 through 146.310, each administratively separate unit shall be deemed to be an educational institution.
(c)
Application of §§ 146.300 through .310.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, §§ 146.300 through 146.310 apply to each recipient. A recipient to which §§ 146.300 through 146.310 apply shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in admission or recruitment in violation of §§ 146.300 through 146.310.
(d)
Educational institutions.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section as to recipients that are educational institutions, §§ 146.300 through 146.310 apply only to institutions of vocational education, professional education, graduate higher education, and public institutions of undergraduate higher education.
(e)
Public institutions of undergraduate higher education.
§§ 146.300 through 146.310 do not apply to any public institution of undergraduate higher education that traditionally and continually from its establishment has had a policy of admitting students of only one sex.
§ 146.225
Educational institutions eligible to submit transition plans.
(a)
Application.
This section applies to each educational institution to which §§ 146.300 through 146.310 apply that:
(1) Admitted students of only one sex as regular students as of June 23, 1972; or
(2) Admitted students of only one sex as regular students as of June 23, 1965, but thereafter admitted, as regular students, students of the sex not admitted prior to June 23, 1965.
(b)
Provision for transition plans.
An educational institution to which this section applies shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in admission or recruitment in violation of §§ 146.300 through 146.310.
§ 146.230
Transition plans.
(a)
Submission of plans.
An institution to which § 146.225 applies and that is composed of more than one administratively separate unit may submit either a single transition plan applicable to all such units, or a separate transition plan applicable to each such unit.
(b)
Content of plans.
In order to be approved by the Secretary of Education, a transition plan shall:
(1) State the name, address, and Federal Interagency Committee on Education Code of the educational institution submitting such plan, the administratively separate units to which the plan is applicable, and the name, address, and telephone number of the person to whom questions concerning the plan may be addressed. The person who submits the plan shall be the chief administrator or president of the institution, or another individual legally authorized to bind the institution to all actions set forth in the plan.
(2) State whether the educational institution or administratively separate unit admits students of both sexes as regular students and, if so, when it began to do so.
(3) Identify and describe with respect to the educational institution or administratively separate unit any obstacles to admitting students without discrimination on the basis of sex.
(4) Describe in detail the steps necessary to eliminate as soon as practicable each obstacle so identified and indicate the schedule for taking these steps and the individual directly responsible for their implementation.
(5) Include estimates of the number of students, by sex, expected to apply for, be admitted to, and enter each class during the period covered by the plan.
(c)
Nondiscrimination.
No policy or practice of a recipient to which § 146.225 applies shall result in treatment of applicants to or students of such recipient in violation of §§ 146.300 through 146.310 unless such treatment is necessitated by an obstacle identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and a schedule for eliminating that obstacle has been provided as required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(d)
Effects of past exclusion.
To overcome the effects of past exclusion of students on the basis of sex, each educational institution to which § 146.225 applies shall include in its transition plan, and shall implement, specific steps designed to encourage individuals of the previously excluded sex to apply for admission to such institution. Such steps shall include instituting recruitment programs that emphasize the institution's commitment to enrolling students of the sex previously excluded.
§ 146.235
Statutory amendments.
(a) This section, which applies to all provisions of these Title IX regulations, addresses statutory amendments to Title IX.
(b) These Title IX regulations shall not apply to or preclude:
(1) Any program or activity of the American Legion undertaken in connection with the organization or operation of any Boys State conference, Boys Nation conference, Girls State conference, or Girls Nation conference;
(2) Any program or activity of a secondary school or educational institution specifically for:
(i) The promotion of any Boys State conference, Boys Nation conference, Girls State conference, or Girls Nation conference; or
(ii) The selection of students to attend any such conference;
(3) Father-son or mother-daughter activities at an educational institution or in an education program or activity, but if such activities are provided for students of one sex, opportunities for reasonably comparable activities shall be provided to students of the other sex;
(4) Any scholarship or other financial assistance awarded by an institution of higher education to an individual because such individual has received such award in a single-sex pageant based upon a combination of factors related to the individual's personal appearance, poise, and talent. The pageant, however, must comply with other nondiscrimination provisions of Federal law.
(c)
Program or activity
or
program
means:
(1) All of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:
(i)(A) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or
(B) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local
government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;
(ii)(A) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or
(B) A local educational agency (as defined in section 8801 of title 20), system of vocational education, or other school system;
(iii)(A) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—
(
1
) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
(
2
) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or
(B) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or
(iv) Any other entity that is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(2)(i)
Program or activity
does not include any operation of an entity that is controlled by a religious organization if the application of 20 U.S.C. 1681 to such operation would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.
(ii) For example, all of the operations of a college, university, or other postsecondary institution, including but not limited to traditional educational operations, faculty and student housing, campus shuttle bus service, campus restaurants, the bookstore, and other commercial activities are part of a “program or activity” subject to these Title IX regulations if the college, university, or other institution receives Federal financial assistance.
(d)(1) Nothing in these Title IX regulations shall be construed to require or prohibit any person, or public or private entity, to provide or pay for any benefit or service, including the use of facilities, related to an abortion. Medical procedures, benefits, services, and the use of facilities, necessary to save the life of a pregnant woman or to address complications related to an abortion are not subject to this section.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit a penalty to be imposed on any person or individual because such person or individual is seeking or has received any benefit or service related to a legal abortion. Accordingly, subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, no person shall be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, employment, or other educational program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance because such individual has sought or received, or is seeking, a legal abortion, or any benefit or service related to a legal abortion.

# Subpart C—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Admission and Recruitment Prohibited
§ 146.300
Admission.
(a)
General.
No person shall, on the basis of sex, be denied admission, or be subjected to discrimination in admission, by any recipient to which §§ 146.300 through §§ 146.310 apply, except as provided in §§ 146.225 and 146.230.
(b)
Specific prohibitions.
(1) In determining whether a person satisfies any policy or criterion for admission, or in making any offer of admission, a recipient to which §§ 146.300 through 146.310 apply shall not:
(i) Give preference to one person over another on the basis of sex, by ranking applicants separately on such basis, or otherwise;
(ii) Apply numerical limitations upon the number or proportion of persons of either sex who may be admitted; or
(iii) Otherwise treat one individual differently from another on the basis of sex.
(2) A recipient shall not administer or operate any test or other criterion for admission that has a disproportionately adverse effect on persons on the basis of sex unless the use of such test or criterion is shown to predict validly success in the education program or activity in question and alternative tests
or criteria that do not have such a disproportionately adverse effect are shown to be unavailable.
(c)
Prohibitions relating to marital or parental status.
In determining whether a person satisfies any policy or criterion for admission, or in making any offer of admission, a recipient to which §§ 146.300 through 146.310 apply:
(1) Shall not apply any rule concerning the actual or potential parental, family, or marital status of a student or applicant that treats persons differently on the basis of sex;
(2) Shall not discriminate against or exclude any person on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom, or establish or follow any rule or practice that so discriminates or excludes;
(3) Subject to § 146.235(d), shall treat disabilities related to pregnancy, childbirth, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom in the same manner and under the same policies as any other temporary disability or physical condition; and
(4) Shall not make pre-admission inquiry as to the marital status of an applicant for admission, including whether such applicant is “Miss” or “Mrs.” A recipient may make pre-admission inquiry as to the sex of an applicant for admission, but only if such inquiry is made equally of such applicants of both sexes and if the results of such inquiry are not used in connection with discrimination prohibited by these Title IX regulations.
§ 146.305
Preference in admission.
A recipient to which §§ 146.300 through 146.310 apply shall not give preference to applicants for admission, on the basis of attendance at any educational institution or other school or entity that admits as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if the giving of such preference has the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 146.300 through 146.310.
§ 146.310
Recruitment.
(a)
Nondiscriminatory recruitment.
A recipient to which §§ 146.300 through 146.310 apply shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in the recruitment and admission of students. A recipient may be required to undertake additional recruitment efforts for one sex as remedial action pursuant to § 146.110(a), and may choose to undertake such efforts as affirmative action pursuant to § 146.110(b).
(b)
Recruitment at certain institutions.
A recipient to which §§ 146.300 through 146.310 apply shall not recruit primarily or exclusively at educational institutions, schools, or entities that admit as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if such actions have the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 146.300 through 146.310.

# Subpart D—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Prohibited
§ 146.400
Education programs or activities.
(a)
General.
Except as provided elsewhere in these Title IX regulations, no person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, or other education program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance. Sections 146.400 through 146.455 do not apply to actions of a recipient in connection with admission of its students to an education program or activity of a recipient to which §§ 146.300 through 146.310 do not apply, or an entity, not a recipient, to which §§ 146.300 through 146.310 would not apply if the entity were a recipient.
(b)
Specific prohibitions.
Except as provided in §§ 146.400 through 146.455, in providing any aid, benefit, or service to a student, a recipient shall not, on the basis of sex:
(1) Treat one person differently from another in determining whether such person satisfies any requirement or condition for the provision of such aid, benefit, or service;
(2) Provide different aid, benefits, or services or provide aid, benefits, or services in a different manner;
(3) Deny any person any such aid, benefit, or service;
(4) Subject any person to separate or different rules of behavior, sanctions, or other treatment;
(5) Apply any rule concerning the domicile or residence of a student or applicant, including eligibility for in-state fees and tuition;
(6) Aid or perpetuate discrimination against any person by providing significant assistance to any agency, organization, or person that discriminates on the basis of sex in providing any aid, benefit, or service to students or employees;
(7) Otherwise limit any person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity.
(c)
Assistance administered by a recipient educational institution to study at a foreign institution.
A recipient educational institution may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other awards established by foreign or domestic wills, trusts, or similar legal instruments, or by acts of foreign governments and restricted to members of one sex, that are designed to provide opportunities to study abroad, and that are awarded to students who are already matriculating at or who are graduates of the recipient institution;
Provided,
that a recipient educational institution that administers or assists in the administration of such scholarships, fellowships, or other awards that are restricted to members of one sex provides, or otherwise makes available, reasonable opportunities for similar studies for members of the other sex. Such opportunities may be derived from either domestic or foreign sources.
(d)
Aids, benefits or services not provided by recipient.
(1) This paragraph (d) applies to any recipient that requires participation by any applicant, student, or employee in any education program or activity not operated wholly by such recipient, or that facilitates, permits, or considers such participation as part of or equivalent to an education program or activity operated by such recipient, including participation in educational consortia and cooperative employment and student-teaching assignments.
(2) Such recipient:
(i) Shall develop and implement a procedure designed to assure itself that the operator or sponsor of such other education program or activity takes no action affecting any applicant, student, or employee of such recipient that these Title IX regulations would prohibit such recipient from taking; and
(ii) Shall not facilitate, require, permit, or consider such participation if such action occurs.
§ 146.405
Housing.
(a)
Generally.
A recipient shall not, on the basis of sex, apply different rules or regulations, impose different fees or requirements, or offer different services or benefits related to housing, except as provided in this section (including housing provided only to married students).
(b)
Housing provided by recipient.
(1) A recipient may provide separate housing on the basis of sex.
(2) Housing provided by a recipient to students of one sex, when compared to that provided to students of the other sex, shall be as a whole:
(i) Proportionate in quantity to the number of students of that sex applying for such housing; and
(ii) Comparable in quality and cost to the student.
(c)
Other housing.
(1) A recipient shall not, on the basis of sex, administer different policies or practices concerning occupancy by its students of housing other than that provided by such recipient.
(2)(i) A recipient which, through solicitation, listing, approval of housing, or otherwise, assists any agency, organization, or person in making housing available to any of its students, shall take such reasonable action as may be necessary to assure itself that such housing as is provided to students of one sex, when compared to that provided to students of the other sex, is as a whole:
(A) Proportionate in quantity; and
(B) Comparable in quality and cost to the student.
(ii) A recipient may render such assistance to any agency, organization, or person that provides all or part of such housing to students of only one sex.
§ 146.410
Comparable facilities.
A recipient may provide separate toilet, locker room, and shower facilities on the basis of sex, but such facilities provided for students of one sex shall be comparable to such facilities provided for students of the other sex.
§ 146.415
Access to course offerings.
(a) A recipient shall not provide any course or otherwise carry out any of its education program or activity separately on the basis of sex, or require or refuse participation therein by any of its students on such basis, including health, physical education, industrial, business, vocational, technical, home economics, music, and adult education courses.
(b)(1) With respect to classes and activities in physical education at the elementary school level, the recipient shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than one year from September 29, 2000. With respect to physical education classes and activities at the secondary and post-secondary levels, the recipient shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than three years from September 29, 2000.
(2) This section does not prohibit grouping of students in physical education classes and activities by ability as assessed by objective standards of individual performance developed and applied without regard to sex.
(3) This section does not prohibit separation of students by sex within physical education classes or activities during participation in wrestling, boxing, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball, and other sports the purpose or major activity of which involves bodily contact.
(4) Where use of a single standard of measuring skill or progress in a physical education class has an adverse effect on members of one sex, the recipient shall use appropriate standards that do not have such effect.
(5) Portions of classes in elementary and secondary schools, or portions of education programs or activities, that deal exclusively with human sexuality may be conducted in separate sessions for boys and girls.
(6) Recipients may make requirements based on vocal range or quality that may result in a chorus or choruses of one or predominantly one sex.
§ 146.420
Access to schools operated by LEAs.
A recipient that is a local educational agency shall not, on the basis of sex, exclude any person from admission to:
(a) Any institution of vocational education operated by such recipient; or
(b) Any other school or educational unit operated by such recipient, unless such recipient otherwise makes available to such person, pursuant to the same policies and criteria of admission, courses, services, and facilities comparable to each course, service, and facility offered in or through such schools.
§ 146.425
Counseling and use of appraisal and counseling materials.
(a)
Counseling.
A recipient shall not discriminate against any person on the basis of sex in the counseling or guidance of students or applicants for admission.
(b)
Use of appraisal and counseling materials.
A recipient that uses testing or other materials for appraising or counseling students shall not use different materials for students on the basis of their sex or use materials that permit or require different treatment of students on such basis unless such different materials cover the same occupations and interest areas and the use of such different materials is shown to be essential to eliminate sex bias. Recipients shall develop and use internal procedures for ensuring that such materials do not discriminate on the basis of sex. Where the use of a counseling test or other instrument results in a substantially disproportionate number of members of one sex in any particular course of study or classification, the recipient shall take such action as is necessary to assure itself that such disproportion is not the result of discrimination in the instrument or its application.
(c)
Disproportion in classes.
Where a recipient finds that a particular class contains a substantially disproportionate number of individuals of one
sex, the recipient shall take such action as is necessary to assure itself that such disproportion is not the result of discrimination on the basis of sex in counseling or appraisal materials or by counselors.
§ 146.430
Financial assistance.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, in providing financial assistance to any of its students, a recipient shall not:
(1) On the basis of sex, provide different amounts or types of such assistance, limit eligibility for such assistance that is of any particular type or source, apply different criteria, or otherwise discriminate;
(2) Through solicitation, listing, approval, provision of facilities, or other services, assist any foundation, trust, agency, organization, or person that provides assistance to any of such recipient's students in a manner that discriminates on the basis of sex; or
(3) Apply any rule or assist in application of any rule concerning eligibility for such assistance that treats persons of one sex differently from persons of the other sex with regard to marital or parental status.
(b)
Financial aid established by certain legal instruments.
(1) A recipient may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other forms of financial assistance established pursuant to domestic or foreign wills, trusts, bequests, or similar legal instruments or by acts of a foreign government that require that awards be made to members of a particular sex specified therein;
Provided,
that the overall effect of the award of such sex-restricted scholarships, fellowships, and other forms of financial assistance does not discriminate on the basis of sex.
(2) To ensure nondiscriminatory awards of assistance as required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, recipients shall develop and use procedures under which:
(i) Students are selected for award of financial assistance on the basis of nondiscriminatory criteria and not on the basis of availability of funds restricted to members of a particular sex;
(ii) An appropriate sex-restricted scholarship, fellowship, or other form of financial assistance is allocated to each student selected under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; and
(iii) No student is denied the award for which he or she was selected under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section because of the absence of a scholarship, fellowship, or other form of financial assistance designated for a member of that student's sex.
(c)
Athletic scholarships.
(1) To the extent that a recipient awards athletic scholarships or grants-in-aid, it must provide reasonable opportunities for such awards for members of each sex in proportion to the number of students of each sex participating in interscholastic or intercollegiate athletics.
(2) A recipient may provide separate athletic scholarships or grants-in-aid for members of each sex as part of separate athletic teams for members of each sex to the extent consistent with this paragraph (c) and § 146.450.
§ 146.435
Employment assistance to students.
(a)
Assistance by recipient in making available outside employment.
A recipient that assists any agency, organization, or person in making employment available to any of its students:
(1) Shall assure itself that such employment is made available without discrimination on the basis of sex; and
(2) Shall not render such services to any agency, organization, or person that discriminates on the basis of sex in its employment practices.
(b)
Employment of students by recipients.
A recipient that employs any of its students shall not do so in a manner that violates §§ 146.500 through 146.550.
§ 146.440
Health and insurance benefits and services.
Subject to § 146.235(d), in providing a medical, hospital, accident, or life insurance benefit, service, policy, or plan to any of its students, a recipient shall not discriminate on the basis of sex, or provide such benefit, service, policy, or plan in a manner that would violate §§ 146.500 through 146.550 if it were provided to employees of the recipient. This section shall not prohibit a recipient from providing any benefit or service that may be used by a different proportion of students of one sex than of
the other, including family planning services. However, any recipient that provides full coverage health service shall provide gynecological care.
§ 146.445
Marital or parental status.
(a)
Status generally.
A recipient shall not apply any rule concerning a student's actual or potential parental, family, or marital status that treats students differently on the basis of sex.
(b)
Pregnancy and related conditions.
(1) A recipient shall not discriminate against any student, or exclude any student from its education program or activity, including any class or extracurricular activity, on the basis of such student's pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom, unless the student requests voluntarily to participate in a separate portion of the program or activity of the recipient.
(2) A recipient may require such a student to obtain the certification of a physician that the student is physically and emotionally able to continue participation as long as such a certification is required of all students for other physical or emotional conditions requiring the attention of a physician.
(3) A recipient that operates a portion of its education program or activity separately for pregnant students, admittance to which is completely voluntary on the part of the student as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall ensure that the separate portion is comparable to that offered to non-pregnant students.
(4) Subject to § 146.235(d), a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and recovery therefrom in the same manner and under the same policies as any other temporary disability with respect to any medical or hospital benefit, service, plan, or policy that such recipient administers, operates, offers, or participates in with respect to students admitted to the recipient's educational program or activity.
(5) In the case of a recipient that does not maintain a leave policy for its students, or in the case of a student who does not otherwise qualify for leave under such a policy, a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, and recovery therefrom as a justification for a leave of absence for as long a period of time as is deemed medically necessary by the student's physician, at the conclusion of which the student shall be reinstated to the status that she held when the leave began.
§ 146.450
Athletics.
(a)
General.
No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, be treated differently from another person, or otherwise be discriminated against in any interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics offered by a recipient, and no recipient shall provide any such athletics separately on such basis.
(b)
Separate teams.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient may operate or sponsor separate teams for members of each sex where selection for such teams is based upon competitive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport. However, where a recipient operates or sponsors a team in a particular sport for members of one sex but operates or sponsors no such team for members of the other sex, and athletic opportunities for members of that sex have previously been limited, members of the excluded sex must be allowed to try out for the team offered unless the sport involved is a contact sport. For the purposes of these Title IX regulations, contact sports include boxing, wrestling, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball, and other sports the purpose or major activity of which involves bodily contact.
(c)
Equal opportunity.
(1) A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics shall provide equal athletic opportunity for members of both sexes. In determining whether equal opportunities are available, the designated agency official will consider, among other factors:
(i) Whether the selection of sports and levels of competition effectively accommodate the interests and abilities of members of both sexes;
(ii) The provision of equipment and supplies;
(iii) Scheduling of games and practice time;
(iv) Travel and per diem allowance;
(v) Opportunity to receive coaching and academic tutoring;
(vi) Assignment and compensation of coaches and tutors;
(vii) Provision of locker rooms, practice, and competitive facilities;
(viii) Provision of medical and training facilities and services;
(ix) Provision of housing and dining facilities and services;
(x) Publicity.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unequal aggregate expenditures for members of each sex or unequal expenditures for male and female teams if a recipient operates or sponsors separate teams will not constitute noncompliance with this section, but the designated agency official may consider the failure to provide necessary funds for teams for one sex in assessing equality of opportunity for members of each sex.
(d)
Adjustment period.
A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics at the elementary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than one year from September 29, 2000. A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics at the secondary or postsecondary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than three years from September 29, 2000.
§ 146.455
Textbooks and curricular material.
Nothing in these Title IX regulations shall be interpreted as requiring or prohibiting or abridging in any way the use of particular textbooks or curricular materials.

# Subpart E—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Employment in Education Programs or Activities Prohibited
§ 146.500
Employment.
(a)
General.
(1) No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in employment, or recruitment, consideration, or selection therefor, whether full-time or part-time, under any education program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance.
(2) A recipient shall make all employment decisions in any education program or activity operated by such recipient in a nondiscriminatory manner and shall not limit, segregate, or classify applicants or employees in any way that could adversely affect any applicant's or employee's employment opportunities or status because of sex.
(3) A recipient shall not enter into any contractual or other relationship which directly or indirectly has the effect of subjecting employees or students to discrimination prohibited by §§ 146.500 through 146.550, including relationships with employment and referral agencies, with labor unions, and with organizations providing or administering fringe benefits to employees of the recipient.
(4) A recipient shall not grant preferences to applicants for employment on the basis of attendance at any educational institution or entity that admits as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if the giving of such preferences has the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of these Title IX regulations.
(b)
Application.
The provisions of §§ 146.500 through 146.550 apply to:
(1) Recruitment, advertising, and the process of application for employment;
(2) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, consideration for and award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, application of nepotism policies, right of return from layoff, and rehiring;
(3) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation, and changes in compensation;
(4) Job assignments, classifications, and structure, including position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists;
(5) The terms of any collective bargaining agreement;
(6) Granting and return from leaves of absence, leave for pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, leave for persons of either sex to care for children or dependents, or any other leave;
(7) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the recipient;
(8) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, selection for tuition assistance, selection for sabbaticals and leaves of absence to pursue training;
(9) Employer-sponsored activities, including social or recreational programs; and
(10) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment.
§ 146.505
Employment criteria.
A recipient shall not administer or operate any test or other criterion for any employment opportunity that has a disproportionately adverse effect on persons on the basis of sex unless:
(a) Use of such test or other criterion is shown to predict validly successful performance in the position in question; and
(b) Alternative tests or criteria for such purpose, which do not have such disproportionately adverse effect, are shown to be unavailable.
§ 146.510
Recruitment.
(a)
Nondiscriminatory recruitment and hiring.
A recipient shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in the recruitment and hiring of employees. Where a recipient has been found to be presently discriminating on the basis of sex in the recruitment or hiring of employees, or has been found to have so discriminated in the past, the recipient shall recruit members of the sex so discriminated against so as to overcome the effects of such past or present discrimination.
(b)
Recruitment patterns.
A recipient shall not recruit primarily or exclusively at entities that furnish as applicants only or predominantly members of one sex if such actions have the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 146.500 through 146.550.
§ 146.515
Compensation.
A recipient shall not make or enforce any policy or practice that, on the basis of sex:
(a) Makes distinctions in rates of pay or other compensation;
(b) Results in the payment of wages to employees of one sex at a rate less than that paid to employees of the opposite sex for equal work on jobs the performance of which requires equal skill, effort, and responsibility, and that are performed under similar working conditions.
§ 146.520
Job classification and structure.
A recipient shall not:
(a) Classify a job as being for males or for females;
(b) Maintain or establish separate lines of progression, seniority lists, career ladders, or tenure systems based on sex; or
(c) Maintain or establish separate lines of progression, seniority systems, career ladders, or tenure systems for similar jobs, position descriptions, or job requirements that classify persons on the basis of sex, unless sex is a bona fide occupational qualification for the positions in question as set forth in § 146.550.
§ 146.525
Fringe benefits.
(a)
“Fringe benefits” defined.
For purposes of these Title IX regulations,
fringe benefits
means: Any medical, hospital, accident, life insurance, or retirement benefit, service, policy or plan, any profit-sharing or bonus plan, leave, and any other benefit or service of employment not subject to the provision of § 146.515.
(b)
Prohibitions.
A recipient shall not:
(1) Discriminate on the basis of sex with regard to making fringe benefits available to employees or make fringe benefits available to spouses, families, or dependents of employees differently upon the basis of the employee's sex;
(2) Administer, operate, offer, or participate in a fringe benefit plan that does not provide for equal periodic benefits for members of each sex and for equal contributions to the plan by such recipient for members of each sex; or
(3) Administer, operate, offer, or participate in a pension or retirement plan that establishes different optional or compulsory retirement ages based on sex or that otherwise discriminates in benefits on the basis of sex.
§ 146.530
Marital or parental status.
(a)
General.
A recipient shall not apply any policy or take any employment action:
(1) Concerning the potential marital, parental, or family status of an employee or applicant for employment that treats persons differently on the basis of sex; or
(2) Which is based upon whether an employee or applicant for employment is the head of household or principal wage earner in such employee's or applicant's family unit.
(b)
Pregnancy.
A recipient shall not discriminate against or exclude from employment any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom.
(c)
Pregnancy as a temporary disability.
Subject to § 146.235(d), a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, recovery therefrom, and any temporary disability resulting therefrom as any other temporary disability for all job-related purposes, including commencement, duration, and extensions of leave, payment of disability income, accrual of seniority and any other benefit or service, and reinstatement, and under any fringe benefit offered to employees by virtue of employment.
(d)
Pregnancy leave.
In the case of a recipient that does not maintain a leave policy for its employees, or in the case of an employee with insufficient leave or accrued employment time to qualify for leave under such a policy, a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, and recovery therefrom as a justification for a leave of absence without pay for a reasonable period of time, at the conclusion of which the employee shall be reinstated to the status that she held when the leave began or to a comparable position, without decrease in rate of compensation or loss of promotional opportunities, or any other right or privilege of employment.
§ 146.535
Effect of state or local law or other requirements.
(a)
Prohibitory requirements.
The obligation to comply with §§ 146.500 through 146.550 is not obviated or alleviated by the existence of any State or local law or other requirement that imposes prohibitions or limits upon employment of members of one sex that are not imposed upon members of the other sex.
(b)
Benefits.
A recipient that provides any compensation, service, or benefit to members of one sex pursuant to a State or local law or other requirement shall provide the same compensation, service, or benefit to members of the other sex.
§ 146.540
Advertising.
A recipient shall not in any advertising related to employment indicate preference, limitation, specification, or discrimination based on sex unless sex is a bona fide occupational qualification for the particular job in question.
§ 146.545
Pre-employment inquiries.
(a)
Marital status.
A recipient shall not make pre-employment inquiry as to the marital status of an applicant for employment, including whether such applicant is “Miss” or “Mrs.”
(b)
Sex.
A recipient may make pre-employment inquiry as to the sex of an applicant for employment, but only if such inquiry is made equally of such applicants of both sexes and if the results of such inquiry are not used in connection with discrimination prohibited by these Title IX regulations.
§ 146.550
Sex as a bona fide occupational qualification.
A recipient may take action otherwise prohibited by §§ 146.500 through 146.550 provided it is shown that sex is a bona fide occupational qualification for that action, such that consideration of sex with regard to such action is essential to successful operation of the employment function concerned. A recipient shall not take action pursuant to this section that is based upon alleged comparative employment characteristics or stereotyped characterizations of one or the other sex, or upon preference based on sex of the recipient, employees, students, or other persons, but nothing contained in this section shall prevent a recipient from considering an employee's sex in relation
to employment in a locker room or toilet facility used only by members of one sex.

# Subpart F—Procedures
§ 146.600
Notice of covered programs.
Within 60 days of September 29, 2000, each Federal agency that awards Federal financial assistance shall publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of the programs covered by these Title IX regulations. Each such Federal agency shall periodically republish the notice of covered programs to reflect changes in covered programs. Copies of this notice also shall be made available upon request to the Federal agency's office that enforces Title IX.
§ 146.605
Enforcement procedures.
The investigative, compliance, and enforcement procedural provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d) (“Title VI”) are hereby adopted and applied to these Title IX regulations. These procedures may be found at 22 CFR part 141.
[65 FR 52879, Aug. 30, 2000]
Pt. 147

# PART 147—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
147.1
Purpose.
147.2
Application.
147.3
Definitions.
147.4
Notice.
147.5
Discrimination prohibited.
147.6
Information and communication technology requirements.

# Subpart B—Complaint Procedures
147.7
Filing a Section 508 complaint.
147.8
Final agency action.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2651a; 29 U.S.C. 794, 794d; 36 CFR part 1194.

# Source:
81 FR 32646, May 24, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to subpart A appear at 84 FR 37577, Aug. 1, 2019.
§ 147.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794d), which requires that when Federal departments and agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use information and communication technology, they shall ensure that the information and communication technology is accessible to individuals with disabilities who are Federal employees, applicants for employment, or members of the public.
§ 147.2
Application.
This part applies to all development, procurement, maintenance, and use of information and communication technology (ICT), as defined in E103.4 of appendix A to 36 CFR part 1194.
[81 FR 32646, May 24, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 37577, Aug. 1, 2019]
§ 147.3
Definitions.
The Department of State adopts the definitions in E103.4 of appendix A to 36 CFR part 1194. In addition, as used in this part:
Department
means the United States Department of State and any of its passport agencies or other facilities.
Secretary
means the Secretary of State or his or her designee.
Section 508
means section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, codified at 29 U.S.C. 794d.
[81 FR 32646, May 24, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 37577, Aug. 1, 2019]
§ 147.4
Notice.
(a) The Secretary shall ensure that employees, applicants for employment, and the members of the public are provided with adequate notice of the requirements of Section 508, the Revised 508 Standards (36 CFR 1194.1 and appendices A, C and D to 36 CFR part 1194), and this part, as they relate to the programs or activities conducted by the Department.
(b) The Secretary shall ensure that the home page of the Department's public-facing Web site provides Department policy regarding accessibility of ICT in accordance with Section 508 and 36 CFR part 1194.1, as well as an email
address for the public to ask questions or express concerns.
[81 FR 32646, May 24, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 37577, Aug. 1, 2019]
§ 147.5
Discrimination prohibited.
The Department must comply with Revised 508 Standards when it develops, procures, maintains, or uses ICT. The Department must ensure that individuals with disabilities who are Federal employees or members of the public have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to that provided to Federal employees or members of the public without disabilities, unless providing comparable access would impose an undue burden on the Department.
[81 FR 32646, May 24, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 37577, Aug. 1, 2019]
§ 147.6
Information and communication technology requirements.
(a)
Development, procurement, maintenance, or use of ICT.
When developing, procuring, maintaining, or using ICT, the Department shall ensure, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the Department, that the ICT allows, regardless of the type of medium of the technology, that—
(1) Individuals with disabilities who are Department employees have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access to and use of the information and data by Department employees who are not individuals with disabilities; and
(2) Individuals with disabilities who are members of the public seeking information or services from the Department have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access to and use of the information and data by such members of the public who are not individuals with disabilities.
(b) In meeting its obligations under paragraph (a) of this section, the Department shall comply with the Revised 508 Standards (36 CFR 1194.1 and appendices A, C and D to 36 CFR part 1194).
(c)
Alternative means of access when undue burden is imposed.
When development, procurement, maintenance, or use of ICT that meets the standards as provided in 36 CFR part 1194.1 would impose an undue burden, the Department shall provide individuals with disabilities covered by this section with the relevant information and data by an alternative means of access that allows the individual to use the information and data.
(d)
Procedures for determining undue burden.
The Department procedures for finding that full compliance with 36 CFR part 1194.1 would impose an undue burden can be found at:
http://www.state.gov/m/irm/impact/126338.htm.
[81 FR 32646, May 24, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 37577, Aug. 1, 2019]

# Subpart B—Complaint Procedures
§ 147.7
Filing a Section 508 complaint.
(a) An individual with a disability who alleges that Department's ICT does not allow him or her to have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to access and use by individuals without disabilities, or that the alternative means of access provided by the Department does not allow the individual to use the information and data, may file a complaint with the Department's Office of Civil Rights (S/OCR).
(b) Employees, applicants for employment, or members of the general public are encouraged to contact personnel in the Department office that uses or maintains a system that is believed not to be compliant with Section 508 or 36 CFR part 1194.1 to attempt to have their issues addressed. Nothing in this complaint process is intended to prevent Department personnel from addressing any alleged compliance issues when made aware of such requests directly or indirectly.
(c) A Section 508 complaint must be filed not later than 180 calendar days after the complainant knew, or should have known, of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the Department. A Section 508 complaint must be submitted in writing by fax, email, mail, or hand delivery to the S/OCR office, using the Form DS-4282, Discrimination Complaint Form, which can be downloaded at:
https://eforms.state.gov/Forms/ds4282.PDF
.
(d) Once a Section 508 complaint has been received, S/OCR will conduct an investigation into the allegation(s) and render a decision as to whether a Section 508 violation has occurred. Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint under this part, the Secretary shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
Upon request of the complainant, the decision will be provided in an alternate format, such as an electronic format, braille, or large print.
(e) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the Department of the notice required by § 147.7(d). The Department may extend this time for good cause.
(f) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Department.
(g) The Secretary shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the appeal. If the Secretary determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, the Secretary shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(h) Individuals who submit a complaint must keep S/OCR updated at all times with current contact information, to include address, phone number, and working email address. If the Department needs additional information and is unable, after reasonable attempts for 30 days, to contact a complainant using his or her contact information, it may consider the complaint abandoned, and may close the complaint without action. A complainant may re-submit a complaint that was closed due to the inability of the Department to contact the complainant.
(i) A Department employee who receives a Section 508 complaint or a communication that raises an issue that might reasonably be considered a Section 508 complaint, should forward such communication to S/OCR.
[81 FR 32646, May 24, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 34853, July 27, 2017; 84 FR 37578, Aug. 1, 2019]
§ 147.8
Final agency action.
Either a decision by the Secretary on the merits of a complaint, or no notification in writing from the Secretary within 180 days of filing the complaint, will a constitute a final agency action and exhaustion of the complainant's administrative remedies for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 701,
et seq.
§ 147.9
Intimidation and retaliation prohibited.
No person may discharge, intimidate, retaliate, threaten, coerce or otherwise discriminate against any person because such person has filed a complaint, furnished information, assisted or participated in any manner in an investigation, review, hearing or any other activity related to the administration of, or exercise of authority under, or privilege secured by Section 508 and the regulations in this part.
[84 FR 37578, Aug. 1, 2019]

# SUBCHAPTER P—DIPLOMATIC PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES
Pt. 150

# PART 150—DIPLOMATIC AGENT-LEVEL IMMUNITY
Sec.
150.1
Diplomatic Agent-Level Immunity.
150.2
Determination by the Department of State.
150.3
Severability.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2651a, 2656; 22 U.S.C. 254c; Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, Done at Vienna April 18, 1961, 23 U.S.T. 3227; Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, Done at Vienna April 24, 1963, 21 U.S.T. 77; Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations, 21 U.S.T. 1418.

# Source:
89 FR 68780, Aug. 28, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 150.1
Diplomatic Agent-Level Immunity.
Diplomatic Agent-Level Immunity refers to the complete immunity from the criminal jurisdiction of the United States and to comprehensive immunity from the civil and administrative jurisdiction of the United States, and is enjoyed by:
(a) Foreign individuals accredited to the United States as “diplomatic agents” under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, and the family members forming part of their households;
(b) Foreign individuals accredited to the United States as administrative and technical staff or service staff of diplomatic missions, or as consular officers of consular missions, and the family members forming part of their households, representing a foreign government with which the United States has an international agreement for the enhancement of immunity of those individuals to diplomatic agent-level immunity; and
(c) Certain other foreign officials and representatives as determined by the Department of State.
§ 150.2
Determination by the Department of State.
The question of whether any particular person enjoys diplomatic agent-level immunity and is therefore not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, or whether they enjoy lesser status-based immunity, on any particular date entails both factual and legal analysis, and is determined by the Department of State, in accordance with relevant international and domestic law.
§ 150.3
Severability.
The provisions of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any provision is stayed or determined to be invalid, it is the Department of State's intention that the remaining provisions shall continue in effect.
Pt. 151

# PART 151—COMPULSORY LIABILITY INSURANCE FOR DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS AND PERSONNEL
Sec.
151.1
Purpose.
151.2
Definitions.
151.3
Types of insurance coverage required.
151.4
Minimum limits for motor vehicle insurance.
151.6
Authorized insurer.
151.7
Policy terms consistent with the Act.
151.8
Evidence of insurance for motor vehicles.
151.9
Evidence of insurance required for diplomatic license plates and waiver of fees.
151.10
Minimum limits of insurance for aircraft and/or vessels.
151.11
Notification of ownership, maintenance, or use of vessel and/or aircraft; evidence of insurance.

# Authority:
Sec. 6, Diplomatic Relations Act (Pub. L. 95-393; 22 U.S.C. 254e) as amended (Pub. L. 98-164, sec. 602; 22 U.S.C. 254e).

# Source:
44 FR 29451, May 21, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 151.1
Purpose.
This part establishes regulations required under section 6 of the Diplomatic Relations Act (Pub. L. 95-393; 22 U.S.C. 254e). These regulations require all missions, members of missions and their families, and those officials of the United Nations who are entitled to diplomatic immunity to have and maintain liability insurance against the risks of bodily injury, including death, and property damage, including loss of use, arising from the ownership, maintenance, or use in the United States of any motor vehicle, vessel, or aircraft.
§ 151.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Diplomatic Relations Act, Pub. L. 95-393 (22 U.S.C. 254a
et seq.,
28 U.S.C. 1364).
(b)
Persons subject to the Act,
as defined in section 2 of the Act, means: (1) The head of a mission and members of the diplomatic staff, administrative and technical staff, and service staff of a mission, as such terms are defined in Article 1 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of April 18, 1961 (TIAS 7502, 23 U.S.T. 3227); (2) members of the family of a member of the diplomatic staff of a mission who form part of his or her household if they are not nationals of the United States, and members of the family of a member of the administrative and technical staff of a mission who form part of his or her household if they are not nationals or permanent residents of the United States; and (3) senior officials of the United Nations as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Missions,
as defined in section 2 of the Act, means missions within the meaning of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and any missions representing foreign governments, individually or collectively, which are extended the same privileges and immunities, pursuant to law, as are enjoyed by missions under the Vienna Convention.
(d)
Senior United Nations official
means a United Nations official entitled to diplomatic immunity as provided in section 19 of the Convention on Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations of February 13, 1946 (21 UST 1418; 1 UNTS 16).
(e)
Insurance
means insurance as required by the Act and these regulations.
§ 151.3
Types of insurance coverage required.
(a) Every person subject to the Act and every mission shall have and maintain with respect to any motor vehicle, vessel or aircraft owned by, leased to, or furnished for the regular use of every such person or mission liability insurance in accordance with the form, terms, and conditions provided for in these regulations.
(b) The insurance shall provide coverage against the following risks to third parties arising from the ownership, maintenance, or use in the United States of any motor vehicle, vessel, or aircraft:
(1) Bodily injury, including death;
(2) Property damage, including loss of use; and
(3) Any additional coverage required to be included in liability insurance policies by the jurisdiction where the motor vehicle, vessel or aircraft is principally garaged, berthed, or kept, such as uninsured motorist coverage or first party no-fault coverage.
§ 151.4
Minimum limits for motor vehicle insurance.
The insurance shall provide not less than $100,000 per person and $300,000 per incident for bodily injury liability and $100,000 per incident for property damage or $300,000 combined single limit for all bodily injury liability and property damage liability arising from a single incident, except where the Director of the Office of Foreign Missions grants a special exception.
[54 FR 24555, June 8, 1989]
§ 151.6
Authorized insurer.
The insurance must be issued by an insurer licensed or otherwise authorized by applicable law to do business in the jurisdiction where the motor vehicle, vessel or aircraft is principally garaged, berthed or kept.
§ 151.7
Policy terms consistent with the Act.
(a) The insurance shall be construed in conformity with the Act. In particular, no effect shall be given to any policy terms which are inconsistent or in conflict with those provisions of the Act stating that any suit against the insurer under the policy shall not be subject to any of the following defenses:
(1) That the insured is immune from suit;
(2) That the insured is an indispensable party; or
(3) In the absence of fraud or collusion, that the insured has violated a term of the contract, unless the contract was canceled before the claim arose.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the insured is expected to respond to reasonable requests from the insurer for cooperation.
§ 151.8
Evidence of insurance for motor vehicles.
(a) Every mission must periodically, and otherwise upon official request, furnish evidence satisfactory to the Department of State that the required insurance is in effect for the mission, its members and their families. Every senior United Nations official must also periodically furnish evidence satisfactory to the Department of State that the required insurance is in effect.
(b) The Department of State will accept as satisfactory evidence that the required insurance is in effect:
(1) A written statement of self-certification signed by the Chief of Mission, indicating that the mission, its members and their families have and will maintain insurance throughout the period of registration of all vehicles owned or leased or otherwise regularly used, and showing the name of the insurance company or companies and identifying each policy by number and name of insured; and
(2) A written statement of self-certification signed by each senior United Nations official, indicating that he or she has and will maintain insurance throughout the period of registration on all motor vehicles owned or leased or otherwise regularly used, and showing the name of the insurance company or companies and identifying each by number and name of insured.
(c) A certification under paragraph (b) of this section by a Chief of a Mission to the United Nations or by a senior United Nations official shall be delivered to the Counselor for host country affairs of the United States Mission to the United Nations. All other certifications shall be delivered to the Chief of Protocol, Department of State.
§ 151.9
Evidence of insurance required for diplomatic license plates and waiver of fees.
The Department of State will not endorse on behalf of any person subject to the Act or any mission any application for diplomatic motor vehicle license plates or any application for waiver of motor vehicle registration fees without prior receipt of satisfactory evidence from the Chief of Mission or other duly authorized official that the required insurance is in effect.
§ 151.10
Minimum limits of insurance for aircraft and/or vessels.
Insurance in respect of vessels and/or aircraft shall provide limits of liability adequate in light of reasonably foreseeable risks from the ownership, maintenance, or other regular use of vessels and/or aircraft.
§ 151.11
Notification of ownership, maintenance or use of vessel and/or aircraft; evidence of insurance.
(a) Each person subject to the Act and each mission must notify the Department of State in writing of the ownership, maintenance or other regular use of a vessel or aircraft in the United States by such mission or person.
(b) Notices under paragraph (a) of this section shall identify the vessel and/or aircraft with specificity, including model and manufacturer's name, and serial and registration numbers. Each notification shall be accompanied by a copy of the insurance policy or policies issued in respect of the vessel and/or aircraft. Such policy or policies need not be issued by the insurer providing liability insurance for motor vehicles.
(c) With regard to senior United Nations officials, missions to the United Nations and members of such missions as have diplomatic status and their families, notices and evidence of insurance under this section shall be delivered to the counselor for Host Country Affairs of the United States Mission to the United Nations. All other notices under this section shall be delivered to the Chief of Protocol, Department of State.

# SUBCHAPTER Q—ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Pt. 161

# PART 161—REGULATIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT (NEPA)

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
161.1
Purpose and scope.
161.2
Policy.
161.3
Applicability.
161.4
Definitions.

# Subpart B—NEPA and Departmental Decisionmaking
161.5
Major decision points and timing.
161.6
Responsibilities of departmental officials.
161.7
Categories of actions.

# Subpart C—Environmental Review Procedures
161.8
General description of the Department's NEPA process.
161.9
Specific steps in the Department's NEPA process.

# Subpart D—Coordination of Other Requirements of NEPA
161.10
[Reserved]
161.11
Environmental review and consultation requirements.
161.12
Environmental effects abroad of major departmental actions.

# Authority:
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
E.O. 11514, 34 FR 4247, as amended by E.O. 11991, 42 FR 26927; 22 U.S.C. 2658, as amended.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2651a and 2656; 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
E.O. 11514, 34 FR 4247, 3 CFR, 1966-1970, Comp., p. 902, as amended by E.O. 11991, 42 FR 26927, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 123; E.O. 13867, 84 FR 15491.

# Source:
45 FR 59554, Sept. 10, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 161 appear at 85 FR 32296, July 13, 2020.

# Subpart A—General
§ 161.1
Purpose and scope.
These Departmental regulations are designed to supplement the CEQ Regulations and provide for the implementation of those provisions identified in § 1507.3(b) of the CEQ Regulations. The CEQ Regulations are incorporated herein by reference. The Department's regulations seek to assure that environmental considerations and values are incorporated into the Department's decisionmaking process and assign responsibility within the Department for assessing the significant environmental effects in the United States of the Department's actions.
§ 161.2
Policy.
It is the policy of the Department of State to use all practicable means, consistent with the Department's statutory authority, available resources and national policy, to:
(a) Protect and enhance the quality of the environment;
(b) Ensure that environmental amenities and values are appropriately considered in Departmental actions;
(c) Integrate planning and environmental review procedures with the Department's decisionmaking process;
(d) Invite and facilitate, when appropriate, Federal, State and local governmental authorities and public involvement in decisions which affect the quality of the environment; and
(e) Recognize the worldwide and long-range character of environmental concerns and, when consistent with the foreign policy of the United States, lend appropriate support to initiatives, resolutions, and programs designed to maximize international cooperation in anticipating and preventing a decline in the quality of the world environment.
§ 161.3
Applicability.
The provisions of these regulations apply to decisions on all Departmental actions which may affect the quality of the environment within the United States. The Department is establishing separate environmental review procedures under Executive Order 12114 (January 4, 1979) for actions having potential effects on the environment of global commons or areas outside the jurisdiction of any nation, or on the environment of foreign nations.
§ 161.4
Definitions.
Definitions for many terms used in these regulations may be found in section 1508 of the CEQ Regulations. In addition, for the purpose of these regulations, the term:
(a)
Responsible action officer
means the Department officer principally responsible for the preparation of action memoranda and other documents relating to a given Departmental action to which by these regulations apply. Ordinarily, the responsible action officer will be the country or office director whose office has action responsibility for a given action.
(b)
CEQ Regulations
means the regulations implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act, issued by the Council on Environmental Quality on November 29, 1978 (43 FR 55978-56007), and codified at 40 CFR parts 1500-1508.
(c)
United States
means the States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam and the other territories and possessions of the United States, including the territorial seas thereof. For the purpose of these regulations, actions having significant environmental effects on the resources of the U.S. continental shelf or resources of the U.S. Fishery Conservation Zone subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall be considered to be actions having significant environmental effects in the United States.
(d)
Environmental document
means an environmental assessment, an environmental impact statement, a Finding of No Significant Impact or a Notice of Intent prepared under these regulations.

# Subpart B—NEPA and Departmental Decisionmaking
§ 161.5
Major decision points and timing.
(a) The responsible action officer shall ensure compliance with these regulations at the earliest practicable stage of Departmental study, consideration or planning of a proposed major Federal action which could significantly affect the quality of the human environment. To accomplish this the responsible action officer must ensure that data developed during the review process is collected, analyzed and made available for consideration early in planning and decisionmaking when it will be most valuable in formulating, reviewing and deciding upon proposals for Departmental action.
(b) Environmental analysis and review of a proposed Departmental action shall be conducted as early as practicable so as to be timely, yet late enough to be relevant to the decisionmaking.
(c) Environmental documents should, whenever possible, accompany the principal action memorandum relating to a proposed action. An environmental document required in conjunction with conclusion of an international agreement shall, where possible, be prepared and circulated for review and comment before final negotiations begin. The completed environmental document should thus ordinarily accompany the principal action memorandum or request for authority to negotiate an agreement under the Department's Circular 175 regulation (11 FAM 720).
(d) To the maximum extent possible an environmental document should be prepared before the establishment of a final United States position on a proposal. In such cases the document should indicate the alternatives under consideration without specifying a Departmental preference. If the content and dimensions of a proposed action will not be clear until after the conclusion of an international negotiation or if a decision to proceed on an action involving another nation or international organization is required on short notice and before the environmental document can be prepared, the environmental document should be prepared as soon as possible after the conclusion of an agreed text of a treaty or agreement on the proposed action. If the Senate's advice and consent to a treaty with potential significant environmental effects in the United States will be sought, the final environmental impact statement should accompany other decision documentation for ratification. Legislative environmental impact statements on proposed treaties
or legislation shall conform to the requirements of § 1506.8 of the CEQ Regulations and must be prepared in time for Congressional hearings and deliberations.
(e) Because actions having effects on the United States may to varying degrees be initiated, influenced and conducted by other countries, it is recognized that the preparation of environmental documents for such actions must be adjusted to meet a variety of circumstances. Bearing in mind the degree to which other countries possess information on and the ability to affect the decision under consideration, responsible action officers shall seek at all times to prepare environmental analysis documents as early as feasible in the decisionmaking process.
§ 161.6
Responsibilities of departmental officials.
(a)
General.
As a general rule, responsibility for preparing environmental analysis documents will follow the Department's standard organizational practices; in this way environmental considerations and awareness of environmental responsibilities will be integrated most readily and effectively into the usual decisionmaking processes.
(1)
Departmental bureaus.
Each bureau within the Department shall be responsible for:
(i) Implementing these regulations and incorporating them into its normal decisionmaking processes;
(ii) Identifying actions it intends to initiate which may affect significantly the environment of the United States and employing the environmental evaluation procedures outlined in these regulations to ensure that necessary actions are taken to meet the requirements of applicable laws and regulations;
(iii) Coordinating environmental assessment-related activities for which it is responsible with the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues in the Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs and supporting and assisting the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues in implementing these regulations as required; and
(iv) Providing the personnel required to implement these regulations, informing the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues and the Office of the Legal Adviser whenever it is anticipated that environmental documents will be prepared under these regulations, and consulting the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues and the Office of the Legal Adviser as necessary for guidance and assistance in the preparation of such documents.
(2)
Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs.
Through its Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues the Bureau shall have the primary responsibility for ensuring the Department's compliance with environmental policies, regulations and procedures. It shall provide policy and professional direction and guidance within the Department for implementing these regulations. It shall also assist other bureaus in obtaining appropriate scientific advice and budgetary resources to implement the regulations. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues will act as the focal point for implementation, working closely with the Departmental bureaus and the Office of the Legal Adviser. The Bureau and other involved bureaus will work closely with the Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs in the preparation of environmental documents relating to legislation. In carrying out its responsibilities the Bureau shall:
(i) Coordinate the formulation, development and revision of Departmental policies and positions on matters pertaining to environmental evaluation and review;
(ii) Develop and ensure the implementation of Departmentwide standards, procedures and working relationships for environmental review and compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations;
(iii) Develop, as an integral part of the Department's basic decision processes, procedures to ensure that environmental factors are properly considered in all relevant proposals and decisions;
(iv) Monitor these processes to ensure that Departmental procedures are achieving their purposes;
(v) Advise, assist and inform Departmental bureaus of the technical and management aspects of environmental analysis, and of the relevant expertise available in and outside the Department;
(vi) Establish and maintain working relationships with the Council on Environmental Quality, Environmental Protection Agency, and other federal, State and local governmental agencies concerned with environmental matters;
(vii) Represent the Department in working with other government agencies and organizations to formulate, revise and achieve uniform understanding and application of government-wide policies relating to the environment;
(viii) Consolidate and transmit to the appropriate parties Departmental comments on environmental impact statements and other environmental reports prepared by other agencies; and
(ix) Acquire information for and prepare other Departmental reports on environmental assessment matters.
(3)
Office of the Legal Adviser.
The Office of the Legal Adviser is the principal Departmental authority on the legal aspects of environmental matters and the implementation of these regulations and shall advise and assist Departmental Bureaus in these matters.
(4)
Bureau Environmental Coordinators.
Each Departmental bureau and major office shall designate an officer to act as coordinator, adviser and principal point of contact for environmental matters within the bureau. The bureau coordinator will advise and assist the bureau in implementing these regulations and serve as a member of the Departmental Committee of Environmental Coordinators.
(5)
Departmental Committee of Environmental Coordinators.
A Departmental Committee of Environmental Coordinators shall be established to assist in coordinating Departmental implementation of these regulations; in providing advice on major issues, policies and procedures relating to the Department's implementation of environmental analysis requirements; and in ensuring general conformity of Departmental implementation practices. The Committee's responsibility will be to exchange information on the implementation of these regulations, assist bureaus in early identification of Departmental actions which should be analyzed for environmental effects and help to coordinate and provide the appropriate analysis. The Committee will be chaired by the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues and will be comprised of bureau and office coordinators designated by the respective bureaus and offices.
(6)
Outside contractors.
Qualified outside contractors may be employed to assist Departmental officers in preparing environmental documents as required under these regulations.
[45 FR 59554, Sept. 10, 1980, as amended at 85 FR 32296, May 29, 2020]
§ 161.7
Categories of actions.
Departmental officers shall review each major Departmental action having a potentially significant effect on the quality of the environment in the United States. The need to prepare formal environmental documents will depend on the scope of the action and the context and intensity of any environmental effects expected if the action is implemented. Departmental actions can generally be grouped into three categories, as follows:
(a)
Actions normally requiring environmental impact statements.
Any Departmental action deemed to have a “significant effect upon the quality of the human environment” of the United States requires the preparation of an environmental impact statement. The criteria to be used in determining significance are set forth in § 1508.27 of the CEQ Regulations. The Department has reviewed representative actions and has found no common pattern which would enable it to specify actions normally requiring environmental impact statements. If developments later enable such designations to be made the Department will publish a description of proposed actions for such designation in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Actions categorically excluded from the requirement to prepare environmental impact statements.
Categorical exclusion, as defined in § 1508.4 of the CEQ Regulations, provides for exclusion
from environmental review of specified actions which have as a class been found to have no significant impact on the quality of the human environment. Neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact statement is ordinarily required for such actions. Departmental actions categorically excluded from the requirements of these regulations include the following:
(1) Routine conduct of Departmental and overseas political and economic functions, including reporting on political and economic developments, trends and activities, communicating to host governments United States Government views, maintaining contact with foreign officials and individuals, and facilitating trade opportunities abroad and U.S. business expansion in foreign markets;
(2) Provision of consular services—visas, passports and citizenship, and special consular services, such as issuing or reviewing passports and visas, taking legal depositions, notarizing absentee ballots and other documents and delivering retirement checks, social security payments and veterans benefits;
(3) Conduct of routine administrative functions, such as budget and finance, personnel and general services. This includes routine administrative procurements (e.g., general supplies, negotiating leases for office space or staff housing, ordering supplies and arranging for customs clearances); financial transactions, including salaries, expenses and grants; routine management, formulation and allocation of the Department's budget at all levels (this does not exempt the preparation of environmental documents for proposals included in the Department's budget when required); and personnel actions (e.g., promotions, hirings, and counseling American and host country employees who work for the Department of State);
(4) Preparing for and participating in conferences, workshops or meetings for information exchange, data collection or research or study activities; and
(5) Document and information exchanges.
Even though an action may be categorically excluded from the need for an environmental impact statement, if information developed during the planning for the actions indicates the possibility that the particular action in question may nonetheless cause significant environmental effects, an environmental assessment shall be prepared to evaluate those effects. Based upon the assessment, a determination will be made whether to prepare an environmental impact statement. The Department may designate additional actions for categorical exclusion by publishing a listing of actions proposed for such designation in the
Federal Register.
(c)
Actions normally requiring environmental assessments.
An environmental assessment shall provide the basis of the determination whether an environmental impact statement is required. A Departmental action shall require the preparation of an environmental assessment if the action is not one known normally to require an environmental impact statement and is not categorically excluded. Departmental actions normally included in this category are actions for which the Department has lead-agency responsibility and which may significantly affect the human environment of the United States, such as those actions involving:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) Wetlands, floodplains, endangered species and national historical, archeological and recreational sites (see also specific requirements for environmental review and consultation in § 161.11 of these regulations); and
(3) Ocean dumping, control of toxic substances, disposal and storage of wastes and radioactive substances.
(d)
Emergencies and other exceptional circumstances.
Not every Departmental activity will be considered a major Federal action for the purposes of these regulations. Several limited classes of action which might ordinarily be subject to these regulations will not be considered major Federal actions requiring the preparation of an environmental impact statement. Among them are the following:
(1) Actions taken in emergency circumstances and disaster and emergency relief activities as defined in § 1506.11 of the CEQ Regulations (in
such circumstances the responsible action officer should consult with the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues which shall consult with the Council on Environmental Quality about appropriate alternative arrangements);
(2) Mandatory actions required under any treaty or international agreement to which the United States Government is a party, or required by the decisions of international organizations or authorities in which the United States is a member or participant except when the United States has substantial discretion over implementation of such requirements;
(3) Payment of contributions, either assessed or voluntary, to any international organization of which the United States is a member pursuant to the obligation of a treaty or other international agreement or which is not for the purpose of carrying out a specifically identifiable action which would affect the environment; and
(4) Support for or acquiescence in (by affirmative vote or agreement to consensus) an activity or expenditure of funds by an international organization where the United States has no unilateral right to control such expenditures.
[45 FR 59554, Sept. 10, 1980, as amended at 85 FR 32296, May 29, 2020]

# Subpart C—Environmental Review Procedures
§ 161.8
General description of the Department's NEPA process.
In reviewing proposed actions for potential environmental effects in the United States responsible action officers will follow the procedural steps set forth below. These steps are developed in conjunction with the procedural steps required by the CEQ Regulations which are referenced in the following sections.
(a)
Preliminary environmental evaluations.
Early in the process of considering any possible action the responsible action officer shall review the action to determine if it may cause potential significant environmental effects on the environment of the United States. A proposed action shall be reviewed initially to determine into which of the following three basic categories of action it falls:
(1) Actions normally requiring environmental impact statements;
(2) Actions categorically excluded from environmental impact statements; or
(3) Actions normally requiring environmental assessments. If the responsible action officer concludes that the proposed action is a major action potentially having significant effects in the United States he should, in cooperation with other appropriate Departmental officials, carry out the steps described in these regulations. If during his review of the location of potential environmental effects or following preparation of an environmental assessment it is determined that the action could affect the environment of the global commons or a foreign nation the officer is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Department's procedures for implementing Executive Order No. 12114 on Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions (Foreign Affairs Manual, Volume 2).
(b)
Environmental Assessment.
An environmental assessment is a concise document which analyzes potential environmental effects to determine if an environmental impact statement is required (CEQ Regulations §§ 1501.3 and 1508.9). If the action does not fall into either the category of those actions normally requiring an environmental impact statement or that of actions categorically excluded from the requirement to prepare an environmental impact statement, then the responsible action officer, in cooperation with other Departmental officials, shall prepare an environmental assessment to determine whether it is necessary to prepare an environmental impact statement or a “Finding of no significant impact”. If the action normally requires an environmental impact statement, there is ordinarily no need for the preparation of an environmental assessment and the environmental impact statement process should be initiated without preparing such an assessment. If the action is categorically excluded, no further environmental review is needed. If an environmental assessment is prepared it
may also be used to evaluate whether the proposed action may have effects outside the United States.
(c)
Finding of no significant impact.
If the environmental assessment indicates that the environmental effects of the action in the United States are not significant, then the responsible action officer shall make a “Finding of no significant impact”, thereby concluding the NEPA review process (CEQ Regulations §§ 1501.4 and 1508.13).
(d)
Environmental impact statement.
If the environmental assessment demonstrates that the environmental effects of the action with the United States may be “significant” (see § 1508.27 of the CEQ Regulations) the Department is required to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) in accordance with these regulations (see also CEQ Regulations § 1501.8, part 1502 and §§ 1506.2 through 1506.7). In preparing the environmental impact statement the following steps will be carried out:
(1)
Notice of intent to prepare an EIS.
If an impact statement is required, the Department will publish in the
Federal Register
a “Notice of intent” to prepare such a statement (CEQ Regulations §§ 1501.7 and 1508.22).
(2)
Scoping procedures.
The Department will then hold a scoping meeting with interested agencies and individuals to determine the proper content (“scope”) of the statement (CEQ Regulations §§ 1501.7 and 1508.25).
(3)
Draft environmental impact statement (DEIS).
The Department will then prepare a draft EIS (DEIS) which will be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency and circulated to agencies and the public for comment for at least 45 days, except where the CEQ Regulations and these regulations permit the time period to be shortened (CEQ Regulations § 1501.8, part 1502, §§ 1506.2 through 1506.7, 1506.10(d) and 1506.11; 161.7(d), 161.9(n)(2)).
(4)
Final environmental impact statement (FEIS).
In light of the comments and following any revision in the draft EIS, the Department will file with the Environmental Protection Agency and circulate to agencies and the public a final EIS at least 30 days before making a final decision on the action, except where the CEQ Regulations and these regulations permit the time period to be shortened (CEQ Regulations §§ 1506.9, 1506.10(d), 1506.11; 161.7(d), 161.9(n)(2)).
(5)
Record of decision.
After making a decision on the action, the Department will make available a formal “Record of decision” (CEQ Regulations § 1505.2).
§ 161.9
Specific steps in the Department's NEPA process.
(a)
Decision whether to prepare an EIS.
In deciding whether to prepare an environmental impact statement, the responsible action officer shall make an initial review in the early planning stages of a proposed action to identify and evaluate potential environmental effects of the actions and all reasonable measures which may be taken to mitigate adverse impacts. This review must be conducted in conjunction with all requests under the Department's Circular 175 procedure (11 FAM 720), with all actions involving the obligation of funds within the Department's annual or supplemental budget submissions to the Office of Management and Budget, and with other actions when a potentially significant environmental impact may result. The responsible action officer shall ensure that the principal action memoranda prepared for such actions properly reflect the environmental review in all cases. No written statement is required in the case of actions which do not raise the question of environmental impacts. The environmental evaluation document prepared shall be considered along with political, economic and other decisionmaking factors relating to the proposed action.
(1)
Review of the categories of actions.
During the initial environmental review of the proposed action, the responsible action officer should classify the proposed Departmental action as one either normally requiring an environmental impact statement, normally not requiring such a statement, or normally requiring an environmental assessment. (See § 1504.1 of the CEQ Regulations and § 161.7 of these regulations.)
(i)
Actions normally requiring environmental statements.
Environmental assessments are not required for actions which it is already known will require
the preparation of environmental impact statements. For each major Departmental action which, in the view of the responsible action officer meets the criteria of this section, he shall, in cooperation with theOffice of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues, initiate steps to prepare an environmental impact statement. This will be accomplished by preparing a “Notice of intent” to prepare an EIS (see § 1508.22 of the CEQ Regulations). The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall arrange for publication of the notice in the
Federal Register
(see § 1507.3(e) of the CEQ Regulations). The responsible action officer shall then apply the procedures set forth in § 161.8 of these regulations to determine the scope of the proposed EIS, and proceed to prepare and release the environmental impact statement in accordance with CEQ and Departmental regulations. If, however, the responsible action officer believes that the proposed action, though included within or closely similar to one which normally requires the preparation of an EIS, will itself have no significant impact, he should conduct an environmental assessment in accordance with the CEQ Regulations (§ 1508.9). If the assessment demonstrates that there will be no significant impact, he should prepare a “Finding of no significant impact” and provide for public review a notice of this finding in accordance with §§ 1501.4(e) and 1506.6 of the CEQ Regulations.
(ii)
Actions categorically excluded.
Separate detailed documentation is not normally required for actions which are categorically excluded and which are therefore exempt from the requirement of preparations of an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement. However, the responsible action officer shall note in the action memorandum concerning the action that the proposed action has been reviewed under the Department's environmental procedures and determined to be categorically excluded. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall periodically review actions in the classes categorically excluded under these regulations to determine if the original decision to categorically exclude the class remains valid. If such a review determines that a proposed action may have a significant impact on the human environment the necessary revision in the categorical exclusion shall be made and an environmental assessment shall be prepared to determine the need for the preparation of an environmental impact statement.
(iii)
Actions normally requiring environmental assessments.
For each action meeting the criteria of this section the responsible action officer shall prepare an environmental assessment (see §§ 1501.3 and 1508.9 of the CEQ Regulations) and, on the basis of that assessment, determine if an EIS is required. If the determination is that no environmental impact statement is required, the responsible action officer shall, in coordination with the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues, prepare a “Finding of no significant impact” (see §§ 1501.4 and 1508.13 of the CEQ Regulations). The “Finding of no significant impact” shall be made available to the public through direct distribution and publication in the
Federal Register.
If the determination is that an environmental impact statement is required, the official shall proceed with the “Notice of intent” to prepare an EIS and the subsequent steps in the preparation and release of an EIS in accordance with the CEQ Regulations (§§ 1501.7, 1507.3 and 1508.22) and these regulations.
(2)
Preparation of environmental assessments.
Environmental assessments, as defined in the CEQ Regulations (§ 1508.9), should be prepared as directed in § 1501.3 of the CEQ Regulations. The environmental assessment shall be used to determine whether to prepare an environmental impact statement or a “Finding of no significant impact”. The assessment shall include a brief discussion of the need for the proposed action, of alternatives and of environmental impacts and a listing of agencies and persons consulted in preparing the assessment.
(3)
Notice of intent to prepare an EIS.
As soon as practicable after deciding to prepare an environmental impact statement and before initiating the scoping process (see § 161.9(b) of these
regulations) the Department or another lead agency, if one is designated in accordance with § 1501.5 of the CEQ Regulations, shall publish in the
Federal Register
a “Notice of intent” to prepare an EIS in accordance with §§ 1501.7 and 1508.22 of the CEQ Regulations. TheOffice of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall arrange for publishing the notice.
(b)
Scoping.
The Department shall conduct an early and open meeting with interested agencies and the public for determining the scope of issues to be addressed in a given environmental impact statement and for identifying the significant issues related to a proposed action. The elements of the scoping process are defined in § 1501.7 of the CEQ Regulations and must include consideration of the range of actions, alternatives, and impacts discussed in § 1508.25 of the CEQ Regulations.
(c)
Cooperation with other agencies.
Departmental officials are encouraged to cooperate with other agencies and the public throughout the conduct of the Department's NEPA process. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall ensure also that the Department reviews the draft and final impact statements submitted for review by other agencies (§ 1502.19 of the CEQ Regulations). Where appropriate and to eliminate duplication it shall arrange to prepare environmental assessments and impact statements jointly with other Federal or State agencies. Where possible it will arrange for the department to “adopt” statements prepared by other agencies (§ 1506.3 of the CEQ Regulations). It shall arrange lead and cooperating agency responsibilities for preparing environmental documents (see §§ 1501.5 and 1501.6 of CEQ Regulations).
(d)
Preparation of draft environmental impact statement.
The responsible action officer shall be responsible for the preparation of the draft environmental impact statement in the manner described in § 1501.8, part 1502, and §§ 1506.2 through 1506.7 of the CEQ Regulations. Preliminary copies of the draft environmental impact statement and attachments shall be submitted to the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues before any formal review is conducted outside the Department. This submission shall be accompanied by a list of Federal, State, and local officials (part 1503 of the CEQ Regulations) and a list of other interested parties (§ 1506.6 of the CEQ Regulations) whose comments shall be sought. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall review the draft and obtain additional comments from other appropriate Departmental bureaus and offices.
(e)
Review of and comment on draft EIS.
For external review, the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall transmit five copies of the revised draft statement to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Office of Federal Activities. EPA will publish a notice of the statement's availability the following week in the
Federal Register.
Upon transmission of the draft statement to EPA, the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall also seek the views of appropriate agencies and individuals in accordance with part 1503 and §§ 1506.6 and 1506.9 of the CEQ Regulations. It shall specify that replies are required at a stated date not earlier than 45 days from the date of NEPA publication of the draft statement availability. Any views submitted during the comment period shall be provided to the responsible action officer in the Department for consideration in preparing the final statement. To the fullest extent possible, requirements for review and consultation with other agencies on environmental matters established by statutes other than NEPA, such as the review and consultation requirements of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, should be met before or through this review process (see § 161.11 of these regulations). In addition, the draft EIS shall list all environmentally-related federal permits, licenses or other approvals required to implement the proposal as specified in § 1502.25(b) of the CEQ Regulations.
(f)
Public involvement.
(1) Departmental officials will make diligent efforts to involve the public in implementing these regulations as provided in §§ 1501.4(e), 1503.1(a)(e) and 1506.6 of the CEQ Regulations.
(2) Interested persons can obtain information on the Department's environmental impact statements and other aspects of the Department's NEPA process by contacting the Director, Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues , Room 7820, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520 (tel. 202/632-9266). Information pertaining to the NEPA process may be sent to the above address.
Federal Register
notices concerning the Department's environmental documents shall specify where such information relevant to the documents in question may be obtained.
(3) The responsible action officer shall identify those persons, community organizations, environmental interest groups, international organizations or other bodies which may have an interest in or be affected by the proposed Departmental action and who should therefore be involved in the NEPA process. With the assistance of the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues, the responsible action shall transmit a list of such persons, groups and organizations to the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues at the same time he submits:
(i) A recommendation regarding a “Finding of no significant impact”;
(ii) A “Notice of intent to prepare an EIS”;
(iii) A recommendation on possible public hearings (see § 1506.6(c) of CEQ Regulations);
(iv) A draft EIS, or
(v) A final EIS.
(4) The responsible action officer shall consult with the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues and make recommendations regarding the need for public hearings. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall, as necessary, review such recommendations with the Office of the Legal Adviser.
(g)
Preparation of final environmental impact statement.
(1) After conclusion of the review process with other Federal, State and local agencies and the public, the responsible action officer shall consider suggestions received and revise the draft environmental impact statement as appropriate in accordance with part 1502 and § 1501.8 and §§ 1506.2 through 1506.7 of the CEQ Regulations.
(2) Five copies of the preliminary final environmental impact statement, with attached copies of the comments received and suggested responses, shall be provided to the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issueswill, as appropriate, obtain additional comments from any other appropriate Departmental bureau or offices and notify the responsible action officer of any further changes required and the number of final statements to be transmitted. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall submit five copies of the final statement to the Environmental Protection Agency's Office of Environmental Review. Copies shall also be sent to all parties who commented and to other interested parties in accordance with § 1506.9 of the CEQ Regulations.
(3) Each draft and final statement, the supporting documentation, and the “Record of decision” (see § 161.9(h) of these regulations) shall be available for public review and copying at the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues (OES/ENH), Room 7820, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520 (tel. 202/632-9267).
(h)
Record of the decision.
At the time of the decision on the proposed action, the responsible Departmental official shall consult with the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues and prepare a concise “Record of decision” (see § 1505.2 of the CEQ Regulations).
(i)
Timing of EIS preparation and action decision.
Preparation of an environmental impact statement shall be initiated as soon as the responsible action officer, in consultation with the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues and the Office of the Legal Adviser, has determined that the statement shall be prepared. Except where permitted by the CEQ Regulations (§§ 1506.10(d), 1506.11) and these regulations (§§ 161.7(d), 161.9(n)(2)), no decision on the proposed action shall be made by the Department until the later of the following dates:
(1) Ninety (90) days after publication by EPA of a notice of availability of a Departmental draft EIS.
(2) Thirty (30) days after publication by EPA of a notice of availability of a departmental final EIS.
(j)
Implementing and monitoring the decision.
Section 1505.3 of the CEQ Regulations establishes the procedures to be followed by the Department in monitoring to assure that any mitigation measures or other commitments associated with the decision and its implementation are carried out. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues will maintain general oversight and cooperate with bureau officers in such monitoring.
(k)
Supplemental environmental impact statements.
Departmental officials shall supplement a draft EIS whenever an alternative which is substantially different from those discussed in the draft is under consideration or when the draft is otherwise out of date. A final EIS shall be supplemented when a substantial change is made in the proposed action or when significant new information on the environmental impacts comes to light. A supplemental EIS should be prepared, circulated and approved in accordance with the provisions of § 1502.9 of the CEQ Regulations. No supplemental EIS need be prepared when the final decision on the action in question has already been made. If there are reasons not to prepare a supplemental EIS when one ordinarily would be called for, the responsible action officer should consult with the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues , which shall consult with the Council on Environmental Quality on the matter.
(l)
Programmatic and generic environmental impact statements.
(1) Before preparing an environmental document under these regulations the responsible action officer should determine if there exists a generic or programmatic environmental document analyzing actions, effects or issues similar to those involved in the proposed action. A generic environmental document reviews the environmental effects that are generic or common to a class of Departmental actions which may not be specific to any single country or area. Where such a document is prepared it could be applied to a number of similar specific country applications. If a generic document exists and if it deals with relevant similarities in the action, such as common timing, environmental impacts, alternatives, methods of implementation or subject matter it will not be necessary to prepare further environmental documentation.
(2) A programmatic environmental document shall focus its analysis on the environmental aspects of an entire program rather than on the specific elements of the program. If a programmatic environmental document has already been prepared the responsible action officer should determine whether it adequately deals with the environmental effects of the particular action under review. If the programmatic document adequately reviews the environmental impacts of the action under consideration, then additional environmental documentation is not required under these regulations. In preparing environmental documents on specific actions, Departmental officers shall consider the advisability of modifying or expanding the documents so they may serve as generic or programmatic documents for a broader range of actions.
(m)
Amendments.
Amendments to these regulations may be made by the Assistant Secretary for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs in consultation with other Departmental bureaus and the Office of the Legal Adviser. Such amendments will be published in the
Federal Register
after consultation with the Council on Environmental Quality, in accordance with § 1507.3 of the CEQ Regulations, and public review and comment.
(n)
Modifications.
The Department's procedures for preparing environmental documents may be modified to accommodate the following circumstances:
(1)
Classified material.
Most Departmental environmental documents will not normally contain classified or administratively controlled material (see § 1507.3(c) of the CEQ Regulations); in some cases, however, an environmental document must include such material to evaluate adequately environmental
effects. In such cases Departmental environmental documents, or portions thereof, may be classified. Such material should, if possible, be confined to a classified annex of the environmental document. Approval for classification must be granted with the concurrence of the Assistant Secretary for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs and the Office of the Legal Adviser, and the assistant secretary of the bureau with the action responsibility for the proposed action. In these cases, Departmental environmental documents or portions thereof may be classified in accordance with the criteria set forth in Executive Order 12065, dated December 1, 1978. Handling and disclosure of classified or administratively controlled material shall be governed by 22 CFR part 9. The portions of an environmental document which are not classified or administratively controlled will be made available to persons outside the Department, as provided in 22 CFR part 9. Classification does not preclude the obligation to ensure that environmental documents are reviewed by competent scientific and technical experts. Appropriate arrangements will be made through the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues or Federal agency review of classified or administratively controlled environmental documents.
(2)
Time periods for environmental review.
When necessary to comply with other specific statutory requirements or for compelling reasons of national policy the Department may, by agreement with the Environmental Protection Agency, modify time periods specified by the CEQ Regulations for preparing environmental documents in accordance with § 1506.10 of the CEQ Regulations. See also provisions for emergency circumstances contained in § 1506.11 of the CEQ Regulations and § 161.7(d) of these regulations.

# Subpart D—Coordination of Other Requirements of NEPA
§ 161.10
[Reserved]
§ 161.11
Environmental review and consultation requirements.
In addition to the environmental review requirements of NEPA the Department has other statutory environmental review and consultation requirements. Departmental officials, in cooperation with the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues and the Office of the Legal Adviser shall, to the maximum extent possible, conduct environmental review and consultation for these additional requirements concurrently with and integrated with preparation of assessments, and environmental impact statements. The principal additional requirements affecting the Department of State's actions are outlined below.
(a) Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
requires identification of and consultation on aspects of any Departmental action that may have effects in the United States on listed species or their habitat. As appropriate, written request for consultation, along with the draft environmental document, shall be conveyed by the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues to the Regional Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or the National Marine Fisheries Service, as appropriate, for the Region in the United States where the action will be carried out.
(b) Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470(f), requires identification of National Register properties, eligible properties, or properties in the United States which may be eligible for the National Register within the area of the potential impact of a proposed Departmental action. Evaluation of the impact of the action on such properties shall be discussed in draft environmental impact statements and transmitted to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation for comments.
(c) Executive Order 11988 (Floodplains Management) and Executive Order
11990 (Wetlands), requires identification of actions which will occur in or affect a floodplain or wetland (e.g., in areas along the boundary with Canada or Mexico). A comparative evaluation of such actions shall be discussed in draft environmental impact statements and transmitted to the U.S. Water Resources Council for comments.
(d) Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, 16 U.S.C. 661
et seq.
(e) Section 309 of the Clean Air Act of 1955, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7609.
(f) Clean Water Act of 1977, 33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
(g) Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
(h) Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.
(i) Deepwater Port Act of 1974, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1501
et seq.
(j) Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.
§ 161.12
Environmental effects abroad of major departmental actions.
Departmental officials shall analyze actions under their cognizance with due regard for the environmental effects in the global commons and areas outside the jurisdiction of any nation and in foreign jurisdictions. Such analysis shall be prepared in accordance with separate Departmental procedures (Foreign Affairs Manual, Volume 2), dated September 4, 1979 for implementing Executive Order 12114, “Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions” (44 FR 1957), dated January 4, 1979.

# SUBCHAPTER R—ACCESS TO INFORMATION
Pt. 171

# PART 171—PUBLIC ACCESS TO INFORMATION

# Subpart A—General Policy and Procedures
Sec.
171.1
General provisions.
171.2
Types of records maintained.
171.3
Records available on the Department's website.
171.4
Requests for information—types and how made.
171.5
Archival records.

# Subpart B—Freedom of Information Act Provisions
171.10
Purpose and scope.
171.11
Processing requests.
171.12
Timing of responses to requests.
171.13
Responses to requests.
171.14
Confidential commercial information.
171.15
Administrative appeals.
171.16
Fees to be charged.
171.17
Preservation of records.

# Subpart C—Privacy Act Provisions
171.20
Purpose and scope.
171.21
Definitions.
171.22
Request for access to records.
171.23
Request to amend or correct records.
171.24
Request for an accounting of record disclosures.
171.25
Appeals from denials of PA amendment requests.
171.26
Exemptions.

# Subpart D—Access to Financial Disclosure Reports
171.30
Purpose and scope.
171.31
Requests for Public Financial Disclosure Reports—OGE Form 278.
171.32
Denial of Public Access to Confidential Financial Disclosure Reports—OGE Form 450.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2651a; 5 U.S.C. 552, 552a; E.O. 12600 (52 FR 23781); Pub. L. 114-185; Pub. L. 95-521, 92 Stat. 1824 (codified as amended at 5 U.S.C. Ch. 131); 5 CFR part 2634.

# Source:
88 FR 71740, Oct. 18, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Policy and Procedures
§ 171.1
General provisions.
(a)
In General.
This part contains the rules that the Department of State and the Foreign Service Grievance Board (FSGB), an independent body, follow in processing requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552, and the Privacy Act of 1974 (PA), as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a. These rules should be read in conjunction with the text of the FOIA, the PA, and the Uniform Freedom of Information Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB Guidelines”).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of subparts A and B of this part,
Component
means the offices that respond directly to requests concerning records under their jurisdiction: the Office of Inspector General; the Bureau of Consular Affairs' Directorates for Visa Services, Passport Services, and Overseas Citizens Services; the Bureau of Diplomatic Security; the Bureau of Global Talent Management; the Bureau of Medical Services; and the Foreign Service Grievance Board.
Control
means the Department's legal authority over a record, taking into account the ability of the Department to use and dispose of the record, the intent of the record's creator to retain or relinquish control over the record, the extent to which Department personnel have read or relied upon the record, and the degree to which the record has been integrated into the Department's record-keeping systems or files.
Department
means the United States Department of State, including its field offices, Foreign Service posts abroad, and its components. This part does not address FOIA requests to the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). Requesters should visit USAID's website for further information.
Record
means information regardless of its physical form or characteristics—including information created, stored, and retrievable by electronic means—that is created or obtained by the Department and under the control of the Department at the time of the request, including information maintained for the Department by an entity under government contract for records
management purposes. It does not include records that are not already in existence and that would have to be created specifically to respond to a request.
§ 171.2
Types of records maintained.
Most of the records maintained by the Department pertain to the formulation and execution of U.S. foreign policy. The Department also maintains certain records that pertain to individuals, such as applications for U.S. passports, applications for U.S. visas, records on consular assistance given abroad by U.S. Foreign Service posts to U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents, and records on Department employees. Further information on the types of records maintained by the Department may be obtained by reviewing the Department's records disposition schedules, which are available on the Department's FOIA website at
www.foia.state.gov
.
§ 171.3
Records available on the Department's website.
(a) Records that are required by the FOIA to be made available for public inspection in an electronic format under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) also are available on the Department's public website. Included on the Department's FOIA home page,
www.foia.state.gov,
are links to other sites where Department information may be available and to the Department's records disposition schedules. Also available on the FOIA website are certain records released by the Department pursuant to requests under the FOIA and compilations of records reviewed and released in certain special projects. Links to the Department's Privacy Act System of Records Notices are available at
www.state.gov/privacy
. In addition, see 22 CFR part 173 regarding release within the United States of public diplomacy program material generated pursuant to the U.S. Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1431,
et seq.,
also referred to as the Smith-Mundt Act).
(b) The Department's Office of Inspector General (OIG) is responsible for determining which of its records are required to be made publicly available on its website at
www.stateoig.gov
. OIG will ensure that its website of posted records and indices is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis.
§ 171.4
Requests for information—types and how made.
(a)
General Information.
(1) Requests for records made in accordance with this part must be made in writing. FOIA requests may be made to the Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS) by email to
foiarequest@state.gov,
through the Department's FOIA website (
www.foia.state.gov/
), by fax to (202) 485-1669, or by mail to the address below. PA requests must be made in writing and signed, and the requester's signature must be either notarized or made under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746. See § 171.22(a). PA requests may be made to A/GIS/IPS by email to
foiarequest@state.gov,
by fax to (202) 485-1669, or by mail. FOIA and PA requests made by mail should be addressed to: Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS), Room B-266, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520.
(2) Requests for passport records covered under PA System of Records Notice STATE-26 (available at
www.state.gov/system-of-records-notices-privacy-office/
) must be made in writing, and may be submitted directly to the Law Enforcement Liaison Division of the Passport Services directorate (PPT) of the Bureau of Consular Affairs by mailing the request to U.S. Department of State, Office of Law Enforcement Liaison, FOIA Officer, 44132 Mercure Circle, P.O. Box 1227, Sterling, VA 20166-1227. Requests for passport records and information that do not need to be certified may also be emailed to
PPT-Public-FOIARequests@state.gov
.
(3) Requests for records of the OIG must be made in writing, and may be submitted via email to
foia@stateoig.gov,
by fax to 703-284-1866, or by mail addressed to FOIA Officer, Officer of General Counsel, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of State, 1700 N Moore Street, Suite 1400, Arlington, VA 22209. Submission by email is preferred. Guidance and contact information are available on the
OIG's website at
www.stateoig.gov/foiarequest
.
(4) The Office of Information Programs and Services, the Law Enforcement Liaison Division of the Passport Services directorate, and the OIG are the only Department components authorized to accept FOIA and PA requests submitted to the Department.
(5) The requester should provide the specific citation to the authority under which he or she is requesting information (e.g., the FOIA, the PA, or Mandatory Declassification Review (MDR) under the current Executive Order on classification). This will facilitate the processing of the request. When individual U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents request access to records about themselves, the Department processes responsive records maintained in Privacy Act systems of records under both the FOIA and the PA to provide requesters with the greatest degree of access to the records. Information in such records will be withheld only if it is exempt from access under both laws; if the information is exempt under only one of the laws, it will be released. Responsive records that are not maintained in a Privacy Act system of records are processed only under the FOIA.
(6) A requester who requests records about himself or herself, including passport records, must comply with the verification of identity requirements as set forth in § 171.22 of Subpart C (the Privacy Act Provisions) of this part in order for the request to be processed under the PA.
(7) Where a request for records pertains to a third party or to a requester's own records outside of a request under the Privacy Act, a requester may receive greater access by submitting a notarized authorization signed by the person whose records are requested, or by submitting a declaration made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 by the person whose records are requested, authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, or by submitting proof that the third party is deceased (e.g., a copy of a death certificate or an obituary).
(8) The Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, section 222(f) (8 U.S.C. 1202(f)), provides that the records of the Department of State and of diplomatic and consular offices of the United States pertaining to the issuance or refusal of visas or permits to enter the United States must be considered confidential and shall be used only for certain enumerated purposes, including the formulation, amendment, administration, or enforcement of the immigration, nationality, and other laws of the United States. As a result, information subject to release in response to a request for visa records about an individual may be limited. Requests for visa records should include the following information for the applicant and, if applicable, the petitioner: full name, as well as any aliases used; current address; email; and date and place of birth (including city, state, and country). Additional information describing the records sought will assist the Department in properly identifying the responsive records and in processing the request. Attorneys or other legal representatives requesting visa information on behalf of a visa applicant should submit a statement with the request signed by the applicant (and the petitioner if the records sought pertain to a petition) authorizing release of the requested visa information to the representative. Alternatively, requesters may submit a DS-4240-R to certify their identity or a DS-4240-C to provide authorization by the applicant (and the petitioner if the records sought pertain to a petition) to release the requested information to the legal representative. Forms created by other Federal agencies will not be accepted. Other information found in the visa file, such as information submitted as part of the visa application and information not falling within section 222(f) or another FOIA exemption, may be provided to the requester.
(b)
Description of records sought.
Although no particular format is required, a request must reasonably describe the Department record(s) that the requester seeks. Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable agency personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist the Department in identifying the requested
record(s), such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter, case number, file designation reference number, or timeframe. If after receiving a request the Department determines that the request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Department will inform the requester that the request is insufficient and shall inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the agency's response to the request may be delayed. Any records provided in response to a request will be provided in the form or format requested if a releasable form of the records is readily reproducible in that form or format. Requesters must provide contact information, such as their phone number, email address, and/or mailing address, to assist the Department in communicating with them and providing released records.
(c)
Privacy Act versus FOIA.
While the Department makes every effort to provide the greatest possible access to all requested records regardless of the statute(s) under which the information is requested, the following guidance is provided for the benefit of requesters:
(1) The Freedom of Information Act applies to requests for records concerning the general activities of government and of the Department in particular (see subpart B of this part).
(2) The Privacy Act applies to requests from U.S. citizens or lawful permanent residents for records about them that are maintained by the Department in a system of records retrievable by the individual's name or personal identifier (see subpart C of this part).
§ 171.5
Archival records.
The Department ordinarily transfers records designated as historically significant to the National Archives when they are 25 years old. Accordingly, requests for some Department records 25 years old or older should be submitted to the National Archives by mail addressed to Special Access and FOIA Staff (RD-F), National Archives at College Park, 8601 Adelphi Road, Room 5500, College Park, MD 20740-6001; by fax to (301) 837-1864; or by email to
specialaccess_foia@nara.gov.
The Department's website,
www.foia.state.gov,
has additional information regarding archival records.

# Subpart B—Freedom of Information Act Provisions
§ 171.10
Purpose and scope.
This subpart contains the rules that the Department follows under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552. The rules should be read together with the FOIA, which provides additional information about access to records and contains the specific exemptions that are applicable for withholding information; the Uniform Freedom of Information Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Guidelines) (
see www.justice.gov/oip/foia-resources#s5
); and information located at
www.foia.state.gov.
§ 171.11
Processing requests.
(a)
In general.
(1) The Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS) is responsible for initial action on all FOIA requests for Department records, with two exceptions: requests seeking records under the purview of the Office of Inspector General (OIG), which receives and processes requests for OIG records (see § 171.4 (a)(3)); and requests seeking records under the purview of the Law Enforcement Liaison Division of the Passport Services directorate of the Bureau of Consular Affairs (CA), which receives and processes requests for certain consular records (see § 171.4 (a)(2)).
(2) For requests for which A/GIS/IPS is responsible for initial action, A/GIS/IPS will issue all initial decisions on whether a request is valid (or has subsequently been perfected) and whether to grant or deny requests for a fee waiver or for expedited processing.
(3) After A/GIS/IPS takes initial action, all requests for records coming under the jurisdiction of the following components are processed by those components, although A/GIS/IPS may provide review and coordination support to these components in some situations: the Directorates for Visa Services, Passport Services, and Overseas
Citizens Services, in the Bureau of Consular Affairs; the Bureau of Diplomatic Security; the Bureau of Global Talent Management; and the Bureau of Medical Services. Additionally, the Foreign Service Grievance Board (FSGB), as an independent body, processes all FOIA requests seeking access to its records and responds directly to requesters.
(b)
Receipt of request.
The Department is in receipt of a request when the request is received by A/GIS/IPS, OIG, or PPT, depending on which office is the proper recipient. At that time, the Department must send an acknowledgement letter to the requester that identifies the date of receipt of the request in the proper office (A/GIS/IPS, OIG, or PPT), and the case tracking number. When one of these offices determines that a request was misdirected within the Department, that office must promptly route the request to the proper office(s) within the Department.
(c)
Cut-off date and exclusions.
In determining which records are responsive to a request, the Department ordinarily will include only records in its possession as of the date of initiation of the search for responsive records, unless the requester has specified an earlier cut-off date. A record that is excluded from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c) is not considered responsive to a request.
(d)
Consultation, referral, and coordination.
When reviewing records located in response to a request, the component processing the request will determine whether another agency of the Federal Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, the component must proceed in one of the following ways:
(1)
Consultation.
When records originated with the Department, but contain within them information of interest to another agency or other Federal Government office, the component processing the request should typically consult with that other entity prior to making a release determination.
(2)
Referral.
(i) When the component processing the request believes that a different Department component or other Federal Government agency is better able to determine whether to disclose the record, the component processing the request typically should refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that component or agency, as long as the referral is to an entity subject to the FOIA. Ordinarily, the agency that originated the record will be presumed to be best able to make the disclosure determination. However, if the component processing the request and the originating agency jointly agree that the former is in the better position to respond regarding the record, then the record may be handled as a consultation.
(ii) Whenever the component processing the request refers any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another entity, the component must document the referral, maintain a copy of the record that it refers, and notify the requester of the referral and inform the requester of the name(s) of the entity to which the record was referred, including that entity's FOIA contact information.
(3)
Coordination.
The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the component or agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. For example, if a non-law enforcement component responding to a request for records on a living third party locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party was not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if a component locates within its files material originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harm. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, the component that received the request should coordinate with the
originating component or agency to seek its views on the whether the record may be disclosed. The release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination will be conveyed to the requester by the component that originally received the request.
(e)
Timing of responses to consultations and referrals.
All consultations and referrals received by the Department will be handled according to the date that the perfected FOIA request was received by the first agency.
(f)
Agreements regarding consultations and referrals.
The Department may make agreements with other agencies to eliminate, reduce, or streamline the need for consultations or referrals for particular types of records.
§ 171.12
Timing of responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
The Department ordinarily will respond to requests in the order received. In instances involving misdirected requests that are re-routed pursuant to § 171.11 (b), the response time will commence on the date that the request is received by the proper office that is designated to receive requests (A/GIS/IPS, OIG or PPT), but in any event not later than 10 working days after the request is first received by any of these three offices.
(b)
Multi-track processing.
The Department has a specific track for requests that are granted expedited processing, in accordance with the standards that are set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. An intake office (A/GIS/IPS, OIG, or PPT) may also designate additional processing tracks that, for example, distinguish between simple and more complex requests based on the estimated amount of work and/or time needed to process the request. Among the factors that may also be considered are the number of records requested, the number of pages involved in processing the request, and the need for consultations or referrals. The Department must advise requesters of the track in which their request falls and, when appropriate, should offer the requesters an opportunity to narrow their request so that it can be placed in a different processing track.
(c)
Unusual circumstances.
Whenever the statutory time limit for processing a request cannot be met because of unusual circumstances, as defined in the FOIA, and the Department extends the time limit on that basis, the Department must, before expiration of the 20-day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved. Where the extension exceeds 10 working days, the Department must, as described by the FOIA, provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or a modified request. The Department must make available its designated FOIA contact and FOIA Public Liaison for this purpose (
see foia.state.gov/contact/
). In the written notice to the requester, the Department must also alert the requester to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services to provide dispute resolution services.
(d)
Expedited processing.
(1) Requests shall receive expedited processing when a requester demonstrates that a compelling need for the information exists. A compelling need is deemed to exist when the requester can demonstrate one of the following:
(i) Failure to obtain requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;
(ii) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, there exists an urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity; or
(iii) Failure to release the information would impair substantial due process rights or harm substantial humanitarian interests.
(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at the time of the initial request for records or at any later time. Requests for expedited processing must be submitted to the office responsible for receiving the FOIA request (A/GIS/IPS, OIG, or PPT). When making a request for expedited processing of an administrative appeal, the request must be submitted to A/GIS/IPS, or OIG in the case of appeals of OIG decisions (see § 171.15). A Department FOIA
office that receives a misdirected request for expedited processing must forward it promptly to the correct office responsible for receiving requests (A/GIS/IPS, OIG, or PPT) for its determination. The time period for making the determination on the request for expedited processing commences on the date that the correct office receives the request, provided that the Department will be considered to have received the request for expedited processing no more than 10 working days after the request for expedited processing is received by A/GIS/IPS, OIG, or PPT.
(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. For example, under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, a requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a person whose primary professional activity or occupation is information dissemination, though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the government activity involved in the request—one that extends beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject can be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an “urgency to inform” the public on the topic. As a matter of administrative discretion, the Department may waive the formal certification requirement.
(4) A notice of the determination whether to grant expedited processing must be provided to the requester within 10 calendar days of the date of the receipt of the request for expedited processing in the appropriate office (whether A/GIS/IPS, OIG, or PPT). If expedited processing is granted, the request must be given priority, placed in the processing track for expedited requests, and processed as soon as practicable. A denial of a request for expedited processing may be appealed within 90 calendar days of the date of the Department's letter denying the request. A decision in writing on the appeal will be issued within 10 calendar days of the receipt of the appeal.
§ 171.13
Responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
The Department will, to the extent practicable, communicate with requesters having access to the internet using electronic means, such as email or a web portal.
(b)
Acknowledgment of requests.
The Department must acknowledge the request in writing and assign it an individualized tracking number if it will take longer than 10 working days to process. The Department must include in the acknowledgment a brief description of the records sought to allow requesters to more easily keep track of their requests. The Department may in its discretion divide a multi-part request into multiple requests in order to facilitate processing.
(c)
Estimated dates of completion and interim responses.
Upon request, the Department will provide an estimated date by which the Department expects to provide a response to the requester. If a request involves a voluminous amount of material, or searches in multiple locations, the agency may provide interim responses, releasing the records on a rolling basis.
(d)
Grants of requests.
Once the Department makes a determination to grant a request in full or in part, it must notify the requester in writing. The Department also must inform the requester of any fees charged under § 171.16 and must disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. The Department must inform the requester of the availability of the FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.
(e)
Adverse determinations of requests.
If the Department makes an adverse determination denying a request in any respect, it must notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: the requested record is exempt from disclosure, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or
the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing.
(f)
Content of denial.
The denial must be signed by the head of the component processing the request, or designee, and must include:
(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;
(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemptions applied in denying the request;
(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;
(4) A statement that the denial may be appealed under § 171.15 and a description of the requirements set forth therein; and
(5) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from the Department's FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration.
(g)
Markings on released documents.
Markings on released documents must be clearly visible to the requester. Records disclosed in part must be marked to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. The location of the information deleted must also be indicated on the record, if technically feasible.
(h)
Use of record exclusions.
(1) In the event that the Department identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), A/GIS/IPS or OIG must confer with the Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy to obtain approval to apply the exclusion.
(2) Any time the Department invokes an exclusion, it must maintain an administrative record of the process of invocation and approval of the exclusion by OIP.
§ 171.14
Confidential commercial information.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section:
Confidential commercial information
means commercial or financial information obtained by the Department from a submitter that may be exempt from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
Submitter
means any person or entity from which the Department obtains confidential commercial information, directly or indirectly. The term includes corporations, partnerships, and sole proprietorships; state, local, and tribal governments; foreign governments; NGOs; and educational institutions. This term does not include another Federal Government entity.
(b)
Designation of confidential commercial information.
A submitter of confidential commercial information must use good-faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings at the time of submission any portions of its submission that it considers exempt from disclosure under FOIA Exemption 4. These designations expire ten years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests, and provides justification for, a longer designation period.
(c)
Notice to submitters.
(1) The Department must provide a submitter with prompt written notice whenever records containing its confidential commercial information are requested under the FOIA if the agency determines that it may be required to disclose the records, provided:
(i) The information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered exempt from disclosure under Exemption 4; or
(ii) The Department has reason to believe that the requested information may be exempt from disclosure under Exemption 4 but has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure.
(2) The notice must either describe the confidential commercial information requested or include a copy of the requested records or record portions containing the information.
(d)
When notice is not required.
The notice requirements of this section do not apply if:
(1) The Department determines that the information is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA and, therefore, will not be disclosed;
(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by statute (other than the FOIA) or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600; or
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (b) of this section appears obviously frivolous. In such a case, the Department must give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date.
(e)
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
The Department must allow a submitter a reasonable time to respond to the notice described in paragraph (c) of this section and must specify that time period in the notice. If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide the Department a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption of the FOIA. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as basis for nondisclosure, the submitter must explain why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. If a submitter fails to respond to the notice within the time specified in it, the submitter will be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. The Department is not required to consider any information received after any disclosure decision. Information provided by a submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(f)
Notice of intent to disclose.
The Department will consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose confidential commercial information. Whenever the Department decides to disclose information over the objection of a submitter, it must give the submitter written notice, which must include:
(1) A statement of the reason(s) why each of the submitter's disclosure objections was not sustained;
(2) A description of the information to be disclosed or copies of the records as the Department intends to release them; and
(3) A specified disclosure date, which must be a reasonable time after the notice.
(g)
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
Whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information, the Department must promptly notify the submitter.
(h)
Notice to requester.
The Department must notify the requester whenever it provides a submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies a submitter of its intent to disclose requested information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit seeking to prevent the disclosure of the requested information.
§ 171.15
Administrative appeals.
(a)
Requirements for making an appeal.
(1) Requesters may appeal any adverse determinations made on their FOIA request by the Department. Examples of adverse determinations are provided in § 171.13(e). The requester must make the appeal in writing and to be considered timely it must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within 90 calendar days after the date of the adverse determination. The appeal must clearly identify the component's determination that is being appealed and the assigned request number. To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
(2) To appeal any adverse determinations made by A/GIS/IPS or a component other than OIG, requesters must submit an administrative appeal to the A/GIS/IPS FOIA Appeals Office using
any of the following methods: by mail to the Appeals Officer, Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS), Room B-266, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520; by fax to (202) 485-1718; or by email to
FOIAAppeals@state.gov.
(3) To appeal any adverse determinations made by OIG, requesters must submit an administrative appeal to OIG via email to
foia@stateoig.gov,
by fax to 703-284-1866, or by mail addressed to the FOIA Officer, Officer of General Counsel, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of State, 1700 N Moore Street, Suite 1400, Arlington, VA 22209. Contact information for OIG is available on OIG's FOIA website at
www.stateoig.gov/foiaappeals.
For those cases in which both A/GIS/IPS and OIG provided written denials to the requester, the requester may administratively appeal to both A/GIS/IPS and OIG and each office will handle its respective portion of the appeal.
(4) To appeal any adverse determinations made by the FSGB, requesters must submit an administrative appeal to A/GIS/IPS using the methods listed above in paragraph (2). A/GIS/IPS will assign a tracking number to the appeal and forward it to the FSGB, which is an independent body, for adjudication.
(b)
Adjudication of appeals.
(1) The A/GIS/IPS Director or designee will act on behalf of the Assistant Secretary for Administration on all appeals of A/GIS/IPS FOIA determinations under this section. Likewise, the General Counsel of OIG or his/her designee will act on behalf of the Inspector General on all appeals of OIG FOIA determinations under this section.
(2) An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation.
(c)
Decisions on appeals.
The Department must provide its decision on an appeal in writing. A decision that upholds the Department's determination in whole or in part must include a brief statement of the reason for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied. The decision must inform the requester that the decision represents the final decision of the Department; must advise the requester of the statutory right to file a lawsuit; and must inform the requester of the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration (OGIS) as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. If a decision is remanded or modified on appeal, the requester will be notified in writing. The appropriate component will then further process the request in accordance with that appeal determination and respond directly to the requester.
(d)
Engaging in dispute resolution services provided by OGIS.
Dispute resolution is a voluntary process. If a component agrees to participate in the dispute resolution services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
(e)
When appeal is required.
Before seeking review by a court of the Department's adverse determination, a requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal.
§ 171.16
Fees to be charged.
(a)
In general.
The Department will charge fees for processing requests under the FOIA in accordance with the provisions of this section and with the OMB Guidelines. For purposes of assessing fees, the FOIA establishes three categories of requesters: commercial use requesters, non-commercial scientific or educational institutions or news media requesters, and all other requesters.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Commercial use request
is a request that asks for information for a use or purpose that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. The Department's decision to place a requester in the commercial use category will be made on a case-by-case basis based on the requester's intended use of the information. The Department will notify requesters of their placement in this category.
Direct costs
are those expenses the Department incurs in searching for, duplicating, and, in the case of commercial use requests, reviewing records in response to a FOIA request. For example, direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work (
i.e.,
the
basic rate of pay for the employee, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment, such as photocopiers and scanners. The term does not include overhead expenses such as the costs of space and of heating or lighting of a facility.
Duplication
is reproducing a copy of a record, or of the information contained in it, necessary to respond to a FOIA request. Copies can take the form of paper, audiovisual materials, or electronic records, among others.
Educational institution
is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this category must show that the request is made in connection with the requester's role at the educational institution. The Department may seek verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research. The Department will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
Non-commercial scientific institution
is an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis, as defined in this section, and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. A requester in this category must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are sought to further scientific research and are not for a commercial use. Noncommercial scientific institution requesters will not be charged for search and review time, and the first 100 pages of the duplication will be provided free of charge. The Department will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
Representative of the news media
is any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast news to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate news and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be for a commercial use. Freelance journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity shall be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, the Department shall also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination. A representative of the news media will not be charged for search and review time, and the first 100 pages of the duplication will be provided free of charge. The Department will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
Review
is the examination of a record located in response to a request to determine whether any portion of it is exempt from disclosure. Review time includes processing any record for disclosure, such as doing all that is necessary to prepare the record for disclosure, including the process of redacting the record and marking the appropriate exemptions. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed. Review time also includes time spent both obtaining and considering any formal objection to disclosure made by a confidential commercial information submitter under § 171.14 but it does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
Search
is the process of looking for, identifying, and retrieving records or information responsive to a request. Search time includes page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records and the reasonable efforts expended to locate and retrieve information from electronic records.
(c)
Charging fees.
In responding to FOIA requests, the Department will charge the following fees unless a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted under paragraph (j) of this section. Because the fee amounts provided below
already account for the direct costs associated with a given fee type, the Department should not add any additional costs to charges calculated under this section.
(1)
Search.
(i) Requests made by educational institutions, non-commercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. Search fees shall be charged for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (j) of this section. The Department may properly charge for time spent searching even if responsive records are not located, or if records are determined to be entirely exempt from disclosure.
(ii) For each hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, the fees shall be as stated at the following website:
foia.state.gov/Request/Guide.aspx
(section VII, “Fees”) and
www.stateoig.gov/foiafees
for OIG requested records.
(iii) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored by the Department at a Federal records center operated by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), the Department will charge additional costs in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.
(2)
Review.
The Department will charge review fees to requesters who make commercial use requests. Review fees will be assessed in connection with the initial review of the record,
i.e.,
the review conducted to determine whether an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, if a particular exemption is deemed to no longer apply, any costs associated with the Department's re-review of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees. Review fees shall be charged at the same rates as those charged for a search under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(3)
Duplication.
The Department will charge duplication fees to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. The Department must honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where it is readily reproducible by the Department in the form or format requested. The Department charges the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time. Where paper documents must be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester must also pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials. Duplication fees are as stated at the following website:
foia.state.gov/Request/Guide.aspx
(section VII, “Fees”).
(d)
Restrictions on charging fees.
(1) The Department will not charge search fees for requests by educational institutions, non-commercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media, unless the records are sought for a commercial use.
(2) If the Department fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits in which to respond to a request, it may not charge search fees, or, in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as described in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) If the Department has determined that unusual circumstances as defined by the FOIA apply and the agency provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit is excused for an additional 10 days.
(ii) If the Department has determined that unusual circumstances as defined by the FOIA apply, and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, the Department may charge search fees, or, in the case of requesters described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may charge duplication fees, if the following steps are taken. The Department must have provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, and the Department must have discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii). If this exception is satisfied, the Department may
charge all applicable fees incurred in the processing of the request.
(iii) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
(3) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, the Department must provide without charge:
(i) the first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and
(ii) the first two hours of search.
(4) When, after deducting the 100 free pages (or its cost equivalent) and the first two hours of search, the total fee calculated under paragraph (c) of this section is $25.00 or less, no fee will be charged.
(5) Apart from the stated provisions regarding waiver or reduction of fees, see paragraph (j) of this section, the Department may in its sole discretion decide to not assess fees or to reduce them if it is in the best interests of the government not to do so.
(e)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
(1) When the Department determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed $25.00, the Department must notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of the fees for search, review, or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, the Department will advise the requester accordingly. If the request is not for commercial use, the notice will specify that the requester is entitled to the statutory entitlement of 100 pages of duplication at no charge and, if the requester is charged search fees, two hours of search time at no charge, and will advise the requester whether those entitlements have been provided.
(2) In cases in which the Department has notified the requester that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designates an amount of fees the requester is willing to pay, or in the case of a noncommercial use requester who has not yet been provided with the requester's statutory entitlements, designates that the requester seeks only that which can be provided by the statutory entitlements. The requester must provide the commitment or designation in writing, and must, when applicable, designate an exact dollar amount the requester is willing to pay. The Department is not required to accept payments in installments.
(3) If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but the Department estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, the Department will toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. The Department will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, the time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.
(4) The Department must make available its FOIA Public Liaison or other FOIA professional to assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
(f)
Charges for other services.
Although not required to provide special services, if a component chooses to do so as a matter of administrative discretion, the direct costs of providing the service shall be charged. Examples of such services include certifying that records are true copies, providing multiple copies of the same document, or sending records by means other than first class mail.
(g)
Charging interest.
The Department may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date the bill was sent to the requester. Interest charges will be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and shall accrue from the date of the billing until payment is received by the Department. The fact that a fee has been received by the Department within the thirty-day grace period, even if not
processed, shall stay the accrual of interest. The Department must follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(h)
Aggregating requests.
When the Department reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is attempting to divide a single request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, the Department may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. The Department may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made in order to avoid fees. For requests separated by a longer period, components will aggregate them only where there is a reasonable basis for determining that aggregation is warranted in view of all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters cannot be aggregated.
(i)
Advance payments.
(1) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (i)(2) or (i)(3) of this section, the Department cannot require a requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (
i.e.,
payment before copies are sent to the requester) is not advance payment.
(2) When the Department estimates or determines that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. The Department may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.
(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay FOIA fees to any component within 30 calendar days of the date of its billing, the Department may require the requester to pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before the Department begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any appeal from that requester. Where the Department has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity. Additionally, if a requester has failed to pay FOIA fees to another U.S. Government agency in a FOIA case, the Department may require proof that such fee has been paid before processing a new or pending request from that requester.
(4) In cases in which the Department requires advance payment, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days after the date of the Department's fee determination, the request will be closed.
(j)
Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees.
(1) Requesters may seek a waiver of fees by submitting a written application demonstrating how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(2) The Department must furnish records responsive to a request without charge or at a reduced rate when it determines, based on all available information, that the factors described in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section are satisfied:
(i) Disclosure of the requested information would shed light on the operations or activities of the government. The subject of the request must concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal Government with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated.
(ii) Disclosure of the requested information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of those operations or activities. This factor is satisfied when the following criteria are met:
(A) Disclosure of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or a substantially identical form, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public's understanding.
(B) The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as the requester's ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public shall be considered. The Department will presume that a representative of the news media satisfies this consideration.
(iii) The disclosure must not be primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. To determine whether disclosure of the information is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, the Department will consider the following factors:
(A) The Department must identify whether the requester has any commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. A commercial interest includes any commercial, trade, or profit interest. Requesters must be given an opportunity to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration.
(B) If there is an identified commercial interest, the Department must determine whether that is the primary interest furthered by the request. A waiver or reduction of fees is justified when the requirement of paragraphs (j)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are satisfied and any commercial interest is not the primary interest furthered by the request. The Department ordinarily will presume that when a news media requester has satisfied the requirements of paragraphs (j)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, the request is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return will not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(3) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver or reduction of fees, a waiver or reduction must be granted for those records.
(4) Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request is first submitted to the Department and should address the criteria referenced above. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester must pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.
[88 FR 71740, Oct. 18, 2023; 88 FR 73755, Oct. 27, 2023]
§ 171.17
Preservation of records.
The Department must preserve all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this subpart, as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized pursuant to title 44 of the United States Code and applicable records disposition schedules, including the General Records Schedule 4.2 of the National Archives and Records Administration. The Department must not dispose of or destroy records while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under the FOIA.

# Subpart C—Privacy Act Provisions
§ 171.20
Purpose and scope.
This subpart contains the rules that the Department follows when implementing certain provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (PA), as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a. These rules should be read together with the statute. The rules in this subpart apply to all records in systems of records maintained by the Department that are retrieved by an individual's name or personal identifier. They describe the procedures by which individuals may request access to records about themselves, request amendment or correction of those records, and request an accounting of
disclosures of those records by the Department. If any records retrieved pursuant to an access request under the PA are found to be exempt from access under that Act, they will be processed for possible disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended. No fees shall be charged when an individual requests access to or amendment of his or her own PA records.
§ 171.21
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following definitions shall apply:
Individual
means a citizen or a lawful permanent resident (LPR) of the United States.
Maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Department and that contains the individual's name or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a fingerprint, voice print, or photograph.
System of records
means a group of any records under the control of the Department from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to an individual.
§ 171.22
Request for access to records.
(a)
In general.
Requests for access to records under the PA must be made in writing and sent to the Office of Information Programs and Services, the Law Enforcement Liaison Division of the Passport Services directorate within the Bureau of Consular Affairs, or the Office of Inspector General at the addresses given in § 171.4. The Director of the Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS) is responsible for acting on all PA requests for Department records except for requests received directly by the Office of Inspector General, which processes its own requests for information, and the Law Enforcement Liaison Division of the Passport Services directorate within the Bureau of Consular Affairs, which receives directly and processes its own PA requests for information as described in PA System of Record Notice STATE-26. All processing of PA requests coming under the jurisdiction of the Directorates for Visa Services and Overseas Citizens Services in the Bureau of Consular Affairs, the Bureau of Diplomatic Security, the Bureau of Global Talent Management, the Bureau of Medical Services, and the Foreign Service Grievance Board (FSGB) are handled by those bureaus or offices.
(b)
Description of records sought.
Requests for access should describe the requested record(s) in sufficient detail to permit identification of the record(s). At a minimum, requests should include the individual's full name (including maiden name, if appropriate) and any other names used, current complete mailing address, and date and place of birth (city, state, and country). Helpful information includes the approximate time period of the record and the circumstances that give the individual reason to believe that the Department maintains a record under the individual's name or personal identifier, and, if known, the system of records in which the record is maintained. In certain instances, it may be necessary for the Department to request additional information from the requester, either to ensure a full search, or to ensure that a record retrieved does in fact pertain to the individual.
(c)
Verification of personal identity.
The Department will require reasonable identification of individuals requesting records about themselves under the PA's access provisions to ensure that records are only accessed by the proper persons. Requesters must state their full name, current address, citizenship or legal permanent resident alien status, and date and place of birth (city, state, and country). The request must be signed, and the requester's signature must be either notarized or made under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746. If the requester seeks records under another name the requester has used, a statement, under penalty of perjury, that the requester has also used the other name must be included. Requesters seeking access to copies of the Passport Services' passport records must meet the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Special requirements for passport records.
Given the sensitive nature of passport records and their use, requesters seeking access to copies of passport records from Passport Services under the PA must submit a letter that is either notarized or made under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746, which includes the full name at birth and any subsequent name changes of the individual whose records are being requested (if submitting the request on behalf of a minor, provide the representative's full name as well); the date and place of birth of the individual whose records are being requested; the requester's current mailing address; and, if available, daytime telephone number and email address; the date or estimated date the passport(s) was issued; the passport number of the person whose records are being sought, if known; and any other information that will help to locate the records. The requester must also include a clear copy of both sides of the requester's valid government-issued photo identification, e.g., a driver's license.
(e)
Authorized third party access.
The Department shall process all properly authorized third party requests, as described in this section, under the PA. In the absence of proper authorization from the individual to whom the records pertain, the Department will process third party requests under the FOIA. The Department's forms DS-4240-R and DS-4240-C, respectively, may be used to certify identity and provide third party authorization. Forms created by other Federal agencies will not be accepted.
(1)
Parents and guardians of minor children.
Upon presentation of acceptable documentation of the parental or guardian relationship, a parent or guardian of a U.S. citizen or LPR minor (an unmarried person under the age of 18) may, on behalf of the minor, request records under the PA pertaining to the minor. In any case, U.S. citizen or LPR minors may request such records on their own behalf. When making a request as the parent or guardian of a minor child, for access to records about that individual, a requester must establish: (1) the identity of the individual who is the subject of the records, by stating the name, current address, date and place of birth; (2) the requester's own identity, as required in paragraph (c) of this section; (3) that the requester is the parent of that individual, which the requester may prove by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing parentage, or by providing a court order establishing guardianship; and (4) that the requester is acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.
(2)
Guardians of incompetent adults.
A guardian of an individual who has been declared by a court to be incompetent may act for and on behalf of the incompetent individual upon presentation of appropriate documentation of the guardian relationship.
(i)
Verification of guardianship of incompetent adult.
When making a request as the guardian of someone determined by a court to be incompetent, for access to records about that individual, a requester must establish: (1) the identity of the individual who is the subject of the records, by stating the name, current address, date and place of birth; (2) the requester's own identity, as required in paragraph (c) of this section; (3) that the requester is the guardian of that individual, which the requester may prove by providing a copy of a court order establishing guardianship; and (4) that the requester is acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.
(ii)
Authorized representatives or designees.
When an individual wishes to authorize the Department to permit a third party access to his or her records, the individual to whom the records pertain must submit, in addition to the identity verification information described in paragraph (c) (or paragraph (d) of this section if the request is for passport records), a signed statement from the individual to whom the records pertain, either notarized or made under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746, giving the Department authorization to release records about the individual to the third party. The designated third party must submit identity verification information described in paragraph (c). Third party requesters seeking access to copies of
the Passport Office's records must submit a clear copy of both sides of a valid government-issued photo identification (e.g., a driver's license) in addition to the other information described above.
(f)
Referrals and consultations.
If the Department determines that records retrieved as responsive to the request were created by another agency, it ordinarily will refer the records to the originating agency for direct response to the requester. If the Department determines that Department records retrieved as responsive to the request are of interest to another agency, it may consult with the other agency before responding to the request. The Department may make agreements with other agencies to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals for particular types of records.
(g)
Records relating to civil actions.
Nothing in this subpart entitles an individual to access any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
(h)
Time limits.
The Department will acknowledge the request promptly and furnish the requested information as soon as possible thereafter.
§ 171.23
Request to amend or correct records.
(a) An individual has the right to request that the Department amend a record pertaining to the individual that the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete.
(b) Requests to amend records must be in writing and mailed or delivered to A/GIS/IPS or OIG at the address given in § 171.4, with ATTENTION: PRIVACY ACT AMENDMENT REQUEST written on the envelope. A/GIS/IPS or OIG will coordinate the review of the request with the appropriate offices under its purview. The Department will require verification of personal identity as provided in § 171.22(c) before it will initiate action to amend a record. Amendment requests should contain, at a minimum, identifying information needed to locate the record in question, a description of the specific correction requested, and an explanation of why the existing record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. The request must be signed, and the requester's signature must be either notarized or made under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746. The requester should submit as much pertinent documentation, other information, and explanation as possible to support the request for amendment.
(c) All requests for amendments to records shall be acknowledged within 10 working days.
(d) In reviewing a record in response to a request to amend, the Department shall review the record to determine if it is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete.
(e) If the Department agrees with an individual's request to amend a record, it shall:
(1) Advise the individual in writing of its decision;
(2) Amend the record accordingly; and
(3) If an accounting of disclosure has been made, advise all previous recipients of the record of the amendment and its substance.
(f) If the Department denies an individual's request to amend a record, it shall advise the individual in writing of its decision and the reason for the refusal, and the procedures for the individual to request further review. See § 171.25.
§ 171.24
Request for an accounting of record disclosures.
(a)
How made.
Except where accountings of disclosures are not required to be kept, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, or where accountings of disclosures do not need to be provided to a requesting individual pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), an individual has a right to request an accounting of any disclosure that the Department has made to another person, organization, or agency of any record about such individual, provided that the disclosed records are maintained in a system of records. This accounting shall contain the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure as well as the name and address of the recipient of the disclosure. Any request for accounting should identify each particular record in question and may be made by writing directly to A/GIS/IPS at the address given in § 171.4.
(b)
Where accountings not required.
The Department is not required to
keep an accounting of disclosures in the case of:
(1) Disclosures made to employees within the Department who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties; and
(2) Disclosures required under the FOIA.
§ 171.25
Appeals from denials of PA amendment requests.
(a) If the Department denies a request for amendment of such records, the requester shall be informed of the reason for the denial and of the right to appeal the denial within 90 working days of the date of the Department's denial letter.
(b) For decisions made by A/GIS/IPS, requesters should submit their appeal to the A/GIS/IPS FOIA Appeals Office using any of the following methods: by mail to the Appeals Officer, Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS), Room B-266, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520; by fax to (202) 485-1718; or by email to
FOIAAppeals@state.gov.
To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Privacy Act Appeal.”
(c) For decisions made by OIG, requesters should submit their appeal to the OIG. The contact information for OIG is available at
www.stateoig.gov/foiaappeals.
To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Privacy Act Appeal.”
(d) Appellants should submit an administrative appeal of any denial, in whole or in part, of a request for access to FSGB records under the PA to A/GIS/IPS FOIA Appeals Office using any of the following methods: by mail to the Appeals Officer, Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS), Room B-266, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520; by fax to (202) 485-1718; or by email to
FOIAAppeals@state.gov
. A/GIS/IPS will assign a tracking number to the appeal and forward it to the FSGB, which is an independent body, for adjudication.
(e) A/GIS/IPS or OIG will decide appeals from denials of PA amendment requests within 30 working days from the date when the appeal is received, unless an extension of that period for good cause shown is needed.
(f) Decisions will be made in writing, and appellants will receive notification of the decision. A reversal will result in reprocessing of the request in accordance with that decision. An affirmance will include a brief statement of the reason for the affirmance and will inform the appellant that the decision represents the final decision of the Department and of the right to seek judicial review of the decision, when applicable.
(g) If the decision is that a record shall be amended in accordance with the appellant's request, A/GIS/IPS or OIG shall direct the office under its purview that is responsible for the record to amend the record, advise all previous recipients of the record of the amendment and its substance (if an accounting of previous disclosures has been made), and so advise the individual in writing.
(h) If the decision is that the amendment request is denied, in addition to the notification required by paragraph (f) of this section, A/GIS/IPS or OIG shall advise the appellant:
(1) of the right to file a concise Statement of Disagreement stating the reasons for disagreement with the decision of the Department;
(2) of the procedures for filing the Statement of Disagreement;
(3) that any Statement of Disagreement that is filed will be made available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed, together with, at the discretion of the Department, a brief statement by the Department summarizing its reasons for refusing to amend the record;
(4) that prior recipients of the disputed record will be provided a copy of any statement of disagreement, to the extent that an accounting of disclosures was maintained.
(i) If the appellant files a Statement of Disagreement under paragraph (h) of this section, the Department will clearly annotate the record so that the fact that the record is disputed is apparent
to anyone who may subsequently access the record. When the disputed record is subsequently disclosed, the Department will note the dispute and provide a copy of the Statement of Disagreement. The Department may also include a brief summary of the reasons for not amending the record. Copies of the Department's statement shall be treated as part of the individual's record for granting access; however, it will not be subject to amendment by an individual under this part.
§ 171.26
Exemptions.
Systems of records maintained by the Department are authorized to be exempt from certain provisions of the PA under both general and specific exemptions set forth in the Act. In utilizing these exemptions, the Department is exempting only those portions of systems that are necessary for the proper functioning of the Department and that are consistent with the PA. Where compliance would not interfere with or adversely affect the law enforcement process, and/or where it may be appropriate to permit individuals to contest the accuracy of the information collected, the applicable exemption may be waived, either partially or totally, by the Department or the OIG, in the sole discretion of the Department or the OIG, as appropriate. Records exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k) by the originator of the record remain exempt if subsequently incorporated into any Department system of records, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(a)
General exemptions.
If exempt records are the subject of an access request, the Department will advise the requester of their existence and of the name and address of the source agency, unless that information is itself exempt from disclosure.
(1) Individuals may not have access to records maintained by the Department that are maintained or originated by the Central Intelligence Agency under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(1).
(2) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), individuals may not have access to records maintained or originated by an agency or component thereof that performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws, including police efforts to prevent, control, or reduce crime or to apprehend criminals, and the activities of prosecutors, courts, correctional, probation, pardon, or parole authorities, and which consists of:
(i) Information compiled for the purpose of identifying individual criminal offenders and alleged offenders and consisting only of identifying data and notations of arrests, the nature and disposition of criminal charges, sentencing, confinement, release, and parole and probation status;
(ii) Information compiled for the purpose of a criminal investigation, including reports of informants and investigators, and associated with an identifiable individual; or
(iii) Reports identifiable to an individual compiled at any stage of the process of enforcement of the criminal laws from arrest or indictment through release from supervision. The reason for invoking these exemptions is to ensure effective criminal law enforcement processes. Records maintained by the Department in the following systems of records are exempt from all of the provisions of the PA except paragraphs (b), (c)(1) and (2), (e)(4)(A) through (F), (e)(6), (e)(7), (e)(9), (e)(10), and (e)(11), and (i), to the extent to which they meet the criteria of section (j)(2) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. The names of the systems correspond to those published in the
Federal Register
by the Department.
Table 1 to Paragraph
(a)(2)(iii)
Title
No.
Information Access Program Records
STATE-35.
Office of Inspector General Investigation Management System
STATE-53.
Risk Analysis and Management
STATE-78.
Security Records
STATE-36.
(b)
Specific exemptions.
Portions of the following systems of records are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), and (4), (G), (H), and (I), and (f). The names of the systems correspond to those published in the
Federal Register
by the Department.
(1)
Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
Records contained within the following systems of records are exempt under this section to the extent that they are subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1).
Table 2 to Paragraph (
b
)(1)
Title
No.
Board of Appellate Review Records
STATE-02.
Congressional Correspondence
STATE-43.
Congressional Travel Records
STATE-44.
Coordinator for the Combating of Terrorism Records
STATE-06.
External Research Records
STATE-10.
Extradition Records
STATE-11.
Family Advocacy Case Records
STATE-75.
Foreign Assistance Inspection Records
STATE-48.
Human Resources Records
STATE-31.
Information Access Programs Records
STATE-35.
Intelligence and Research Records
STATE-15.
International Organizations Records
STATE-17.
Law of the Sea Records
STATE-19.
Legal Case Management Records
STATE-21.
Munitions Control Records
STATE-42.
Office of Inspector General Investigation Management System
STATE-53.
Overseas Citizens Services Records
STATE-05.
Passport Records
STATE-26.
Personality Cross-Reference Index to the Secretariat Automated Data Index
STATE-28.
Personnel Payroll Records
STATE-30.
Records of Domestic Accounts Receivable
STATE-23.
Records of the Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for International Claims and Investment Disputes
STATE-54.
Records of the Office of White House Liaison
STATE-34.
Refugee Records
STATE-59.
Risk Analysis and Management Records
STATE-78.
Rover Records
STATE-41.
Security Records
STATE-36.
Visa Records
STATE-39.
(2)
Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
Records contained within the following systems of records are exempt under this section to the extent that they consist of investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, subject to the limitations set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
Table 3 to Paragraph (
b
)(2)
Title
No.
Board of Appellate Review Records
STATE-02.
Coordinator for the Combating of Terrorism Records
STATE-06.
Extradition Records
STATE-11.
Family Advocacy Case Records
STATE-75.
Foreign Assistance Inspection Records
STATE-48.
Garnishment of Wages Records
STATE-61.
Information Access Program Records
STATE-35.
Intelligence and Research Records
STATE-15.
Munitions Control Records
STATE-42.
Office of Foreign Missions Records
STATE-81.
Office of Inspector General Investigation Management System
STATE-53.
Overseas Citizens Services Records
STATE-05.
Passport Records
STATE-26.
Personality Cross-Reference Index to the Secretariat Automated Data Index
STATE-28.
Risk Analysis and Management Records
STATE-78.
Security Records
STATE-36.
Visa Records
STATE-39.
(3)
Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3).
Records contained within the following systems of records are exempt under this section to the extent that they are maintained in connection with providing protective services pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056.
Table 4 to Paragraph (
b
)(3)
Title
No.
Extradition Records
STATE-11.
Information Access Programs Records
STATE-35.
Intelligence and Research Records
STATE-15.
Overseas Citizens Services Records
STATE-05.
Passport Records
STATE-26.
Personality Cross-Reference Index to the Secretariat Automated Data Index
STATE-28.
Security Records
STATE-36.
Visa Records
STATE-39.
(4)
Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
Records contained within the following systems of records are exempt under this section to the extent that they are required by statute to be maintained and are used solely as statistical records.
Table 5 to Paragraph
(b)(4)
Title
No.
Foreign Service Institute Records
STATE-14.
Human Resources Records
STATE-31.
Information Access Programs Records
STATE-35.
Overseas Citizens Services Records
STATE-05.
Personnel Payroll Records
STATE-30.
Security Records
STATE-36.
(5)
Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
Records contained within the following systems of records are exempt under this section to the extent that they consist of investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information, but only to the extent that disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential informant.
Table 6 to Paragraph
(b)(5)
Title
No.
Foreign Assistance Inspection Records
STATE-48.
Foreign Service Grievance Board Records
STATE-13.
Human Resources Records
STATE-31.
Information Access Programs Records
STATE-35.
Legal Adviser Attorney Employment Application Records
STATE-20.
Office of Inspector General Investigation Management System
STATE-53.
Overseas Citizens Services Records
STATE-25.
Personality Cross-Reference Index to the Secretariat Automated Data Index
STATE-28.
Records Maintained by the Office of Civil Rights
STATE-09.
Records of the Office of White House Liaison
STATE-34.
Risk Analysis and Management Records
STATE-78.
Rover Records
STATE-41.
Security Records
STATE-36.
Senior Personnel Appointments Records
STATE-47.
(6)
Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6).
Records contained within the following systems of records are exempt under this section to the extent that they consist of testing or examination material used solely to determine individual
qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service the disclosure of which would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process.
Table 7 to Paragraph
(b)(6)
Title
No.
Foreign Service Institute Records
STATE-14.
Human Resources Records
STATE-31.
Information Access Programs Records
STATE-35.
Records Maintained by the Office of Civil Rights
STATE-09.
Security Records
STATE-36.
(7)
Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7).
Records contained within the following systems of records are exempt under this section to the extent that they consist of evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the armed services, but only to the extent that such disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential informant.
Table 8 to Paragraph (
b
)(7)
Title
No.
Human Resources Records
STATE-31.
Information Access Programs Records
STATE-35.
Overseas Citizens Services Records
STATE-25.
Personality Cross-Reference Index to the Secretariat Automated Data Index
STATE-28.
Security Records
STATE-36.
[88 FR 71740, Oct. 18, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 78232, Nov. 15, 2023; 89 FR 79435, Sept. 30, 2024]

# Subpart D—Access to Financial Disclosure Reports
§ 171.30
Purpose and scope.
This subpart sets forth the process by which persons may request access to public financial disclosure reports filed with the Department in accordance with sections 101 and 103(l) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as amended, recodified at 5 U.S.C. 13103 and 13105. The retention, public availability, and improper use of these reports are governed by 5 U.S.C. 13107 and 5 CFR 2634.603. It also sets forth the prohibition on access to confidential financial disclosure reports filed under 5 CFR 2634, subpart I, in accordance with sections 107(a) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 5 U.S.C. 13109 and 5 CFR 2634.604.
§ 171.31
Requests for Public Financial Disclosure Reports—OGE Form 278.
Requests for access to public financial disclosure reports filed with the Department should be made by submitting the information required by 5 CFR 2634.603(c) or a completed Office of Government Ethics request form, OGE Form 201, to
OGE201Request@state.gov
or to the Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Ethics and Financial Disclosure, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520. The OGE Form 201 may be obtained by visiting
www.oge.gov
or writing to the address in this section.
§ 171.32
Denial of Public Access to Confidential Financial Disclosure Reports—OGE Form 450.
No member of the public shall have access to confidential financial disclosure reports filed pursuant to 5 CFR 2634, subpart I, except pursuant to the order of a Federal court or as otherwise provided under the Privacy Act. See 5 U.S.C. 552a.
Pt. 172

# PART 172—SERVICE OF PROCESS; PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION IN RESPONSE TO COURT ORDERS, SUBPOENAS, NOTICES OF DEPOSITIONS, REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS, INTERROGATORIES, OR SIMILAR REQUESTS OR DEMANDS IN CONNECTION WITH FEDERAL OR STATE LITIGATION; EXPERT TESTIMONY
Sec.
172.1
Purpose and scope; definitions.
172.2
Service of summonses and complaints.
172.3
Service of subpoenas, court orders, and other demands or requests for official information or action.
172.4
Testimony and production of documents prohibited unless approved by appropriate Department officials.
172.5
Procedure when testimony or production of documents is sought; general.
172.6
Procedure when response to demand is required prior to receiving instructions.
172.7
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
172.8
Considerations in determining whether the Department will comply with a demand or request.
172.9
Prohibition on providing expert or opinion testimony.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 8 U.S.C. 1202(f); 22 U.S.C. 2651a, 2664, 3926.

# Source:
57 FR 32896, July 24, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 172.1
Purpose and scope; definitions.
(a) This part sets forth the procedures to be followed with respect to:
(1) Service of summonses and complaints or other requests or demands directed to the Department of State (Department) or to any Department employee or former employee in connection with federal or state litigation arising out of or involving the performance of official activities of the Department; and
(2) The oral or written disclosure, in response to subpoenas, orders, or other requests or demands of federal or state judicial or quasi-judicial authority (collectively, “demands”), whether civil or criminal in nature, or in response to requests for depositions, affidavits, admissions, responses to interrogatories, document production, or other litigation-related matters, pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, or applicable state rules (collectively, “requests”), of any material contained in the files of the Department, any information relating to material contained in the files of the Department, or any information acquired while the subject of the demand or request is or was an employee of the Department as part of the performance of that person's duties or by virtue of that person's official status.
(b) For purposes of this part, and except as the Department may otherwise determine in a particular case, the term
employee
includes the Secretary and former Secretaries of State, and all employees and former employees of the Department of State or other federal agencies who are or were appointed by, or subject to the supervision, jurisdiction, or control of the Secretary of State or his Chiefs of Mission, whether residing or working in the United States or abroad, including United States nationals, foreign nationals, and contractors.
(c) For purposes of this part, the term
litigation
encompasses all pre-trial, trial, and post-trial stages of all judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before courts, commissions, boards (including the Board of Appellate Review), or other judicial or quasi-judicial bodies or tribunals, whether criminal, civil, or administrative in nature. This part governs,
inter alia,
responses to discovery requests, depositions, and other pre-trial, trial, or post-trial proceedings, as well as responses to informal requests by attorneys or others in situations involving litigation. However, this part shall not apply to any claims by Department of State employees (present or former), or applicants for Department employment, for which jurisdiction resides with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board; the Office of Special Counsel; the Federal Labor Relations Authority; the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; the Foreign Service Grievance Board; or a labor arbitrator operating under a collective
bargaining agreement between the Department and a labor organization representing Department employees; or their successor agencies or entities.
(d) For purposes of this part,
official information
means all information of any kind, however stored, that is in the custody and control of the Department, relates to information in the custody and control of the Department, or was acquired by Department employees as part of their official duties or because of their official status within the Department while such individuals were employed by or served on behalf of the Department.
(e) Nothing in this part affects disclosure of information under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, Executive Order 13526 (3 CFR, 2009 Comp., p. 298), the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b, the Department's implementing regulations in 22 CFR part 171 or pursuant to congressional subpoena. Nothing in this part otherwise permits disclosure of information by the Department or its employees except as provided by statute or other applicable law.
(f) This part is intended only to inform the public about Department procedures concerning the service of process and responses to demands or requests and is not intended to and does not create, and may not be relied upon to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the Department or the United States.
(g) Nothing in this part affects:
(1) The disclosure of information during the course of legal proceedings in non-United States courts, commissions, boards, or other judicial or quasi-judicial bodies or tribunals; or
(2) The rules and procedures, under applicable U.S. law and international conventions, governing diplomatic and consular immunity.
(h) Nothing in this part affects the disclosure of official information to other federal agencies or Department of Justice attorneys in connection with litigation conducted on behalf or in defense of the United States, its agencies, officers, and employees, or to federal, state, local, or foreign prosecuting and law enforcement authorities in conjunction with criminal law enforcement investigations, prosecutions, or other proceedings, e.g., extradition, deportation.
[57 FR 32896, July 24, 1992, as amended at 83 FR 17489, Apr. 20, 2018]
§ 172.2
Service of summonses and complaints.
(a) Only the Executive Office of the Office of the Legal Adviser (L/H-EX) is authorized to receive and accept summonses or complaints sought to be served upon the Department or Department employees. All such documents should be delivered or addressed to: The Executive Office, Office of the Legal Adviser, Suite 5.600, 600 19th Street NW., Washington DC 20522. (Note that the suite number is 5.600.)
(b) In the event any summons or complaint described in § 172.1(a) is delivered to an employee of the Department other than in the manner specified in this part, such attempted service shall be ineffective, and the recipient thereof shall either decline to accept the proffered service or return such document under cover of a written communication which directs the person attempting to make service to the procedures set forth herein.
(c) Except as otherwise provided §§ 172.2(d) and 172.3(c), the Department is not an authorized agent for service of process with respect to civil litigation against Department employees purely in their personal, non-official capacity. Copies of summonses or complaints directed to Department employees in connection with legal proceedings arising out of the performance of official duties may, however, be served upon L/H-EX.
(d) Although the Department is not an agent for the service of process upon its employees with respect to purely personal, non-official litigation, the Department recognizes that its employees stationed overseas should not use their official positions to evade their personal obligations and will, therefore, counsel and encourage Department employees to accept service of process in appropriate cases, and will waive applicable diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities when the Department determines that
it is in the interest of the United States to do so.
(e) Documents for which L/H-EX accepts service in official capacity only shall be stamped “Service Accepted in Official Capacity Only”. Acceptance of service shall not constitute an admission or waiver with respect to jurisdiction, propriety of service, improper venue, or any other defense in law or equity available under the laws of rules applicable for the service of process.
[57 FR 32896, July 24, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 12082, Mar. 6, 2015; 80 FR 30155, May 27, 2015; 83 FR 17489, Apr. 20, 2018]
§ 172.3
Service of subpoenas, court orders, and other demands or requests for official information or action.
(a) Except in cases in which the Department is represented by legal counsel who have entered an appearance or otherwise given notice of their representation, only L/EX is authorized to receive and accept subpoenas, or other demands or requests directed to the Department, or any component thereof, or its employees, or former employees, whether civil or criminal nature, for:
(1) Material, including documents, contained in the files of the Department;
(2) Information, including testimony, affidavits, declarations, admissions, responses to interrogatories, or informal statements, relating to material contained in the files of the Department or which any Department employee acquired in the course and scope of the performance of his official duties;
(3) Garnishment or attachment of compensation of current or former employees; or
(4) The performance or non-performance of any official Department duty.
(b) In the event that any subpoena, demand, or request is sought to be delivered to a Department employee (including former employees) other than in the manner prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, such attempted service shall be ineffective. Such employee shall, after consultation with the Office of the Legal Adviser, decline to accept the subpoena, demand or request or shall return them to the server under cover of a written communication referring to the procedures prescribed in this part.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the Department is not an agent for service, or otherwise authorized to accept on behalf of its employees any subpoenas, show-cause orders, or similar compulsory process of federal or state courts, or requests from private individuals or attorneys, which are not related to the employees' official duties except upon the express, written authorization of the individual Department employee to whom such demand or request is directed.
(d) Acceptance of such documents by L/EX does not constitute a waiver of any defenses that might otherwise exist with respect to service under the Federal Rules of Civil or Criminal Procedure or other applicable rules.
§ 172.4
Testimony and production of documents prohibited unless approved by appropriate Department officials.
(a) No employee of the Department shall, in response to a demand or request in connection with any litigation, whether criminal or civil, provide oral or written testimony by deposition, declaration, affidavit, or otherwise concerning any information acquired while such person is or was an employee of the Department as part of the performance of that person's official duties or by virtue of that persons's official status, unless authorized to do so by the Director General of the Foreign Service and Director of Personnel (M/DGP) or the Legal Adviser (L), or delegates of either, following consultation between the two bureaus, or as authorized in § 172.4(b).
(b) With respect to the official functions of the Passport Office, the Visa Office, and the Office of Citizens Services, the Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs or delegate thereof may, subject to concurrence by the Office of the Legal Adviser, authorize employees to provide oral or written testimony.
(c) No employee shall, in response to a demand or request in connection with any litigation, produce for use at such proceedings any document or any material acquired as part of the performance of that employee's duties or by
virtue of that employee's official status, unless authorized to do so by the Director General of the Foreign Service and Director of Personnel, the Legal Adviser, or the Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs, or the delegates thereof, as appropriate, following consultations between the concerned bureaus.
§ 172.5
Procedure when testimony or production of documents is sought; general.
(a) If official Department information is sought, through testimony or otherwise, by a request or demand, the party seeking such release or testimony must (except as otherwise required by federal law or authorized by the Office of the Legal Adviser) set forth in writing, and with as much specificity as possible, the nature and relevance of the official information sought. Subject to § 172.7, Department employees may only produce, disclose, release, comment upon, or testify concerning those matters which were specified in writing and properly approved by the appropriate Department official designated in § 172.4. See United States ex rel. Touhy v. Ragen, 340 U.S. 462 (1951). The Office of the Legal Adviser may waive this requirement in appropriate circumstances.
(b) To the extent it deems necessary or appropriate, the Department may also require from the party seeking such testimony or documents a plan of all reasonably foreseeable demands, including but not limited to the names of all employees and former employees from whom discovery will be sought, areas of inquiry, expected duration of proceedings requiring oral testimony, and identification of potentially relevant documents.
(c) The appropriate Department official designated in § 172.4 will notify the Department employee and such other persons as circumstances may warrant of its decision regarding compliance with the request or demand.
(d) The Office of the Legal Adviser will consult with the Department of Justice regarding legal representation for Department employees in appropriate cases.
[57 FR 32896, July 24, 1992, as amended at 83 FR 17489, Apr. 20, 2018]
§ 172.6
Procedure when response to demand is required prior to receiving instructions.
(a) If a response to a demand is required before the appropriate Department official designated in § 172.4 renders a decision, the Department will request that either a Department of Justice attorney or a Department attorney designated for the purpose:
(1) Appear with the employee upon whom the demand has been made;
(2) Furnish the court or other authority with a copy of the regulations contained in this part;
(3) Inform the court or other authority that the demand has been, or is being, as the case may be, referred for the prompt consideration of the appropriate Department official; and
(4) Respectfully request the court or authority to stay the demand pending receipt of the requested instructions.
(b) In the event that an immediate demand for production or disclosure is made in circumstances which would preclude the proper designation or appearance of a Department of Justice or Department attorney on the employee's behalf, the employee shall respectfully request the demanding court or authority for a reasonable stay of proceedings for the purpose of obtaining instructions from the Department.
[57 FR 32896, July 24, 1992, as amended at 83 FR 17489, Apr. 20, 2018]
§ 172.7
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
If the court or other judicial or quasi-judicial authority declines to stay the effect of the demand in response to a request made pursuant to § 172.6, or if the court or other authority rules that the demand must be complied with irrespective of the Department's instructions not to produce the material or disclose the information sought, the employee upon whom the demand has been made shall respectfully decline to comply with the demand, citing this part and
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951).
§ 172.8
Considerations in determining whether the Department will comply with a demand or request.
(a) In deciding whether to comply with a demand or request, Department officials and attorneys shall consider, among others:
(1) Whether such compliance would be unduly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate under the applicable rules of discovery or the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand arose;
(2) Whether compliance is appropriate under the relevant substantive law concerning privilege or disclosure of information;
(3) The public interest;
(4) The need to conserve the time of Department employees for the conduct of official business;
(5) The need to avoid spending the time and money of the United States for private purposes;
(6) The need to maintain impartiality between private litigants in cases where a substantial government interest is not implicated;
(7) Whether compliance would have an adverse effect on performance by the Department of its mission and duties; and
(8) The need to avoid involving the Department in controversial issues not related to its mission.
(b) Among those demands and requests in response to which compliance will not ordinarily be authorized are those with respect to which,
inter alia,
any of the following factors exist:
(1) Compliance would violate a statute or a rule of procedure;
(2) Compliance would violate a specific regulation or executive order;
(3) Compliance would reveal information properly classified in the interest of national security;
(4) Compliance would reveal confidential commercial or financial information or trade secrets without the owner's consent;
(5) Compliance would reveal the internal deliberative processes of the Executive Branch; or
(6) Compliance would potentially impede or prejudice an on-going law enforcement investigation.
§ 172.9
Prohibition on providing expert or opinion testimony.
(a) Except as provided in this section, and subject to 5 CFR 2635.805, Department employees shall not provide opinion or expert testimony based upon information which they acquired in the scope and performance of their official Department duties, except on behalf of the United States or a party represented by the Department of Justice.
(b) Upon a showing by the requestor of exceptional need or unique circumstances and that the anticipated testimony will not be adverse to the interests of the United States, the appropriate Department official designated in § 172.4 may, consistent with 5 CFR 2635.805, in their discretion and with the concurrence of the Office of the Legal Adviser, grant special, written authorization for Department employees to appear and testify as expert witnesses at no expense to the United States.
(c) If, despite the final determination of the appropriate Department official designated in § 172.4, a court of competent jurisdiction or other appropriate authority orders the appearance and expert or opinion testimony of a Department employee, such employee shall immediately inform the Office of the Legal Adviser of such order. If the Office of the Legal Adviser determines that no further legal review of or challenge to the court's order will be made, the Department employee shall comply with the order. If so directed by the Office of the Legal Adviser, however, the employee shall respectfully decline to testify.
See United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951).
Pt. 173

# PART 173—AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC DIPLOMACY PROGRAM MATERIAL IN THE UNITED STATES
Sec.
173.1
Purpose and scope.
173.2
Definitions.
173.3
Availability of program material.
173.4
Terms of use and other compliance.
173.5
Fees.

# Authority:
The United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1461,
et seq.
); Section 1078 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, Pub. L. 112-239.

# Source:
79 FR 22017, Apr. 21, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 173.1
Purpose and scope.
This part contains the rules that the Department follows for responding to requests for the release within the United States of public diplomacy program material generated pursuant to the U.S. Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1431,
et seq.;
“the Smith-Mundt Act”). It is the Department's policy to make its program material available on its public Web site or via third-party platforms whenever doing so is consistent with the Department's mission and all statutory authorities, prohibitions, contractual obligations, principles, and standards. Requests for program material that is not available on the Department's public Web site or via third-party platforms must be submitted under the Freedom of Information Act (the “FOIA”) pursuant to the FOIA provisions of 22 CFR part 171, subpart B.
§ 173.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part,
(a)
Program material
shall mean information about the United States, its people and policies, intended for foreign audiences abroad, that the Department prepares or assists in preparing using public diplomacy funds and disseminates to foreign audiences outside of the United States pursuant to the Smith-Mundt Act and Section 208 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (22 U.S.C. 1461-1a), as amended. Program Material includes, but is not limited to, electronic journals, pamphlets, books, maps, posters, videos, presentations, photos, games, curricula and other teaching materials, and certain social media and web-based interactive technology content produced in Washington, DC, as well as such materials and content produced at U.S. embassies abroad.
(b)
Request
shall mean any attempt to access the Department's Program Material, including through the Department's public Web sites and third-party platforms, or through a direct inquiry to a Department official in connection with a speech or other engagement.
(c)
Requester
shall mean any private person or entity that requests that the Department make Program Material available within the United States.
§ 173.3
Availability of program material.
(a) The Department makes Program Material available to Requesters electronically through Department Web sites and/or various third-party platforms, where such material has been disseminated to audiences abroad. Once Program Material is published, it remains available in digital format until removed or archived by the Department at its discretion (
see
paragraph (c) of this section). For access to such Program Material, Requesters may visit
www.state.gov/r.
(b) As a general matter, Program Material published both electronically and in hard copy will be made available electronically through Department Web sites and/or various third-party platforms, although the Department reserves the right to make Program Material available in hard copy at its sole discretion. To the extent a Requester seeks Program Material that is not made available online through Department Web sites or third-party platforms, such material must be requested under the FOIA pursuant to the procedures outlined at 22 CFR part 171, subpart B.
(c) The Department will remove Program Material from Department and third-party Web sites when it deems such material no longer relevant to the Department's public diplomacy mission. The Department will also remove Program Material when required by licensing agreements with third-party copyright holders. To the extent a Requester seeks Program Material that has been removed for whatever reason, such material must be requested under the FOIA pursuant to the procedures outlined at 22 CFR part 171, subpart B.
(d) Once Program Material has been removed from the Department's Web site or third-party platforms, a determination will be made as to whether it is a permanent Department record under the Department's applicable Records Disposition Schedule (“RDS”).
Permanent records will be transferred in their entirety to the National Archives and Records Administration (“NARA”) according to the RDS;
see
36 CFR 1256.98 for information about how to request Department Program Material that has been transferred to NARA. Material designated as “temporary” under the applicable RDS will be destroyed once it has been removed from the Department or third-party sites.
§ 173.4
Terms of use and other compliance.
Requesters and users of Department Web sites, or third-party Web sites containing Program Material, are responsible for complying with the Terms of Use applicable to any such site. Requesters are also solely responsible for complying with any applicable statutes governing the use of such material and securing appropriate licenses for use of such material, if required.
§ 173.5
Fees.
(a) The Department will make Program Material available online (
i.e.,
in digital format) at no cost.
(b) The Department may collect a fee for reimbursement of the reasonable costs incurred to fulfill requests for Program Material not available online. Such requests, including fees applicable thereto, shall be governed by part 171, subpart B of this subchapter.

# SUBCHAPTER S—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS
Pt. 181

# PART 181—COORDINATION, REPORTING AND PUBLICATION OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS
Sec.
181.1
Purpose and application.
181.2
Criteria with respect to international agreements.
181.3
Determinations with respect to international agreements.
181.4
Criteria with respect to qualifying non-binding instruments.
181.5
Determinations with respect to qualifying non-binding instruments.
181.6
Consultations with the Secretary of State.
181.7
Fifteen-day rule for transmittal of concluded international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments to the Department of State.
181.8
Transmittal to the Congress.
181.9
Publication of international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments.
181.10
Definition of “text”.

# Authority:
1 U.S.C. 112a, 112b; and 22 U.S.C. 2651a.

# Source:
88 FR 67644, Oct. 2, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 181.1
Purpose and application.
(a) The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of 1 U.S.C. 112b, popularly known as the Case-Zablocki Act (hereinafter “the Act”), on the reporting to Congress and publication of international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments and related coordination with the Secretary of State. This part applies to all agencies of the U.S. Government whose responsibilities include the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments. This part does not, however, constitute a delegation by the Secretary of State of the authority to engage in such activities. Further, it does not affect any additional requirements of law governing the relationship between particular agencies and the Secretary of State in connection with international negotiations and agreements, or any other requirements of law concerning the relationship between particular agencies and the Congress. The term “agency” as used in this part means each authority of the United States Government, whether or not it is within or subject to review by another agency.
(b) Pursuant to the key legal requirements of the Act—full and timely disclosure to the Congress of all concluded international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments, publication of international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments, and consultation by agencies with the Secretary of State with respect to proposed international agreements—every agency of the U.S. Government is required to comply with each of the provisions set out in this part in implementation of the Act. Nevertheless, this part is intended as a framework of measures and procedures which, it is recognized, cannot anticipate all circumstances or situations that may arise. Deviation or derogation from the provisions of this part will not affect the legal validity, under United States law or under international law, of international agreements concluded, will not give rise to a cause of action, and will not affect any public or private rights established by such agreements, Similarly, any such deviation will not affect the status or effectiveness of any non-binding instrument.
(c) To facilitate coordination with the Department of State in the implementation of the Act, agencies whose responsibilities include the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements or qualifying non-binding instruments shall notify the Department of State of the official designated as the agency's Chief International Agreements Officer in accordance with 1 U.S.C. 112b(e) promptly upon that official's designation, and shall promptly inform the Department of any changes in the official designated.
(d) For the Department of State, the Deputy Legal Adviser with supervisory responsibility over the Office of Treaty Affairs will be designated as the Department's Chief International Agreements Officer in accordance with 1 U.S.C. 112b(e), and will have the title of International Agreements Compliance Officer.
§ 181.2
Criteria with respect to international agreements.
(a)
General.
The following criteria are to be applied in deciding whether any undertaking, oral agreement, document, or set of documents, including an exchange of notes or of correspondence, constitutes an international agreement within the meaning of the Act. Each of the criteria except those in paragraph (a)(5) of this section must be met in order for any given undertaking of the United States to constitute an international agreement within the meaning of the Act.
(1)
Identity and intention of the parties.
A party to an international agreement must be a state, a state agency, or an intergovernmental organization. The parties must intend their undertaking to be legally binding, and not merely of political or personal effect. Documents intended to have political or moral weight, but not intended to be legally binding, are not international agreements. An example of the latter is the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference on Cooperation and Security in Europe. In addition, the parties must intend their undertaking to be governed by international law, although this intent need not be manifested by a third-party dispute settlement mechanism or any express reference to international law. In the absence of any provision in the arrangement with respect to governing law, it will be presumed to be governed by international law. This presumption may be overcome by clear evidence, in the negotiating history of the arrangement or otherwise, that the parties intended the arrangement to be governed by another legal system. Arrangements governed solely by the law of the United States, or one of the states or jurisdictions thereof, or by the law of any foreign state, are not international agreements for these purposes. For example, a foreign military sales loan agreement governed in its entirety by U.S. law is not an international agreement.
(2)
Significance of the arrangement.
Minor or trivial undertakings, even if couched in legal language and form, are not considered international agreements within the meaning of the Act. In deciding what level of significance must be reached before a particular arrangement becomes an international agreement, the entire context of the transaction and the expectations and intent of the parties must be taken into account. The duration of the activities pursuant to the undertaking or the duration of the undertaking itself shall not be a factor in determining whether it constitutes an international agreement. It remains a matter of judgment based on all of the circumstances of the transaction. Determinations are made pursuant to § 181.3. Examples of arrangements that may constitute international agreements are agreements that:
(i) Are of political significance;
(ii) Involve substantial grants of funds or loans by the United States or credits payable to the United States;
(iii) Constitute a substantial commitment of funds that extends beyond a fiscal year or would be a basis for requesting new appropriations;
(iv) Involve continuing and/or substantial cooperation in the conduct of a particular program or activity, such as scientific, technical, or other cooperation, including the exchange or receipt of information and its treatment, or the pooling of data. However, individual research grants and contracts do not ordinarily constitute international agreements.
(3)
Specificity, including objective criteria for determining enforceability.
International agreements require precision and specificity in the language setting forth the undertakings of the parties. Undertakings couched in vague or very general terms containing no objective criteria for determining enforceability or performance are not normally international agreements. Most frequently such terms reflect an intent not to be bound. For example, a promise to “help develop a more viable world economic system” lacks the specificity essential to constitute a legally binding international agreement. However, the intent of the parties is the key factor. Undertakings as general as those of, for example, Articles 55 and 56 of the United Nations Charter have been held to create internationally binding obligations intended as such by the parties.
(4)
Necessity for two or more parties.
While unilateral commitments on occasion may be legally binding, they do not constitute international agreements. For example, a statement by the President promising to send money to Country Y to assist earthquake victims would not be an international agreement. It might be an important undertaking, but not all undertakings in international relations are in the form of international agreements. Care should be taken to examine whether a particular undertaking is truly unilateral in nature, or is part of a larger bilateral or multilateral set of undertakings. Moreover, “consideration,” as that term is used in domestic contract law, is not required for international agreements.
(5)
Form.
Form as such is not normally an important factor, but it does deserve consideration. Documents which do not follow the customary form for international agreements, as to matters such as style, final clauses, signatures, or entry into force dates, may or may not be international agreements. Failure to use the customary form may constitute evidence of a lack of intent to be legally bound by the arrangement. If, however, the general content and context reveal an intention to enter into a legally binding relationship, a departure from customary form will not preclude the arrangement from being an international agreement. Moreover, the title of the agreement will not be determinative. Decisions will be made on the basis of the substance of the arrangement, rather than on its denomination as an international agreement, a memorandum of understanding, exchange of notes, exchange of letters, technical arrangement, protocol, note verbale, aide-memoire, agreed minute, or any other name.
(b)
Agency-level agreements.
Agency-level agreements are international agreements within the meaning of the Act if they satisfy the criteria discussed in paragraph (a) of this section. The fact that an agreement is concluded by and on behalf of a particular agency of the United States Government, rather than the United States Government, does not mean that the agreement is not an international agreement. Determinations are made on the basis of the substance of the agency-level agreement in question.
(c)
Implementing agreements.
(1) An implementing agreement, if it satisfies the criteria discussed in paragraph (a) of this section, may itself be an international agreement within the meaning of the Act, depending upon how precisely it is anticipated and identified in the underlying agreement it is designed to implement. If the terms of the implementing agreement are closely anticipated and identified in the underlying agreement, only the underlying agreement is considered an international agreement. For example, the underlying agreement might call for the sale by the United States of 1,000 tractors, and a subsequent implementing agreement might require a first installment on this obligation by the sale of 100 tractors of the brand X variety. In that case, the implementing agreement is sufficiently identified in the underlying agreement, and would not itself be considered an international agreement within the meaning of the Act. Project annexes and other documents which provide technical content for an umbrella agreement are not normally treated as international agreements. However, if the underlying agreement is general in nature, and the implementing agreement meets the specified criteria of paragraph (a) of this section, the implementing agreement itself might well be an international agreement within the meaning of the Act. For example, if the underlying agreement calls for the conclusion of “agreements for agricultural assistance,” but without further specificity, then a particular agricultural assistance agreement subsequently concluded in “implementation” of that obligation, provided it meets the criteria discussed in paragraph (a) of this section, would constitute an international agreement independent of the underlying agreement.
(2) Although the considerations discussed in this paragraph generally are to be applied to determine whether an implementing agreement is itself an international agreement within the meaning of the Act, the Act specifies
some circumstances in which an implementing agreement may be subject to the requirements of the Act for reasons independent of the considerations in this paragraph. For example, the Act defines the “text” of an international agreement to include “any implementing agreement or arrangement . . . that is entered into contemporaneously and in conjunction with the international agreement,” and further provides, subject to some exceptions, that the Secretary shall submit to specified members of Congress the text of implementing agreements not otherwise covered by the Act not later than 30 days after receipt of a request from the Chair or Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee or the House Foreign Affairs Committee for the text of such implementing agreements.
(d)
Extensions and modifications of agreements.
If an undertaking constitutes an international agreement within the meaning of the Act, then a subsequent extension or modification of such an agreement would itself constitute an international agreement within the meaning of the Act.
(e)
Oral agreements.
Any oral arrangement that meets the criteria discussed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section is an international agreement and, pursuant to section (f) of the Act, must be reduced to writing by the agency that concluded the oral arrangement. In such written form, the arrangement is subject to all the requirements of the Act and of this part. Whenever a question arises whether an oral arrangement constitutes an international agreement, the arrangement shall be reduced to writing and the decision made in accordance with § 181.3.
§ 181.3
Determinations with respect to international agreements.
(a) Whether any undertaking, document, or set of documents constitutes or would constitute an international agreement within the meaning of the Act shall be determined by the Legal Adviser of the Department of State, a Deputy Legal Adviser, or in most cases the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs. Such determinations shall be made either on a case-by-case basis, or on periodic consultation, as appropriate.
(b) Agencies whose responsibilities include the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements are responsible for transmitting to the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, for decision pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the text, as defined in § 181.10, of any document or set of documents that might constitute an international agreement. The transmittal shall be made prior to or simultaneously with the request for consultations with the Secretary of State required by subsection (g) of the Act and § 181.6.
(c) Agencies to which paragraph (b) of this section applies shall consult periodically with the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs in order to determine which categories of arrangements for which they are responsible are likely to be international agreements within the meaning of the Act.
§ 181.4
Criteria with respect to qualifying non-binding instruments.
(a) General. Pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(5), a qualifying non-binding instrument is a non-binding instrument that:
(1) Is or will be under negotiation, is signed or otherwise becomes operative, or is implemented with one or more foreign governments, international organizations, or foreign entities, including non-state actors; and
(2)(i) Could reasonably be expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States; or
(ii) Is the subject of a written communication from the Chair or Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate or the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives to the Secretary.
(3) Consistent with 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(5)(B), any non-binding instrument that is signed or otherwise becomes operative or is implemented pursuant to the authorities relied upon by the Department of Defense, the Armed Forces of the United States, or any element of the intelligence community does not constitute a qualifying non-binding instrument.
(4) As outlined in further detail in this part, requirements under 1 U.S.C.
112b regarding the transmittal to Congress and publication of qualifying non-binding instruments and related information apply only to qualifying non-binding instruments that have been signed, concluded, or otherwise finalized, and do not apply to instruments under negotiation prior to being signed, concluded, or otherwise finalized.
(b)
Significant foreign policy impact non-binding instruments.
The criteria set out in the following paragraphs are to be applied in deciding whether any undertaking, document, or set of documents, including an exchange of notes or of correspondence, constitutes a non-binding instrument that could reasonably be expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States within the meaning of section 112b(k)(5)(A)(ii)(I) of the Act.
(1)
Legal character.
Non-binding instruments are intended to have political or moral weight, rather than legal force. An instrument is not a non-binding instrument if it gives rise to legal rights or obligations under either international law or domestic law.
(2)
Participants.
Consistent with 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(5)(A)(i), a qualifying non-binding instrument may be concluded between the United States (or an agency thereof) and one or more foreign governments (or an agency thereof), international organizations, or foreign entities, including non-state actors.
(3)
Significance.
(i) Consistent with 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(5)(A)(ii)(I), and except for a non-binding instrument referred to in 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(5)(B), a non-binding instrument that could reasonably be expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States, and that meets the other elements set out in 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(5), is a qualifying non-binding instrument within the meaning of the Act. The degree of significance of any particular instrument requires an objective wholistic assessment. In deciding whether a particular instrument meets the significance standard, the entire context of the transaction, including the factors set out below and the expectations and intent of the participants, must be taken into account. Factors that may be relevant in determining whether a non-binding instrument could reasonably be expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States include whether, and to what extent, the instrument:
(A) Is of importance to the United States' relationship with another country, such as by addressing a significant new policy or initiative (rather than ongoing activities or cooperation);
(B) Affects the rights or responsibilities of U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, or individuals in the United States;
(C) Impacts State laws;
(D) Has budgetary or appropriations impact;
(E) Requires changes to U.S. law to satisfy commitments made therein;
(F) Presents a new commitment or risk for the entire Nation); and
(G) Is of Congressional or public interest.
(ii) In applying these criteria, neither the form or structure of the instrument nor the number of participants involved shall be determinative of whether the instrument meets the significance standard. Similarly, neither the duration of the activities pursuant to the instrument nor the duration of the instrument itself shall be determinative of whether the instrument meets the standard. An instrument that is technical in nature could meet the standard if, for example, it was of particular importance to a bilateral relationship, or if it satisfied other of the criteria set out in this section.
(iii) In the context of these considerations, non-binding instruments concluded as part of the regular work of international organizations and fora such as the United Nations and its specialized agencies, the G-20, and similar multilateral or regional groupings and that are made public within 30 days of their conclusion in most instances will not be submitted to Congress pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(5)(A)(ii)(I). Similarly, instruments memorializing general outcomes of meetings between senior U.S. officials and foreign counterparts and that are made public within 30 days of their conclusion in most instances will not be submitted to Congress pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(5)(A)(ii)(I).
(iv) In the context of these criteria, non-binding instruments concluded for the purposes of facilitating routine sharing of information (including personally identifiable information of U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, or other individuals in the United States) in a manner authorized by U.S. law for the purposes of law enforcement cooperation, will not, on that basis alone, be regarded as expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States.
(c) Non-binding instruments requested by Congress. In accordance with section 112b(k)(5)(A)(ii)(II) of the Act, and except for instruments referred to in section 112b(k)(5)(B) of the Act, a non-binding instrument that is the subject of a written communication from the Chair or Ranking Member of either of the appropriate congressional committees defined in the Act as the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, to the Secretary is a qualifying non-binding instrument.
[88 FR 67644, Oct. 2, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 87672, Dec. 19, 2023]
§ 181.5
Determinations with respect to qualifying non-binding instruments.
(a)
In general.
Whether a non-binding instrument constitutes a qualifying non-binding instrument for the purposes of the Act shall be determined in accordance with this section and 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(5)(B), as referenced in § 181.4(a).
(b)
Significant foreign policy impact non-binding instruments.
(1) Department of State bureaus whose responsibilities include the negotiation of non-binding instruments, or the oversight of negotiation of non-binding instruments by posts abroad, shall designate an official no lower than the rank of Deputy Assistant Secretary to be responsible for the identification of instruments, except for instruments referred to in section 112b(k)(5)(B) of the Act, that could reasonably be expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States. In identifying such instruments, bureaus shall take into account the considerations set out in § 181.4.
(2) As provided in § 181.7(a)(2), Department of State bureaus whose responsibilities include the negotiation of non-binding instruments, or the oversight of negotiation of non-binding instruments by posts abroad, shall notify the Bureau of Legislative Affairs and the Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs within 15 days of the signature, conclusion, or other finalization of a qualifying non-binding instrument that they have identified as one that could reasonably be expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States. Bureaus shall also indicate whether the instrument has already been published, or whether it is anticipated to be published, either on the website of the Department of State or by a depositary or other similar administrative body.
(3) As provided in § 181.7(a)(2), agencies whose responsibilities include the negotiation and conclusion of non-binding instruments shall transmit to the Department via a memorandum addressed to the Department's Executive Secretary the text of any qualifying non-binding instrument that they, applying the criteria in § 181.4(b), determine could reasonably be expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States within 15 days of its signature, conclusion, or other finalization. Upon receipt, such documents shall be transmitted to the Bureau of Legislative Affairs and the Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs.
(4) On a monthly basis, the Bureau of Legislative Affairs and the Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs shall compile a list of qualifying non-binding instruments received in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section and shall submit the list to the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs for his or her approval for transmittal to the Congress in accordance with the procedures set out in § 181.8.
(5) State Department bureaus and U.S. Government agencies are encouraged to identify qualifying non-binding instruments that could reasonably be expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States at the earliest possible stage during the negotiating process and to
advise of their expected conclusion in advance of the deadlines specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, in order to facilitate timely compliance with the Act.
(c)
Qualifying non-binding instruments requested by Congress.
The Department of State's Bureau of Legislative Affairs shall be responsible for receiving on behalf of the Secretary communications related to non-binding instruments from the Chair or Ranking Member of either of the appropriate congressional committees (see § 181.4(a)(2)(ii)) in accordance with the Act. Upon receipt of such a communication, the Bureau of Legislative Affairs shall immediately notify the Department of State bureau or U.S. Government agency responsible for the negotiation and conclusion of any qualifying non-binding instrument that is the subject of the communication, with a view to receiving the text of any such qualifying non-binding instrument and associated information in accordance with § 181.7(a)(2) for transmittal to the requesting member in accordance with § 181.8.
§ 181.6
Consultations with the Secretary of State.
(a) The Secretary of State is responsible, on behalf of the President, for ensuring that all proposed international agreements of the United States are fully consistent with United States foreign policy objectives. In accordance with 1 U.S.C. 112b(g), no agency of the U.S. Government may sign or otherwise conclude an international agreement, whether entered into in the name of the U.S. Government or in the name of the agency, without prior consultation with the Secretary of State or the Secretary's designee. At an early stage in the development and negotiation of non-binding instruments, agencies should also consult as appropriate with the Department of State to facilitate identification at an early stage of instruments that may constitute qualifying non-binding instruments for the purposes of the Act, and to ensure that the intended non-binding character of such instruments is appropriately reflected in their drafting.
(b) Consultation with the Secretary of State (or the Secretary's designee) regarding proposed international agreements, including to obtain authority to negotiate or conclude an international agreement, shall be done pursuant to Department of State procedures set out in Volume 11, Foreign Affairs Manual, Chapter 700 (Circular 175 procedure). Officers of the Department of State shall be responsible for the preparation of all documents required by the Circular 175 procedure.
(c) Any agency wishing to commence negotiations for a proposed international agreement or to conclude an international agreement shall transmit to the interested bureau or office in the Department of State, or to the Office of the Legal Adviser, for consultation pursuant to this section, the following:
(1) A draft text of the proposed agreement or a detailed summary of the proposed agreement if the text is not available (where authority to negotiate a proposed agreement is sought) or the text of the agreement proposed to be concluded (where authority to conclude an agreement is sought).
(2) A detailed description of the Constitutional, statutory, or treaty authority proposed to be relied upon to negotiate or to conclude the agreement. If multiple authorities are relied upon, all such authorities shall be cited. All citations to the Constitution of the United States, a treaty, or a statute shall include the specific article or section and subsection reference whenever available and, if not available, shall be as specific as possible. If the authority relied upon is or includes article II of the Constitution of the United States, the basis for that reliance shall be explained.
(3) Other relevant background information, including:
(i) If a proposed agreement embodies a commitment to furnish funds, goods, or services that are beyond or in addition to those authorized in an approved budget, the agency proposing the agreement shall state what arrangements have been planned or carried out concerning consultation with the Office of Management and Budget for such commitment. The Department of State should receive confirmation that the relevant budget approved by the President provides or requests funds
adequate to fulfill the proposed commitment, or that the President has made a determination to seek the required funds.
(ii) If a proposed agreement embodies a commitment that could reasonably be expected to require (for its implementation) the issuance of a significant regulatory action (as defined in section 3 of Executive Order 12866), the agency proposing the agreement shall state what arrangements have been planned or carried out concerning timely consultation with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for such commitment. The Department of State should receive confirmation that OMB has been consulted in a timely manner concerning the proposed commitment.
(iii) If a proposed agreement contains fiscal contingencies that could give rise to material future financial losses or other costs for the United States (or an agency thereof), the agency proposing the agreement shall identify the contingency and indicate what arrangements have been planned for monitoring the contingency and for meeting any expenses that may arise from it.
(d) The Department of State will endeavor to complete the consultation process in respect of a proposed international agreement in most cases within 30 days of receipt of a request for consultation pursuant to this section and of the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The negotiation or conclusion (as the case may be) of a proposed international agreement may not be undertaken prior to the completion of the consultation process.
(e) Consultation may encompass a specific class of agreements rather than a particular agreement where a series of agreements of the same general type is contemplated; that is, where a number of agreements are to be negotiated according to a more or less standard formula, such as, for example, Public Law 480 Agricultural Commodities Agreements. Any agency wishing to conclude a particular agreement within a specific class of agreements about which consultations have previously been held pursuant to this section shall transmit a draft text of the proposed agreement to the Office of the Legal Adviser as early as possible but in no event later than 20 days prior to the anticipated date for concluding the agreement.
(f) The consultation requirement shall be deemed to be satisfied with respect to proposed international agreements of the United States about which the Secretary of State (or the Secretary's designee) has been consulted in the Secretary's capacity as a member of an interagency committee or council established for the purpose of approving such proposed agreements. Such consultation should encompass both policy and legal issues associated with the proposed agreement. Designees of the Secretary of State serving on any such interagency committee or council are to provide as soon as possible to the interested offices or bureaus of the Department of State and to the Office of the Legal Adviser copies of draft texts or summaries of such proposed agreements and other background information as requested.
(g) Before an international agreement containing a foreign language text may be signed or otherwise concluded, a signed memorandum must be obtained from a responsible language officer of the Department of State or of the U.S. Government agency concerned certifying that the foreign language text and the English language text are in conformity with each other and that both texts have the same meaning in all substantive respects. The signed memorandum is to be made available to the Department of State upon request.
§ 181.7
Fifteen-day rule for transmittal of concluded international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments to the Department of State.
(a) This rule, which is required by section 112b(d) of the Act, is essential for purposes of permitting the Department of State to meet its obligations under the Act to transmit concluded international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments to the Congress by the end of the month following their conclusion, and to report on international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments that entered into force or became operative by
the end of the month following the date on which they entered into force or became operative.
(1) International agreements. Any agency, including the Department of State, that concludes an international agreement within the meaning of the Act, whether entered into in the name of the U.S. Government or in the name of the agency, must transmit the following documents and certification to the Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs at the Department of State in accordance with the procedures set out in Volume 11, Foreign Affairs Manual, Chapter 700, as soon as possible and in no event to arrive at that office later than fifteen (15) days after the date the agreement is signed or otherwise concluded:
(i) Signed or initialed original texts constituting the agreement, together with all accompanying papers, including any annex, appendix, codicil, side agreement, side letter, or any document of similar purpose or function to the aforementioned regardless of the title of the document that is entered into contemporaneously and in conjunction with the agreement, and any implementing agreements or arrangements or any document of similar purpose or function to the aforementioned regardless of the title of the document that is entered into contemporaneously and in conjunction with the agreement. (See § 181.10.) The texts transmitted must be accurate, legible, and complete, and must include the texts of all languages in which the international agreement was signed, or initialed;
(A) Where the original texts of concluded international agreements are not available, certified copies must be transmitted in the same manner as original texts. A certified copy must be an exact copy of the signed original.
(B) When an exchange of diplomatic notes between the United States and a foreign government constitutes an international agreement or has the effect of extending, modifying, or terminating an international agreement, a properly certified copy of the note from the United States to the foreign government, and the signed original or the note from the foreign government to the United States, must be transmitted.
(C) If in conjunction with the international agreement signed, other diplomatic notes are exchanged (either at the same time, beforehand, or subsequently), properly certified copies of the diplomatic notes from the United States to the foreign government must be transmitted with the signed originals of the notes from the foreign government.
(D) Copies may be certified either by a certification on the document itself, or by a separate certification attached to the document.
(1) A certification on the document itself is placed at the end of the document, either typed or stamped, and states that the document is a true copy of the original text signed or initialed by (insert full name of signatory), and is signed by the certifying officer.
(2) A certification on a separate document is typed and briefly describes the document being certified and states that it is a true copy of the original text signed or initialed by (insert full name of signatory), and is signed by the certifying officer.
(ii) A signed memorandum of language conformity obtained pursuant to § 181.6(g), as applicable;
(iii) A statement listing the names and titles/positions of the individuals signing or initialing the international agreement for the foreign government as well as for the United States, unless clear in the texts being transmitted;
(iv) A statement identifying the Circular 175 authorization pursuant to which the international agreement was concluded, so that the sources of legal authority relevant to the agreement's conclusion and implementation may be readily identified for inclusion in reporting to Congress under the Act; and
(v) the exchange of diplomatic notes bringing an international agreement into force, as applicable.
(2) Qualifying non-binding instruments. (i) When a Department of State bureau identifies a non-binding instrument that is not covered by section 112b(k)(5)(B) of the Act as one that could reasonably be expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States pursuant to § 181.5(b), the bureau shall provide to the Bureau of Legislative Affairs and
the Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs within 15 days of the conclusion of the qualifying non-binding instrument the documents and information specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.
(ii) When an agency other than the Department of State, applying the criteria in § 181.4(b), determines that a non-binding instrument (other than a non-binding instrument covered by section 112b(k)(5)(B) of the Act) could reasonably be expected to have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the United States, the agency shall transmit to the Department via a memorandum addressed to the Department's Executive Secretary within 15 days of the conclusion of the qualifying non-binding instrument the documents and information specified in subparagraph iv.
(iii) When a Department of State bureau or an agency receives from the Department of State's Bureau of Legislative Affairs notice of a written communication related to a qualifying non-binding instrument from the Chair or Ranking Member of either of the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with § 181.5(c), the bureau or agency shall provide to the Bureau of Legislative Affairs and the Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs within 15 days the documents and information specified in subparagraph iv.
(iv) The documents and information to be provided pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section are as follows:
(A) The text of the qualifying non-binding instrument (the signed original instrument need not be submitted), together with all accompanying papers, including any annex, appendix, codicil, side agreement, side letter, or any document of similar purpose or function to the aforementioned regardless of the title of the document that is entered into contemporaneously and in conjunction with the instrument, and any implementing agreements or arrangements or any document of similar purpose or function to the aforementioned regardless of the title of the document that is entered into contemporaneously and in conjunction with the instrument (See section 181.10);
(B) A detailed description of the Constitutional, statutory, or treaty authority relied upon to conclude the qualifying non-binding instrument. If multiple authorities are relied upon, all such authorities shall be cited. All citations to the Constitution of the United States, a treaty, or a statute shall include the specific article or section and subsection reference whenever available and, if not available, shall be as specific as possible. If the authority relied upon is or includes article II of the Constitution of the United States, the basis for that reliance shall be explained;
(C) A description of any new or amended statutory or regulatory authority anticipated to be required to implement the instrument for inclusion in reporting to Congress under the Act; and
(D) An indication of whether the text has been published on the website of the Department of State or of another U.S. Government agency, or by a depositary or other similar administrative body.
(b) On an ongoing basis, State Department bureaus and U.S. Government agencies shall promptly provide to the Bureau of Legislative Affairs and the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs any implementing materials related to an international agreement or qualifying non-binding instrument needed to respond to a request from the Chair or Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate or the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives for such materials in accordance with 1 U.S.C. 112b(c). State Department bureaus and U.S. Government agencies shall provide to the Bureau of Legislative Affairs and the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs materials responsive to the congressional communication within 15 days of being informed of such communication.
(c) In the event the text of an international agreement or qualifying non-binding instrument changes between the time of its conclusion and the time of its entry into force or effect, State
Department bureaus and U.S. Government agencies shall provide to the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs the revised text of the agreement or qualifying non-binding instrument within 15 days of its entry into force or effect so that the Department is able to provide the revised text to Congress within the statutorily-required time period.
§ 181.8
Transmittal to the Congress.
(a) Not less frequently than once each month the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs shall transmit to the Majority Leader of the Senate, the Minority Leader of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives the following:
(1) A list of all international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments signed, concluded, or otherwise finalized during the prior month;
(2) The text of all international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments described in subparagraph (a)(1) of this section;
(3) For each international agreement and qualifying non-binding instrument transmitted, a detailed description of the legal authority relied upon to enter into the international agreement or qualifying non-binding instrument;
(4) A list of all international agreements that entered into force and qualifying non-binding instruments that became operative for the United States or an agency of the United States during the prior month;
(5) The text of all international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section if such text differs from the text of the agreement or instrument previously provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(6) A statement describing any new or amended statutory or regulatory authority anticipated to be required to fully implement each international agreement and qualifying non-binding instrument included in the list described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) If any of the information or texts to be transmitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is or contains classified information, the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs shall transmit such information or texts in a classified annex.
(c) Pursuant to section 12 of the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3311), any agreement entered into between the American Institute in Taiwan and the governing authorities on Taiwan, or any agreement entered into between the Institute and an agency of the United States Government, shall be transmitted by the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs to the President of the Senate and to the Speaker of the House of Representatives as soon as practicable after the entry into force of such agreements, but in no event later than 60 days thereafter. Classified agreements entered into by the Institute shall be transmitted by the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs to the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.
§ 181.9
Publication of international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments.
(a)
Publication of international agreements
. Not later than 120 days after the date on which an international agreement enters into force, the Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs shall be responsible for making the text of the agreement, as that term is defined in § 181.10, available to the public on the website of the Department of State, unless one of the exemptions to publication in paragraph (d) of this section applies.
(b)
Publication of qualifying non-binding instruments.
Not less frequently than once every 120 days, the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs shall provide to the Bureau of Administration and the Bureau of Administration shall publish on the website of the Department of State the text, as that term is defined in § 181.10(c), of each qualifying nonbinding instrument that became operative during the preceding 120 days, unless one of the exemptions to publication in paragraph (d) of this section applies. In the case of a qualified non-binding instrument that is the
subject of a communication from the Chair or Ranking Member of either of the appropriate congressional committees pursuant to section 112b(k)(5)(A)(ii)(II) of the Act, the Bureau of Legislative Affairs, in coordination with the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, shall provide the text of the instrument, as that term is defined in § 181.1(c), to the Bureau of Administration for publication on the website of the Department of State, unless one of the exemptions to publication in paragraph (d) of this section applies.
(c)
Publication of information related to international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments.
With respect to each international agreement published pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and each qualifying non-binding instrument published pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, and with respect to international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments that have been separately published by a depositary or other similar administrative body in accordance with paragraph (d)(i)(v) of this section, the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs shall provide to the Bureau of Administration for publication on the website of the Department of State within the timeframes specified in those subsections a detailed description of the legal authority relied upon to enter into the agreement or instrument, and a statement describing any new or amended statutory or regulatory authority anticipated to be required to implement the agreement or instrument.
(d)
Exemptions from publication.
(1) Pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112b(b)(3), the following categories of international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments will not be published:
(i) International agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments that contain information that has been given a national security classification pursuant to Executive Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to classified national security information) or any predecessor or successor order, or that contain any information that is otherwise exempt from public disclosure pursuant to United States law. “Information that is otherwise exempt from public disclosure pursuant to United States law” includes information that is exempt from public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act pursuant to one of the exemptions set out in 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) through (9);
(ii) International agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments that address military operations, military exercises, acquisition and cross servicing, logistics support, military personnel exchange or education programs, or the provision of health care to military personnel on a reciprocal basis;
(iii) International agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments that establish the terms of grant or other similar assistance, including in-kind assistance, financed with foreign assistance funds pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151
et seq.
) or the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
);
(iv) International agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments, such as project annexes and other similar instruments, for which the principal function is to establish technical details for the implementation of a specific project undertaken pursuant to another agreement or qualifying nonbinding instrument that has been published in accordance with 1 U.S.C. 112b(b)(1) or (2);
(v) International agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments that have been separately published by a depositary or other similar administrative body, except that the information described in § 181.8(a)(3) and (6) relating to such international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments shall be made available to the public on the website of the Department of State in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; and
(vi) any international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments within one of the above categories that had not been published as of September 19, 2023, unless, in the case of such a non-binding instrument, the instrument is the subject of a written communication from the Chair or Ranking Member of either the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate or the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
to the Secretary in accordance with 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(5)(A)(ii)(II).
(2) Pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112a(b), any international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments in the possession of the Department of State, other than those in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, but not published will be made available upon request by the Department of State.
(3) Pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112b(l)(1), nothing in the Act may be construed to authorize the withholding from disclosure to the public of any record if such disclosure is required by law.
§ 181.10
Definition of “text”.
(a) In accordance with 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(7), the term “text” with respect to an international agreement or qualifying non-binding instrument includes:
(1) Any annex, appendix, codicil, side agreement, side letter, or any document of similar purpose or function to the aforementioned, regardless of the title of the document, that is entered into contemporaneously and in conjunction with the international agreement or qualifying non-binding instrument; and
(2) Any implementing agreement or arrangement, or any document of similar purpose or function to the aforementioned regardless of the title of the document, that is entered into contemporaneously and in conjunction with the international agreement or qualifying non-binding instrument.
(b) 1 U.S.C. 112b(k)(7) further provides that, as used in this definition, the term “contemporaneously and in conjunction with”:
(1) Shall be construed liberally; and
(2) May not be interpreted to require any action to have occurred simultaneously or on the same day.

# SUBCHAPTER T—HOSTAGE RELIEF
Pt. 191

# PART 191—HOSTAGE RELIEF ASSISTANCE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
191.1
Declaration of hostile action.
191.2
Application for determination of eligibility.
191.3
Definitions.
191.4
Notification of eligible persons.
191.5
Relationships among agencies.
191.6
Effective date.

# Subpart B—Application of Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act
191.10
Eligibility for benefits.
191.11
Applicable benefits.
191.12
Description of benefits.
191.13
Administration of benefits.

# Subpart C—Medical Benefits
191.20
Eligibility for benefits.
191.21
Applicable benefits.
191.22
Administration of benefits.
191.23
Disputes.

# Subpart D—Educational Benefits
191.30
Eligibility for benefits.
191.31
Applicable family benefits.
191.32
Applicable benefits for hostages.
191.33
Administration of benefits.
191.34
Maximum limitation on benefits.

# Authority:
Hostage Relief Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-449 and sec. 4 of Act of 1949 (22 U.S.C. 2658)).

# Source:
46 FR 17543, Mar. 19, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 191.1
Declaration of hostile action.
(a) The Secretary of State from time to time shall declare when and where individuals in the civil or uniformed services of the United States, or a citizen or resident alien of the United States rendering personal services to the United States abroad similar to the service of a civil officer or employee of the United States, have been placed in captive status because of hostile action abroad directed against the United States and occurring or continuing between November 4, 1979, and such date as may be declared by the President under section 101(2)(A) of the Hostage Relief Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-449, hereafter “the Act”) or January 1, 1983, whichever is later. Each such declaration shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(b) The Secretary of State upon his or her own initiative, or upon application under § 191.2 shall determine which individuals in captive status as so declared shall be considered hostages eligible for benefits under the Act. The Secretary shall also determine who is eligible under the Act for benefits as a member of a family or household of a hostage. The determination of the Secretary shall be final, but any interested person may request reconsideration on the basis of information not considered at the time of original determination. The criteria for determination are set forth in sections 101 and 205 of the Act, and in these regulations.
§ 191.2
Application for determination of eligibility.
(a) Any person who believes that they or other persons known to them are either hostages as defined in the Act, or members of the family or household of hostages as defined in § 191.3(a)(1), or a child eligible for benefits under subpart D, may apply for benefits under this subchapter for themselves, or on behalf of others entitled thereto.
(b) The application shall be in writing, should contain all identifying and other pertinent data available to the person applying about the person or persons claimed to be eligible, and should be addressed to the Assistant Secretary of State for Administration, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520. Applications may be filed at any time after publication of a declaration under § 191.1(a) in the
Federal Register,
and during the period of its validity, or within 60 days after release from captivity. Later filing may be considered when in the opinion of the Secretary of State there is good cause for the late filing.
§ 191.3
Definitions.
When used in this subchapter, unless otherwise specified, the terms—
(a)
Family member
means (1) a spouse, (2) an unmarried dependent child including a step-child or adopted child, (3) a person designated in official records or determined by the agency head or designee thereof to be a dependent, or (4) other persons such as parents, parents-in-law, persons who stand in the place of a spouse or parents, or other members of a household when fully justified by the circumstances of the hostage situation, as determined by the Secretary of State.
(b)
Agency head
means the head of an agency as defined in the Act (or successor agency) employing an individual determined to be an American hostage. The Secretary of State is the agency head with respect to any hostage not employed by an agency.
(c)
Principal
means the hostage whose captivity forms the basis for benefits under this subchapter for a family member.
§ 191.4
Notification of eligible persons.
The Assistant Secretary of State for Administration shall be responsible for notifying each individual determined to be eligible for benefits under the Act or, if that person is not available, a representative or Family Member of the hostage.
§ 191.5
Relationships among agencies.
(a) The Assistant Secretary of State for Administration shall promptly inform the head of any agency whenever an employee (including a member of the Armed Forces) in that agency, or Family Member of such employee, is determined to be eligible for benefits under this subchapter.
(b) In accordance with inter-agency agreements between the Department of State and relevant agencies—
(1) The Veterans Administration will periodically bill the Department of State for expenses it pays for each eligible person under subpart D of this subchapter plus the administrative costs of carrying out its responsibilities under this part.
(2) The Department of State will, on a periodic basis, determine the cost for services and benefits it provides to all eligible persons under this subchapter and bill each agency for the costs attributable to Principals (and Family Members) in or acting on behalf of the agency plus a proportionate share of related administrative expenses.
§ 191.6
Effective date.
This regulation is effective as of November 4, 1979. Reimbursement may be made for expenses approved under this subchapter for services rendered on or after such date.

# Subpart B—Application of Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act
§ 191.10
Eligibility for benefits.
A person designated as a hostage under subpart A of this subchapter, other than a member of the Armed Forces covered by the provisions of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, shall be eligible for benefits under this part.
§ 191.11
Applicable benefits.
(a) Eligible persons are entitled to the benefits provided by the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940 (50 U.S.C. App. 501,
et seq.
), including the benefits provided by section 701 (50 U.S.C. App. 591) notwithstanding paragraph (c) thereof, but excluding the benefits provided by sections 104, 105, 106, 400 through 408, 501 through 512, and 514 (50 U.S.C. App. 514, 515, 516, 540 through 548, 561 through 572, and 574).
(b) In applying such Act for purposes of this section—
(1) The term “person in the military service” is deemed to include any such American hostage;
(2) The term “period of military service” is deemed to include the period during which such American hostage is in a captive status;
(3) References therein to the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, the Adjutant General of the Army, the Chief of Naval Personnel, and the Commandant, United States Marine Corps, or other officials of government are deemed to be references to the Secretary of State; and
(4) The term “dependents” shall, to the extent permissible by law, be construed to include “Family Members” as defined in section 101 of the Hostage Relief Act.
§ 191.12
Description of benefits.
The following material is included to assist persons affected, by providing a brief description of some of the provisions of the Civil Relief Act. Note that not all of the sections applicable to hostages have been included here. References to sections herein are references to the Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended, followed by references in parentheses to the same section in the United States Code.
(a)
Guarantors, endorsers.
Section 103 (50 U.S.C. App. 513) provides that whenever a hostage is granted relief from the enforcement of an obligation, a court, in its discretion, may grant the same relief to guarantors and endorsers of the obligation. Amendments extend relief to accommodation makers and others primarily or secondarily liable on an obligation, and to sureties on a criminal bail bond. They provide, on certain conditions, that the benefits of the section with reference to persons primarily or secondarily liable on an obligation may be waived in writing.
(b)
Written agreements.
Section 107 (50 U.S.C. App. 517) provides that nothing contained in the Act shall prevent hostages from making certain arrangements with respect to their contracts and obligations, but requires that such arrangements be in writing.
(c)
Protection in court.
Section 200 (50 U.S.C. App. 520) provides that if a hostage is made defendant in a court action and is unable to appear in court, the court shall appoint an attorney to represent the hostage and protect the hostage's interests. Further, if a judgment is rendered against the hostage, an opportunity to reopen the case and present a defense, if meritorious, may be permitted within 90 days after release.
(d)
Court postponement.
Section 201 (50 U.S.C. App. 521) authorizes a court to postpone any court proceedings if a hostage is a party thereto and is unable to participate by reason of being a captive.
(e)
Relief against penalties.
Section 202 (50 U.S.C. App. 522) provides for relief against fines or penalties when a court proceeding involving a hostage is postponed, or when the fine or penalties are incurred for failure to perform any obligation. In the latter case, relief depends upon whether the hostage's ability to pay or perform is materially affected by being held captive.
(f)
Postponement of action.
Section 203 (50 U.S.C. App. 523) authorizes a court to postpone or vacate the execution of any judgment, attachment or garnishment.
(g)
Period of postponement.
Section 204 (50 U.S.C. App. 524) authorizes a court to postpone proceedings for the period of captivity, and for 3 months thereafter, or any part thereof.
(h)
Extended time limits.
Section 205 (50 U.S.C. App. 525) excludes the period of captivity from computing time under existing or future statutes of limitation. Amendments extend relief to include actions before administrative agencies, and provide that the period of captivity shall not be included in the period for redemption of real property sold to enforce any obligation, tax, or assessment. Section 207 excludes application of section 205 to any period of limitation prescribed by or under the internal revenue laws of the United States.
(i)
Interest rates.
Section 206 (50 U.S.C. App. 526) provides that interest on the obligations of hostages shall not exceed a specified per centum per annum, unless the court determines that ability to pay greater interest is not affected by being held captive.
(j)
Misuse of benefits.
Section 600 (50 U.S.C. App. 580) provides against transfers made with intent to delay the just enforcement of a civil right by taking advantage of the Act.
(k)
Further relief.
Section 700 (50 U.S.C. App. 590) provides that a person, during a period of captivity or 6 months thereafter, may apply to a court for relief with respect to obligations incurred prior to captivity, or any tax or assessment whether falling due prior to or during the period of captivity. The court may, on certain conditions, stay the enforcement of such obligations.
(l)
Stay of eviction.
Section 300 (50 U.S.C. App. 530) provides that a hostage's dependents shall not be evicted from their dwelling if the rental is $150 or less per month, except upon leave of a court. If it is proved that inability to pay rent is a result of being in captivity, the court is authorized to stay eviction proceedings for not longer than 3 months. An amendment extends relief to owners of the premises with respect to payments on mortgage and taxes.
(m)
Contract and mortgage obligations.
As provided by sections 301 and 302 of the Act (50 U.S.C. App. 531 and 532), as amended, contracts for the purchase of real and personal property, which originated prior to the period of captivity, may not be rescinded, terminated, or foreclosed, or the property repossessed, except as provided in section 107 (50 U.S.C. App. 517), unless by an order of a court. The mentioned sections give the court wide discretionary powers to make such disposition of the particular case as may be equitable in order to conserve the interests of both the hostage and the creditor. The cited sections further provide that the court may stay the proceedings for the period of captivity and 3 months thereafter, if in its opinion the ability of the hostage to perform the obligation is materially affected by reason of captivity. Section 303 (50 U.S.C. App. 533) provides that the court may appoint appraisers and, based upon their report, order such sum as may be just, if any, paid to hostages or their dependents, as a condition to foreclosing a mortgage, resuming possession of property, and rescinding or terminating a contract.
(n)
Termination of a lease.
Section 304 (50 U.S.C. App. 534) provides, in general, that a lease covering premises occupied for dwelling, business, or agricultural purpose, executed by persons who subsequently become hostages, may be terminated by a notice in writing given to the lessor, subject to such action as may be taken by a court on application of the lessor. Termination of a lease providing for monthly payment of rent shall not be effective until 30 days after the first date on which the next rental payment is due, and, in the case of other leases, on the last day of the month following the month when the notice is served.
(o)
Assignment of life insurance policy.
Section 305 (50 U.S.C. App. 535) provides that the assignee of a life insurance policy assigned as security, other than the insurer in connection with a policy loan, except upon certain conditions, shall not exercise any right with respect to the assignment during the period of captivity of the insured and one year thereafter, unless upon order of a court.
(p)
Storage lien.
Section 305 (50 U.S.C. App. 535) provides that a lien for storage of personal property may not be foreclosed except upon court order. The court may stay proceedings or make other just disposition.
(q)
Extension of benefits to dependents.
Section 306 (50 U.S.C. App. 536) extends the benefits to section 300 through 305 to dependents of a hostage.
(r)
Real and personal property taxes.
Section 500 (50 U.S.C. App. 560) forbids sale of property, except upon court leave, to enforce collection of taxes or assessments (other than taxes on income) on personal property or real property owned and occupied by the hostage or dependents thereof at the commencement of captivity and still occupied by the hostage's dependents or employees. The court may stay proceedings for a period not more than 6 months after termination of captivity. When by law such property may be sold to enforce collection, the hostage will have the right to redeem it within 6 months after termination of captivity. Unpaid taxes or assessments bear interest at 6 percent.
(s)
Income taxes.
Section 513 provides for deferment of payment of income taxes. However, section 204 of the Hostage Relief Act of 1980 provides for deferment and certain other relief, and should be referred to in order to determine statutory tax benefits in addition to those in section 513 of the Civil Relief Act.
(t)
Certification of hostage.
Section 601 provides that a certificate signed by the agency head shall be prima facie evidence that the person named has been a hostage during the period specified in the certification.
(u)
Interlocutory orders.
Section 602 (50 U.S.C. App. 582) provides that a court
may revoke an interlocutory order it has issued pursuant to any provision of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940.
(v)
Power of attorney.
Section 701 (50 U.S.C. App. 591) provides that certain powers of attorney executed by a hostage which expire by their terms after the person was captured shall be automatically extended for the period of captivity. Exceptions are made with respect to powers of attorney which by their terms clearly indicate they are to expire on the date specified irrespective of hostage status. (Section 701 applies to American hostages notwithstanding paragraph (c) thereof which states that it applies only to powers of attorney issued during the “Vietnam era”.)
§ 191.13
Administration of benefits.
(a) The Assistant Secretary of State for Administration will issue certifications or other documents when required for purposes of the Civil Relief Act.
(b) The Assistant Secretary of State shall whenever possible promptly inform the chief legal officer of each State in which hostages maintain residence of all persons determined to be hostages eligible for assistance under this subpart.

# Subpart C—Medical Benefits
§ 191.20
Eligibility for benefits.
A person designated as a hostage or Family Member of a hostage under subpart A of this subchapter shall be eligible for benefits under this subpart.
§ 191.21
Applicable benefits.
A person eligible for benefits under this part shall be eligible for authorized medical and health care at U.S. Government expense, and for payment of other authorized expenses related to such care or for obtaining such care for any illness or injury which is determined by the Secretary of State to be caused or materially aggravated by the hostage situation, to the extent that such care may not—
(a) Be provided or paid for under any other Government health or medical program, including, but not limited to, the programs administered by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Labor and the Administrator of Veterans Affairs; or
(b) Be entitled to reimbursement by any private or Government health insurance or comparable plan.
§ 191.22
Administration of benefits.
(a) An eligible person, who desires medical or health care under this subpart or any person acting on behalf thereof, shall submit an application to the Office of Medical Services, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520 (hereafter referred to as the “Office”). The applicant shall supply all relevant information, including insurance information, requested by the Director of the Office. An eligible person may also submit claims to the Office for payment for emergency care when there is not time to obtain prior authorization as prescribed by this paragraph, and for payment for care received prior to or ongoing on the effective date of these regulations.
(b) The Office shall evaluate all requests for care and claims for reimbursement and determine, on behalf of the Secretary of State, whether the care in question is authorized under § 191.21 of this subpart. The Office will authorize care, or payment for care when it determines the criteria of such section are met. Authorization shall include a determination as to the necessity and reasonableness of medical or health care.
(c) The Office will refer applicants eligible for benefits under other Government health programs to the Government agency administering those programs. Any portion of authorized care not provided or paid for under another Government program will be reimbursed under this subpart.
(d) Eligible persons may obtain authorized care from any licensed facility or health care provider of their choice approved by the Office. To the extent possible, the Office will attempt to arrange for authorized care to be provided in a Government facility at no cost to the patient.
(e) Authorized care provided by a private facility or health care provider will be paid or reimbursed under this subpart to the extent that the Office determines that costs do not exceed
reasonable and customary charges for similar care in the locality.
(f) All bills for authorized medical or health care covered by insurance shall be submitted to the patient's insurance carrier for payment prior to submission to the Office for payment of the balance authorized by this part. The Office will request the health care providers to bill the insurance carrier and the Department of State for authorized care, rather than the patient.
(g) Eligible persons will be reimbursed by the Office for authorized travel to obtain an evaluation of their claim under paragraph (b) of this section and for other authorized travel to obtain medical or health care authorized by this subpart.
§ 191.23
Disputes.
Any dispute between the Office and eligible persons concerning (a) whether medical or health care is required in a given case, (b) whether required care is incident to the hostage taking, or (c) whether the cost for any authorized care is reasonable and customary, shall be referred to the Medical Director, Department of State and the Foreign Service for a determination. If the person bringing the claim is not satisfied with the decision of the Medical Director, the dispute shall be referred to a medical board composed of three physicians, one appointed by the Medical Director, one by the eligible person and the third by the first two members. A majority decision by the board shall be binding on all parties.

# Subpart D—Educational Benefits
§ 191.30
Eligibility for benefits.
(a) A spouse or unmarried dependent child aged 18 or above of a hostage as determined under subpart A of this subchapter shall be eligible for benefits under § 191.31 of this subpart. (Certain limitations apply, however, to persons eligible for direct assistance through other programs of the Veterans Administration under chapter 35 of title 38, United States Code).
(b) A Principal (see definition in § 191.3) designated as a hostage under Subpart A of this subchapter, who intends to change jobs or careers because of the hostage experience and who desires additional training for this purpose, shall be eligible for benefits under § 191.32 of this part unless such person is eligible for comparable benefits under title 38 of the United States Code as determined by the Administrator of the Veterans Administration.
§ 191.31
Applicable family benefits.
(a) An eligible spouse or child shall be paid (by advancement or reimbursement) for expenses incurred for subsistence, tuition, fees, supplies, books, and equipment, and other educational expenses, while attending an educational or training institution approved in accordance with procedures established by the Veterans Administration, which shall be comparable to procedures established pursuant to chapters 35 and 36 of title 38 U.S.C.
(b) Except as provide in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section), payments shall be available under this subsection for an eligible spouse or child for education or training which occurs—
(1) 90 days after the Principal is placed in a captive status, and
(i) Through the end of any semester or quarter which begins before the date on which the Principal ceases to be in a captive status, or
(ii) If the educational or training institution is not operated on a semester or quarter system, the earlier of the end of any course which began before such date or the end of the twelve-week period following that date.
(c) In special circumstances and within the limitation of § 191.34, the Secretary of State may, under the criteria and procedures set forth in § 191.33, approve payments for education or training under this subsection which occurs after the date determined under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) In the event a Principal dies and the death is determined by the Secretary of State to be incident to that individual being a hostage, payments shall be available under this subsection for education or training of a spouse or child of the Principal which occurs after the date of death, up to the maximum that may be authorized under § 191.34.
§ 191.32
Applicable benefits for hostages.
(a) When authorized by the Secretary of State a Principal, following released from captivity, shall be paid (by advancement or reimbursement) for expenses incurred for subsistence, tuition, fees, supplies, books and equipment, and other educational expenses, while attending an educational or training institution approved in accordance with procedures established by the Veterans Administration comparable to procedures established pursuant to chapters 35 and 36 of title 38 U.S.C. Payments shall be available under this subsection for education or training which occurs on or before—
(1) The end of any semester or quarter (as appropriate) which begins before the date which is 10 years after the day on which the Principal ceases to be in a captive status, or
(2) If the educational or training institution is not operated on a semester or quarter system, the earlier of the end of any course which began before such date or the end of the twelve-week period following that date.
(b) A person eligible for benefits under this subsection shall not be required to separate from Government service in order to undertake the training or education, but while in Government service, may only receive such training or education during off-duty hours or during periods of approved leave.
§ 191.33
Administration of benefits.
(a) Any person desiring benefits under this part shall apply in writing to the Assistant Secretary of State for Administration, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520. The application shall specify the benefits desired and the basis of eligibility for those benefits. The Secretary of State shall make determinations of eligibility for benefits under this part, and shall forward approved applications to the Veterans Administration and advise the applicant of the name and address of the office in the Veterans Administration that will counsel the eligible persons on how to obtain the benefits that have been approved. Persons whose applications are disapproved shall be advised of the reasons for the disapproval.
(b) The Veterans Administration shall provide the same level and kind of assistance, including payments (by advancement or reimbursement) for authorized expenses up to the same maximum amounts, to spouses and children of hostages, and to Principals following their release from captivity as it does to eligible spouses and children of veterans and to eligible veterans, respectively, under chapters 35 and 36 of title 38, United States Code. The Veterans Administration shall, following consultation with the Secretary of State and under procedures it has established to administer section 1724 of title 38, United States Code, discontinue assistance for any individual whose conduct or progress is unsatisfactory under standards consistent with those established pursuant to such section 1724.
(c) An Advisory Board shall be established to advise on eligibility for benefits under paragraphs (c) and (d) of §§ 191.31 and 191.32. The Board shall be composed of the Assistant Secretary of State for Administration as Chairperson, the Director of the Office of Medical Services of the Department of State, the Executive Director of the regional bureau of the Department of State in whose region the relevant hostile action occurred, the Director of Personnel or other designee of the applicable employing agency, and a representative of the Veterans Administration designated by the Administrator.
(d) If an application is received from a spouse or child for extended training under § 191.31(c), the Secretary of Administration shall determine with the advice of the Advisory Board whether the Principal, following release from captivity, is incapacitated by the hostage experience to the extent that (1) he or she has not returned to full-time active duty and is unlikely to be able to resume the normal duties of his or her position or career, or (2) in the event of a separation from Government service, a comparable position or career, for at least six months from the date the Principal is released from captivity. If the Secretary makes such a determination, he or she may approve, within the limits of § 191.34, an application under § 191.31(c) for up to one year
of education or training. If the Principal remains incapacitated, the Secretary may approve additional training or education up to the maximum authorized under § 191.34.
§ 191.34
Maximum limitation on benefits.
(a) In no event may assistance be provided under this subpart for any individual for a period in excess of 45 months, or the equivalent thereof in part-time education or training.
(b) The eligibility of a spouse for benefits under paragraph (c) or (d) of § 191.31 shall expire on a date which is 10 years after the date of the release of the hostage, or the death of the hostage, respectively. The eligibility of a dependent child for benefits under such paragraphs (c) and (d) shall expire on the 26th birthday of such child or on such later date as determined by the Administrator of the Veterans Administration, as would be applicable if section 1712 of title 38, United States Code, were applicable.
Pt. 192

# PART 192—VICTIMS OF TERRORISM COMPENSATION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
192.1
Declarations of hostile action.
192.2
Application for determination of eligibility.
192.3
Definitions.
192.4
Notification of eligible persons.
192.5
Relationships among agencies.

# Subpart B—Payment of Salary and Other Benefits for Captive Situations
192.10
Eligibility for benefits.
192.11
Applicable benefits.
192.12
Administration of benefits.

# Subpart C—Application of Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act to Captive Situations
192.20
Eligibility for benefits.
192.21
Applicable benefits.
192.22
Description of benefits.
192.23
Administration of benefits.

# Subpart D—Medical Benefits for Captive Situations
192.30
Eligibility for benefits.
192.31
Applicable benefits.
192.32
Administration of benefits.
192.33
Dispute.

# Subpart E—Educational Benefits for Captive Situations
192.40
Eligibility for benefits.
192.41
Applicable family benefits.
192.42
Applicable benefits for captives.
192.43
Administration of benefits.
192.44
Maximum limitation on benefits.

# Subpart F—Compensation for Disability or Death
192.50
Eligibility for benefits.
192.51
Death benefit.
192.52
Disability benefits.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5569 and 5570 and E.O. 12598 (52 FR 23421).

# Source:
54 FR 12597, Mar. 28, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 192.1
Declarations of hostile action.
(a)(1) The Secretary of State shall declare when and where individuals in the Civil Service of the United States, including members of the Foreign Service and foreign service nationals, or a citizen, national or resident alien of the United States rendering personal services to the United States similar to the service of an individual in the Civil Service, have been placed in captive status commencing on or after November 4, 1979, for purposes of § 192.11(b) or January 21, 1981, for all other purposes under this part, which arises because of hostile action abroad and is a result of the individual's relationship with the U.S. Government as provided in the Victims of Terrorism Compensation Act, codified in 5 U.S.C. 5569 and 5570 and Executive Order 12598.
(2) The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall also declare when and where individuals in the Civil Service of the United States including members of the Foreign Service and foreign service nationals, including individuals rendering personal services to the United States similar to the service of an individual in the Civil Service, and family members of these individuals are eligible to receive compensation for disability or death occurring after January 21, 1981. Such determination shall be based on the decision by the Secretary of State that the disability or death was caused by hostile action
abroad and was a result of the individual's relationship with the Government.
(3) Declarations of hostile action in domestic situations shall be made by the Secretary of State in consultation with the Attorney General of the United States and the head of the employing agency or agencies.
(b) The Secretary of State for actions abroad, or Agency Head for domestic actions, upon his or her own initiative, or upon application under § 192.2 shall determine which individuals in captive or missing status as so declared shall be considered captives eligible for benefits under the Act. The Secretary or Agency Head shall also determine who is eligible under the Act for benefits as a member of a family or household of a captive. The determination of the Secretary or Agency Head shall be final for purposes of determining captive status and cash payments, and not subject to judicial review, but any interested person may request reconsideration on the basis of information not considered at the time of original determination. The criteria for determination are set forth in sections 5569 and 5570 of title 5 of U.S.C., and in these regulations.
§ 192.2
Application for determination of eligibility.
(a) Any person who believes that that person or other persons known to that person are either captives as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5569(a)(1), individuals who have suffered disability or death caused by hostile action which was a result of the individual's relationship with the U.S. Government, members of the family or household of such individuals as defined in § 192.3(a)(1), or a child eligible for benefits under subchapter D, may apply for benefits under this subchapter for that person, or on behalf of others entitled thereto.
(b) The application in connection with hostile action abroad shall be in writing, shall contain all identifying and other pertinent data available to the person applying about the person or persons claimed to be eligible, and shall be addressed to the Director General of the Foreign Service, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520. Applications may be filed within 60 days after the latest of: a declaration under § 192.1(a), the hostile action, or release from captivity. Later filing may be considered when in the opinion of the Secretary of State there is good cause for the late filing. Applications in connection with hostile action in domestic situations shall conform to these same requirements and be filed with the Agency Head.
§ 192.3
Definitions.
When used in this subchapter, unless otherwise specified, the terms—
(a)
Secretary of State
includes any person to whom the Secretary of State has delegated the responsibilities of carrying out this subpart.
(b)
Family member
means a dependent of a captive and any individual other than a dependent who is a member of such person's family or household and shall include the following: (1) A spouse, (2) an unmarried dependent child including a step-child or adopted child under 21 years of age, (3) a person designated in official records or determined by the agency head or designee thereof to be dependent, and (4) other persons such as parents, non-dependent children, parents-in-law, persons who stand in the place of a spouse or parents, or other members of the family or household of a captive or employee, as determined by the Agency head concerned.
(c)
Agency head
means the head of an Executive Agency of the U.S. Federal Government employing an individual affected by hostile action as covered by these regulations. The Secretary of State is the agency head for actions abroad with respect to any such individual not employed by an agency.
(d)
Captive
means any individual in a captive status commencing while such individual is in the Civil Service or a citizen, national or resident alien of the United States rendering personal service to the United States similar to the service of an individual in the Civil Service (other than as a member of the uniformed services).
(e)
Captive status
means a missing status which, as determined under § 192.1, arises because of a hostile action and is a result of the individual's relationship with the Government.
(f)
Principal
means the person whose captivity, death or disability forms the basis for benefits for that individual or for a family member under this subchapter.
(g)
Individual rendering personal services to the United States similar to the
service of an individual in the Civil Service includes contract employees and other individuals fitting that description.
(h)
Pay and allowances
has the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5561(6):
(1) Basic pay;
(2) Special pay;
(3) Incentive pay;
(4) Basic allowances for quarters;
(5) Basic allowance for subsistence; and
(6) Station per diem allowances for not more than 90 days.
(i)
Child
means a dependent as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
§ 192.4
Notification of eligible persons.
The Director General of the Foreign Service for the Department of State, or other Agency Head in domestic situations, shall be responsible for notifying each individual determined to be eligible for benefits under the Act, or if that person is not available, a representative or family member of the eligible individual.
§ 192.5
Relationships among agencies.
(a) To assist in ensuring that eligible persons receive compensation, each Agency Head shall notify the Director General of the Foreign Service of the Department of State of any incident which he or she believes may be appropriately declared a hostile action under § 192.1.
(b) The Director General of the Foreign Service for the Department of State shall promptly inform the head of any agency whenever an employee of that agency, or Family Member of such employee, is determined to be eligible for benefits under this subchapter in connection with hostile action.
(c) In accordance with inter-agency agreements between the Department of State and relevant agencies—
(1) The Department of Veterans Affairs will periodically bill the Department of State for expenses it pays for each eligible person under subpart E of this subchapter plus the administrative costs of carrying out its responsibilities under this part.
(2) The Department of State will, on a periodic basis, determine the cost for services and benefits it provides to all eligible persons under this subchapter, and bill each agency for the medical service costs (in connection with hostile action abroad) and educational benefits attributable to Principals and Family Members, plus a proportionate share of related administrative expenses.

# Subpart B—Payment of Salary and Other Benefits for Captive Situations
§ 192.10
Eligibility for benefits.
A person designated as a captive under subpart A of this subchapter shall be eligible for benefits under this subpart.
§ 192.11
Applicable benefits.
(a) Captives are entitled to receive or have credited to their account, for the period in captive status, the same pay and allowances to which they were entitled at the beginning of that period or to which they may have become entitled thereafter.
(b) A person designated as a captive (or a family member of a principal) under subpart A of this subchapter whose captivity commenced on or after November 4, 1979, is also entitled to receive a cash payment from the captive's employing agency, for each day held captive, in an amount equal to but not less than one-half of the amount of the world-wide average per diem rate established under 5 U.S.C. 5702.
§ 192.12
Administration of benefits.
(a) The amount deducted from the pay and allowances of captives must be recorded in the individual accounts of the agency concerned. A Treasury designated account, set up on the books of the agency concerned, may be utilized by the head of an agency to report the net amount of pay, allowances and interest credited to captives pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5569(b). Interest payments under this section shall be paid out of
funds available for salaries and expenses of the agency. Interest shall be computed at a rate for any calendar quarter equal to the average rate paid on United States Treasury bills with 3-month maturities issued during the preceding calendar quarter, with quarterly compounding.
(b) Cash payments to captives for each day of captivity shall be made by the head of an agency before the end of the one-year period beginning on the date on which the captive status terminates. In the event the captive dies in captivity or prior to payment of these benefits, payment shall be made to the eligible survivors under § 192.51(c) or the estate. A payment under this subchapter may be deferred or denied by the head of an agency pending determination of an offense committed by the captive under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8312.

# Subpart C—Application of Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act to Captive Situations
§ 192.20
Eligibility for benefits.
A person designated as a captive under subpart A of this subchapter, shall be eligible for benefits under this part.
§ 192.21
Applicable benefits.
(a) Eligible persons are entitled to the benefits provided by the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940 (50 U.S.C. App. 501,
et seq.
), including the benefits provided by section 701 (50 U.S.C. App 591) notwithstanding paragraph (c) thereof, but excluding the benefits provided by sections 104, 105, 106, 400 through 408, 501 through 512, and 514 (50 U.S.C. App. 514, 515, 516, 540 through 548, 561 through 572, and 574).
(b) In applying such Act for purposes of this section—
(1) The term
person in the military service
is deemed to include any such captive;
(2) The term
period of military service
is deemed to include the period during which such captive is in a captive status;
(3) References therein to the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, the Adjutant General of the Army, the Chief of Naval Personnel, and the Commandant, United States Marine Corps, or other officials of government are deemed, in the case of any captive, to be references to the Secretary of State; and
(4) The term
dependents
shall, to the extent permissible by law, be construed to include “Family Members” as defined in § 192.3 of these regulations.
§ 192.22
Description of benefits.
The following material is included to assist persons affected, by providing a brief description of some of the provisions of the Civil Relief Act. Note that not all of the sections applicable to captives have been included here. References to sections herein are references to the Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended, followed by references in parentheses to the same section in the United States Code.
(a)
Guarantors, endorsers.
Section 103 (50 U.S.C. App 513) provides that whenever a captive is granted relief from the enforcement of an obligation, a court, in its discretion, may grant the same relief to guarantors and endorsers of the obligation. Amendments extend relief to accommodation makers and others primarily or secondarily liable on an obligation, and to sureties on a criminal bail bond. They provide, on certain conditions, that the benefits of the section with reference to persons primarily or secondarily liable on an obligation may be waived in writing.
(b)
Written agreements.
Section 107 (50 U.S.C. App. 517) provides that nothing contained in the Act shall prevent captives from making certain arrangements with respect to their contracts and obligations, but requires that such arrangements be in writing.
(c)
Protection in court.
Section 200 (50 U.S.C. App. 517) provides that if a captive is made a defendant in a court action and is unable to appear in court, the court shall appoint an attorney to represent the captive and protect the captive's interests. Further, if a judgment is rendered against the captive, an opportunity to reopen the case and present a defense, if meritorious, may be permitted within 90-days after release.
(d)
Court postponement.
Section 201 (50 U.S.C. App. 521) authorizes a court to postpone any court proceedings if a
captive is a party thereto and is unable to participate by reason of being a captive.
(e)
Relief against penalties.
Section 202 (50 U.S.C. App. 522) provides for relief against fines or penalties when a court proceeding involving a captive is postponed, or when the fine or penalties are incurred for failure to perform any obligation. In the latter case, relief depends upon whether the captive's ability to pay or perform is materially affected by being held captive.
(f)
Postponement of action.
Section 203 (50 U.S.C. App. 523) authorizes a court to postpone or vacate the execution of any judgment, attachment or garnishment.
(g)
Period of postponement.
Section 204 (50 U.S.C. App. 524) authorizes a court to postpone proceedings for the period of captivity and for 3 months thereafter, or any part thereof.
(h)
Extended time limits.
Section 205 (50 U.S.C. App. 525) excludes the period of captivity from computing time under existing or future statutes of limitation. Amendments extend relief to include actions before administrative agencies, and provide that the period of captivity shall not be included in the period for redemption of real property sold to enforce any obligation, tax, or assessment. Section 207 excludes application of section 205 to any period of limitation prescribed by or under the internal revenue laws of the United States.
(i)
Interest rates.
Section 206 (50 U.S.C. App. 526) provides that interest on the obligations of captives shall not exceed a specified per centum per annum, unless the court determines that ability to pay greater interest is not affected by being held captive.
(j)
Misuse of benefits.
Section 600 (50 U.S.C. App. 580) provides against transfers made with intent to delay the just enforcement of a civil right by taking advantage of the Act.
(k)
Further relief.
Section 700 (50 U.S.C. App. 590) provides that a person, during a period of captivity or 6 months thereafter, may apply to a court for relief with respect to obligations incurred prior to captivity, or any tax or assessment whether falling due prior to or during the period of captivity. The court may, on certain conditions, stay the enforcement of such obligations.
(l)
Stay of eviction.
Section 300 (50 U.S.C. App. 530) provides that a captive's dependents shall not be evicted from their dwelling if the rental is minimal, except upon leave of a court. If it is proved that inability to pay rent is a result of being in captivity, the court is authorized to stay eviction proceedings for not longer than 3 months. An amendment extends relief to owners of the premises with respect to payment on mortgage and taxes.
(m)
Contract and mortgage obligations.
As provided by sections 301 and 302 of the Act (50 U.S.C. App. 531 and 532), as amended, contracts for the purchase of real and personal property, which originated prior to the period of captivity, may not be rescinded, terminated, or foreclosed, or the property repossessed, except as provided in section 107 (50 U.S.C. App. 517), unless by an order of a court. The mentioned sections give the court wide discretionary powers to make such disposition of the particular case as may be equitable in order to conserve the interests of both the captive and the creditor. The cited sections further provide that the court may stay the proceedings for the period of captivity and 3 months thereafter, if in its opinion the ability of the captive to perform the obligation is materially affected by reason of captivity. Section 303 (50 U.S.C. App. 533) provides that the court may appoint appraisers and, based upon their report, order such sum as may be just, if any, paid to captives or their dependents, as a condition to foreclosing a mortgage, resuming possession of property, and rescinding or terminating a contract.
(n)
Termination of a lease.
Section 304 (50 U.S.C. App. 534) provides, in general, that a lease covering premises occupied for dwelling, business, or agricultural purpose, executed by persons who subsequently become captives, may be terminated by a notice in writing given to the lessor, subject to such action as may be taken by a court on application of the lessor. Termination of a lease providing for monthly payment of rent shall not be effective until 30 days after the first date on which the next rental payment is due, and, in
the case of other leases, on the last day of the month following the month when the notice is served.
(o)
Assignment of life insurance policy.
Section 305 (50 U.S.C. App. 535) provides that the assignee of a life insurance policy assigned as security, other that the insurer in connection with a policy loan, except upon certain conditions, shall not exercise any right with respect to the assignment during period of captivity of the insured and one year thereafter, unless upon order of a court.
(p)
Storage lien.
Section 305 (50 U.S.C. App. 535) provides that a lien for storage of personal property may not be foreclosed except upon court order. The court may stay proceedings or make other just disposition.
(q)
Extension of benefits to dependents.
Section 306 (50 U.S.C. App. 536) extends the benefits to section 300 through 305 to dependents of a captive.
(r)
Real and personal property taxes.
Section 500 (50 U.S.C. App. 560) forbids sale of property, except upon court leave, to enforce collection of taxes or assessments (other than taxes on income) on personal property or real property owned and occupied by the captive or dependents thereof at the commencement of captivity and still occupied by the captive's dependents or employees. The court may stay proceedings for a period not more than 6 months after termination of captivity. When by law such property may be sold to enforce collection, the captive will have the right to redeem it within 6 months after termination of captivity. Unpaid taxes or assessments bear interest at 6 percent.
(s)
Income taxes.
Section 513 provides for deferment of payment of income taxes.
(t)
Certification of captive.
Section 601 provides that a certificate signed by the agency head shall be prima facie evidence that the person named has been a captive during the period specified in the certification.
(u)
Interlocutory orders.
Section 602 (50 U.S.C. App. 582) provides that a court may revoke an interlocutory order it has issued pursuant to any provision of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940.
(v)
Power of attorney.
Section 701 (50 U.S.C. App. 591) provides that certain powers of attorney executed by a captive which expire by their terms after the person was captured shall be automatically extended for the period of captivity. Exceptions are made with respect to powers of attorney which by their terms clearly indicate they are to expire on the date specified irrespective of captive status. (Section 701 applies to American captives notwithstanding paragraph (c) thereof which states that it applies only to powers of attorney issued during the “Vietnam era”).
§ 192.23
Administration of benefits.
(a) The Director General of the Department of State or Agency Head will issue certifications or other documents when required for purposes of the Civil Relief Act.
(b) The Director General of the Department of State or Agency Head shall whenever possible promptly inform the chief legal officer of each U.S. State in which captives maintain residence of all persons determined to be captives eligible for assistance under this subpart.

# Subpart D—Medical Benefits for Captive Situations
§ 192.30
Eligibility for benefits.
A person designated as a captive or family member of a captive under subpart A of this subchapter, shall be eligible for benefits under this subpart.
§ 192.31
Applicable benefits.
A person eligible for benefits under this part shall be eligible for authorized physical and mental health care at U.S. Government expense (through either or advancement or reimbursement), and for payment of other authorized expenses related to such care or for obtaining such care for any illness or injury, to the extent, as determined by the Secretary of State or Agency Head, that such care is incident to an individual being held captive and is not covered by—
(a) Any other Government health or medical program, including, but not limited to, the programs administered
by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Veteran Affairs; or
(b) Reimbursement by any private or Government health insurance or comparable plan. In the case of coverage by a private or Government health insurance plan, that carrier will be designated as the primary carrier, and benefits under this subpart will serve only to supplement expenses not paid by the primary carrier.
§ 192.32
Administration of benefits.
(a)(1) A person eligible due to hostile action abroad, who desires medical or health care under this subpart or any person acting on behalf thereof, shall submit an application to the Office of Medical Services, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520 (hereafter referred to as the “Office”). That office will handle and process medical applications and claims using the criteria in this subpart. Persons eligible in connection with domestic situations shall make application with the Agency Head, and the Agency Head shall apply the following procedures in a similar manner in administering medical benefits in domestic situations involving the respective agency.
(2) The applicant shall supply all relevant information, including insurance information, requested by the Director of the Office. An eligible person may also submit claims to the Office for payment for emergency care when there is not time to obtain prior authorization as prescribed by this paragraph.
