(ii) The calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period in which the deviation occurred. You must provide the calculations for Equations 1, 1A through 1C, 2, and 3 in § 63.4151; and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4151(e)(4). You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers or test reports.
(iii) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(2) On and after September 12, 2019, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the emission limit.
(ii) The calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate
for the compliance period in which the deviation occurred. You must provide the calculations for Equations 1, 1A through 1C, 2, and 3 in § 63.4151; and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4151(e)(4). You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers or test reports.
(iii) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(iv) The number of deviations, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4090, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(f) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option and there were no periods during which the continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) were out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS were out-of-control during the reporting period.
(g) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option and there was a deviation from an emission limitation (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.
(1) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (xiv) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction during which deviations occurred.
(i) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period, during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090.
(ii) The calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the compliance period, using Equations 1, 1A through 1C, and 2 of § 63.4151 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4151(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used during the compliance period, using Equation 2 of § 63.4151; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction during the compliance period by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1, 1A through 1C, 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4161; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 4 of § 63.4161. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers or test reports.
(iii) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.
(iv) A brief description of the CPMS.
(v) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(vi) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.
(vii) The date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).
(viii) The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart; date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device; and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.
(ix) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart and bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(x) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(xi) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(xii) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.
(xiii) For each deviation from the work practice standards, a description of the deviation, the date and time period of the deviation, and the actions you took to correct the deviation.
(xiv) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(2) On and after September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (xii), (xiv), and (xv) of this section if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090 or the applicable operating limit(s) in Table 1 to this subpart (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere) and the information in paragraph (g)(2)(xiii) of this section if there was a deviation from the work practice standards in § 63.4093(b).
(i) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090.
(ii) The calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the compliance period, using Equations 1, 1A through 1C, and 2 of § 63.4151 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4151(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used during the compliance period, using Equation 2 of § 63.4151; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction during the compliance period by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1, 1A through 1C, 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4161; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 4 of § 63.4161. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers or test reports.
(iii) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture system or add-on control devices started and stopped.
(iv) A brief description of the CPMS.
(v) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(vi) For each instance that the CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being inoperative; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(vii) For each instance that the CPMS was out-of-control, as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(viii) The date, time, and duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart; and the date, time, and duration of any bypass of the add-on control device.
(ix) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart and bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(x) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(xi) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time
during that semiannual reporting period.
(xii) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.
(xiii) For deviations from the work practice standards in § 63.4093(b), the number of deviations and, for each deviation:
(A) A description of the deviation; the date, time, and duration of the deviation; and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4100(b).
(B) The description required in paragraph (g)(2)(xiii)(A) of this section must include a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(xiv) For deviations from an emission limit in § 63.4090 or operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(xv) For each deviation from an emission limit in § 63.4090 or operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4090, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(h) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must submit reports of performance test results for emission capture systems and add-on control devices no later than 60 days after completing the tests as specified in § 63.10(d)(2).
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Before September 12, 2019, if you use the emission rate with add-on controls option and you have a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the semiannual reporting period, you must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section. The reports specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section are not required on and after September 12, 2019.
(1) If your actions were consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP), you must include the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5) in the semiannual compliance report required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If your actions were not consistent with your SSMP, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report as described in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must describe the actions taken during the event in a report delivered by facsimile (fax), telephone, or other means to the Administrator within 2 working days after starting actions that are inconsistent with the plan.
(ii) You must submit a letter to the Administrator within 7 working days after the end of the event, unless you have made alternative arrangements with the Administrator as specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii). The letter must contain the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii).
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9611, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4121
What are my electronic reporting requirements?
(a) Beginning no later than June 13, 2019, you must submit the results of the performance test required in § 63.4120(h) following the procedure specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT
website at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13, unless the Administrator agrees to or specifies an alternate reporting method.
(3) If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Beginning on March 15, 2021, the owner or operator shall submit the initial notifications required in § 63.9(b) and the notification of compliance status required in § 63.9(h) and § 63.4110(a)(2) and (b) to the EPA via CEDRI. The CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov
). The owner or operator must upload to CEDRI an electronic copy of each applicable notification in portable document format (PDF). The applicable notification must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report generated using the appropriate form in CEDRI or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(c) Beginning on March 15, 2021, or once the reporting template has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, the owner or operator shall submit the semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4120 to the EPA via CEDRI. The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov
). The owner or operator must use the appropriate electronic template on the CEDRI website for this subpart or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri
). The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. If the reporting form for the semiannual compliance report specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, you must submit the report to the Administrator at the appropriate addresses listed in § 63.13. Once the form has been available in CEDRI for 1 year, you must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI. The reports must be submitted by the deadlines specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report generated using the appropriate form in CEDRI or an alternate electronic file consistent with XML schema listed on the EPA's CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to
the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(d) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date, time and length of the outage; a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(e) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
[84 FR 9613, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4130
What records must I keep?
You must collect and keep records of the data and information specified in this section. Failure to collect and keep these records is a deviation from the applicable standard.
(a) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart and the documentation supporting each notification and report.
(b) A current copy of information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers such as manufacturer's formulation data or test data used to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP and density for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. If you conducted testing to determine mass fraction of organic HAP, density, or volume fraction of
coating solids, you must keep a copy of the complete test report. If you use information provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier of the material that was based on testing, you must keep the summary sheet of results provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier. You are not required to obtain the test report or other supporting documentation from the manufacturer or supplier.
(c) For each compliance period, a record of the time periods (beginning and ending dates and times) and the coating operations at which each compliance option was used and a record of all determinations of kg organic HAP per liter of coating solids for the compliance option(s) you used, as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For the compliant material option, a record of the determination of the organic HAP content for each coating, according to § 63.4141(d).
(2) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4151 and, if applicable, the calculations used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4151(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4151; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 3 of § 63.4151.
(3) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4151 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4151(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4151; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1, 1A through 1C, 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4161, as applicable; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 4 of § 63.4161.
(d) A record of the name and volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period.
(e) A record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period.
(f) A record of the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each compliance period except for zero-HAP coatings for which volume solids determination is not required as allowed in § 63.4141.
(g) A record of the density for each coating used during each compliance period except for zero-HAP coatings for which volume solids determination is not required as allowed in § 63.4141 and, if you use either the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option, a record of the density for each thinner and cleaning material used during each compliance period.
(h) If you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4151 for organic HAP contained in waste materials sent to or designated for shipment to a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) according to § 63.4151(e)(4), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The name and address of each TSDF to which you sent waste materials for which you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4151, a statement of which subparts under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, and 266 apply to the facility, and the date of each shipment.
(2) Identification of the coating operations producing waste materials included in each shipment and the month or months in which you used the allowance for these materials in Equation 1 of § 63.4151.
(3) The methodology used in accordance with § 63.4151(e)(4) to determine the total amount of waste materials sent to or the amount collected, stored, and designated for transport to a TSDF each month; and the methodology to determine the mass of organic HAP contained in these waste materials. This must include the sources for all
data used in the determination, methods used to generate the data, frequency of testing or monitoring, and supporting calculations and documentation, including the waste manifest for each shipment.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Before September 12, 2019, you must keep records of the date, time, and duration of each deviation. On and after September 12, 2019, for each deviation from an emission limitation reported under § 63.4120(d), (e), and (g), a record of the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.
(1) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4120(d), (e), and (g).
(2) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4120(d), (e), and (g).
(3) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 63.4090 or any applicable operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under § 63.4120(d), (e), and (g).
(4) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4100(b) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(k) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must also keep the records specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) Before September 12, 2019, for each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. The record in this paragraph (k)(1) is not required on and after September 12, 2019.
(2) Before September 12, 2019, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. The records in this paragraph (k)(2) are not required on and after September 12, 2019.
(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you.
(4) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.4165(a).
(5) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.4164 and 63.4165(b) through (e) including the records specified in paragraphs (k)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section that apply to you.
(i)
Records for a liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
Records of the mass of total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH) as measured by Method 204A or F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for each material used in the coating operation, and the total TVH for all materials used during each capture efficiency test run, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run, as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(ii)
Records for a gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
Records of the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system as measured by Method 204B or C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 at the inlet to the add-on control device, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run, as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of
appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(iii)
Records for an alternative protocol.
Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.4165(e), if applicable.
(6) The records specified in paragraphs (k)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 63.4166.
(i) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.4164 and 63.4166.
(ii) Records of the coating operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.
(7) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.4167 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 1 of this subpart.
(8) A record of the work practice plan required by § 63.4093, and documentation that you are implementing the plan on a continuous basis.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9614, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4131
In what form and for how long must I keep my records?
(a) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). Where appropriate, the records may be maintained as electronic spreadsheets or as a data base. Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are in reports that were submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
(b) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.
(c) You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9615, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Compliance Requirements for the Compliant Material Option
§ 63.4140
By what date must I conduct the initial compliance demonstration?
You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4141. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4083 and ends on the last day of the first full month after the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next month. The initial compliance demonstration includes the determination according to § 63.4141 and supporting documentation showing that, during the initial compliance period, you used no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, and that you used no thinners or cleaning materials that contained organic HAP.
§ 63.4141
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
You may use the compliant material option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all the coating operations in the affected source. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation(s) in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the coating operation or group of coating
operations must use no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090 and must use no thinner or cleaning material that contains organic HAP, as determined according to this section during the initial compliance period. Any coating operation(s) for which you use the compliant material option is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards required in §§ 63.4092 and 63.4093, respectively. To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations using the compliant material option, you must meet all the requirements of this section for the coating operation(s) using this option. Use the procedures in this section on each coating, thinner, and cleaning material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration. You do not need to redetermine the HAP content of coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the compliant material option, provided these materials in their condition as received were demonstrated to comply with the compliant material option. If the mass fraction of organic HAP of a coating equals zero, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section, and you use the compliant material option, you are not required to comply with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for that coating.
(a)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material used.
You must determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during the compliance period by using one of the options in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1)
Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63).
You may use Method 311 for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP. Use the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section when performing a Method 311 test.
(i) Count each organic HAP in Table 5 to this subpart that is measured to be present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other organic HAP compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 5 to this subpart) is measured to be 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. Express the mass fraction of each organic HAP you count as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.3791).
(ii) Calculate the total mass fraction of organic HAP in the test material by adding up the individual organic HAP mass fractions and truncating the result to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763).
(2)
Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60.
For coatings, you may use Method 24 to determine the mass fraction of nonaqueous volatile matter and use that value as a substitute for mass fraction of organic HAP. As an alternative to using Method 24, you may use ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), “Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14).
(3)
Alternative method.
You may use an alternative test method for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP once the Administrator has approved it. You must follow the procedure in § 63.7(f) to submit an alternative test method for approval.
(4)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may rely on information other than that generated by the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, such as manufacturer's formulation data if they represent each organic HAP in Table 5 to this subpart that is present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other organic HAP compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 5 to this subpart) is 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. If there is a disagreement between such information and results of a test conducted according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, then the test method results will take precedence.
(5)
Solvent blends.
Solvent blends may be listed as single components for some materials in data provided by manufacturers or suppliers. Solvent blends may contain organic HAP which must be counted toward the total organic HAP mass fraction of the materials. When test data and manufacturer's data for solvent blends are not available, you
may use the default values for mass fraction of organic HAP in these solvent blends listed in Table 3 or 4 of this subpart. If you use the tables, you must use the values in Table 3 for all solvent blends that match Table 3 entries, and you may only use Table 4 if the solvent blends in the materials you use do not match any of the solvent blends in Table 3, and you only know whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic. However, if the results of a Method 311 test indicate higher values than those listed on Table 3 or 4 of this subpart, the Method 311 results will take precedence.
(b)
Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating.
You must determine the volume fraction of coating solids (liters of coating solids per liter of coating) for each coating used during the compliance period by a test, by information provided by the supplier or the manufacturer of the material, or by calculation as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
ASTM D2697-03 (R2014) or D6093-97 (R2016). You may
use ASTM D2697-03 (R2014), “Standard Test Method for Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings,” or D6093-97 (R2016), “Standard Test Method for Percent Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings Using a Helium Gas Pycnometer” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14) to determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. Divide the nonvolatile volume percent obtained with the methods by 100 to calculate volume fraction of coating solids.
(2)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may obtain the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating from the supplier or manufacturer.
(3)
Calculation of volume fraction of coating solids.
If the volume fraction of coating solids cannot be determined using the options in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, you must determine it using Equation 1 of this section:
ER23JY02.018
Where:
V
s
= volume fraction of coating solids, liters coating solids per liter coating.
m
volatiles
= total volatile matter content of the coating, including HAP, volatile organic compounds (VOC), water, and exempt compounds, determined according to Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60, or according to ASTM D2369-10 (R2015) Standard Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), grams volatile matter per liter coating.
D
avg
= average density of volatile matter in the coating, grams volatile matter per liter volatile matter, determined from test results using ASTM D1475-13, “Standard Test Method for Density of Liquid Coatings, Inks, and Related Products,” ASTM D2111-10 (R2015), “Standard Test Methods for Specific Gravity of Halogenated Organic Solvents and Their Admixtures” (both incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14); if you use this method, the specific gravity must be corrected to a standard temperature, information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material, or reference sources providing density or specific gravity data for pure materials. If there is disagreement between ASTM D1475-13 or ASTM D2111-10 (R2015) test results and other information sources, the test results will take precedence.
(c)
Determine the density of each coating.
Determine the density of each coating used during the compliance period from test results using ASTM D1475-13, “Standard Test Method for Density of Liquid Coatings, Inks, and Related Products, ASTM D2111-10 (R2015), “Standard Test Methods for Specific Gravity of Halogenated Organic Solvents and Their Admixtures”(both incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14); if you use this method, the specific gravity must be corrected to a standard temperature, information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material, or reference sources providing density or specific gravity data for pure materials. If there is disagreement between test results from ASTM D1475-13 or ASTM D2111-10 (R2015) and the supplier's or manufacturer's information, the test results will take precedence.
(d) Determine the organic HAP content of each coating. Determine the organic HAP content, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids, of each coating used during the compliance period, using Equation 2 of this section, except
that if the mass fraction of organic HAP equals zero, then the organic HAP content also equals zero and you are not required to use Equation 2 to calculate the organic HAP content:
ER23JY02.019
Where:
H
c
= organic HAP content of the coating, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids.
D
c
= density of coating, kg coating per liter coating, determined according to paragraph (c) of this section.
W
c
= mass fraction of organic HAP in the coating, kg organic HAP per kg coating, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section.
V
s
= volume fraction of coating solids, liters coating solids per liter coating, determined according to paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) The organic HAP content for each coating used during the initial compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090; and each thinner and cleaning material used during the initial compliance period must contain no organic HAP, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section. You must keep all records required by §§ 63.4130 and 63.4131. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required in § 63.4110, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the compliant material option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because you used no coatings for which the organic HAP content exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, and you used no thinners or cleaning materials that contain organic HAP, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9615, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4142
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) For each compliance period, to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must use no coating for which the organic HAP content, determined according to § 63.4141(d), exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, and use no thinner or cleaning material that contains organic HAP, determined according to § 63.4141(a). Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4140 is a compliance period.
(b) If you choose to comply with the emission limitations by using the compliant material option, the use of any coating, thinner, or cleaning material that does not meet the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section is a deviation from the emission limitations that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4110(b)(6) and 63.4120(d).
(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4120, you must submit a statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because, during the compliance period, you used no thinners or cleaning materials that contained organic HAP, and you used no coatings for which the organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090.
(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4130 and 63.4131.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9616, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
§ 63.4150
By what date must I conduct the initial compliance demonstration?
You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4151. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4083 and ends on the last day of the first full month after the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next month. The initial compliance demonstration includes the calculations according to § 63.4151 and supporting documentation showing that the organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090.
§ 63.4151
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
You may use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all of the coating operations in the affected source. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation(s) in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the emission rate without add-on controls option, the coating operation(s) must meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090 but not the operating limits or work practice standards in §§ 63.4092 and 63.4093, respectively, during the initial compliance period. You must meet all of the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090 for the coating operation(s). When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option.
(a)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material.
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during the compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4141(a).
(b)
Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating.
Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during the compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4141(b).
(c)
Determine the density of each material.
Determine the density of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during the compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4141(c).
(d)
Determine the volume of each material used during the compliance period.
Determine the volume (liters) of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during the compliance period by measurement or usage records.
(e)
Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions during the compliance period.
The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the compliance period minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials. Calculate it using Equation 1 of this section.
ER23JY02.000
Where:
H
e
= total mass of organic HAP emissions during the compliance period, kg.
A = total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1A of this section.
B = total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1B of this section.
C = total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1C of this section.
R
w
= total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during the compliance period, kg, determined according to paragraph (e)(4) of this section. (You may assign a value of zero to R
w
if you do not wish to use this allowance.)
(1) Calculate the kg organic HAP in the coatings used during the compliance period, using Equation 1A of this section:
ER23JY02.001
Where:
A = total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the compliance period, kg.
Vol
c,i
= total volume of coating, i, used during the compliance period, liters.
D
c,i
= density of coating, i, kg coating per liter coating.
W
c,i
= mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, kg organic HAP per kg coating.
m = number of different coatings used during the compliance period.
(2) Calculate the kg of organic HAP in the thinners used during the compliance period, using Equation 1B of this section:
ER23JY02.002
Where:
B = total mass or organic HAP in the thinners used during the compliance period, kg.
Vol
t,j
= total volume of thinner, j, used during the compliance period, liters.
D
t,j
= density of thinner, j, kg thinner per liter thinner.
W
t,j
= mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner, j, kg organic HAP per kg thinner.
n = number of different thinners used during the compliance period.
(3) Calculate the kg organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the compliance period, using Equation 1C of this section:
ER23JY02.003
Where:
C = total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the compliance period, kg.
Vol
s,k
= total volume of cleaning material, k, used during the compliance period, liters.
D
s,k
= density of cleaning material, k, kg cleaning material per liter cleaning material.
W
s,k
= mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, kg organic HAP per kg material.
p = number of different cleaning materials used during the compliance period.
(4) Determine the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent to a TSDF. If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF in the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emissions (Equation 1 of this section), then you must determine it according to paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) You may include in the determination of organic HAP in waste materials only the waste materials that are generated by coating operations for which you use Equation 1 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility that is regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266. The TSDF may be either off-site or on-site. You may not include in the determination the organic HAP contained in wastewater.
(ii) You must determine either the amount of waste materials sent to a TSDF during the compliance period or the amount collected and stored during the compliance period and designated for future transport to a TSDF. Do not include in your determination any waste materials sent to a TSDF during a compliance period if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that compliance period or a previous compliance period.
(iii) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.
(iv) You must document your methodology to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain, as required in § 63.4130(h).
(v) To the extent that waste manifests include this information, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them.
(f)
Calculate the total volume of coating solids used during the compliance period.
Determine the total volume of coating solids used, liters, which is the combined volume of coating solids for all of the coatings used during the compliance period, using Equation 2 of this section.
ER23JY02.004
Where:
V
st
= total volume of coating solids used during the compliance period, liters.
Vol
c,i
= total volume of coating, i, used during the compliance period, liters.
V
s,i
= volume fraction of coating solids for coating, i, liters solids per liter coating, determined according to § 63.4141(b).
m = number of coatings used during the compliance period.
(g) Calculate the organic HAP emission rate, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids used, using Equation 3 of this section:
ER23JY02.005
Where:
H
avg
= organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids.
H
e
= total mass organic HAP emissions from all materials used during the compliance period, kg, as calculated by Equation 1 of this section.
V
st
= total volume coating solids used during the compliance period, liters, as calculated by Equation 2 of this section.
(h) The organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4130 and 63.4131. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4110, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and, if there were no deviations from the emission limitations, submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9616, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4152
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance, for the compliance period, the organic HAP emission rate determined according to § 63.4151(a) through (g) must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4150 is a compliance period.
(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, this is a deviation from the emission limitations for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4110(b)(6) and 63.4120(e).
(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4120, if there were no deviations from the emission limitations, you must submit a statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because, during the compliance period, the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090.
(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4130 and 63.4131.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9616, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
§ 63.4160
By what date must I conduct initial performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?
(a)
Existing affected sources.
For an existing affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS you use to demonstrate compliance must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4083. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4161(h), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4164, 63.4165, and 63.4166, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4092 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4083. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4161(h), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4083.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4093 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4083.
(3) You must complete the compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4161. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4083 and ends on the last day of the first full month after the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a
month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next month. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4164, 63.4165, and 63.4166; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4161(h); calculations according to § 63.4161 and supporting documentation showing that, during the initial compliance period, the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the emission limit in § 63.4090(a); the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4168; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4093.
(b)
New and reconstructed affected sources.
For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS you use to demonstrate compliance must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4083. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4161(h), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4164, 63.4165, and 63.4166, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4092 no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4083. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4161(h), you must initiate the first material balance no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4083.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4093 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4083.
(3) You must complete the compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4161. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4083 and ends on the last day of the first full month after the compliance date, or the date you conduct the performance tests of the emission capture systems and add-on control devices, or initiate the first liquid-liquid material balance for a solvent recovery system; whichever is later. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4164, 63.4165, and 63.4166; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4161(h); calculations according to § 63.4161 and supporting documentation showing that, during the initial compliance period, the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the emission limit in § 63.4090(b); the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4168; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4093.
(4) You do not need to comply with the operating limits for the emission capture system and add-on control device required by § 63.4092 until after you have completed the performance tests specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Instead, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture system, add-on control device, and continuous parameter monitors during the period between the compliance date and the performance test. You must begin complying with the operating limits for your affected source on the date you complete the performance tests specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. This requirement does not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4161(h).
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9616, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4161
How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for
all of the coating operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled coating operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option for any coating operation(s) in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance, the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090 and the work practice standards required in § 63.4093; and each controlled coating operation must meet the operating limits required in § 63.4092. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.
(a) Except as provided in § 63.4160(b)(4) and except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to the requirements of § 63.4161(h), you must establish and demonstrate continuous compliance during the initial compliance period with the operating limits required by § 63.4092, using the procedures specified in §§ 63.4167 and 63.4168.
(b) You must develop, implement, and document your implementation of the work practice plan required by § 63.4093 during the initial compliance period as specified in § 63.4130.
(c) You must follow the procedures in paragraphs (d) through (l) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090.
(d)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, density, volume used, and volume fraction of coating solids.
Follow the procedures specified in § 63.4151(a) through (d) to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, density, and volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during the compliance period, and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during the compliance period.
(e)
Calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls.
Using Equation 1 of § 63.4151, calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the compliance period in the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.
(f)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation.
Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions reduced for each controlled coating operation during the compliance period. The emissions reduction determination quantifies the total organic HAP emissions that pass through the emission capture system and are destroyed or removed by the add-on control device. Use the procedures in paragraph (g) of this section to calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions reduction for each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct a liquid-liquid material balance, use the procedures in paragraph (h) of this section to calculate the organic HAP emissions reduction.
(g)
Calculate the organic HAP emissions reduction for controlled coating operations not using liquid-liquid material balance.
For each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate organic HAP emissions reduction, using Equation 1 of this section, by applying the emission capture system efficiency and add-on control device efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the
coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation served by the emission capture system and add-on control device during the compliance period. For any period of time a deviation specified in § 63.4163(c) or (d) occurs in the controlled coating operation, you must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations, you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation. You must not include those materials in the calculations of organic HAP emissions reduction in Equation 1 of this section.
ER15MR19.000
Where:
H
C
= mass of organic HAP emissions reduction for the controlled coating operation during the compliance period, kg.
A
I
= total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation, kg, as calculated in Equation 1A of this section.
B
I
= total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation, kg, as calculated in Equation 1B of this section.
C
I
= total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1C of this section.
CE = capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures specified in §§ 63.4164 and 63.4165 to measure and record capture efficiency.
DRE = organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures in §§ 63.4164 and 63.4166 to measure and record the organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency.
(1) Calculate the kg of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation, using Equation 1A of this section:
ER23JY02.007
Where:
A
I
= mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation, kg.
Vol
c,i
= total volume of coating, i, used, liters.
D
c,i
= density of coating, i, kg per liter.
W
c,i
= mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, kg per kg.
m = number of different coatings used.
(2) Calculate the kg of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation, using Equation 1B of this section:
ER23JY02.008
Where:
B
I
= mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation, kg.
Vol
t,j
= total volume of thinner, j, used, liters.
D
t,j
= density of thinner, j, kg per liter.
W
t,j
= mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner, j, kg per kg.
n = number of different thinners used.
(3) Calculate the kg of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during the compliance period, using Equation 1C of this section:
ER23JY02.009
Where:
C
I
= mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation, kg.
Vol
s,k
= total volume of cleaning material, k, used, liters.
D
s,k
= density of cleaning material, k, kg per liter.
W
s,k
= mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, kg per kg.
p = number of different cleaning materials used.
(h)
Calculate the organic HAP emissions reduction for controlled coating operations using liquid-liquid material balance.
For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emissions reduction by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for each compliance period as specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by the solvent recovery system as specified in paragraph (h)(7) of this section.
(1) For each solvent recovery system, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system each compliance period. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.
(2) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the compliance period, kg, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (h)(1) of this section.
(3) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each coating used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg volatile organic matter per kg coating. You may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), “Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), or an EPA approved alternative method. Alternatively, you may use information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the coating. In the event of any inconsistency between information provided by the manufacturer or supplier and the results of Method 24, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), or an approved alternative method, the test method results will govern.
(4) Determine the density of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg per liter, according to § 63.4151(c).
(5) Measure the volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, liters.
(6) Calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER23JY02.010
Where:
R
V
= volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, percent.
M
VR
= mass of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
Vol
i
= volume of coating, i, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, liters.
D
i
= density of coating, i, kg coating per liter coating.
C
Vi
= mass fraction of volatile organic matter for coating, i, kg volatile organic matter per kg coating.
Vol
j
= volume of thinner, j, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, liters.
D
j
= density of thinner, j, kg thinner per liter thinner.
Vol
k
= volume of cleaning material, k, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, liters.
D
k
= density of cleaning material, k, kg cleaning material per liter cleaning material
m = number of different coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.
n = number of different thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.
p = number of different cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.
(7) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, using Equation 3 of this section:
ER23JY02.011
Where:
H
CSR
= mass of organic HAP emissions reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance during the compliance period, kg.
A
I
= total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, calculated using Equation 1A of this section.
B
I
= total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, calculated using Equation 1B of this section.
C
I
= total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, calculated using Equation 1C of this section.
R
V
= volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system, percent, from Equation 2 of this section.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Calculate the total volume of coating solids used.
Determine the total volume of coating solids used, liters, which is the combined volume of coating solids for all the coatings used during the compliance period, using Equation 2 of § 63.4151.
(k)
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate.
Determine the organic HAP emission rate to the atmosphere, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids used during the compliance period, using Equation 4 of this section.
ER23JY02.012
Where:
H
HAP
= organic HAP emission rate to the atmosphere during the compliance period, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids used.
H
e
= total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the compliance period, kg, determined according to paragraph (e) of this section.
H
C,i
= total mass of organic HAP emissions reduction for controlled coating operation, i, during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 1 of this section.
H
CSR,j
= total mass of organic HAP emissions reduction for controlled coating operation, j, during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 3 of this section.
V
st
= total volume of coating solids used during the compliance period, liters, from Equation 2 of § 63.4151.
q = number of controlled coating operations except those controlled with a solvent recovery system.
r = number of coating operations controlled with a solvent recovery system.
(l) To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limit, calculated using Equation 4 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4130 and 63.4131. As part of the Notification
of Compliance Status required by § 63.4110, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4092 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4093.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9616, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4162
[Reserved]
§ 63.4163
How do I conduct periodic performance tests and demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period determined according to the procedures in § 63.4161 must be equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4160 is a compliance period.
(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4110(b)(6) and 63.4120(g).
(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4092 that applies to you as specified in Table 1 to this subpart, and you must conduct periodic performance tests as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4110(b)(6) and 63.4120(g).
(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4161, you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation. You must not include those materials in the calculation of organic HAP emissions reductions in Equation 1 of § 63.4161.
(3) Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4161(h), you must conduct according to the procedures in §§ 63.4164, 63.4165, and 63.4166 periodic performance tests of each capture system and add-on control device used to demonstrate compliance, and you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4092. You must conduct the first periodic performance test and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4092 before March 15, 2022, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and have conducted a performance test on or after March 15, 2017. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test.
(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4168(b). If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4110(b)(6) and 63.4120(g). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4161, you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation. You must not include those materials in the calculation of organic HAP emissions reductions in Equation 1 of § 63.4161.
(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice
standards in § 63.4093. If you did not develop a work practice plan, did not implement the plan, or did not keep the records required by § 63.4130(k)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4110(b)(6) and 63.4120(g).
(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4120, you must submit a statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4092 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4093 during each compliance period.
(g) [Reseved]
(h) Before September 12, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or coating operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On and after September 12, 2019, as specified in § 63.4100(b), at all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions, and determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4130 and 63.4131.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 20465, Apr. 20, 2006; 84 FR 9617, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4164
What are the general requirements for performance tests?
(a) You must conduct each performance test required by § 63.4160 according to the requirements in this section unless you obtain a waiver of the performance test according to the provisions in § 63.7(h).
(1)
Representative coating operation operating conditions.
You must conduct the performance test under representative operating conditions for the coating operation. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, or nonoperation do not constitute representative conditions for purposes of conducting a performance test. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(2)
Representative emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions.
You must conduct the performance test when the emission capture system and add-on control device are operating at a representative flow rate, and the add-on control device is operating at a representative inlet concentration. You must record information that is necessary to document emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation.
(b) You must conduct each performance test of an emission capture system according to the requirements in § 63.4165 and of an add-on control device according to the requirements in § 63.4166.
(c) The performance test to determine add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency must consist of three runs as specified in § 63.7(e)(3) and each run must last at least 1 hour.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9617, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4165
How do I determine the emission capture system efficiency?
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine capture efficiency as part of the performance test required by § 63.4160.
(a) You may assume the capture system efficiency is 100 percent if both of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are met:
(1) The capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
(2) All coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation are applied within the capture system; coating solvent flash-off and coating, curing, and drying occurs within the capture system and the removal or evaporation of cleaning materials from the surfaces they are applied to occurs within the capture system. For example, this criterion is not met if parts enter the open shop environment when being moved between a spray booth and a curing oven.
(b) If the capture system does not meet both of the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, then you must use one of the three protocols described in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section to measure capture efficiency. The capture efficiency measurements use TVH capture efficiency as a surrogate for organic HAP capture efficiency. For the protocols in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the capture efficiency measurement must consist of three test runs. Each test run must be at least 3 hours duration or the length of a production run, whichever is longer, up to 8 hours. For the purposes of this test, a production run means the time required for a single part to go from the beginning to the end of production which includes surface preparation activities and drying or curing time.
(c)
Liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
The liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol compares the mass of liquid TVH in materials used in the coating operation, to the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the emission capture system. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the coating operation where coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied coatings and materials subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the coating operation where capture devices collect emissions for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or spray booth, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204A or 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to determine the mass fraction of TVH liquid input from each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation during each capture efficiency test run. To make the determination, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(3) Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the total mass of TVH liquid input from all the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation during each capture efficiency test run.
ER23JY02.013
Where:
TVH
used
= total mass of TVH liquid input from all coatings, thinners, and cleaning
materials used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
i
= mass fraction of TVH in coating, thinner, or cleaning material, i, that is used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg TVH per kg material.
Vol
i
= total volume of coating, thinner, or cleaning material, i, used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, liters.
D
i
= density of coating, thinner, or cleaning material, i, kg material per liter material.
n = number of different coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run.
(4) Use Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of TVH emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the coating operation for which capture efficiency is being determined must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(5) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER23JY02.014
Where:
CE = capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
TVH
used
= total mass of TVH liquid input used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
uncaptured
= total mass of TVH that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
(6) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(d)
Gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
The gas-to-gas protocol compares the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system to the mass of TVH emissions not captured. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the gas-to-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the coating operation where coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials are applied and all areas where emissions from these applied coatings and materials subsequently occur such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the coating operation where capture devices collect emissions generated by the coating operation for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or a spray booth, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204B or 204C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system during each capture efficiency test run as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) The sampling points for the Method 204B or 204C measurement must be upstream from the add-on control device and must represent total emissions routed from the capture system and entering the add-on control device.
(ii) If multiple emission streams from the capture system enter the add-on control device without a single common duct, then the emissions entering the add-on control device must be simultaneously measured in each duct, and the total emissions entering the add-on control device must be determined.
(3) Use Method 204D or 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of TVH emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound emitting operations inside the building enclosure other than the coating operation for which capture efficiency is being determined must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(4) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system, using Equation 3 of this section:
ER23JY02.015
Where:
CE = capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
TVH
captured
= total mass of TVH captured by the emission capture system as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device during the emission capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
uncaptured
= total mass of TVH that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
(5) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(e)
Alternative capture efficiency protocol.
As an alternative to the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, you may determine capture efficiency using any other capture efficiency protocol and test methods that satisfy the criteria of either the DQO or LCL approach as described in appendix A to subpart KK of this part.
§ 63.4166
How do I determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency?
(a) For all types of add-on control devices, use the test methods as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Use Method 1 or 1A in appendix A-1 of part 60, as appropriate, to select sampling sites and velocity traverse points.
(2) Use Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F in appendix A-1, or Method 2G in appendix A-2, of part 60, as appropriate, to measure gas volumetric flow rate.
(3) Use Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A-2 of part 60, as appropriate, for gas analysis to determine dry molecular weight. You may also use as an alternative to Method 3B, the manual method for measuring the oxygen, carbon dioxide, and carbon monoxide content of exhaust gas in ANSI/ASME, PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14).
(4) Use Method 4 in appendix A-3 of part 60 to determine stack gas moisture.
(5) Methods for determining gas volumetric flow rate, dry molecular weight, and stack gas moisture must be performed, as applicable, during each test run.
(b) Measure total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon at the inlet and outlet of the add-on control device simultaneously, using either Method 25 or 25A in appendix A-7 of part 60, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. You must use the same method for both the inlet and outlet measurements. You may use Method 18 in appendix A-6 of part 60 to subtract methane emissions from measured total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon.
(1) Use Method 25 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be more than 50 parts per million (ppm) at the control device outlet.
(2) Use Method 25A if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be 50 ppm or less at the control device outlet.
(3) Use Method 25A if the add-on control device is not an oxidizer.
(c) If two or more add-on control devices are used for the same emission stream, then you must measure emissions at the outlet of each device. For example, if one add-on control device is a concentrator with an outlet for the high-volume, dilute stream that has been treated by the concentrator, and a second add-on control device is an oxidizer with an outlet for the low-volume, concentrated stream that is treated with the oxidizer, you must measure emissions at the outlet of the oxidizer and the high-volume dilute stream outlet of the concentrator.
(d) For each test run, determine the total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rates for the inlet and the outlet of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section. If there is more than one inlet or outlet to the add-on control device, you must calculate the total gaseous organic mass flow rate using Equation 1 of this section for each inlet and each outlet and then total all of the inlet emissions and total all of the outlet emissions.
ER23JY02.016
Where:
M
f
= total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate, kg/per hour (h).
C
c
= concentration of organic compounds as carbon in the vent gas, as determined by Method 25 or Method 25A, parts per million by volume (ppmv), dry basis.
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of gases entering or exiting the add-on control device, as determined by Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G, dry standard cubic meters/hour (dscm/h).
0.0416 = conversion factor for molar volume, kg-moles per cubic meter (mol/m
3
) (@ 293 Kelvin (K) and 760 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg)).
(e) For each test run, determine the add-on control device organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section.
ER23JY02.017
Where:
DRE = add-on control device organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency, percent.
M
fi
= total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the inlet(s) to the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, kg/h.
M
fo
= total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the outlet(s) of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, kg/h.
(f) Determine the emission destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device as the average of the efficiencies determined in the three test runs and calculated in Equation 2 of this section.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9617, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4167
How do I establish the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits during performance tests?
During the performance tests required by §§ 63.4160 and 63.4163, and described in §§ 63.4164, 63.4165, and 63.4166, you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4092 according to this section unless you have received approval for alternative monitoring
and operating limits under § 63.8(f) as specified in § 63.4092.
(a)
Thermal oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a thermal oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the combustion temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must monitor the temperature in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average combustion temperature maintained during the performance test. This average combustion temperature is the minimum operating limit for your thermal oxidizer.
(b)
Catalytic oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a catalytic oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to either paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) or paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed and the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test. These are the minimum operating limits for your catalytic oxidizer.
(3) As an alternative to monitoring the temperature difference across the catalyst bed, you may monitor the temperature just before the catalyst bed and implement a site-specific inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed during the performance test. This is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer.
(4) You must develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer(s) for which you elect to monitor according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The plan must address, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Annual sampling and analysis of the catalyst activity (
i.e.,
conversion efficiency) following the manufacturer's or catalyst supplier's recommended procedures.
(ii) Monthly inspection of the oxidizer system including the burner assembly and fuel supply lines for problems and, as necessary, adjusting the equipment to assure proper air-to-fuel mixtures.
(iii) Annual internal and monthly external visual inspection of the catalyst bed to check for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found, you must take corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations and conduct a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency according to § 63.4166.
(c)
Carbon adsorbers.
If your add-on control device is a carbon absorber, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must monitor and record the total regeneration desorbing gas (e.g., steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle and the carbon bed temperature after each carbon bed regeneration and cooling cycle for the regeneration cycle either immediately preceding or immediately following the performance test.
(2) The operating limits for your carbon absorber are the minimum total desorbing gas mass flow recorded during the regeneration cycle and the maximum carbon bed temperature recorded after the cooling cycle.
(d)
Condensers.
If your add-on control device is a condenser, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature
at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature maintained during the performance test. This average condenser outlet gas temperature is the maximum operating limit for your condenser.
(e)
Concentrators.
If your add-on control device includes a concentrator, you must establish operating limits for the concentrator according to paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the desorption concentrate stream gas temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature. This is the minimum operating limit for the desorption concentrate gas stream temperature.
(3) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the pressure drop of the dilute stream across the concentrator at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.
(4) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average pressure drop. This is the maximum operating limit for the dilute stream across the concentrator.
(f)
Emission capture system.
For each capture device that is not part of a PTE that meets the criteria of § 63.4165(a), establish an operating limit for either the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. The operating limit for a PTE is specified in Table 1 to this subpart.
(1) During the capture efficiency determination required by §§ 63.4160 and 63.4163, and described in §§ 63.4164 and 63.4165, you must monitor and record either the gas volumetric flow rate or the duct static pressure for each separate capture device in your emission capture system at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs at a point in the duct between the capture device and the add-on control device inlet.
(2) Calculate and record the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for the three test runs for each capture device. This average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure is the minimum operating limit for that specific capture device.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9618, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4168
What are the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance?
(a)
General.
You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (c), (e), (f), and (g) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) of this section.
(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four equally spaced successive cycles of CPMS operation in 1 hour.
(2) You must determine the average of all recorded readings for each successive 3-hour period of the emission capture system and add-on control device operation except as specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(3) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS.
(4) You must maintain the CPMS at all times in accordance with § 63.4100(b) and have readily available necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.
(5) Before September 12, 2019, you must operate the CPMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times that a controlled coating operation is operating except during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, if applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments). On and after September 12, 2019, you must operate the CPMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times in accordance with § 63.4100(b).
(6) You must not use emission capture system or add-on control device parameter data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities when calculating data averages. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in calculating the data averages for determining compliance with the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits.
(7) A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the CPMS to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Except for periods of required quality assurance or control activities, any period during which the CPMS fails to operate and record data continuously as required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or generates data that cannot be included in calculating averages as specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, is a deviation from the monitoring requirements.
(b)
Capture system bypass line.
You must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) and (b)(1) and (2) of this section for each emission capture system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(1) You must monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism controlling the bypass line in a nondiverting position in such a way that the valve or closure mechanism cannot be opened without creating a record that the valve was opened. The method used to monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism must meet one of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i)
Flow control position indicator.
Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes and provides a record indicating whether the emissions are directed to the add-on control device or diverted from the add-on control device. The time of occurrence and flow control position must be recorded, as well as every time the flow direction is changed. The flow control position indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(ii)
Car-seal or lock-and-key valve closures.
Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. You must visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and the emissions are not diverted away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(iii)
Valve closure monitoring.
Ensure that any bypass line valve is in the closed (non-diverting) position through monitoring of valve position at least once every 15 minutes. You must inspect the monitoring system at least once every month to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position.
(iv)
Automatic shutdown system.
Use an automatic shutdown system in which the coating operation is stopped when flow is diverted by the bypass line away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running. You must inspect the automatic shutdown system at least once every month to verify that it will detect diversions of flow and shutdown the coating operation.
(2) If any bypass line is opened, you must include a description of why the bypass line was opened and the length of time it remained open in the semiannual compliance reports required in § 63.4120.
(c)
Thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.
If you are using a thermal oxidizer or catalytic oxidizer as an add-on control device (including those used with concentrators or with carbon adsorbers to treat desorbed concentrate streams), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) For a thermal oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) For a catalytic oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the gas
stream immediately before the catalyst bed, and if you establish operating limits according to § 63.4167(b)(1) and (2), also install a gas temperature monitor in the gas stream immediately after the catalyst bed.
(3) For each gas temperature monitoring device, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section. For the purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), a thermocouple is part of the temperature sensor.
(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.
(ii) Use a temperature sensor with a measurement sensitivity of 4 degrees Fahrenheit or 0.75 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.
(iii) Shield the temperature sensor system from electromagnetic interference and chemical contaminants.
(iv) If a gas temperature chart recorder is used, it must have a measurement sensitivity in the minor division of at least 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
(v) Perform an electronic calibration at least semiannually according to the procedures in the manufacturer's owner's manual. Following the electronic calibration, you must conduct a temperature sensor validation check in which a second or redundant temperature sensor placed nearby the process temperature sensor must yield a reading within 30 degrees Fahrenheit of the process temperature sensor's reading.
(vi) Any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating temperature range, either conduct calibration and validation checks or install a new temperature sensor.
(vii) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity and electrical connections for continuity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion.
(d)
Carbon adsorbers.
If you are using a carbon adsorber as an add-on control device, you must monitor the total regeneration desorbing gas (e.g., steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and cooling cycle, and comply with paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) and (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The regeneration desorbing gas mass flow monitor must be an integrating device having a measurement sensitivity of plus or minus 10 percent, capable of recording the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow for each regeneration cycle.
(2) The carbon bed temperature monitor must have a measurement sensitivity of 1 percent of the temperature recorded or 1 degree Fahrenheit, whichever is greater, and must be capable of recording the temperature within 15 minutes of completing any carbon bed cooling cycle.
(e)
Condensers.
If you are using a condenser, you must monitor the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature and comply with paragraphs (a) and (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The gas temperature monitor must have a measurement sensitivity of 1 percent of the temperature recorded or 1 degree Fahrenheit, whichever is greater.
(2) The temperature monitor must provide a gas temperature record at least once every 15 minutes.
(f)
Concentrators.
If you are using a concentrator, such as a zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed concentrator, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must install a temperature monitor in the desorption gas stream. The temperature monitor must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3) of this section.
(2) You must install a device to monitor pressure drop across the zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed. The pressure monitoring device must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in or as close to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure.
(ii) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration, and internal and external corrosion.
(iii) Use a gauge with a minimum tolerance of 0.5 inch of water or a transducer with a minimum tolerance of 1 percent of the pressure range.
(iv) Check the pressure tap daily.
(v) Using a manometer, check gauge calibration quarterly and transducer calibration monthly.
(vi) Conduct calibration checks anytime the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.
(vii) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity, electrical connections for continuity, and mechanical connections for leakage.
(g)
Emission capture systems.
The capture system monitoring system must comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section and the applicable requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For each flow measurement device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (g)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Locate a flow sensor in a position that provides a representative flow measurement in the duct from each capture device in the emission capture system to the add-on control device.
(ii) Reduce swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.
(iii) Conduct a flow sensor calibration check at least semiannually.
(iv) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity, electrical connections for continuity, and mechanical connections for leakage.
(2) For each pressure drop measurement device, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (g)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in or as close to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure drop across each opening you are monitoring.
(ii) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration, and internal and external corrosion.
(iii) Check pressure tap pluggage daily.
(iv) Using an inclined manometer with a measurement sensitivity of 0.0002 inch water, check gauge calibration quarterly and transducer calibration monthly.
(v) Conduct calibration checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.
(vi) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity, electrical connections for continuity, and mechanical connections for leakage.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9618, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 41149, July 8, 2020]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.4180
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by us, the EPA, or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency (as well as the EPA) has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the EPA Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the work practice standards in § 63.4093 under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.4181
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, the General Provisions of this part, and in this section as follows:
Add-on control device
means an air pollution control device, such as a thermal oxidizer or carbon absorber, that reduces pollution in an air stream
by destruction or removal before discharge to the atmosphere.
Adhesive
means any chemical substance that is applied for the purpose of bonding two surfaces together.
Capture device
means a hood, enclosure, room, floor sweep, or other means of containing or collecting emissions and directing those emissions into an add-on control device.
Capture efficiency
or
capture system efficiency
means the portion (expressed as a percentage) of the pollutants from an emission source that is delivered to an add-on control device.
Capture system
means one or more capture devices intended to collect emissions generated by a coating operation in the use of coatings and cleaning materials, both at the point of application and at subsequent points where emissions from the coatings and cleaning materials occur, such as flashoff, drying, or curing. As used in this subpart, multiple capture devices that collect emissions generated by a coating operation are considered a single capture system.
Cleaning material
means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials such as dirt, grease, oil, and dried or wet coating (e.g., depainting) from a substrate before or after coating application or from equipment associated with a coating operation such as spray booths, spray guns, racks, tanks, and hangers. Thus, it includes cleaning materials used for substrates or equipment or both.
Coating
means a material applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. For the purposes of this subpart, coatings include paints, porcelain enamels, sealants, caulks, inks, adhesives, and maskants. Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances are not considered coatings for the purposes of this subpart.
Coating operation
means equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a substrate to prepare it for coating application or to remove dried coating (surface preparation), to apply coating to a substrate (coating application) and to dry or cure the coating after application, or to clean coating operation equipment (equipment cleaning). A single coating operation may include any combination of these types of equipment but always includes at least the point at which a coating or cleaning material is applied and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP emissions from that coating or cleaning material occur. There may be multiple coating operations in an affected source. Applications of coatings using hand-held, nonrefillable aerosol containers, touchup markers, or marking pens are not coating operations for the purposes of this subpart.
Coating solids
means the nonvolatile portion of the coating that makes up the dry film.
Continuous parameter monitoring system
means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of coating operation, capture system, or add-on control device parameters.
Controlled coating operation
means a coating operation from which some or all of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.
Deviation
means:
(1) Before September 12, 2019, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:
(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard;
(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(iii) Fails to meet any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart; and
(2) On and after September 12, 2019, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:
(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard; or
(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.
Emission limitation
means an emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard.
Enclosure
means a structure that surrounds a source of emissions and captures and directs the emissions to an add-on control device.
Exempt compound
means a specific compound that is not considered a VOC due to negligible photochemical reactivity. The exempt compounds are listed in 40 CFR 51.100(s).
Facility maintenance
means the routine repair or refurbishing (including surface coating) of the tools, equipment, machinery, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the facility or that are necessary for the facility to function in its intended capacity. It does not mean cleaning of equipment that is part of a large appliances coating operation.
Heat transfer coil
means a tube-and-fin assembly used in large appliance products to remove heat from a circulating fluid.
Large appliance part
means a component of a large appliance product except for the wider use parts excluded under § 63.4081(d)(1).
Large appliance product
means, but is not limited to, any of the following products (except as provided under § 63.4081(d)(3)) manufactured for household, recreational, institutional, commercial, or industrial use:
(1) Cooking equipment (ovens, ranges, and microwave ovens but not including toasters, counter-top grills, and similar small products);
(2) Refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerated cabinets and cases;
(3) Laundry equipment (washers, dryers, drycleaning machines, and pressing machines);
(4) Dishwashers, trash compactors, and water heaters; and
(5) HVAC units, air-conditioning (except motor vehicle) units, air-conditioning and heating combination units, comfort furnaces, and electric heat pumps.
Specifically excluded are heat transfer coils and large commercial and industrial chillers.
Large commercial and industrial chillers
means, for the purposes of this subpart, equipment designed to produce chilled water for use in commercial or industrial HVAC systems.
Manufacturer's formulation data
means data on a material (such as a coating) that are supplied by the material manufacturer based on knowledge of the ingredients used to manufacture that material, rather than based on testing of the material with the test methods specified in § 63.4141. Manufacturer's formulation data may include, but are not limited to, information on density, organic HAP content, volatile organic matter content, and coating solids content.
Mass fraction of organic HAP
means the ratio of the mass of organic HAP to the mass of a material in which it is contained, expressed as kg organic HAP per kg of material.
Month
means a calendar month or a pre-specified period of 28 to 35 days to allow for flexibility in recordkeeping when data are based on a business accounting period.
Organic HAP content
means the mass of organic HAP per volume of coating solids for a coating, calculated using Equation 2 of § 63.4141. The organic HAP content is determined for the coating in the condition it is in when received from its manufacturer or supplier and does not account for any alteration after receipt.
Permanent total enclosure (PTE)
means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51, for a PTE and that directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
Protective oil
means an organic material that is applied to a substrate for the purpose of providing lubrication or protection from corrosion without forming a solid film. This definition of protective oils includes, but is not limited to, lubricating oils, evaporative
oils (including those that evaporate completely), and extrusion oils.
Research or laboratory facility
means a facility whose primary purpose is for research and development of new processes and products conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel and is not engaged in the manufacture of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in a de minimis manner.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.
Startup, initial
means the first time equipment is brought online in a facility.
Surface preparation
means use of a cleaning material on a portion of or all of a substrate including use of cleaning material to remove dried coating which is sometimes called “depainting.”
Temporary total enclosure
means an enclosure constructed for the purpose of measuring the capture efficiency of pollutants emitted from a given source as defined in Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51.
Thinner
means an organic solvent that is added to a coating after the coating is received from the supplier.
Total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH)
means the total amount of nonaqueous volatile organic matter determined according to Methods 204 and 204A through 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 and substituting the term TVH each place in the methods where the term VOC is used. The TVH includes both VOC and non-VOC.
Uncontrolled coating operation
means a coating operation from which no organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.
Volatile organic compound (VOC)
means any compound defined as VOC in 40 CFR 51.100(s).
Volume fraction of coating solids
means the ratio of the volume of coating solids (also known as volume of nonvolatiles) to the volume of coating, expressed as liters of coating solids per liter of coating.
Wastewater
means water that is generated in a coating operation and is collected, stored, or treated prior to being discarded or discharged.
[67 FR 48262, July 23, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 9618, Mar. 15, 2019]
Pt. 63, Subpt. NNNN, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart NNNN of Part 63—Operating Limits if Using the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
If you are required to comply with operating limits by § 63.4092, you must comply with the applicable operating limits in the following table:
For following device . . .
You must meet the following operating limit . . .
And you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limit by . . .
1. thermal oxidizer
a. the average combustion temperature in any 3-hour period must not fall below the combustion temperature limit established according to § 63.4167(a)
i. collecting the combustion temperature data according to § 63.4168(c);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average combustion temperature at or above the combustion temperature limit.
2. catalytic oxidizer
a. the average temperature measured just before the catalyst bed in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4167(b); and either
i. collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4168(c);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block before the averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average temperature before the catalyst bed at or above the temperature limit.
b. ensure that average temperature difference across the catalyst bed in any 3-hour period does not fall below the temperature difference limit established according to § 63.4167(b)(2); or
i. collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4168(c);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block difference across averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average temperature difference at or above the temperature difference limit.
c. develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan according to § 63.4167(b)(4)
i. maintaining an up-to-date inspection and maintenance plan, records of annual catalyst activity checks, records monthly inspections of the oxidizer system, and records of the annual internal inspections of the catalyst bed. If a problem is discovered during a monthly or annual inspection required by § 63.4167(b)(4), you must take corrective action as soon as practicable consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations.
3. carbon adsorber
a. the total regeneration desorbing gas (e.g., steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each carbon bed regeneration cycle must not fall below the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow limit established according to § 63.4167(c)
i. measuring the total regeneration desorbing gas (e.g., steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle according to § 63.4168(d); and
ii. maintaining the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow at or above the mass flow limit.
b. the temperature of the carbon bed, after completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle, must not exceed the carbon bed temperature limit established according to § 63.4167(c)
i. measuring the temperature of the carbon bed after completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle according to § 63.4168(d); and
ii. operating the carbon beds such that each carbon bed is not returned to service until the recorded temperature of the carbon bed is at or below the temperature limit.
4. condenser
a. the average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature in any 3-hour period must not exceed the temperature limit established according to § 63.4167(d)
i. collecting the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature according to § 63.4168(e);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average gas exceed the temperature at the outlet at or below the temperature limit.
5. concentrators, including zeolite wheels and rotary carbon adsorbers
a. the average gas temperature of the desorption concentrate stream in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4167(e)
i. collecting the temperature data according to 63.4168(f);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averaged; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average temperature at or above the temperature limit.
b. the average pressure drop of the dilute stream across the concentrator in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4167(e)
i. collecting the pressure drop data according to 63.4168(f); and
ii. reducing the pressure drop data to across the 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average pressure drop at or above the pressure drop limit.
6. emission capture system that is a PTE according to § 63.4165(a)
a. the direction of the air flow at all times must be into the enclosure; and either
i. collecting the direction of air flow, and either the facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings according to § 63.4168(g)(1) or the pressure drop across the enclosure according to § 63.4168(g)(2); and
ii. maintaining the facial velocity of air flow through all natural draft openings or the pressure drop at or above the facial velocity limit or pressure drop limit, and maintaining the direction of air flow into the enclosure at all times.
O='xl'b. the average facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings in the enclosure must be at least 200 feet per minute; or
See item 6.a. of this table.
c. the pressure drop across the enclosure must be at least 0.007 inch H2O, as established in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51
See item 6.a. of this table.
7. emission capture system that is not a PTE according to § 63.4165(a)
a. the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure in each duct between a capture device and add-on control device inlet in any 3-hour period must not fall below the average volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure limit established for that capture device according to § 63.4167(f)
i. collecting the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for each capture device according to § 63.4168(g);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for each capture device at or above the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure limit.
Pt. 63, Subpt. NNNN, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart NNNN of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart NNNN
[You must comply with the applicable General Provisions requirements according to the following table:]
Citation
Subject
Applicable to subpart NNNN
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1)-(12)
General Applicability
Yes
§ 63.1(b)(1)-(3)
Initial Applicability Determination
Yes
Applicability to subpart NNNN is also specified in § 63.4081.
§ 63.1(c)(1)
Applicability After Standard Established
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(2)-(3)
Applicability of Permit Program for Area Sources
No
Area sources are not subject to subpart NNNN.
§ 63.1(c)(4)-(5)
Extensions and Notifications
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(6)
Reclassification
Yes
§ 63.1(e)
Applicability of Permit Program Before Relevant Standard is Set
Yes
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
Additional definitions are specified in § 63.4181.
§ 63.3(a)-(c)
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
§ 63.4(a)(1)-(5)
Prohibited Activities
Yes
§ 63.4(b)-(c)
Circumvention/Severability
Yes
§ 63.5(a)
Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(b)(1)-(6)
Requirements for Existing, Newly Constructed, and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
§ 63.5(d)
Application for Approval of Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(e)
Approval of Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(f)
Approval of Construction/Reconstruction Based on Prior State Review
Yes
§ 63.6(a)
Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements—Applicability
Yes
§ 63.6(b)(1)-(7)
Compliance Dates for New and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
Section 63.4083 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(c)(1)-(5)
Compliance Dates for Existing Sources
Yes
Section 63.4083 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4100(b) for general duty requirement.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes
§ 63.6(e)(3)
Startup, shutdown, malfunction plan (SSMP)
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance Except During Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.6(f)(2)-(3)
Methods for Determining Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(g)(1)-(3)
Use of an Alternative Standard
Yes
§ 63.6(h)
Compliance With Opacity/Visible Emission standards
No
Subpart NNNN does not establish opacity standards and does not require continuous opacity monitoring systems (COMS).
§ 63.6(i)(1)-(16)
Extension of Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
Yes
§ 63.7(a)(1)
Performance Test Requirements—Applicability
Yes
Applies to all affected sources. Additional requirements for performance testing are specified in §§ 63.4164, 63.4165, and 63.4166.
§ 63.7(a)(2)
Performance Test Requirements—Dates
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards. Section 63.4160specifies the schedule for performance test requirements that are earlier than those specified in § 63.7(a)(2).
§ 63.7(a)(3)
Performance Tests Required By the Administrator
Yes
§ 63.7(b)-(d)
Performance Test Requirements—Notification, Quality Assurance Facilities Necessary for Safe Testing, Conditions During Test
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Conduct of performance tests
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4164(a)(1).
§ 63.7(e)(2)-(4)
Conduct of performance tests
Yes.
§ 63.7(f)
Performance Test Requirements—Use of Alternative Test Method
Yes
Applies to all test methods except those used to determine capture system efficiency.
§ 63.7(g)-(h)
Performance Test Requirements—Data Analysis, Recordkeeping, Reporting, Waiver of Test
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard.
§ 63.8(a)(1)-(3)
Monitoring Requirements—Applicability
Yes
Applies only to monitoring of capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard. Additional requirementsfor monitoring are specified in § 63.4168.
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Additional Monitoring Requirements
No
Subpart NNNN does not have monitoring requirements for flares.
§ 63.8(b)
Conduct of Monitoring
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(1)
Continuous Monitoring Systems (CMS) Operation and Maintenance
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.8(c)(2)-(3)
Continuous Monitoring Systems (CMS) Operation and Maintenance
Yes
Applies only to monitoring of capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard. Additional requirementsfor CMS operations and maintenance are specified in § 63.4168.
§ 63.8(c)(4)
CMS
No
Section 63.4168 specifies the requirements for the operation of CMS for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(5)
COMS
No
Subpart NNNN does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.8(c)(6)
CMS Requirements
No
Section 63.4168 specifies the requirements for monitoring systems for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(7)
CMS Out-of-Control Periods
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(8)
CMS Out-of-Control Periods and Reporting
No
Section 63.4120 requires reporting of CMS out-of-control periods.
§ 63.8(d)-(e)
Quality Control Program and CMS Performance Evaluation
No
Subpart NNNN does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.8(f)(1)-(5)
Use of an Alternative Monitoring Method
Yes
§ 63.8(f)(6)
Alternative to Relative Accuracy Test
No
Subpart NNNN does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.8(g)(1)-(5)
Data Reduction
No
Sections 63.4167 and 63.4168 specify monitoring data reduction.
§ 63.9(a)-(d)
Notification Requirements
Yes
§ 63.9(e)
Notification of Performance Test
Yes
Applies only to capture system and add-on control device performance tests at sources using these to comply with the standard.
§ 63.9(f)
Notification of Visible Emissions/Opacity Test
No
Subpart NNNN does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.9(g)(1)-(3)
Additional Notifications When Using CMS
No
Subpart NNNN does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.9(h)
Notification of Compliance Status
Yes
Section 63.4110 specifies the dates for submitting the notification of compliance status.
§ 63.9(i)
Adjustment of Submittal Deadlines
Yes
§ 63.9(j)
Change in Previous Information
Yes
§ 63.9(k)
Electronic reporting procedures
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
§ 63.10(a)
Recordkeeping/Reporting—Applicability and General Information
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(1)
General Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in §§ 63.4130 and 63.4131.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)
Recordkeeping of Occurrence and Duration of Startups and Shutdowns
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4130(j).
§ 63.10(b)(2)(ii)
Recordkeeping of Failures to Meet Standards
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4130(j).
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Recordkeeping Relevant to Maintenance of Air Pollution Control and Monitoring Equipment
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv)-(v)
Actions Taken to Minimize Emissions During SSM
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4130(j)(4) for a record of actions taken to minimize emissions during a deviation from the standard.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi)
Records for CMS malfunctions
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4130(j) for records of periods of deviation from the standard, including instances where a CMS is inoperative or out-of-control.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vii)-(xi)
Records
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xii)
Records
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiii)
No
Subpart NNNN does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiv)
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Recordkeeping Requirements for Applicability Determinations
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(1)-(6)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(7)-(8)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
No
See
§ 63.4130(j)(1) for records of periods of deviation from the standard, including instances where a CMS is inoperative or out-of-control.
§ 63.10(c)(10)-(14)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(15)
Records Regarding the SSMP
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.10(d)(1)
General Reporting Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.4120.
§ 63.10(d)(2)
Report of Performance Test Results
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.4120(h).
§ 63.10(d)(3)
Reporting Opacity or Visible Emissions Observations
No
Subpart NNNN does not require opacity or visible emissions observations.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress Reports for Sources With Compliance Extensions
Yes
§ 63.10(d)(5)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Reports
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4120(g).
§ 63.10(e)(1)-(2)
Additional CMS Reports
No
Subpart NNNN does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.10(e)(3)
Excess Emissions/CMS Performance Reports
No
Section 63.4120(g) specifies the contents of periodic compliance reports.
§ 63.10(e)(4)
COMS Data Reports
No
Subpart NNNN does not specify requirements for opacity or COMS.
§ 63.10(f)
Recordkeeping/Reporting Waiver
Yes
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements/Flares
No
Subpart NNNN does not specify use of flares for compliance.
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes
§ 63.13
Addresses
Yes
§ 63.14
Incorporation by Reference
Yes
§ 63.15
Availability of Information/Confidentiality
Yes
[84 FR 9618, Mar. 15, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 73906, Nov. 19, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. NNNN, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart NNNN of Part 63—Default Organic HAP Mass Fraction for Solvents and Solvent Blends
You may use the mass fraction values in the following table for solvent blends for which you do not have test data or manufacturer's formulation data.
Solvent/solvent blend
CAS. No.
Average organic HAP mass fraction
Typical organic HAP, percent by mass
1. Toluene
108-88-3
1.0
Toluene.
2. Xylene(s)
1330-20-7
1.0
Xylenes, ethylbenzene.
3. Hexane
110-54-3
0.5
n-hexane.
4. n-Hexane
110-54-3
1.0
n-hexane.
5. Ethylbenzene
100-41-4
1.0
Ethylbenzene.
6. Aliphatic 140
0
None.
7. Aromatic 100
0.02
1% xylene, 1% cumene.
8. Aromatic 150
0.09
Naphthalene.
9. Aromatic naphtha
64742-95-6
0.02
1% xylene, 1% cumene.
10. Aromatic solvent
64742-94-5
0.1
Naphthalene.
11. Exempt mineral spirits
8032-32-4
0
None.
12. Ligroines (VM
P)
8032-32-4
0
None.
13. Lactol spirits
64742-89-6
0.15
Toluene.
14. Low aromatic white spirit
64742-82-1
0
None.
15. Mineral spirits
64742-88-7
0.01
Xylenes.
16. Hydrotreated naphtha
64742-48-9
0
None.
17. Hydrotreated light distillate
64742-47-8
0.001
Toluene.
18. Stoddard solvent
8052-41-3
0.01
Xylenes.
19. Super high-flash naphtha
64742-95-6
0.05
Xylenes.
20. Varsol ® solvent
8052-49-3
0.01
0.5% xylenes, 0.5% ethylbenzene.
21. VM
P naphtha
64742-89-8
0.06
3% toluene, 3% xylene.
22. Petroleum distillate mixture
68477-31-6
0.08
4% naphthalene, 4% biphenyl.
Pt. 63, Subpt. NNNN, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart NNNN of Part 63—Default Organic HAP Mass Fraction for Petroleum Solvent Groups
a
You may use the mass fraction values in the following table for solvent blends for which you do not have test data or manufacturer's formulation data.
Solvent type
Average organic HAP mass fraction
Typical organic HAP, percent by mass
Aliphatic
b
0.03
1% Xylene, 1% Toluene, and 1% Ethylbenzene.
Aromatic
c
0.06
4% Xylene, 1% Toluene, and 1% Ethylbenzene.
a
Use this table only if the solvent blend does not match any of the solvent blends in Table 3 to this subpart and you only know whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic.
b
e.g., Mineral Spirits 135, Mineral Spirits 150 EC, Naphtha, Mixed Hydrocarbon, Aliphatic Hydrocarbon, Aliphatic Naphtha, Naphthol Spirits, Petroleum Spirits, Petroleum Oil, Petroleum Naphtha, Solvent Naphtha, Solvent Blend.
c
e.g., Medium-flash Naphtha, High-flash Naphtha, Aromatic Naphtha, Light Aromatic Naphtha, Light Aromatic Hydrocarbons, Aromatic Hydrocarbons, Light Aromatic Solvent.
Pt. 63, Subpt. NNNN, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart NNNN of Part 63—List of Hazardous Air Pollutants That Must Be Counted Toward Total Organic HAP Content if Present at 0.1 Percent or More by Mass
Chemical name
CAS No.
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
79-34-5
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
79-00-5
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine
57-14-7
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane
96-12-8
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine
122-66-7
1,3-Butadiene
106-99-0
1,3-Dichloropropene
542-75-6
1,4-Dioxane
123-91-1
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
88-06-2
2,4/2,6-Dinitrotoluene (mixture)
25321-14-6
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
121-14-2
2,4-Toluene diamine
95-80-7
2-Nitropropane
79-46-9
3,3′-Dichlorobenzidine
91-94-1
3,3′-Dimethoxybenzidine
119-90-4
3,3′-Dimethylbenzidine
119-93-7
4,4′-Methylene bis(2-chloroaniline)
101-14-4
Acetaldehyde
75-07-0
Acrylamide
79-06-1
Acrylonitrile
107-13-1
Allyl chloride
107-05-1
alpha-Hexachlorocyclohexane (a-HCH)
319-84-6
Aniline
62-53-3
Benzene
71-43-2
Benzidine
92-87-5
Benzotrichloride
98-07-7
Benzyl chloride
100-44-7
beta-Hexachlorocyclohexane (b-HCH)
319-85-7
Bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
117-81-7
Bis(chloromethyl)ether
542-88-1
Bromoform
75-25-2
Captan
133-06-2
Carbon tetrachloride
56-23-5
Chlordane
57-74-9
Chlorobenzilate
510-15-6
Chloroform
67-66-3
Chloroprene
126-99-8
Cresols (mixed)
1319-77-3
DDE
3547-04-4
Dichloroethyl ether
111-44-4
Dichlorvos
62-73-7
Epichlorohydrin
106-89-8
Ethyl acrylate
140-88-5
Ethylene dibromide
106-93-4
Ethylene dichloride
107-06-2
Ethylene oxide
75-21-8
Ethylene thiourea
96-45-7
Ethylidene dichloride (1,1-Dichloroethane)
75-34-3
Formaldehyde
50-00-0
Heptachlor
76-44-8
Hexachlorobenzene
118-74-1
Hexachlorobutadiene
87-68-3
Hexachloroethane
67-72-1
Hydrazine
302-01-2
Isophorone
78-59-1
Lindane (hexachlorocyclohexane, all isomers)
58-89-9
m-Cresol
108-39-4
Methylene chloride
75-09-2
Naphthalene
91-20-3
Nitrobenzene
98-95-3
Nitrosodimethylamine
62-75-9
o-Cresol
95-48-7
o-Toluidine
95-53-4
Parathion
56-38-2
p-Cresol
106-44-5
p-Dichlorobenzene
106-46-7
Pentachloronitrobenzene
82-68-8
Pentachlorophenol
87-86-5
Propoxur
114-26-1
Propylene dichloride
78-87-5
Propylene oxide
75-56-9
Quinoline
91-22-5
Tetrachloroethene
127-18-4
Toxaphene
8001-35-2
Trichloroethylene
79-01-6
Trifluralin
1582-09-8
Vinyl bromide
593-60-2
Vinyl chloride
75-01-4
Vinylidene chloride
75-35-4
[84 FR 9621, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Subpart OOOO—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles

# Source:
68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 63.4280
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) for fabric and other textiles printing, coating and dyeing operations. This subpart also establishes requirements to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission limitations.
§ 63.4281
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the source category to which this subpart applies is the printing, coating, slashing, dyeing or finishing of fabric and other textiles, and it includes the subcategories listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The coating and printing subcategory includes any operation that coats or prints fabric or other textiles. Coating and printing operations are defined in § 63.4371. Coated and printed substrates are used in products including, but not limited to, architectural structures, apparel, flexible hoses, hot-air balloons, lightweight liners, luggage, military fabric, rainwear, sheets, tents, threads and V-belts. The coating and printing subcategory includes any fabric or other textile web coating line that also performs coating on another substrate unless such coating is specifically excluded from this subpart by another NESHAP in this part or is exempted from the requirements of this subpart based on the criteria in paragraph (e) of this section. Web coating lines exclusively dedicated to coating or printing fabric and other textiles are subject to this subpart.
(2) The slashing subcategory includes any operation with slashing operations as defined in § 63.4371. In the slashing process, sizing compounds are applied to warp yarn to bind the fiber together and stiffen the yarn to provide abrasion resistance during weaving.
(3) The dyeing and finishing subcategory includes any operation that dyes or finishes a fabric or other textiles. Dyeing and finishing operations are defined in § 63.4371. Dyed and finished textiles are used in a wide range of products including, but not limited to, apparel, carpets, high-performance industrial fabrics, luggage, military fabrics, outer wear, sheets, towels, and threads.
(b) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a new, reconstructed, or existing affected source, as defined in § 63.4282, that is a major source, is located at a major source, or is part of a major source of hazardous air pollutants (HAP). Major source is defined in § 63.2 of this part.
(c) This subpart does not apply to coating, printing, slashing, dyeing, or finishing operations that meet any of the criteria of paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Coating and printing, slashing, or dyeing and finishing operations conducted at a source that uses only regulated materials that contain no organic HAP as defined in § 63.4371.
(2) Coating, printing, slashing, dyeing, or finishing that occurs at research or laboratory operations or that is part of janitorial, building, and facility maintenance operations.
(3) Coating, printing, slashing, dyeing, or finishing operations used by a facility and not for commerce, unless organic HAP emissions from the coating, printing, slashing, dyeing or finishing operations are as high as the
major source HAP emissions specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(4) Fabric and other textile substrate web coating or printing operations conducted at ambient temperatures that do not involve drying or curing equipment such as ovens, tenter frames, steam cans, or dryers.
(5) Coating, printing, slashing, dyeing, or finishing operations performed on-site at installations owned or operated by the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any State).
(d) Web coating lines specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section are not part of the affected source of this subpart.
(1) Any web coating operation that is part of the affected source of subpart JJJJ of this part (national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for paper and other web coating). This would include any web coating line that coats both a paper and other web substrate and a fabric or other textile substrate for use in flexible packaging, pressure sensitive tape and abrasive materials, or any web coating line laminating a fabric substrate to paper.
(2) Any web coating operation that is part of the affected source of subpart XXXX of this part (NESHAP for tire manufacturing). This would include any web coating line that applies coatings to both tire cord and to textile cord used in the production of belts and hoses.
(3) Coating, slashing, dyeing, or finishing operations at a synthetic fiber manufacturing facility where the fibers are the final product of the facility.
(4) Any web coating line that coats or prints fabric or other textiles for use in flexible packaging and that is included in an affected source under subpart KK of this part (National Emission Standards for the Printing and Publishing Industry).
(e) Any web coating line that coats both fabric and other textiles, and another substrate such as paper, must comply with the subpart of this part that applies to the predominant activity conducted on the affected source. Predominant activity for this subpart is 90 percent of the mass of substrate coated during the compliance period. (For example, a web coating line that coats 90 percent or more of a paper substrate, and 10 percent or less of a fabric or other textile substrate, would be subject to 40 CFR 63, subpart JJJJ.)
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 47005, Aug. 4, 2004; 71 FR 29805, May 24, 2006]
§ 63.4282
What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, and existing affected source within each of the three subcategories listed in § 63.4281(a).
(b) The affected source for the web coating and printing subcategory is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section that are used in fabric and other textiles web coating and printing operations. The regulated materials for the web coating and printing subcategory are the coating, printing, thinning and cleaning materials used in the affected source.
(1) All web coating and printing equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a substrate on the coating or printing line to prepare it for coating or printing material application, to apply coating or printing materials to a substrate and to dry or cure the coating or printing materials, or equipment used to clean web coating/printing operation equipment;
(2) All containers used for storage and vessels used for mixing coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials;
(3) All equipment and containers used for conveying coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials;
(4) All containers used for storage, and all equipment and containers used for conveying waste materials generated by a coating or printing operation; and
(5) All equipment, structures, and/or devices(s) used to convey, treat, or dispose of wastewater streams or residuals generated by a coating or printing operation.
(c) The affected source for the slashing subcategory is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section that are
used in slashing operations. The regulated materials for the slashing subcategory are the slashing materials used in the affected source.
(1) All slashing equipment used to apply and dry size on warp yarn;
(2) All containers used for storage and vessels used for mixing slashing materials;
(3) All equipment and containers used for conveying slashing materials;
(4) All containers used for storage and all equipment and containers used for conveying waste materials generated by a slashing operation; and
(5) All equipment, structures, and/or devices(s) used to convey, treat, or dispose of wastewater streams or residuals generated by a slashing operation.
(d) The affected source for the dyeing and finishing subcategory is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section that are used in dyeing and finishing operations. The regulated materials for the dyeing and finishing subcategory are the dyeing and finishing materials used in the affected source.
(1) All dyeing and finishing equipment used to apply dyeing or finishing materials, to fix dyeing materials to the substrate, to rinse the textile substrate, or to dry or cure the dyeing or finishing materials;
(2) All containers used for storage and vessels used for mixing dyeing or finishing materials;
(3) All equipment and containers used for conveying dyeing or finishing materials;
(4) All containers used for storage, and all equipment and containers used for conveying, waste materials generated by a dyeing or finishing operation; and
(5) All equipment, structures, and/or devices(s) used to convey, treat, or dispose of wastewater streams or residuals generated by a dyeing or finishing operation.
(e) An affected source is a new source if it meets the criteria in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and the criteria in either paragraph (e)(2) or (3) of this section.
(1) You commenced the construction of the source after July 11, 2002.
(2) The web coating and printing, slashing, or dyeing and finishing operation is performed at a source where no web coating and printing, slashing, or dyeing and finishing operation was previously performed.
(3) The web coating and printing, slashing, or dyeing and finishing operation is performed in a subcategory in which no web coating and printing, slashing, or dyeing and finishing operation was previously performed.
(f) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in § 63.2.
(g) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.
§ 63.4283
When do I have to comply with this subpart?
The date by which you must comply with this subpart is called the compliance date. The compliance date for each type of affected source is specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. The compliance date begins the initial compliance period during which you conduct the initial compliance demonstration described in §§ 63.4320, 63.4330, 63.4340, and 63.4350.
(a) For a new or reconstructed affected source, the compliance date is the applicable date in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section:
(1) If the initial startup of your new or reconstructed affected source is before May 29, 2003, the compliance date is May 29, 2003.
(2) If the initial startup of your new or reconstructed affected source occurs after May 29, 2003, the compliance date is the date of initial startup of your affected source.
(b) For an existing affected source, the compliance date is the date 3 years after May 29, 2003.
(c) For an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP emissions, the compliance date is specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For any portion of the source that becomes a new or reconstructed affected source subject to this subpart, the compliance date is the date of initial startup of the affected source or May 29, 2003, whichever is later.
(2) For any portion of the source that becomes an existing affected source subject to this subpart, the compliance
date is the date 1 year after the area source becomes a major source or 3 years after May 29, 2003, whichever is later.
(d) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.4310 according to the dates specified in that section and in subpart A of this part. Some of the notifications must be submitted before the compliance dates described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

# Emission Limitations
§ 63.4290
What emission limits must I meet?
You must meet the emission limit for the subcategory or subcategories present in your facility. The three subcategories are: Web coating and printing, slashing, and dyeing and finishing. Table 1 to this subpart presents the emission limits for a new or reconstructed affected source and for an existing affected source in each subcategory.
§ 63.4291
What are my options for meeting the emission limits?
You must include all regulated materials (as defined in § 63.4371) used in the affected source when determining whether the organic HAP emission rate is equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. To make this determination, you must use at least one of the compliance options for the subcategory listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a)
Web coating and printing.
You may apply any one of the compliance options in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section to an individual web coating/printing operation, or to multiple web coating/printing operations in the affected source as a group, or to the entire affected source in the web coating and printing subcategory. You may use different compliance options for different web coating/printing operations or at different times on the same web coating/printing operation. However, you may not use different compliance options at the same time on the same web coating/printing operation. If you switch between compliance options for any web coating/printing operation or group of operations, you must document this switch as required by § 63.4312(c), and you must report it in the next semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4311.
(1)
Compliant material option.
Demonstrate that the organic HAP content, as purchased, of each coating and printing material applied in the web coating/printing operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and that each thinning and cleaning material as purchased contains no organic HAP (as defined in § 63.4371). You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4320, 63.4321, and 63.4322 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit using this option.
(2)
Emission rate without add-on controls option.
Demonstrate that, based on the regulated materials applied in the web coating/printing operation(s), the organic HAP emission rate for the web coating/printing operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, calculated as a rolling 12-month average emission rate. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4330, 63.4331, and 63.4332 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit using this option.
(3)
Emission rate with add-on controls option.
Demonstrate that, based on the regulated materials applied in the web coating/printing operation(s) and the organic HAP emissions reductions achieved by emission capture systems and add-on controls, the organic HAP emission rate for the web coating/printing operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, calculated as a rolling 12-month average emission rate. If you use this compliance option, you must also demonstrate that all capture systems and control devices for the web coating/printing operation(s) meet the operating limits required in § 63.4292, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(e)(5), and that you meet the work practice standards required in § 63.4293. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4340 through 63.4342 and 63.4360 through 63.4364 to demonstrate compliance with the emission
limits, operating limits, and work practice standards using this option.
(4)
Organic HAP overall control efficiency option.
Demonstrate that, based on the organic HAP emission capture and add-on control efficiencies achieved, the organic HAP overall control efficiency is greater than or equal to the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency limit in Table 1 to this subpart. If you use this compliance option, you must also demonstrate that all capture systems and control devices for the web coating/printing operation(s) meet the operating limits required in § 63.4292, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4351(d)(5), and that you meet the work practice standards required in § 63.4293. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4350 through 63.4352 and 63.4360 through 63.4364 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards using this option.
(5)
Oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit.
If you use an oxidizer to control organic HAP emissions, demonstrate that the oxidizer is operated such that the outlet organic HAP concentration is no greater than 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv) on a dry basis, and that the efficiency of the capture system is 100 percent. If you use this compliance option, you must also demonstrate that all capture systems and oxidizers for the web coating/printing operation(s) meet the operating limits required in § 63.4292, and that you meet the work practice standards required in § 63.4293. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4350 through 63.4352 and 63.4360 through 63.4364 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards using this option.
(b)
Slashing.
You must use the compliant material option to demonstrate that the mass fraction of organic HAP in each slashing material as purchased for the slashing operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4320, 63.4321, and 63.4322 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit.
(c)
Dyeing and finishing.
You may apply any one of the compliance options in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section to an individual dyeing/finishing operation, or to multiple dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source as a group, or to the entire affected source in the dyeing and finishing subcategory. You may use different compliance options for different dyeing/finishing operations or at different times on the same dyeing/finishing operation. However, you may not use different compliance options at the same time on the same dyeing/finishing operation. If you switch between compliance options for any dyeing/finishing operation or group of operations, you must document this switch as required by § 63.4312(c), and you must report it in the next semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4311. If you choose to apply the compliance option in paragraph (c)(4) to your dyeing/finishing operations, it must be applied to the entire affected source in the dyeing and finishing subcategory. You may not apply any of the compliance options in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section to any dyeing/finishing operation in the affected source if you use the equivalent emission rate limit in paragraph (c)(4) for your dyeing/finishing affected source.
(1)
Compliant material option.
Demonstrate that the mass fraction of organic HAP, as purchased, of each dyeing and finishing material applied in the dyeing/finishing operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4320, 63.4321, and 63.4322 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit using this option.
(2)
Emission rate without add-on controls option.
Demonstrate that, based on the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the dyeing/finishing operation(s), the organic HAP emission rate for the dyeing operation(s), the organic HAP emission rate for the finishing operation(s) or the combined organic HAP emission rate for dyeing and finishing is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit(s) in Table 1 to this subpart, calculated as a
rolling 12-month average emission rate. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4330, 63.4331, and 63.4332 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit(s) using this option.
(3)
Emission rate with add-on controls option.
Demonstrate that, based on the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the dyeing/finishing operation(s) and the organic HAP emissions reductions achieved by emission capture systems and add-on controls, the organic HAP emission rate for the dyeing/finishing operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, calculated as a rolling 12-month average emission rate. If you use this compliance option, you must also demonstrate that all capture systems and control devices for the dyeing/finishing operation(s) meet the operating limits required in § 63.4292, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(f)(5), and that you meet the work practice standards required in § 63.4293. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4340 through 63.4342 and 63.4360 through 63.4364 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards using this option.
(4)
Equivalent emission rate option.
Demonstrate that the dyeing and finishing affected source meets all the requirements of paragraphs (4)(i) through (iv) of this paragraph.
(i) The fraction of organic HAP applied in your dyeing/finishing affected source that is discharged to the wastewater is at least 90 percent, determined according to § 63.4331(d).
(ii) The wastewater is discharged to a POTW or onsite secondary wastewater treatment.
(iii) The total organic HAP emissions from your dyeing/finishing affected source are less than 10 tons per year, as calculated in Equation 4 of § 63.4331.
(iv) You must meet the applicable requirements of § 63.4330 and maintain records in accordance with § 63.4312(c)(2)(iv) to demonstrate compliance with the equivalent emission rate option.
§ 63.4292
What operating limits must I meet?
(a) For any web coating/printing operation, slashing operation, or dyeing/finishing operation on which you use the compliant material option; web coating/printing operation or dyeing/finishing operation on which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option; or dyeing/finishing affected source on which you use the equivalent emission rate limit option, you are not required to meet any operating limits.
(b) For any controlled web coating/printing operation or dyeing/finishing operation on which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, or controlled web coating/printing operation on which you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option, except those web coating/printing operations for which you use a solvent recovery system and conduct a liquid-liquid material balance according to § 63.4341(e)(5) and those dyeing/finishing operations for which you use a solvent recovery system and conduct a liquid-liquid material balance according to § 63.4341(f)(5), you must meet the operating limits specified in Table 2 of this subpart. These operating limits apply to the emission capture and control systems on the web coating/printing operation(s) and dyeing/finishing operations for which you use this option, and you must establish the operating limits during the performance test according to the procedures in § 63.4363. You must meet the operating limits at all times after you establish them.
(c) If you use an add-on control device other than those listed in Table 2 of this subpart, or wish to monitor an alternative parameter and comply with a different operating limit, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of alternative monitoring under § 63.8(f).
§ 63.4293
What work practice standards must I meet?
(a) For any slashing operation, you are not required to meet any work practice standards. For any web coating/printing operation(s) or dyeing/finishing operation(s) on which you use
the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option, you are not required to meet any work practice standards. For any dyeing/finishing affected source on which you use the equivalent emission rate option, you are not required to meet any work practice standards.
(b) If you use either the emission rate with add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option for a web coating/printing operation; or you use the emission rate with add-on controls option for a dyeing/finishing operation; you must develop and implement a work practice plan to minimize organic HAP emissions from the storage, mixing, and conveying of regulated materials used in, and waste materials generated by, the coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operations for which you use this option; or you must meet an alternative standard as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The plan must specify practices and procedures to ensure that, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are implemented.
(1) All organic-HAP-containing regulated materials and waste materials must be stored in closed containers.
(2) Spills of organic-HAP-containing regulated materials, and waste materials must be minimized.
(3) Organic-HAP-containing regulated materials and waste materials must be conveyed from one location to another in closed containers or pipes.
(4) Mixing vessels which contain organic-HAP-containing regulated materials must be closed except when adding to, removing, or mixing the contents.
(5) Emissions of organic HAP must be minimized during cleaning of web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing storage, mixing, and conveying equipment.
(c) As provided in § 63.6(g), you may request approval from the Administrator to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section.

# General Compliance Requirements
§ 63.4300
What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
(a) You must be in compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Any web coating/printing, slashing, or dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you use the compliant material option, as specified in § 63.4291(a)(1), (b), or (c)(1) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart at all times.
(2) Any web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option, as specified in § 63.4291(a)(2) or (c)(2), must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart for all compliance periods.
(3) Any web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, as specified in § 63.4291(a)(3) or (c)(3), and any web coating/printing operation(s) for which you use either the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, as specified in § 63.4291(a)(4), or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option, as specified in § 63.4291(a)(5), must be in compliance with the emission limitations as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Before September 12, 2019, the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart or minimize emissions at all times as required by § 63.6(e)(1). On and after September 12, 2019, the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart at all times.
(ii) Each controlled web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation must be in compliance with the operating limits for emission capture systems and add-on control devices required by § 63.4292 for all averaging time periods except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according
to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5) or § 63.4351(d)(5).
(iii) Each controlled web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation must be in compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4293 at all times.
(4) Any dyeing/finishing affected source for which you use the equivalent emission rate option, as specified in § 63.4291(c)(4), must operate within the operating scenarios, as defined in § 63.4371, for which you determined the fraction of organic HAP applied in your dyeing/finishing affected source that is discharged to wastewater according to § 63.4331(d) at all times.
(b) Before September 12, 2019, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). On and after September 12, 2019, at all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the affected source.
(c) Before September 12, 2019, if your affected source uses an emission capture system and add-on control device, you must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3). The plan must address the startup, shutdown, and corrective actions in the event of a malfunction of the emission capture system or the add-on control device. The plan must also address any web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation equipment such as conveyors that move the substrate among enclosures that may cause increased emissions or that would affect capture efficiency if the process equipment malfunctions. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required on and after September 12, 2019.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 20465, Apr. 20, 2006; 84 FR 9623, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4301
What parts of the General Provisions apply to me?
Table 3 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.15 apply to you.

# Notifications, Reports, and Records
§ 63.4310
What notifications must I submit?
(a) You must submit the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(f)(4), and 63.9(b) through (e) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Initial Notification.
You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b) for a new or reconstructed affected source no later than 120 days after initial startup, 120 days after May 29, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. For an existing affected source, you must submit the Initial Notification no later than 1 year after May 29, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.
(c)
Notification of Compliance Status.
You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 30 calendar days following the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4320, § 63.4330, § 63.4340, or § 63.4350 that applies to your affected source. The Notification of Compliance Status must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section and in § 63.9(h).
(1) Company name and address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.
(3) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the initial compliance period described in § 63.4320, § 63.4330, § 63.4340, or § 63.4350 that applies to your affected source.
(4) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4291 that you used during the initial compliance period on each web coating/printing operation in each web coating/printing affected source, on each slashing operation in each slashing affected source, and on each dyeing/finishing operation in each dyeing/finishing affected source.
(5) Statement of whether or not the affected source achieved the emission limitations for the initial compliance period.
(6) If you had a deviation, include the information in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) A description, and statement of the cause of, the deviation.
(ii) If you failed to meet the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, include all the calculations you used to determine the kilogram (kg) organic HAP emitted per kg of solids applied in coating and printing material or the weight percent organic HAP compounds in slashing, dyeing or finishing material to demonstrate your failure to meet the applicable emission limit. You do not need to submit information provided by the materials suppliers or manufacturers or test reports.
(7) For each of the data items listed in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section that is required by the compliance option(s) you used to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit, include an example of how you determined the value, including calculations and supporting data. Supporting data can include a copy of the information provided by the supplier or manufacturer of the example regulated material or a summary of the results of testing conducted according to § 63.4321(e)(1) or (2). You do not need to submit copies of any test reports.
(i) Mass fraction of organic HAP and mass fraction of solids for one coating or printing formulation including thinning materials, mass fraction of organic HAP for one cleaning material and mass fraction of organic HAP for all of the regulated materials as purchased used in one slashing operation or dyeing/ finishing operation.
(ii) Mass of coating or printing formulation used in web coating/printing operation or of dyeing and finishing materials used in the dyeing/finishing operation during the compliance period.
(iii) The amount of waste materials and the mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials for which you are claiming an allowance in Equation 1 or 4 of § 63.4331.
(iv) The mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period and the mass of organic HAP in wastewater discharged to a POTW or receiving onsite secondary treatment for which you are claiming an allowance in Equation 4 of § 63.4331.
(8) The calculation of kg organic HAP per kg of coating and printing solids applied and of kg organic HAP per kg of dyeing and finishing material as purchased for the compliance option(s) you use, as specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) For the compliant material option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(1) for web coating/printing operations, provide an example calculation of the organic HAP content for one coating and one printing material, as appropriate, using Equation 1 of § 63.4321.
(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(2) for web coating/printing operations, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions; the calculation of the total mass of coating and printing solids applied; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equations 1, 2, and 3, respectively, of § 63.4331.
(iii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option as specified in § 63.4291(c)(2) for dyeing/finishing operations, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions; the calculation of the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equations 4, 5, and 6, respectively, of § 63.4331.
(iv) For the emission rate with add-on controls option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(3) for web coating/printing
operations, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls using Equation 1 of § 63.4331, and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate using Equation 4 of § 63.4341.
(v) For the emission rate with add-on controls option as specified in § 63.4291(c)(3) for dyeing/finishing operations, provide the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls using Equation 4 of § 63.4331, and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate using Equation 8 of § 63.4341.
(vi) For the organic HAP overall control efficiency option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(4), provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls using Equation 1 of § 63.4331 and the calculation of the organic HAP overall control efficiency using Equation 1 of § 63.4351.
(vii) For the equivalent emission rate option as specified in § 63.4291(c)(4), provide the calculation of the fraction of organic HAP applied in affected processes that is discharged to wastewater according to § 63.4331(d), the calculation of the total organic HAP emissions from your dyeing/finishing affected source using Equation 4 of § 63.4331, and documentation that organic HAP containing wastewater is either discharged to a POTW or treated onsite in a treatment system that includes at least secondary treatment.
(9) For the emission rate with add-on controls option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(3) and (c)(3), the organic HAP overall control efficiency option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(4), and the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(5), for each controlled web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5) or § 63.4351(d)(5), you must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) For each emission capture system, a summary of the data and copies of the calculations supporting the determination that the emission capture system is a permanent total enclosure (PTE) or a measurement of the emission capture system efficiency. If you are demonstrating compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option, the emission capture system must be a PTE. Include a description of the protocol followed for measuring capture efficiency, summaries of any capture efficiency tests conducted, and any calculations supporting the capture efficiency determination. If you use the data quality objective (DQO) or lower confidence limit (LCL) approach, you must also include the statistical calculations to show you meet the DQO or LCL criteria in appendix A to subpart KK of this part. You do not need to submit complete test reports.
(ii) A summary of the results of each add-on control device performance test. You do not need to submit complete test reports.
(iii) A list of each emission capture system's and add-on control device's operating limits and a summary of the data used to calculate those limits.
(iv) A statement of whether or not you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4293.
(v) Before September 12, 2019, a statement of whether or not you developed the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.4300(c). This statement is not required on and after September 12, 2019.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 20465, Apr. 20, 2006; 84 FR 9623, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 73907, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.4311
What reports must I submit?
(a)
Semiannual compliance reports.
You must submit semiannual compliance reports for each affected source according to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section. The semiannual compliance reporting requirements of this section may be satisfied by reports required under other parts of the Clean Air Act (CAA), as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1)
Dates.
Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must prepare and submit each semiannual compliance report according to the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the first semiannual reporting period which begins the day after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4320, § 63.4330, § 63.4340, or § 63.4350 that applies to your affected source and ends on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date at least 6 months after the end of the initial compliance period.
(ii) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must cover the subsequent semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.
(iii) Each semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.
(iv) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the date specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.
(2)
Inclusion with title V report.
Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a semiannual compliance report pursuant to this section along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the semiannual compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation in this subpart, its submission shall be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a semiannual compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permitting authority.
(3)
General requirements.
The semiannual compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section, and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (8) and (c)(1) of this section that is applicable to your affected source. If your affected source is a slashing operation(s), you are only required to report the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section and the information in paragraph (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Company name and address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.
(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 6-month period ending on June 30 or December 31.
(iv) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4291 that you used on each web coating/printing and dyeing/finishing operation during the reporting period. If you switched between compliance options during the reporting period, you must report the beginning and ending dates you used each option.
(v) If you used the emission rate without add-on controls, the emission rate with add-on controls, or the organic HAP overall control efficiency compliance option for web coating/printing operations (§ 63.4291(a)(2), (3), or (4)), or the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option for dyeing/finishing operations (§ 63.4291(c)(2) or (c)(3)), the calculation results for each compliance period ending each month during the 6-month reporting period.
(4)
No deviations.
If there were no deviations from the emission limitations in Table 1 to this subpart and §§ 63.4292, and 63.4293 that apply to you, the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period. If you use the emission rate with add-on controls
option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option and there were no periods during which the continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) were out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS were out-of-control during the reporting period.
(5)
Deviations: Compliant material option.
If you use the compliant material option, and there was a deviation from the applicable organic HAP content requirements in Table 1 to this subpart, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraph (a)(5)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) Identification of each coating, printing, slashing, dyeing or finishing material applied that deviated from the emission limit and each thinning or cleaning material applied in web coating/printing operations that contained organic HAP, and the dates and time periods each was applied.
(B) The calculation of the organic HAP content using Equation 1 of § 63.4321 for each coating or printing material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (
e.g.,
information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(C) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each regulated material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (
e.g.,
information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(D) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) Identification of each coating, printing, slashing, dyeing or finishing material applied that deviated from the emission limit and each thinning or cleaning material applied in web coating/printing operations that contained organic HAP, and the date, time, and duration each was applied.
(B) The calculation of the organic HAP content using Equation 1 of § 63.4321 for each coating or printing material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (
e.g.,
information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(C) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each regulated material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (
e.g.,
information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(D) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(E) The number of deviations and, for each deviation, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(6)
Deviations: Emission rate without add-on controls option.
If you use the emission rate without add-on controls option and there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(B) The calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period in which the deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations for Equations 1, 1A and 1B, 2, and 3 in § 63.4331 for web coating/printing operations; and for Equations 4, 4A, 5, and 6 in § 63.4331 for dyeing/finishing operations; and if applicable, the calculation used to determine
mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(a)(4)(iii) or (b)(3)(ii); and, for dyeing/finishing operations, if applicable, the mass of organic HAP in wastewater streams calculation for Equation 7 in § 63.4331. You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(C) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period, during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(B) The calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period in which the deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations for Equations 1, 1A and 1B, 2, and 3 in § 63.4331 for web coating/printing operations; and for Equations 4, 4A, 5, and 6 in § 63.4331 for dyeing/finishing operations; and if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(a)(4)(iii) or (b)(3)(ii); and, for dyeing/finishing operations, if applicable, the mass of organic HAP in wastewater streams calculation for Equation 7 in § 63.4331. You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(C) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(D) The number of deviations, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(7)
Deviations: Add-on controls options.
If you use one of the add-on controls options in § 63.4291(a) or (c) and there was a deviation from an emission limitation (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(i)(A) through (O) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction during which deviations occurred.
(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(B) If you use the emission rate option, the calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations that apply to you, including Equations 1, 1A, 1B, and 2 of § 63.4331 and Equations 1, 1A, 1B, 1C, 2, 3, 3A and 3B and 4 of § 63.4341 for web coating/printing operations; and Equations 4, 4A, 5, 6, and 7 of § 63.4331 and Equations 5, 5A, 5B, 6, 7, and 8 of § 63.4341 for dyeing/finishing operations. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(C) If you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, the calculations used to determine the organic HAP overall control efficiency for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations that apply to you, including Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.4331; Equations 1, 1A, 1B, 1C, 2, 3, 3A, and 3B of § 63.4341; and Equation 1 of § 63.4351. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
test reports).
(D) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.
(E) A brief description of the CPMS.
(F) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(G) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.
(H) The date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).
(I) The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in
table 2 to this subpart, date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.
(J) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in table 2 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(K) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(L) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(M) A description of any changes in the CPMS, web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.
(N) For each deviation from the work practice standards, a description of the deviation, the date and time period duration of the deviation, and the actions you took to correct the deviation.
(O) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(ii)(A) through (M), (O), and (P) of this section if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart or the applicable operating limit(s) in Table 2 to this subpart (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), and the information in paragraph (a)(7)(ii)(N) of this section if there was a deviation from the applicable work practice standards in § 63.4293(b).
(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(B) If you use the emission rate option, the calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations that apply to you, including Equations 1, 1A, 1B, and 2 of § 63.4331 and Equations 1, 1A, 1B, 1C, 2, 3, 3A and 3B and 4 of § 63.4341 for web coating/printing operations; and Equations 4, 4A, 5, 6, and 7 of § 63.4331 and Equations 5, 5A, 5B, 6, 7, and 8 of § 63.4341 for dyeing/finishing operations. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(C) If you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, the calculations used to determine the organic HAP overall control efficiency for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations that apply to you, including Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.4331; Equations 1, 1A, 1B, 1C, 2, 3, 3A, and 3B of § 63.4341; and Equation 1 of § 63.4351. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
test reports).
(D) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture system or add-on control devices started and stopped.
(E) A brief description of the CPMS.
(F) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(G) For each instance that the CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being inoperative; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(H) For each instance that the CPMS was out-of-control, as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(I) The date, time, and duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart, and the date, time, and duration of any bypass of the add-on control device.
(J) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(K) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(L) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(M) A description of any changes in the CPMS, web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.
(N) For deviations from the work practice standards, the number of deviations, and, for each deviation, a description of the deviation; the date, time, and duration of the deviation; and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4300(b). The description of the deviation must include a list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(O) For deviations from an emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart or operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(P) For each deviation from an emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart or operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart, a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(8)
Deviations: Equivalent Emission Rate Option.
If you use the equivalent emission rate option, and there was a deviation from the operating scenarios, as defined in § 63.4371, used to demonstrate initial compliance, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Before September 12, 2019, the beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the deviation occurred. On and after September 12, 2019, the beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the deviation occurred, the number of deviations during the compliance period, and, for each deviation, the date, time, and duration of the deviation; a list of the affected sources or equipment; and a statement of the cause of the deviation (including an unknown cause, if applicable).
(ii) If the deviation consisted of failure to treat the organic HAP containing wastewater by a biological treatment process, an explanation of the deviation, the duration of the deviation, and the determination of the mass of organic HAP that was discharged in the wastewater that was not treated by a biological treatment process.
(iii) The determination of the fraction of organic HAP applied in your dyeing/finishing affected source that is discharged to the wastewater according to § 63.4331(d).
(iv) The calculation of the total organic HAP emissions from your dyeing/finishing affected source using Equation 4 of § 63.4331.
(b)
Performance test reports.
If you use one of the add-on control options in § 63.4291(a) or (c), you must submit reports of performance test results for emission capture systems and add-on control devices no later than 60 days after completing the tests as specified in § 63.10(d)(2).
(c) Before September 12, 2019, if you use one of the add-on control options in
§ 63.4291(a) or (c) and you have a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the semiannual reporting period, you must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. The reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section are not required on and after September 12, 2019.
(1) If your actions were consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, you must include the information specified in § 63.10(d) in the semiannual compliance report.
(2) If your actions were not consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section as required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(i) You must describe the actions taken during the event in a report delivered by facsimile, telephone, or other means to the Administrator within 2 working days after starting actions that are inconsistent with the plan.
(ii) You must submit a letter to the Administrator within 7 working days after the end of the event, unless you have made alternative arrangements with the Administrator as specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii). The letter must contain the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii).
(d) Beginning no later than June 13, 2019, you must submit the results of the performance test required in paragraph (b) of this section following the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13, unless the Administrator agrees to or specifies an alternate reporting method.
(3) If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e) Beginning on March 15, 2021, the owner or operator shall submit the initial notifications required in § 63.9(b) and the notification of compliance status required in § 63.9(h) and § 63.4310(c) to the EPA via CEDRI. The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov
). The owner or operator must upload to CEDRI an electronic copy of each applicable notification in portable document format (PDF). The applicable notification must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report generated using the appropriate form in CEDRI or an alternate electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema
listed on the EPA's CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(f) Beginning on March 15, 2021, or once the reporting template has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, the owner or operator shall submit the semiannual compliance report required in paragraph (a) of this section to the EPA via CEDRI. The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov
). The owner or operator must use the appropriate electronic template on the CEDRI website for this subpart or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri
). The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. If the reporting form for the semiannual compliance report specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, you must submit the report to the Administrator at the appropriate addresses listed in § 63.13. Once the form has been available in CEDRI for 1 year, you must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI. The reports must be submitted by the deadlines specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report generated using the appropriate form in CEDRI or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(g) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date, time and length of the outage; a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(h) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely
comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature
(e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9623, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4312
What records must I keep?
You must collect and keep a record of the data and information specified in this section. Failure to collect and keep these records is a deviation from the applicable standard.
(a) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, and the documentation supporting each notification and report.
(b) A current copy of information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, such as manufacturer's formulation data or test data used to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for coating, printing, slashing, dyeing, finishing, thinning, and cleaning materials; and the mass fraction of solids for coating and printing materials. If you conducted testing to determine mass fraction of organic HAP of coating materials or the mass fraction of solids of coating materials, you must keep a copy of the complete test report. If you use information provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier of the material that was based on testing, you must keep the summary sheet of results provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier. You are not required to obtain the test report or other supporting documentation from the manufacturer or supplier.
(c) For each compliance period, the records specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for web coating/printing operations and the records specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for dyeing/finishing operations.
(1) A record of the web coating/printing operations on which you used each compliance option and the time periods (beginning and ending dates) you used each option. For each month, a record of all required calculations for the compliance option(s) you used, as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) For the compliant material option, a record of the calculation of the organic HAP content, as purchased, for each coating and printing material applied, using Equation 1 of § 63.4321.
(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coating, printing, thinning and cleaning materials applied each compliance period using Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.4331 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(a)(4)(iii); the calculation of the total mass of the solids contained in all coating and printing materials applied each compliance period using Equation 2 of § 63.4331; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period using Equation 3 of § 63.4331.
(iii) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls for the coating, printing, thinning and cleaning materials applied each compliance period using Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.4331 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(a)(4)(iii); the calculation of the total mass of the solids contained in all coating and printing materials applied each compliance period using Equation 2 of § 63.4331; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices using Equations 1, 1A, 1B, and 1C of § 63.4341 and Equations 2, 3, 3A, and 3B of § 63.4341, as applicable; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period using Equation 4 of § 63.4341.
(iv) For the organic HAP overall control efficiency option or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option, the records specified in paragraph (j) of this section.
(2) A record of the dyeing/finishing operations on which you used each compliance option and the time periods (beginning and ending dates) you used each option. For each month, a record of all required calculations for the compliance option(s) you used, as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) For the compliant material option, a purchase record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each dyeing, and finishing material applied, according to § 63.4321(e)(1)(iv).
(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, the calculation for the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the dyeing and finishing materials applied each compliance period using Equations 4 and 4A of § 63.4331 and, if applicable, the calculations used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(b)(3)(ii) and the mass of organic HAP contained in wastewater discharged to a POTW or treated onsite prior to discharge according to § 63.4331(b)(3)(iii); the calculation of the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied each compliance period using Equation 5 of § 63.4331; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period using Equation 6 of § 63.4331.
(iii) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls for the dyeing and finishing materials applied each compliance period using Equations 4 and 4A of § 63.4331 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(b)(3)(ii) and the determination of the mass of organic HAP contained in wastewater discharged to a POTW or treated onsite prior to discharge according to § 63.4331(b)(3)(iii); the calculation of the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied each compliance period using Equation 5 of § 63.4331; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices using Equations 5, 5A, and 5B of § 63.4341 and Equations 6, 7, and 7A of § 63.4341, as applicable; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period using Equation 8 of § 63.4341.
(iv) For the equivalent emission rate option, a record that your dyeing/finishing affected source operated within the operating scenarios used to demonstrate initial compliance, documentation that affected wastewater was either discharged to a POTW or to onsite secondary treatment, and the calculation of the total organic HAP emissions from your dyeing/finishing affected source for each compliance period using Equation 4 of § 63.4331.
(d) A record of the name and mass of each regulated material applied in the web coating and printing subcategory and the dyeing and finishing subcategory during each compliance period. If you are using the compliant material option for all regulated materials at the source, you may maintain purchase records for each material used rather than a record of the mass used.
(e) A record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each regulated material applied during each compliance period.
(f) A record of the mass fraction of coating and printing solids for each coating and printing material applied during each compliance period.
(g) If you use an allowance in Equation 1 or 4 of § 63.4331 for organic HAP contained in waste materials sent to, or designated for shipment to, a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) according to § 63.4331(a)(4)(iii) or (b)(3)(ii), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The name and address of each TSDF to which you sent waste materials for which you used an allowance in Equation 1 or 4 of § 63.4331, a statement of which subparts under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, and 266 apply to the facility, and the date of each shipment.
(2) Identification of the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operations producing waste materials included in each shipment and the compliance period(s) in which you used the allowance for these materials in Equation 1 or 4, respectively, of § 63.4331.
(3) The methodology used in accordance with § 63.4331(a)(3)(iii) or (b)(4)(ii) to determine the total amount of waste materials sent to or the amount collected, stored, and designated for transport to a TSDF each compliance period; and the methodology to determine the mass of organic HAP contained in these waste materials. This must include the sources for all data used in the determination, methods used to generate the data, frequency of testing or monitoring, and supporting calculations and documentation, including the waste manifest for each shipment.
(h) If you use an allowance in Equation 4 of § 63.4331 for organic HAP contained in wastewater discharged to a POTW or treated onsite prior to discharge according to § 63.4331(c), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Documentation that the wastewater was either discharged to a POTW or onsite secondary wastewater treatment.
(2) Calculation of the allowance, WW, using the fraction of organic HAP applied in affected processes that is discharged to the wastewater determined from the most recent performance test and the mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, A, calculated in Equation 4 of § 63.4331.
(i) Before September 12, 2019, you must keep records of the date, time, and duration of each deviation. On and after September 12, 2019, for each deviation from an emission limitation reported under § 63.4311(a)(5) through (8), a record of the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.
(1) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4311(a)(5) through (8).
(2) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4311(a)(5) through (8).
(3) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart or any applicable operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under § 63.4311(a)(5) through (8). If you use the equivalent emission rate option to comply with this subpart, a record of the applicable information specified in § 63.4311(a)(8)(ii) through (iv) satisfies the recordkeeping requirement in this paragraph (i)(3).
(4) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4300(b) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(j) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option, you must also keep the records specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) Before September 12, 2019, for each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. The record in this paragraph (j)(1) is not required on and after September 12, 2019.
(2) Before September 12, 2019, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. The records in this paragraph
(j)(2) are not required on and after September 12, 2019.
(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to you.
(4) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.4361(a).
(5) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.4360 and 63.4361(b) through (e) including the records specified in paragraphs (j)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section that apply to you.
(i)
Records for a liquid-to-fugitive protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
Records of the mass of total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH) as measured by Method 204A or F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for each regulated material applied in the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation, and the total TVH for all materials applied during each capture efficiency test run, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run, as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(ii)
Records for a gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
Records of the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system as measured by Method 204B or C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 at the inlet to the add-on control device, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(iii)
Records for an alternative protocol.
Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.4361(e), if applicable.
(6) The records specified in paragraphs (j)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination or oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration determination as specified in § 63.4362.
(i) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.4360 and 63.4362.
(ii) Records of the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.
(7) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.4363 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 2 to this subpart.
(8) A record of the work practice plan required by § 63.4293 and documentation that you are implementing the plan on a continuous basis.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9626, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4313
In what form and for how long must I keep my records?
(a) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). Where appropriate, the records may be maintained as electronic spreadsheets or as a database. Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are in reports that were submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to
maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
(b) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.
(c) You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9627, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Compliance Requirements for the Compliant Material Option
§ 63.4320
By what date must I conduct the initial compliance demonstration?
You must complete the compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4321. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283 and ends on the last day of the first full month after the compliance date. The initial compliance demonstration includes the calculations according to § 63.4321 and supporting documentation showing that, during the initial compliance period, the organic HAP content of each coating and printing material you applied and the mass fraction of organic HAP in each slashing, dyeing, and finishing material you applied did not exceed the applicable limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and documentation that in web coating/printing operations you applied only thinners and cleaners that contained no organic HAP as defined in § 63.4371.
§ 63.4321
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) You may use the compliant material option for any individual web coating/printing operation, for any group of web coating/printing operations in the affected source, or for all the web coating/printing operations in the affected source. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option for any web coating/printing operation(s) in the affected source for which you do not use this option. For a web coating/printing affected source to demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the web coating/printing operation or group of web coating/printing operations must apply no coating or printing material with an organic HAP content that exceeds the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart and must apply only thinning or cleaning material that contains no organic HAP, as defined in § 63.4371.
(b) You must use the compliant material option for each slashing affected source, as required in Table 1 to this subpart. For a slashing affected source to demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the slashing operation or group of slashing operations must apply only slashing material with no organic HAP as defined in § 63.4371.
(c) You may use the compliant material option for any individual dyeing/finishing operation, for any group of dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source, or for all the dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source for which you do not use this option. You may not use the compliant material option for any dyeing/finishing operation in a dyeing/finishing affected source for which you use the equivalent emission rate option. For a dyeing/finishing affected source to demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the dyeing/finishing operation or group of dyeing/finishing operations must apply no dyeing or finishing material with a mass fraction of organic HAP that exceeds the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(d) Any web coating/printing operation, slashing operation, or dyeing/finishing operation for which you use the compliant material option is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards required in §§ 63.4292 and 63.4293, respectively.
(e) To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations using the compliant material option, you must meet all the requirements of this section for any web coating/printing operation, slashing operation, or dyeing/finishing operation using this option. Use the applicable procedures in this section on each regulated material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration. You do not need to redetermine the organic HAP content of regulated materials that are reclaimed onsite and reused in the web coating/printing operation, slashing operation, or dyeing/finishing operation for which you use the compliant material option, provided these regulated materials in their condition as received were demonstrated to comply with the compliant material option.
(1)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material.
You must determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each regulated material applied during the compliance period by using one of the options in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. You must use the option in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section for each printing, slashing, dyeing, or finishing material applied during the compliance period.
(i)
Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63).
You may use Method 311 for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP. Use the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section when performing a Method 311 test.
(A) Count each organic HAP in Table 6 to this subpart that is measured to be present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 6 to this subpart) is measured to be 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you don't have to count it. Express the mass fraction of each organic HAP you count as a value truncated to no more than four places after the decimal point (
e.g.,
0.3791).
(B) Calculate the total mass fraction of organic HAP in the regulated material being tested by adding up the individual organic HAP mass fractions and truncating the result to no more than three places after the decimal point (
e.g.,
0.763).
(ii)
Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60.
You may use Method 24 to determine the mass fraction of nonaqueous volatile matter and use that value as a substitute for mass fraction of organic HAP. As an alternative to using Method 24, you may use ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), “Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14). For a multi-component coating with reactive chemicals, you may use Method 24 or ASTM D2369-10 (R2015) on the coating as applied to determine the mass fraction of nonaqueous volatile matter and use that value as a substitute for the mass fraction of organic HAP determined from the sum of organic HAP in each component.
(iii)
Alternative method.
You may use an alternative test method for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP, mass fraction of solids, or fraction of organic HAP emitted from a reactive coating once the Administrator has approved it. You must follow the procedure in § 63.7(f) to submit an alternative test method for approval.
(iv)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may rely on information other than that generated by the test methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, such as manufacturer's formulation data, if it represents each organic HAP in Table 6 to this subpart that is present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 6 to this subpart) is 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. If there is a disagreement between such information and results of a test conducted according to paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section on coating, thinning, or cleaning material, then the test method results will take precedence. Information from the
supplier or manufacturer of the printing, slashing, dyeing, or finishing material is sufficient for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP.
(v)
Solvent blends.
Solvent blends may be listed as single components for some materials in data provided by manufacturers or suppliers. Solvent blends may contain organic HAP which must be counted toward the total organic HAP mass fraction of the materials. When test data and manufacturer's data for solvent blends are not available, you may use the default values for the mass fraction of organic HAP in these solvent blends listed in Table 4 or 5 to this subpart. If you use the tables, you must use the values in Table 4 for all solvent blends that match Table 4 entries, and you may only use Table 5 if the solvent blends in the materials you use do not match any of the solvent blends in Table 4 and you only know whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic. However, if the results of a Method 311 test indicate higher values than those listed on Table 4 or 5 to this subpart, the Method 311 results will take precedence.
(2)
Determine the mass fraction of solids for each coating and printing material.
You must determine the mass fraction of solids (kg of solids per kg of coating or printing material) for each coating material applied during the compliance period by a test or by information provided by the supplier or the manufacturer of the material, as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. If test results obtained according to paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section for a coating material do not agree with the information obtained under paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, the test results will take precedence. To determine mass fraction of solids for each printing material applied during the compliance period, you should use information provided by the supplier or manufacturer of the material, as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.
(i)
Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60.
You may use Method 24 for determining the mass fraction of solids of coating materials. As an alternative to using Method 24, you may use ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), “Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14).
(ii)
Alternative method.
You may use an alternative test method for determining solids content of each coating material once the Administrator has approved it. You must follow the procedure in § 63.7(f) to submit an alternative test method for approval.
(iii)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may obtain the mass fraction of solids for each coating and printing material from the supplier or manufacturer. If there is disagreement between such information and the test method results for a coating material, then the test method results will take precedence.
(3)
Calculate the organic HAP content of each coating or printing material.
Calculate the organic HAP content, kg organic HAP per kg of solids, of each coating and printing material applied during the compliance period, using Equation 1 of this section:
ER29MY03.000
Where:
H
c
= Organic HAP content of the coating or printing material, kg organic HAP per kg solids in the coating or printing material.
W
c
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in the coating or printing material, kg organic HAP per kg material, determined according to paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
W
f
= Mass fraction of solids in coating or printing material, kg solids per kg of coating or printing material, determined according to paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(4)
Compliance demonstration.
The calculated organic HAP content for each coating and printing material applied during the initial compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and each thinning and cleaning material applied during the initial compliance period must contain no organic HAP as defined in § 63.4371. Each slashing material applied during the initial compliance period must contain no organic HAP as defined in § 63.4371. The mass fraction of organic HAP for each dyeing and finishing material applied during the initial compliance period, determined according to paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section, must be
less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. You must keep all records required by §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required in § 63.4310, you must:
(i) Identify any web coating/printing operation, slashing operation, and dyeing/finishing operation for which you used the compliant material option;
(ii) Submit a statement that the web coating/printing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because you applied no coating and printing material for which the organic HAP content exceeds the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and you applied only thinning materials and cleaning materials that contained no organic HAP, as defined in § 63.4371;
(iii) Submit a statement that the slashing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because you applied only slashing materials that contained no organic HAP, as defined in § 63.4371; and
(iv) Submit a statement that the dyeing/finishing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because you applied no dyeing and finishing material for which the mass fraction of organic HAP exceeds the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9627, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4322
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) For each compliance period, to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must apply no coating or printing material for which the organic HAP content determined using Equation 1 of § 63.4321, exceeds the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. For each compliance period, to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must apply only slashing material that contains no organic HAP as defined in § 63.4371. For each compliance period, to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must apply no dyeing or finishing material for which the mass fraction of organic HAP, determined according to the requirements of § 63.4321(e)(1)(iv), exceeds the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. For each compliance period, you must apply only thinning or cleaning materials that contain no organic HAP (as defined in § 63.4371) in a coating/printing affected source. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4320 is a compliance period.
(b) If you choose to comply with the emission limitations by using the compliant material option, the application of any regulated material that does not meet the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section is a deviation from the emission limitations that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(5).
(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4311, you must identify any web coating/printing operation, slashing operation, or dyeing/finishing operation for which you used the compliant material option. If there were no deviations from the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, submit a statement that, as appropriate, the web coating/printing operations were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because you applied no coating or printing material for which the organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and you applied only thinning and cleaning materials that contained no organic HAP (as defined in § 63.4371) in a web coating/printing affected source; the slashing operations were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because you applied only slashing materials with no organic HAP (as defined in § 63.4371) in a slashing affected source; and the dyeing/finishing operations were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because you applied no dyeing or finishing material for which the mass fraction of organic HAP exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313.

# Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
§ 63.4330
By what date must I conduct the initial compliance demonstration?
You must complete the compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4331. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283 and ends on the last day of the 12th full month after the compliance date. The initial compliance demonstration includes the calculations according to § 63.4331 and supporting documentation showing that for web coating/printing operations, the organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart and for dyeing/finishing operations, the mass fraction of organic HAP for the initial compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
§ 63.4331
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) For web coating/printing operations, you may use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any individual web coating/printing operation, for any group of web coating/printing operations in the affected source, or for all the web coating/printing operations as a group in the affected source. You must use either the compliant material option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option for any web coating/printing operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the emission rate without add-on controls option, the web coating/printing operation or group of web coating/printing operations must meet the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart but is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards in §§ 63.4292 and 63.4293, respectively. You must meet all the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart for the web coating/printing operation(s). When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials applied on web coating/printing operations for which you use the compliant material option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option. Use the procedures in this section on each regulated material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration.
(1)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material.
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning material applied during the compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4321(e)(1).
(2)
Determine the mass fraction of solids for each material.
Determine the mass fraction of solids (kg of solids per kg of coating or printing material) for each coating and printing material applied during the compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4321(e)(2).
(3)
Determine the mass of each material.
Determine the mass (kg) of each coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning material applied during the compliance period by measurement or usage records.
(4)
Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions.
The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions using Equation 1 of this section:
ER29MY03.001
Where:
H
e
= Mass of organic HAP emissions during the compliance period, kg.
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the coating and printing materials applied during
the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1A of this section.
B = Total mass of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1B of this section.
R
w
= Total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during the compliance period, kg, determined according to paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section. (You may assign a value of zero to R
w
if you do not wish to use this allowance.)
(i) Calculate the kg organic HAP in the coating and printing materials applied during the compliance period using Equation 1A of this section:
ER29MY03.002
Where:
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the coating and printing materials applied during the compliance period, kg.
M
c, i
= Total mass of coating or printing material, i, applied during the compliance period, kg.
W
c, i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating or printing material, i, kg organic HAP per kg of material.
m = Number of different coating and printing, materials applied during the compliance period.
(ii) Calculate the kg of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period using Equation 1B of this section:
ER29MY03.003
Where:
B = Total mass of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period, kg.
M
t, j
= Total mass of thinning or cleaning material, j, applied during the compliance period, kg.
W
t, j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinning or cleaning material, j, kg organic HAP per kg thinning or cleaning material.
n = Number of different thinning and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period.
(iii) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF in Equation 1 of this section, then you must determine it according to paragraphs (a)(4)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) You may include in the determination only waste materials that are generated by web coating/printing operations in the affected source for which you use Equation 1 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility that is regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266. The TSDF may be either off-site or on-site. You may not include organic HAP contained in wastewater.
(B) You must determine either the amount of the waste materials sent to a TSDF during the compliance period or the amount collected and stored during the compliance period designated for future transport to a TSDF. Do not include in your determination any waste materials sent to a TSDF during a compliance period if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that compliance period or a previous compliance period.
(C) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(B) of this section.
(D) You must document the methodology you use to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain, as required in § 63.4312(g). To the extent that waste manifests include this, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them.
(5)
Calculate the total mass of coating and printing solids.
Determine the total mass of coating and printing solids applied, kg, which is the combined mass of the solids contained in all the coating and printing materials applied during the compliance period, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER29MY03.004
Where:
H
t
= Total mass of solids contained in coating and printing materials applied during the compliance period, kg.
M
c, i
= Mass of coating or printing material, i, applied during the compliance period, kg.
W
f, i
= mass fraction of solids in coating or printing material, i, applied during the compliance period, kg solids per kg of coating or printing material.
m = Number of coating and printing materials applied during the compliance period.
(6) Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg organic HAP emitted per kg solids used, using Equation 3 of this section:
ER29MY03.005
Where:
H
yr
= Organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg of organic HAP emitted per kg of solids in coating and printing materials applied.
H
e
= Total mass organic HAP emissions from all coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period, kg, as calculated by Equation 1 of this section.
H
t
= Total mass of coating and printing solids in materials applied during the compliance period, kg, as calculated by Equation 2 of this section.
(7)
Compliance demonstration.
The organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4310, you must identify the web coating/printing operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and submit a statement that the web coating/printing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than, or equal to, the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(b) For dyeing and finishing operations, you may use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any individual dyeing/finishing operation, for any group of dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source, or for dyeing/finishing operations as a group in the affected source. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any dyeing/finishing operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. You may not use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any dyeing/finishing operation in a dyeing/finishing affected source for which you use the equivalent emission rate option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the emission rate without add-on controls option, the dyeing/finishing operation or group of operations must meet the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart but is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards in §§ 63.4292 and 63.4293, respectively. You must meet all the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart for the dyeing/finishing operation(s). When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any dyeing and finishing materials applied on dyeing/finishing operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option. Use the procedures in this section on each regulated material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration. Water added in mixing at the affected source is not a regulated material and should not be included in the determination of the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, using Equation 5 of this section.
(1)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material.
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each dyeing and finishing material applied during the compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4321(e)(1)(iv).
(2)
Determine the mass of each material.
Determine the mass (kg) of each dyeing and finishing material applied during the compliance period by measurement or usage records.
(3)
Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions.
The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all dyeing and finishing materials applied during the
compliance period minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials and wastewater streams. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions using Equation 4 of this section:
ER29MY03.006
Where:
H
e
= Mass of organic HAP emissions during the compliance period, kg.
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 4A of this section.
R
w
= Total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during the compliance period, kg, determined according to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. (You may assign a value of zero to R
w
if you do not wish to use this allowance.)
WW = Total mass of organic HAP in wastewater discharged to a POTW or receiving onsite secondary treatment during the compliance period, kg, determined according to paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section. (You may assign a value of zero to WW if you do not wish to use this allowance.)
(i) Calculate the kg organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period using Equation 4A of this section:
ER29MY03.007
Where:
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, kg.
M
c, i
= Mass of dyeing or finishing material, i, applied during the compliance period, kg.
W
c, i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in dyeing or finishing material, i, kg organic HAP per kg of material.
m = Number of dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period.
(ii) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF in Equation 4 of this section, then you must determine it according to paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) You may include in the determination only waste materials that are generated by dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source for which you use Equation 4 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility that is regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266. The TSDF may be either off-site or on-site. You may not include organic HAP contained in wastewater.
(B) You must determine either the amount of the waste materials sent to a TSDF during the compliance period or the amount collected and stored during the compliance period designated for future transport to a TSDF. Do not include in your determination any waste materials sent to a TSDF during a compliance period if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that compliance period or a previous compliance period.
(C) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section.
(D) You must document the methodology you use to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain, as required in § 63.4312(g). To the extent that waste manifests include this, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them.
(iii) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in wastewater discharged to a POTW or treated onsite prior to discharge in Equation 4 of this section, then you must determine it according to paragraph (c) of this section.
(4)
Calculate the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials.
Determine the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied, kg, which is the combined mass of all the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, using Equation 5 of this section:
ER29MY03.008
Where:
M
t
= Total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, kg.
M
c, i
= Mass of dyeing or finishing material, i, applied during the compliance period, kg.
m = Number of dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period.
(5) Calculate the organic HAP emission rate, kg organic HAP emitted per kg dyeing and finishing material applied, using Equation 6 of this section:
ER29MY03.009
Where:
H
yr
= The organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg of organic HAP emitted per kg of dyeing and finishing materials.
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions during the compliance period, kg, as calculated by Equation 4 of this section.
M
t
= Total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, kg, as calculated by Equation 5 of this section.
(6)
Compliance demonstration.
The organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4310, you must identify the dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and submit a statement that the dyeing/finishing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(i) If your affected source performs only dyeing operations, paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section apply to dyeing materials only, and you must demonstrate compliance with the emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart for dyeing operations.
(ii) If your affected source performs only finishing operations, paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section apply to finishing materials only, and you must demonstrate compliance with the emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart for finishing operations.
(iii) If your affected source performs both dyeing and finishing operations, paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section apply to dyeing and finishing materials combined, and you must demonstrate compliance with the emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart for dyeing and finishing operations.
(c) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in wastewater discharged to a POTW or treated onsite prior to discharge in Equation 4 of this section, then you must determine it according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. You may include in the determination only wastewater streams that are generated by dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source for which you use Equation 4 of this section. You must determine the mass of organic HAP from the average organic HAP concentration and mass flow rate of each wastewater stream generated by the affected dyeing/finishing operation (or group of dyeing/finishing operations discharging to a common wastewater stream) for which you use this allowance. You must consider the actual or anticipated production over the compliance period and include all wastewater streams generated by the affected dyeing/finishing operation(s) during this period. A performance test of the organic HAP loading to the wastewater shall be performed for each operating scenario, as defined in § 63.4371, during the compliance period.
(1)
Procedure to determine average organic HAP concentration.
You must determine the average organic HAP concentration, H
w
, of each wastewater stream according to paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i)
Sampling.
Wastewater samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period (or over the period that wastewater is being discharged from a batch process if it is shorter than a 1-hour period). Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and a performance test shall consist of a minimum of 3 runs.
(ii)
Methods.
You may use any of the methods specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section to determine the organic HAP content
of the wastewater stream. The method shall be an analytical method for wastewater which has the organic HAP compound discharged to the wastewater as a target analyte.
(A)
Method 305.
Use procedures specified in Method 305 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.
(B)
Methods 624 and 625.
Use procedures specified in Method 624 and Method 625 of 40 CFR part 136, appendix A and comply with the sampling protocol requirements specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. If these methods are used to analyze one or more compounds that are not on the method's published list of approved compounds, the Alternative Test Procedure specified in 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5 shall be followed. For Method 625, make corrections to the compounds for which the analysis is being conducted based on the accuracy as recovery factors in Table 7 of the method.
(C)
Methods 1624 and 1625.
Use procedures specified in Method 1624 and Method 1625 of 40 CFR part 136, appendix A and comply with the sampling protocol requirements specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. If these methods are used to analyze one or more compounds that are not on the method's published list of approved compounds, the Alternative Test Procedure specified in 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5 shall be followed.
(D)
Other EPA method(s).
Use procedures specified in the method and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and either paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section.
(E)
Methods other than EPA method.
Use procedures specified in the method and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) of this section.
(iii)
Sampling plan.
If you have been expressly referred to this paragraph by provisions of this subpart, you shall prepare a sampling plan. Wastewater samples shall be collected using sampling procedures which minimize loss of organic compounds during sample collection and analysis and maintain sample integrity. The sampling plan shall include procedures for determining recovery efficiency of the relevant organic HAP. An example of an example sampling plan would be one that incorporates similar sampling and sample handling requirements to those of Method 25D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. You shall maintain the sampling plan at the facility.
(iv)
Validation of methods.
You shall validate EPA methods other than Methods 305, 624, 625, 1624, 1625 using the procedures specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A)
Validation of EPA methods and other methods.
The method used to measure organic HAP concentrations in the wastewater shall be validated according to section 5.1 or 5.3, and the corresponding calculations in section 6.1 or 6.3, of Method 301 of appendix A of this part. The data are acceptable if they meet the criteria specified in section 6.1.5 or 6.3.3 of Method 301 of appendix A of this part. If correction is required under section 6.3.3 of Method 301 of appendix A of this part, the data are acceptable if the correction factor is within the range 0.7 to 1.30. Other sections of Method 301 of appendix A of this part are not required.
(B)
Validation for EPA methods.
Follow the procedures as specified in “Alternative Validation Procedure for EPA Waste Methods” 40 CFR part 63, appendix D.
(v)
Calculate the average concentration.
You shall calculate the average concentration for each individually speciated organic HAP compound by adding the individual values determined for the specific compound in each sample and dividing by the number of samples.
(vi)
Adjustment for concentrations determined downstream of the point of determination.
You shall make corrections to the specific compound average concentration or total organic HAP average concentration when the concentration is determined downstream of the point of determination at a location where either wastewater streams from outside of the affected dyeing/finishing operation or group of dyeing/finishing operations have been mixed with the affected wastewater stream or one or more affected wastewater streams have been treated. You shall make the adjustments either to the individual data points or to the final average organic HAP concentration.
(2)
Procedures to determine mass flow rate.
For each operating scenario, as
defined in § 63.4371, for which you have determined the organic HAP content of the wastewater stream, you shall determine the annual average mass flow rate, F
w
, of the wastewater stream either at the point of determination or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for flow rate changes made according to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. The annual average mass flow rate for the wastewater stream shall be representative of actual or anticipated operation of the dyeing/finishing operation(s) generating the wastewater over the compliance period. You must determine the annual average mass flow rate of each wastewater stream according to paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i)
Procedures.
The procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section are considered acceptable procedures for determining the mass flow rate. They may be used in combination, and no one procedure shall take precedence over another.
(A)
Knowledge of the wastewater.
You may use knowledge of the wastewater stream and/or the process to determine the annual average mass flow rate. You shall use the maximum expected annual average production capacity of the dyeing/finishing operation(s), knowledge of the process, and/or mass balance information to either estimate directly the average wastewater mass flow rate for the compliance period or estimate the total wastewater mass flow for the compliance period and then factor the total mass by the percentage of time in the compliance period the operating scenario is expected to represent. Where you use knowledge to determine the annual average mass flow rate, you shall provide sufficient information to document the mass flow rate.
(B)
Historical records.
You may use historical records to determine the average annual mass flow rate. Derive the highest annual average mass flow rate of wastewater from historical records representing the most recent 5 years of operation, or if the dyeing/finishing operation(s) has(have) been in service for less than 5 years but at least 1 year, from historical records representing the total operating life of the process unit. Where historical records are used to determine the annual average mass flow rate, you shall provide sufficient information to document the mass flow rate.
(C)
Measurement of mass flow rate.
If you elect to measure mass flow rate, you shall comply with the requirements of this paragraph. Measurements shall be made at the point of determination, or at a location downstream of the point of determination with adjustments for mass flow rate changes made according to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. Where measurement data are used to determine the annual average mass flow rate, you shall provide sufficient information to document the mass flow rate.
(ii)
Adjustment for flow rates determined downstream of the point of determination.
You shall make corrections to the average annual mass flow rate of a wastewater stream when it is determined downstream of the point of determination at a location where either wastewater streams from outside of the affected dyeing/finishing operation or group of dyeing/finishing operations have been mixed with the affected wastewater stream or one or more wastewater streams have been treated. You shall make corrections for such changes in the annual average mass flow rate.
(3)
Wastewater treatment.
You shall document that the wastewater is either discharged to a POTW or onsite secondary wastewater treatment.
(4)
Determine the mass of organic HAP in the affected wastewater.
Determine the total mass of organic HAP, WW, contained in the wastewater streams characterized by the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, using Equation 7 of this section:
ER29MY03.010
Where:
WW = The total mass of organic HAP contained in the wastewater streams characterized by the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, kg/yr
H
w,k
= Average organic HAP concentration of wastewater stream k, ppmw
F
w,k
= Annual average mass flow rate of wastewater stream k, Mg/yr
o = Number of wastewater streams characterized by the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
This is your allowance for organic HAP discharged to wastewater and not emitted to the atmosphere, WW in Equation 4.
(5)
Determine the fraction of organic HAP applied that is discharged to the wastewater.
For the purpose of taking credit for the wastewater allowance in continuous compliance demonstrations, determine the fraction of organic HAP applied in affected dyeing/finishing processes that is discharged to the wastewater,
i.e.,
divide WW by the mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, A, as calculated in Equation 4A of this section. The wastewater allowance for this fraction of organic HAP that is not emitted from the affected dyeing/finishing operation(s) may be taken for each compliance period that the operating scenario, as defined in § 63.4371, does not change from conditions during the performance test in a way that could increase the fraction of organic HAP emitted (
e.g.,
an increase in process temperature or decrease in process pressure or a change in the type or mass fraction of organic HAP entering the dyeing/finishing operation.) The allowance, WW, must be calculated by multiplying the fraction of organic HAP applied in affected processes that is discharged to the wastewater determined from the most recent performance test by the mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, A, as calculated in Equation 4A of this section.
(d) If you are determining the fraction of organic HAP applied in your dyeing/finishing affected source that is discharged to the wastewater, to demonstrate compliance with the equivalent emission rate option of § 63.4291(c)(4), then you must determine it according to paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section. You must include in the determination only wastewater streams generated by dyeing/finishing operations in your affected source. You shall determine the mass of organic HAP from the average organic HAP concentration and mass flow rate of each wastewater stream generated by each dyeing/finishing operation (or group of dyeing/finishing operations discharging to a common wastewater stream) in your affected source. You shall consider the actual or anticipated production over the compliance period and include all wastewater streams generated by the affected dyeing/finishing operation(s) during this period. A performance test of the organic HAP loading to the wastewater shall be conducted for each operating scenario, as defined in § 63.4371, during the compliance period.
(1)
Procedure to determine average organic HAP concentration.
You must determine the average organic HAP concentration of each wastewater stream according to paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(2)
Procedures to determine mass flow rate.
For each operating scenario, as defined in § 63.4371, for which you have determined the organic HAP content of the wastewater stream, you shall determine the annual average mass flow rate of the wastewater stream either at the point of determination, or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for flow rate changes made according to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. The annual average mass flow rate for the wastewater stream shall be representative of actual or anticipated operation of the dyeing/finishing operation(s) generating the wastewater over the compliance period. You must determine the annual average mass flow rate of each wastewater stream according to paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(3)
Wastewater treatment.
You shall document that the wastewater is either discharged to a POTW or onsite secondary wastewater treatment.
(4)
Determine the mass of organic HAP in the affected wastewater.
Determine the total mass of organic HAP, WW, contained in the wastewater streams characterized by the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, using Equation 7 of this section.
(5)
Determine the fraction of organic HAP applied that is discharged to the wastewater.
Determine the fraction of organic HAP applied in your dyeing/finishing affected source that is discharged to the wastewater,
i.e.,
divide WW by the mass of organic HAP in the
dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, A, as calculated in Equation 4A of this section. One of the conditions that must be met to demonstrate compliance with the equivalent emission rate option is that the fraction of organic HAP applied in your dyeing/finishing affected source that is discharged to the wastewater must be at least 90 percent.
§ 63.4332
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, determined according to § 63.4331(a) for web coating/printing operations and according to § 63.4331(b) for dyeing/finishing operations, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4330 is a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4331 on a monthly basis.
(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the emission limitations for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(6).
(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4311, you must identify any web coating/printing operation or dyeing/finishing operation for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must submit a statement that, as appropriate, the web coating/printing operations or the dyeing/finishing operations were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313.

# Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
§ 63.4340
By what date must I conduct initial performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?
(a)
New and reconstructed affected sources.
For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4292, within 180 days of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4293 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4283.
(3) You must complete the compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4341. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283 and ends on the last day of the 12th full month after the compliance date, or the date you conduct the performance tests of the emission capture systems and add-on control devices, or initiate the first liquid-liquid material balance for a solvent recovery system, whichever is later. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to
§ 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5); calculations according to § 63.4341 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4364; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4293.
(4) You do not need to comply with the operating limits for the emission capture system and add-on control device required by § 63.4292 until after you have completed the performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Instead, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture system, add-on control device, and continuous parameter monitors during the period between the compliance date and the performance test. You must begin complying with the operating limits for your affected source on the date you complete the performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. This requirement does not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to the requirements of § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5).
(b)
Existing sources.
For an existing affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4292, within 180 days of the compliance date specified in § 63.4283. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4283.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4293 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4283.
(3) You must complete the compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4341. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283 and ends on the last day of the 12th full month after the compliance date. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5); calculations according to § 63.4341 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4364; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4293.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9627, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4341
How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
(a) You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any individual web coating/printing operation, for any group of web coating/printing operations in the affected source, or for all of the web coating/printing operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled web coating/printing operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material option, the emission rate without add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option for any web coating/printing operation in the affected source for which you do not use the emission rate
with add-on controls option. To demonstrate initial compliance, any web coating/printing operation for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limitations in Table 1 to this subpart, and in §§ 63.4292 and 63.4293. You must meet all the requirements of paragraphs (a), (c), (d), and (e) of this section. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials applied on web coating/printing operations for which you use the compliant material option, the emission rate without add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the web coating/printing operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on control option.
(b) You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any individual dyeing/finishing operation, for any group of dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source, or for all of the dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled dyeing/finishing operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option for any dyeing/finishing operation in the affected source for which you do not use the emission rate with add-on controls option. You may not use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any dyeing/finishing operation in a dyeing/finishing affected source for which you use the equivalent emission rate option. To demonstrate initial compliance, any dyeing/finishing operation for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limitations in Table 1 to this subpart, and in §§ 63.4292 and 63.4293. You must meet all the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (f) this section. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any dyeing or finishing materials applied on dyeing/finishing operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in dyeing or finishing materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.
(c)
Compliance with operating limits.
Except as provided in § 63.4340(a)(4), and except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5), you must establish and demonstrate continuous compliance during the initial compliance period with the operating limits required by § 63.4292, using the procedures specified in §§ 63.4363 and 63.4364.
(d)
Compliance with work practice requirements.
You must develop, implement, and document your implementation of the work practice plan required by § 63.4293 during the initial compliance period as specified in § 63.4312.
(e)
Compliance with web coating/printing emission limits.
You must follow the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the applicable web coating/printing emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(1)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, the mass fraction of solids, and mass of materials.
Follow the procedures specified in § 63.4331(a)(1), (2), and (3) to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning material applied during the compliance period; the mass fraction of solids for each coating and printing material applied during the compliance period; and mass of each coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning material applied during the compliance period.
(2)
Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls.
Using Equation 1 of § 63.4331, calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials in the web coating/printing operation or group of web
coating/printing operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls.
(3)
Calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions for each controlled web coating/printing operation.
Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions reduced for each controlled web coating/printing operation during the compliance period. The emissions reductions determination quantifies the total organic HAP emissions that pass through the emission capture system and are destroyed or removed by the add-on control device. Use the procedures in paragraph (e)(4) of this section to calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions reductions for each controlled web coating/printing operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. For each controlled web coating/printing operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct a liquid-liquid material balance, use the procedures in paragraph (e)(5) of this section to calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions.
(4)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled web coating/printing operation not using liquid-liquid material balance.
For each controlled web coating/printing operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions using Equation 1 of this section. The equation applies the emission capture system efficiency and add-on control device efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied in the web coating/printing operation served by the emission capture system and add-on control device during the compliance period. For any period of time a deviation specified in § 63.4342(c) or (d) occurs in the controlled web coating/printing operation, then you must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device. Equation 1 of this section treats the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during such a deviation as if they were used on an uncontrolled web coating/printing operation for the time period of the deviation.
ER29MY03.011
Where:
H
C
= Mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the controlled web coating/printing operation during the compliance period, kg.
A
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coating and printing materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1A of this section.
B
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1B of this section.
H
UNC
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during all deviations specified in § 63.4342(c) and (d) that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled web coating/printing operation, kg, as calculated in Equation 1C of this section.
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures specified in §§ 63.4360 and 63.4361 to measure and record capture efficiency.
DRE = Organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures in §§ 63.4360 and 63.4362 to measure and record the organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency.
(i) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the coating and printing materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation(s) during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 1A of this section:
ER29MY03.012
Where:
A
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coating and printing materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation(s) during the compliance period, kg.
M
c,i
= Mass of coating or printing material, i, applied during the compliance period, kg.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating or printing material, i, kg per kg.
m = Number of different coating and printing materials applied during compliance period.
(ii) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation(s) during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 1B of this section:
ER29MY03.013
Where:
B
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation(s) during the compliance period, kg.
M
t,j
= Total mass of thinning or cleaning material, j, applied during the compliance period, kg.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinning or cleaning material, j, kg per kg.
n = Number of different thinning and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period.
(iii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation during deviations specified in § 63.4342(c) and (d), using Equation 1C of this section.
ER29MY03.014
Where:
H
UNC
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during all deviations specified in § 63.4342 (c) and (d) that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled web coating/printing operation, kg.
M
h
= Total mass of coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning material, h, applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation during deviations, kg.
W
h
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning material, h, kg organic HAP per kg material.
q = Number of different coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied and used.
(5)
Calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions for controlled web coating/printing operation using liquid-liquid material balances.
For each controlled web coating/printing operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for the compliance period as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (v) of this section. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions reductions by the solvent recovery system as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(vi) of this section.
(i) For each solvent recovery system, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system for the compliance period. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.
(ii) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the compliance period, kg, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section.
(iii) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each coating, printing, cleaning, and thinning material applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg volatile organic matter per kg coating, printing, cleaning, and thinning material. You may
determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), “Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), or an EPA approved alternative method. Alternatively, you may use information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the coating or printing material. In the event of any inconsistency between information provided by the manufacturer or supplier and the results of Method 24, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), or an approved alternative method, the test method results will govern.
(iv) Measure the mass of each coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning material applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
(v) For the compliance period, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency using Equation 2 of this section:
ER29MY03.015
Where:
R
V
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, percent.
M
VR
= Mass of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
M
i
= Mass of coating or printing material, i, applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
WV
c,i
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for coating or printing material, i, kg volatile organic matter per kg coating or printing material.
M
j
= Mass of thinning or cleaning material, j, applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
WV
t,j
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for thinning or cleaning material, j, kg volatile organic matter per kg thinning or cleaning material.
m = Number of different coating and printing materials applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.
n = Number of different thinning and cleaning materials applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.
(vi) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reductions for the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period using Equation 3 of this section and according to paragraphs (e)(5)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section:
ER29MY03.016
Where:
H
CSR
= Mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
A
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coating and printing material applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg, calculated using Equation 3A of this section.
B
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg, calculated using Equation 3B of this section.
R
V
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system, percent, from Equation 2 of this section.
(A) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the coating and printing materials applied in the web coating/printing operation(s) controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 3A of this section:
ER29MY03.017
Where:
A
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coating and printing materials applied in the web coating/printing operations(s) controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
M
c,i
= Mass of coating or printing material, i, applied during the compliance period in the web coating/printing operation(s) controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating or printing material, i, kg per kg.
m = Number of different coating and printing materials applied during compliance period.
(B) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied in the web coating/printing operation(s) controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 3B of this section:
ER29MY03.018
Where:
B
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied in the web coating/printing operation(s) controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
M
t,j
= Total mass of thinning or cleaning material, j, applied during the compliance period in the web coating/printing operation(s) controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinning or cleaning material, j, kg per kg.
n = Number of different thinning and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period.
(6)
Calculate the total mass of coating and printing solids.
Determine the total mass of coating and printing solids applied, kg, which is the combined mass of the solids contained in all the coating and printing material applied during the compliance period in the web coating/printing operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, using Equation 2 of § 63.4331.
(7)
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate with add-on controls for the compliance period.
Determine the organic HAP emission rate with add-on controls for the compliance period, kg organic HAP emitted per kg solids applied during the compliance period, using Equation 4 of this section.
ER29MY03.019
Where:
H
HAP
= Organic HAP emission rate with add-on controls for the compliance period, kg organic HAP emitted per kg solids applied.
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period, kg, determined according to paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
H
C,i
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions reduction for controlled web coating/printing operation, i, not using a liquid-liquid material balance, during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 1 of this section.
H
CSR,j
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions reduction for web coating/printing operation, j, controlled by a solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance, during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 3 of this section.
H
t
= Total mass of coating and printing solids applied during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 2 of § 63.4331.
q = Number of controlled web coating/printing operations not using a liquid-liquid material balance.
r = Number of web coating/printing operations controlled by a solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance.
(8)
Compliance demonstration.
To demonstrate initial compliance with the
emission limit, the organic HAP emission rate with add-on controls for the compliance period, calculated using Equation 4 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4310, you must identify the web coating/printing operation(s) for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and submit a statement that the web coating/printing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and that you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4292 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4293.
(f)
Compliance with dyeing/finishing emission limits.
You must follow the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) through (8) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the applicable dyeing/finishing emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(1)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP and mass of materials.
Follow the procedures specified in § 63.4331(b)(1) and (2) to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each dyeing and finishing material applied and mass of each dyeing and finishing material applied during the compliance period.
(2)
Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls.
Using Equation 4 of § 63.4331, calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials and wastewaters in the dyeing/finishing operation or group of dyeing/finishing operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.
(3)
Calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions for each controlled dyeing/finishing operation.
Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions reduced for each controlled dyeing/finishing operation during the compliance period. The emissions reductions determination quantifies the total organic HAP emissions that pass through the emission capture system and are destroyed or removed by the add-on control device. Use the procedures in paragraph (f)(4) of this section to calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions reductions for each controlled dyeing/finishing operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. For each controlled dyeing/finishing operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct a liquid-liquid material balance, use the procedures in paragraph (f)(5) of this section to calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions.
(4)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled dyeing/finishing operation not using liquid-liquid material balance.
For each controlled dyeing/finishing operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions using Equation 5 of this section. The equation applies the emission capture system efficiency and add-on control device efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the dyeing/finishing operation served by the emission capture system and add-on control device during the compliance period. For any period of time a deviation specified in § 63.4342(c) or (d) occurs in the controlled dyeing/finishing operation, then you must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device. Equation 5 of this section treats the dyeing and finishing materials applied during such a deviation as if they were applied on an uncontrolled dyeing/finishing operation for the time period of the deviation.
ER29MY03.020
Where:
H
C
= Mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the controlled dyeing/finishing operation during the compliance period, kg.
A
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the controlled dyeing/finishing operation during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 5A of this section.
H
UNC
= Total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during all deviations specified in § 63.4342(c) and (d) that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled dyeing/finishing operation, kg, as calculated in Equation 5B of this section.
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures specified in §§ 63.4360 and 63.4361 to measure and record capture efficiency.
DRE = Organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures in §§ 63.4360 and 63.4362 to measure and record the organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency.
(i) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the controlled dyeing/finishing operation(s) during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 5A of this section:
ER29MY03.021
Where:
A
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the controlled dyeing/finishing operations(s) during the compliance period, kg.
M
c,i
= Mass of dyeing or finishing material, i, applied during the compliance period, kg.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in dyeing or finishing material, i, kg per kg.
m = Number of different dyeing and finishing materials applied during compliance period.
(ii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the controlled dyeing/finishing operation during deviations specified in § 63.4342(c) and (d), using Equation 5B of this section.
ER29MY03.022
Where:
H
UNC
= Total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during all deviations specified in § 63.4342(c) and (d) that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled dyeing/finishing operation, kg.
M
h
= Total mass of dyeing and finishing material, h, applied in the controlled dyeing/finishing operation during deviations, kg.
W
h
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in dyeing or finishing material, h, kg organic HAP per kg material.
q = Number of different dyeing and finishing materials applied.
(5)
Calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions for controlled dyeing/finishing operation using liquid-liquid material balances.
For each controlled dyeing/finishing operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for the compliance period as specified in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (v) of this section. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions reductions by the solvent recovery system as specified in paragraph (f)(5)(vi) of this section.
(i) For each solvent recovery system, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system for the compliance period. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.
(ii) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the compliance period, kg, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section.
(iii) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each dyeing and finishing material applied in the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg volatile organic matter per kg dyeing and finishing material. You may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using information provided by the
manufacturer or supplier of the dyeing or finishing material.
(iv) Measure the mass of each dyeing and finishing material applied in the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
(v) For the compliance period, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency using Equation 6 of this section:
ER29MY03.023
Where:
R
V
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, percent.
M
VR
= Mass of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
M
i
= Mass of dyeing or finishing material, i, applied in the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
WV
c,i
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for dyeing or finishing material, i, kg volatile organic matter per kg dyeing or finishing material.
m = Number of different dyeing and finishing materials applied in the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.
(vi) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reductions for the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period using Equation 7 of this section and according to paragraph (f)(5)(vi)(A) of this section:
ER29MY03.024
Where:
H
CSR
= Mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
A
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing material applied in the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg, calculated using Equation 7A of this section.
R
V
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system, percent, from Equation 6 of this section.
(A) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the dyeing/finishing operation(s) controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 7A of this section:
ER29MY03.025
Where:
A
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the dyeing/finishing operations(s) controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
M
c,i
= Mass of dyeing or finishing material, i, applied during the compliance period in the dyeing/finishing operation(s) controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in dyeing or finishing material, i, kg per kg.
m = Number of different dyeing and finishing materials applied during compliance period.
(6)
Calculate the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials.
Determine the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied, kg, which is the combined mass of all the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period in the dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, using Equation 5 of § 63.4331.
(7)
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate with add-on controls for the compliance period.
Determine the organic HAP emission rate with add-on controls for the compliance period, kg organic HAP emitted per kg dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, using Equation 8 of this section.
ER29MY03.026
Where:
H
HAP
= Organic HAP emission rate with add-on controls for the compliance period, kg organic HAP emitted per kg dyeing and finishing materials applied.
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, kg, determined according to paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
H
C,i
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions reductions for controlled dyeing/finishing operation, i, not using a liquid-liquid material balance, during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 5 of this section.
H
CSR,j
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions reductions for dyeing/finishing operation, j, controlled by a solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance, during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 7 of this section.
M
t
= Total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 5 of § 63.4331.
q = Number of controlled dyeing/finishing operations not using a liquid-liquid material balance.
r = Number of dyeing/finishing operations controlled by a solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance.
(8)
Compliance demonstration.
To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limit, the organic HAP emission rate with add-on controls for the compliance period, calculated using Equation 8 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4310, you must identify the dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and submit a statement that the dyeing/finishing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and that you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4292 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4293.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9627, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4342
How do I conduct periodic performance tests and demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, determined according to § 63.4341(e) for web coating/printing operations and according to § 63.4341(f) for dyeing/finishing operations, must be equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4340 is a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4341 on a monthly basis.
(b) If the organic HAP emission rate with add-on controls for any compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).
(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4292 that applies to you, as specified in Table 2 to this subpart, and you must conduct periodic performance tests as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 2 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).
(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart, then you must
assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4341 (e)(4) and (f)(4), you must treat the regulated materials applied during a deviation on a controlled coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation as if they were applied on an uncontrolled coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4341 for a web coating/printing operation, and in Equation 5 of § 63.4341 for a dyeing/finishing operation.
(3) Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4351(d)(5), within 5 years following the previous performance test, you must conduct according to the procedures in §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362 a periodic performance test of each capture system and add-on control device used, and you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4292. You must conduct the first periodic performance test and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4292 before March 15, 2022, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and have conducted a performance test on or after March 15, 2017. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test.
(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4364(b) for controlled coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operations for which you do not conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4341(e)(4), you must treat the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during a deviation on a controlled web coating/printing operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled web coating/printing operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4341. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4341(f)(4), you must treat the dyeing and finishing materials applied during a deviation on a controlled dyeing/finishing operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled dyeing/finishing operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 5 of § 63.4341.
(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4293. If you did not develop a work practice plan, or you did not implement the plan, or you did not keep the records required by § 63.4312(j)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).
(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4311, you must identify the coating/printing and dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the applicable emission limitations in §§ 63.4290, 63.4292, and 63.4293, you must submit a statement that, as appropriate, the web coating/printing operations or the dyeing/finishing operations were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4292 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4293 during each compliance period.
(g) [Reserved]
(h) Before September 12, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in
accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On and after September 12, 2019, as specified in § 63.4300(b), at all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions, and determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 20465, Apr. 20, 2006; 84 FR 9628, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Compliance Requirements for the Organic HAP Overall Control Efficiency and Oxidizer Outlet Organic HAP Concentration Options
§ 63.4350
By what date must I conduct performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?
(a)
New and reconstructed affected sources.
For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4351(d)(5), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4292, within 180 days of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4351(d)(5), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4293 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4283.
(3) You must complete the compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4351. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283 and ends on the last day of the first full month after the compliance date, or the date you conduct the performance tests of the emission capture systems and add-on control devices, or initiate the first liquid-liquid material balance for a solvent recovery system, whichever is later. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4351(d)(5); calculations according to § 63.4351 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period either the organic HAP overall control efficiency was equal to or greater than the applicable overall control efficiency limit in Table 1 to this subpart or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration was no greater than 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv) on a dry basis; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4364; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4293.
(4) You do not need to comply with the operating limits for the emission capture system and add-on control device required by § 63.4292 until after you have completed the performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Instead, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture system, add-on control device, and continuous parameter monitors during the period between the compliance date and the performance test. You must begin complying with the operating limits for your affected source on the date you
complete the performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. This requirement does not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to the requirements of § 63.4351(d)(5).
(b)
Existing sources.
For an existing affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4351(d)(5), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4292, within 180 days of the compliance date specified in § 63.4283. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4351(d)(5), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4283.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4293 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4283.
(3) You must complete the compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4351. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283 and ends on the last day of the first full month after the compliance date. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4351(d)(5); calculations according to § 63.4351 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP overall control efficiency was equal to or greater than the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency limit in Table 1 to this subpart or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration was no greater than 20 ppmv on a dry basis and the efficiency of the capture system was 100 percent; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4364; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4293.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9628, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4351
How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
(a) You may use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option for any individual web coating/printing operation, for any group of web coating/printing operations in the affected source, or for all of the web coating/printing operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled web coating/printing operations in a group for which you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option. You must use either the compliant material option, the emission rate without add-on controls option, or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any web coating/printing operation(s) in the affected source for which you do not use either the organic HAP overall control efficiency option or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option. To demonstrate initial compliance, any web coating/printing operation for which you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option must meet the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency limitations in Table 1 to this subpart according to the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section. Any web coating/printing operation for which you use the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option must meet the 20 ppmv on a dry basis limit and achieve 100 percent capture efficiencies according to the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section. To demonstrate initial compliance with either option, you also must meet the applicable operating limits in § 63.4292 according to the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section and the work practice standards in § 63.4293 according to the procedures in paragraph
(c) of this section. When calculating the organic HAP overall control efficiency according to this section, do not include any coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials applied on web coating/printing operations for which you use the compliant material option, the emission rate without add-on controls option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in web coating/printing operation(s) for which you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option.
(b)
Compliance with operating limits.
Except as provided in § 63.4350(a)(4), and except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4351(d)(5), you must establish and demonstrate continuous compliance during the initial compliance period with the operating limits required by § 63.4292, using the procedures specified in §§ 63.4363 and 63.4364.
(c)
Compliance with work practice requirements.
You must develop, implement, and document your implementation of the work practice plan required by § 63.4293 during the initial compliance period as specified in § 63.4312.
(d)
Compliance with organic HAP overall control efficiency limits.
You must follow the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
(1)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP and mass of coating or printing materials.
Follow the procedures specified in § 63.4331(a)(1) and (3) to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP and mass of each coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning material applied during the compliance period.
(2)
Calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls.
Using Equation 1 of § 63.4331, calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials in the web coating/printing operation or group of web coating/printing operations for which you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option.
(3)
Calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions for each controlled web coating/printing operation.
Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions reduced for each controlled web coating/printing operation during the compliance period. The emissions reductions determination quantifies the total organic HAP emissions that pass through the emission capture system and are destroyed or removed by the add-on control device. Use the procedures in paragraph (d)(4) of this section to calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions reductions for each controlled web coating/printing operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. For each controlled web coating/printing operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct a liquid-liquid material balance, use the procedures in paragraph (d)(5) of this section to calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions.
(4)
Calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions for controlled web coating/printing operations not using liquid-liquid material balance.
For each controlled web coating/printing operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions using Equation 1 of § 63.4341. The equation applies the emission capture system efficiency and add-on control device efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied in the web coating/printing operation served by the emission capture system and add-on control device during the compliance period. For any period of time a deviation specified in § 63.4352(c) or (d) occurs in the controlled web coating/printing operation, then you must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device. Equation 1 of
§ 63.4341 treats the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during such a deviation as if they were applied on an uncontrolled web coating/printing operation for the time period of the deviation.
(i) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the coating and printing material(s) applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 1A of § 63.4341.
(ii) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation(s) during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 1B of § 63.4341.
(iii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation during deviations specified in § 63.4352(c) and (d), using Equation 1C of § 63.4341.
(5)
Calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions for controlled web coating/printing operations using liquid-liquid material balance.
For each controlled web coating/printing operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for the compliance period as specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) For each solvent recovery system, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system for the compliance period. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.
(ii) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the compliance period, kg, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section.
(iii) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each coating and printing material applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg volatile organic matter per kg coating and printing material. You may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), “Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), or an EPA approved alternative method. Alternatively, you may use information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the coating or printing material. In the event of any inconsistency between information provided by the manufacturer or supplier and the results of Method 24, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), or an approved alternative method, the test method results will govern.
(iv) Measure the mass of each coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning material applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
(v) For the compliance period, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency using Equation 2 of § 63.4341.
(vi) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions reductions for the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, using Equation 3 of § 63.4341.
(6)
Calculate the organic HAP overall control efficiency.
Determine the organic HAP overall control efficiency, kg organic HAP emissions reductions per kg organic HAP emissions before add-on controls during the compliance period, using Equation 1 of this section.
ER29MY03.027
Where:
E
HAP
= Organic HAP overall control efficiency for the compliance period, kg organic HAP emissions reductions per kg organic HAP emissions before add-on controls during the compliance period.
H
C,i
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions reductions for controlled web coating/printing operation, i, during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 1 of § 63.4341.
H
CSR,j
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions reductions for controlled web coating/printing operation, j, during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 3 of § 63.4341.
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period, kg, determined according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
q = Number of controlled web coating/printing operations except those controlled with a solvent recovery system.
r = Number of web coating/printing operations controlled with a solvent recovery system.
(7)
Compliance demonstration.
To demonstrate initial compliance with the organic HAP overall control efficiency in Table 1 to this subpart, the organic HAP overall control efficiency calculated using Equation 1 of this section must be at least 98 percent for new or reconstructed affected sources and at least 97 percent for existing affected sources. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4310, you must identify the web coating/printing operation(s) for which you used the organic HAP overall control efficiency option and submit a statement that the web coating/printing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP overall control efficiency was greater than or equal to the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency in Table 1 to this subpart, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4292 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4293.
(e)
Compliance with oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit.
You must follow the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit of no greater than 20 ppmv on a dry basis.
(1)
Install and operate a PTE.
Install and operate a PTE around each work station and associated drying or curing oven in the web coating/printing operation. An enclosure that meets the requirements in § 63.4361(a) is considered a PTE. Route all organic HAP emissions from each PTE to an oxidizer.
(2)
Determine oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration.
Determine oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration through performance tests using the procedures in § 63.4362(a) and (b).
(3)
Compliance demonstration.
To demonstrate initial compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit in Table 1 to this subpart, the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration must be no greater than 20 ppmv on a dry basis and the efficiency of the capture system must be 100 percent. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4310, you must identify the web coating/printing operation(s) for which you used the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option and submit a statement that the web coating/printing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration was no greater than 20 ppmv on a dry basis, the efficiency of the capture system was 100 percent, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4292
and the work practice standards required by § 63.4293.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9629, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4352
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate continuous compliance with the organic HAP overall control efficiency. The organic HAP overall control efficiency for each compliance period, determined according to the procedures in § 63.4351(d), must be equal to or greater than the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency limit in Table 1 to this subpart. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4350 is a compliance period. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4351(d) on a monthly basis. You must meet the applicable requirements of paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section to demonstrate continuous compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit.
(b) If the organic HAP overall control efficiency for any compliance period failed to meet the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency in Table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).
(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4292 that applies to you, as specified in Table 2 to this subpart.
(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 2 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).
(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4351(d)(4), you must treat the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during a deviation on a controlled web coating/printing operation as if they were applied on an uncontrolled web coating/printing operation for the time period of the deviation as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4341.
(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4364(b) for controlled web coating/printing operations for which you do not conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the web coating/printing operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4351(d)(4), you must treat the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during a deviation on a controlled web coating/printing operation as if they were applied on an uncontrolled web coating/printing operation for the time period of the deviation as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4341.
(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4293. If you did not develop a work practice plan, or you did not implement the plan, or you did not keep the records required by § 63.4312(j)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).
(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4311, you must identify the web coating/printing operation(s) for which you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option. If there were no deviations from the organic HAP overall control efficiency limitations, submit a statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP overall control efficiency for each compliance period was greater than or equal to the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency in Table 1 to this subpart, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4292 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4293 during each compliance period. If there were no deviations from the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration
limit, submit a statement that you were in compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit, the efficiency of the capture system is 100 percent, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4292 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4293 during each compliance period.
(g) [Reserved]
(h) Before September 12, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or web coating/printing operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On and after September 12, 2019, as specified in § 63.4300(b), at all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions, and determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 20465, Apr. 20, 2006; 84 FR 9629, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Performance Testing and Monitoring Requirements
§ 63.4360
What are the general requirements for performance tests?
(a) You must conduct each performance test required by § 63.4340 or § 63.4350 according to the requirements in this section, unless you obtain a waiver of the performance test according to the provisions in § 63.7(h).
(1)
Representative web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation operating conditions.
You must conduct the performance test under representative operating conditions for the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, or nonoperation do not constitute representative conditions for purposes of conducting a performance test. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(2)
Representative emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions.
You must conduct the performance test when the emission capture system and add-on control device are operating at a representative flow rate, and the add-on control device is operating at a representative inlet concentration. You must record information that is necessary to document emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation.
(b) You must conduct each performance test of an emission capture system according to the requirements in § 63.4361. You must conduct each performance test of an add-on control device according to the requirements in § 63.4362.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9630, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4361
How do I determine the emission capture system efficiency?
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine capture efficiency as part of the performance test required by § 63.4340 or § 63.4350.
(a)
Assuming 100 percent capture efficiency.
You may assume the capture system efficiency is 100 percent if both of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are met.
(1) The capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
(2) All regulated materials applied in the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation are applied within the capture system; regulated material solvent flash-off, curing, and drying occurs within the capture system; and the removal or evaporation of cleaning materials from the web coating/printing operation surfaces they are applied to occurs within the capture system. For example, this criterion is not met if the web enters the open shop environment when moving between the application station and a curing oven.
(b)
Measuring capture efficiency.
If the capture system does not meet both of the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, then you must use one of the three protocols described in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section to measure capture efficiency. The capture efficiency measurements use TVH capture efficiency as a surrogate for organic HAP capture efficiency. For the protocols in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the capture efficiency measurement must consist of three test runs. Each test run must be at least 3 hours duration or the length of a production run, up to 8 hours.
(c)
Liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
The liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol compares the mass of liquid TVH in regulated materials applied in the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation to the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the emission capture system. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation where regulated materials are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied regulated materials subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation where capture devices collect emissions for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or tenter frame, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204A or 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to determine the mass fraction of TVH liquid input from each regulated material used in the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation during each capture efficiency test run. To make the determination, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term volatile organic compounds (VOC) in the methods.
(3) Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the total mass of TVH liquid input from all the regulated materials applied in the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation during each capture efficiency test run.
ER29MY03.028
Where:
TVH
applied
= Mass of liquid TVH in regulated materials applied in the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
i
= Mass fraction of TVH in regulated material, i, that is applied in the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg TVH per kg material.
M
i
= Total mass of regulated material, i, applied in the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
n = Number of different regulated materials applied in the web coating/printing or
dyeing/finishing operation during the capture efficiency test run.
(4) Use Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of TVH emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound-emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation for which capture efficiency is being determined, must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(5) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system using Equation 2 of this section:
ER29MY03.029
Where:
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
TVH
applied
= Total mass of TVH liquid input applied in the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
uncaptured
= Total mass of TVH that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
(6) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(d)
Gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
The gas-to-gas protocol compares the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system to the mass of TVH emissions not captured. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the gas-to-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation where regulated materials are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied regulated materials subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation where capture devices collect emissions generated by the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or a tenter frame, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204B or 204C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system during each capture efficiency test run as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) The sampling points for the Method 204B or 204C measurement must be upstream from the add-on control device and must represent total emissions routed from the capture system and entering the add-on control device.
(ii) If multiple emission streams from the capture system enter the add-on control device without a single common duct, then the emissions entering the add-on control device must be simultaneously measured in each duct and the total emissions entering the
add-on control device must be determined.
(3) Use Method 204D or 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of TVH emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound-emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation for which capture efficiency is being determined, must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(4) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system using Equation 3 of this section:
ER29MY03.030
Where:
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
TVH
captured
= Total mass of TVH captured by the emission capture system as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device during the emission capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
uncaptured
= Total mass of TVH that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
(5) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(e)
Alternative capture efficiency protocol.
As an alternative to the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, you may determine capture efficiency using any other capture efficiency protocol and test methods that satisfy the criteria of either the DQO or LCL approach as described in appendix A to subpart KK of this part.
§ 63.4362
How do I determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency?
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency as part of the performance test required by §§ 63.4340 and 63.4350. You must conduct three test runs as specified in § 63.7(e)(3) and each test run must last at least 1 hour.
(a) For all types of add-on control devices, use the test methods as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Use Method 1 or 1A in appendix A-1 of part 60, as appropriate, to select sampling sites and velocity traverse points.
(2) Use Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F in appendix A-1, or Method 2G in appendix A-2, of part 60, as appropriate, to measure gas volumetric flow rate.
(3) Use Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A of part 60, as appropriate, for gas analysis to determine dry molecular weight. You may also use as an alternative to Method 3B, the manual method for measuring the oxygen, carbon dioxide, and carbon monoxide content of exhaust gas in ANSI/ASME, PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus]” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14).
(4) Use Method 4 in appendix A of part 60 to determine stack gas moisture.
(5) Methods for determining gas volumetric flow rate, dry molecular weight, and stack gas moisture must be performed, as applicable, during each test run.
(b) Measure the volatile organic matter concentration as carbon at the inlet and outlet of the add-on control device simultaneously, using Method 25 or 25A in appendix A-7 of part 60. If you are demonstrating compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit, only the outlet volatile organic matter concentration must be determined. The outlet volatile organic matter concentration is determined as the average of the three test runs. You may use Method 18 in appendix A-6 of part 60 to subtract methane emissions from measured volatile organic matter concentration as carbon.
(1) Use Method 25 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be more than 50 parts per million (ppm) at the control device outlet.
(2) Use Method 25A if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be 50 ppm or less at the control device outlet. Method 25A must be used to demonstrate compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit.
(3) Use Method 25A if the add-on control device is not an oxidizer.
(c) If two or more add-on control devices are used for the same emission stream, then you must measure emissions at the outlet to the atmosphere of each device. For example, if one add-on control device is a concentrator with an outlet to the atmosphere for the high-volume, dilute stream that has been treated by the concentrator, and a second add-on control device is an oxidizer with an outlet to the atmosphere for the low-volume, concentrated stream that is treated with the oxidizer, you must measure emissions at the outlet of the oxidizer and the high volume dilute stream outlet of the concentrator.
(d) For each test run, determine the total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rates for the inlet and the outlet of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section. If there is more than one inlet or outlet to the add-on control device, you must calculate the total gaseous organic mass flow rate using Equation 1 of this section for each inlet and each outlet and then total all of the inlet emissions and total all of the outlet emissions:
ER29MY03.031
Where:
M
f
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate, kg/hour (h).
C
c
= Concentration of organic compounds as carbon in the vent gas, as determined by Method 25 or Method 25A, ppmv, dry basis.
Q
sd
= Volumetric flow rate of gases entering or exiting the add-on control device, as determined by Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G, dry standard cubic meters/hour (dscm/h).
0.0416 = Conversion factor for molar volume, kg-moles per cubic meter (mole/m
3
) (@ 293 Kelvin (K) and 760 millimeters of mercury (mmHg)).
(e) For each test run, determine the add-on control device organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency using Equation 2 of this section.
ER29MY03.032
Where:
DRE = Organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent.
M
fi
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the inlet(s) to the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, kg/h.
M
fo
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the outlet(s) of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, kg/h.
(f) Determine the emission destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device as the average of the efficiencies determined in the three
test runs and calculated in Equation 2 of this section.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9630, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4363
How do I establish the add-on control device operating limits during the performance test?
During the performance test required by § 63.4340 or § 63.4350 and described in §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362, you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4292 according to this section, unless you have received approval for alternative monitoring and operating limits under § 63.8(f) as specified in § 63.4292.
(a)
Thermal oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a thermal oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must monitor the temperature in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature maintained during the performance test. This average temperature is the minimum operating limit for your thermal oxidizer.
(b)
Catalytic oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a catalytic oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to either paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) or paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test. These are the minimum operating limits for your catalytic oxidizer.
(3) As an alternative to monitoring the temperature difference across the catalyst bed, you may monitor the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and implement a site-specific inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed during the performance test. This is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer.
(4) You must develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer(s) for which you elect to monitor according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The plan must address, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Annual sampling and analysis of the catalyst activity (
i.e.,
conversion efficiency) following the manufacturer's or catalyst supplier's recommended procedures.
(ii) Monthly inspection of the oxidizer system, including the burner assembly and fuel supply lines for problems and, as necessary, adjust the equipment to assure proper air-to-fuel mixtures.
(iii) Annual internal and monthly external visual inspection of the catalyst bed to check for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found, you must take corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations and conduct a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency according to § 63.4362.
§ 63.4364
What are the requirements for CPMS installation, operation, and maintenance?
(a)
General.
If you are using a control device to comply with the emission standards in § 63.4290, you must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) and
(e) of this section according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraph (b) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(5) through (7) of this section.
(1) Each CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four equally spaced successive cycles of CPMS operation to have a valid hour of data.
(2) You must have valid data from at least 90 percent of the hours during which the process operated.
(3) You must determine the hourly average of all recorded readings according to paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) To calculate a valid hourly value, you must have at least three of four equally spaced data values from that hour from a continuous monitoring system (CMS) that is not out-of-control.
(ii) Provided all of the readings recorded in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section clearly demonstrate continuous compliance with the standard that applies to you, then you are not required to determine the hourly average of all recorded readings.
(4) You must determine the rolling 3-hour average of all recorded readings for each operating period. To calculate the average for each 3-hour averaging period, you must have at least two of three of the hourly averages for that period using only average values that are based on valid data (
i.e.,
not from out-of-control periods).
(5) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS.
(6) At all times, you must maintain the monitoring system in accordance with § 63.4300(b) and in proper working order including, but not limited to, keeping readily available necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.
(7) Before September 12, 2019, except for monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, or required quality assurance or control activities (including calibration checks or required zero and span adjustments), you must conduct all monitoring at all times that the unit is operating. On and after September 12, 2019, you must operate the CPMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times in accordance with § 63.4300(b). Data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities shall not be used for purposes of calculating the emissions concentrations and percent reductions specified in Table 1 to this subpart. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing compliance of the control device and associated control system. A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.
(8) Except for periods of required quality assurance or control activities, any averaging period during which the CPMS fails to operate and record data continuously as required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or during which generated data cannot be included in calculating averages as specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, constitutes a deviation, and you must notify the Administrator in accordance with § 63.4311(a).
(b)
Capture system bypass line.
You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(5) through (6) and (b)(1) and (2) of this section for each emission capture system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(1) You must monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism controlling the bypass line in a nondiverting position in such a way that the valve or closure mechanism cannot be opened without creating a record that the valve was opened. The method used to monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism must meet one of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i)
Flow control position indicator.
Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate
according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes and provides a record indicating whether the emissions are directed to the add-on control device or diverted from the add-on control device. The time of occurrence and flow control position must be recorded, as well as every time the flow direction is changed. The flow control position indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(ii)
Car-seal or lock-and-key valve closures.
Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. You must visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position, and the emissions are not diverted away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(iii)
Valve closure continuous monitoring.
Ensure that any bypass line valve is in the closed (non-diverting) position through monitoring of valve position at least once every 15 minutes. You must inspect the monitoring system at least once every month to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position.
(iv)
Automatic shutdown system.
Use an automatic shutdown system in which the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation is stopped when flow is diverted by the bypass line away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere when the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation is running. You must inspect the automatic shutdown system at least once every month to verify that it will detect diversions of flow and shutdown the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation.
(2) If any bypass line is opened, you must include a description of why the bypass line was opened and the length of time it remained open in the semiannual compliance reports required in § 63.4311.
(c)
Oxidizers.
If you are using an oxidizer to comply with the emission standards, you must comply with paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate temperature monitoring equipment according to the manufacturer's specifications. The calibration of the chart recorder, data logger, or temperature indicator must be verified every 3 months or the chart recorder, data logger, or temperature indicator must be replaced. A thermocouple is considered part of the temperature indicator for purposes of performing periodic calibration and verification checks.
(2) For an oxidizer other than a catalytic oxidizer, install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device must have an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±1 °Celsius, whichever is greater. The thermocouple or temperature sensor must be installed in the combustion chamber at a location in the combustion zone.
(3) For a catalytic oxidizer, install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device must be capable of monitoring temperature with an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius or ±1 degree Celsius, whichever is greater. The thermocouple or temperature sensor must be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the inlet and outlet of the catalyst bed. Calculate the temperature rise across the catalyst.
(d)
Other types of control devices.
If you use a control device other than an oxidizer or wish to monitor an alternative parameter and comply with a different operating limit, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of an alternative monitoring method under § 63.8(f).
(e)
Capture system monitoring.
If you are complying with the emission standards in § 63.4290 through the use of a capture system and control device, you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan containing the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section for these capture systems. You must monitor the capture system in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this
section. You must make the monitoring plan available for inspection by the permitting authority upon request.
(1) The monitoring plan must:
(i) Identify the operating parameter to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency determined during the initial compliance test is maintained; and
(ii) Explain why this parameter is appropriate for demonstrating ongoing compliance; and
(iii) Identify the specific monitoring procedures.
(2) The monitoring plan must specify the operating parameter value or range of values that demonstrate compliance with the emission standards in § 63.4290. The specified operating parameter value or range of values must represent the conditions present when the capture system is being properly operated and maintained.
(3) You must conduct all capture system monitoring in accordance with the plan.
(4) Any deviation from the operating parameter value or range of values which are monitored according to the plan will be considered a deviation from the operating limit.
(5) You must review and update the capture system monitoring plan at least annually.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9630, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.4370
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by us, the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency (as well as the U.S. EPA), has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Approval of alternatives to the work practice standards in § 63.4293 under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.4371
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Add-on control
means an air pollution control device, such as a thermal oxidizer or carbon adsorber, that reduces pollution in an air stream by destruction or removal before discharge to the atmosphere.
As-applied
means the condition of a coating at the time of application to a substrate, including any added solvent.
As purchased
means the condition of a coating, printing, slashing, dyeing, or finishing material as delivered to the affected source, before alteration.
Capture device
means a hood, enclosure, room, floor sweep, or other means of containing or collecting emissions and directing those emissions into an add-on air pollution control device.
Capture efficiency
means the portion (expressed as a percentage) of the pollutants from an emission source that is delivered to an add-on control device.
Capture system
means one or more capture devices intended to collect emissions generated by a web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation in the use of regulated materials, both at the point of application and at subsequent points where emissions from the regulated materials occur, such as flashoff, drying, or curing. As used in this subpart, multiple capture devices that collect emissions generated by a
web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation are considered a single capture system.
Cleaning material
means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials, such as dirt, grease, or oil, from a textile before a web coating/printing operation (surface preparation) or from equipment associated with the web coating/ printing operation, such as tanks, rollers, rotary screens, and knife or wiper blades. Thus, it includes any cleaning material used in the web coating and printing subcategory for surface preparation of substrates or process operation equipment cleaning or both with the exception of cleaning material applied to the substrate using handheld, non-refillable aerosol containers.
Coating
means the application of a semi-liquid coating material to one or both sides of a textile web substrate. Once the coating material is dried (and cured, if necessary), it bonds with the textile to form a continuous solid film for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. Coating does not include finishing where the fiber is impregnated with a chemical or resin to impart certain properties, but a solid film is not formed.
Coating material
means an elastomer, polymer, or prepolymer material applied as a thin layer to a textile web. Such materials include, but are not limited to, coatings, sealants, inks, and adhesives. Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of acids, bases, or any combination of these substances are not considered coating material for the purposes of this subpart. Thinning materials also are not included in this definition of coating materials, but are accounted for separately.
Coating operation
means equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a web substrate to prepare it for coating material application (surface preparation), to apply coating material to a web substrate (coating application) and to dry or cure the coating material after application by exposure to heat or radiation (coating drying or curing), or to clean coating operation equipment (equipment cleaning). A single coating operation may include any combination of these types of equipment, but always includes at least the point at which a coating or cleaning material is applied and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP emissions from that coating or cleaning material occur. There may be multiple coating operations in an affected source. Coating material application with handheld, non-refillable aerosol containers, touch-up markers, or marking pens is not a coating operation for the purposes of this subpart. Polyurethane foam carpet backing operations are not coating operations for the purposes of this subpart.
Container
means any portable device in which a material is stored, conveyed, treated, disposed of, or otherwise handled.
Continuous parameter monitoring system
means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart, used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of coating or printing operation, or capture system, or add-on control device parameters.
Controlled web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation
means a web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation from which some or all of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.
Deviation
means:
(1) Before September 12, 2019, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:
(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard;
(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(iii) Fails to meet any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart; and
(2) On and after September 12, 2019, any instance in which an affected
source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:
(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard; or
(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.
Dyeing
means the process of applying color to the whole body of a textile substrate with either natural or synthetic dyes. Dyes are applied to yarn, fiber, cord, or fabric in aqueous solutions and dried before or after finishing, depending on the process. Continuous dyeing processes include, but are not limited to thermosol, pad/steam, pad/dry, and rope range dyeing. Batch dyeing processes include, but are not limited to, jet, beck, stock, yarn, kier, beam, pad, package and skein dyeing.
Dyeing materials
means the purchased dyes and dyeing auxiliaries that are used in the dyeing process. The dyes are the substances that add color to textiles through incorporation into the fiber by chemical reaction, absorption or dispersion. Dyeing auxiliaries are various substances that can be added to the dyebath to aid dyeing. Dyeing auxiliaries may be necessary to transfer the dye from the dyebath to the fiber or they may provide improvements in the dyeing process or characteristics of the dyed fiber.
Dyeing operation
means the collection of equipment used to dye a textile substrate and includes equipment used for dye application, dye fixation, and textile substrate rinsing and drying. A single dyeing operation may include any combination of these types of equipment, but always includes at least the point at which a dyeing material is applied and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP emissions from that dyeing material occur. There may be multiple dyeing operations in an affected source. Dyeing material application with handheld, non-refillable aerosol containers, touch-up markers, brushes, or marking pens is not a dyeing operation for the purposes of this subpart.
Emission limitation
means an emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard.
Enclosure
means a structure that surrounds a source of emissions and captures and directs the emissions to an add-on control device.
Fabric
means any woven, knitted, plaited, braided, felted, or non-woven material made of filaments, fibers, or yarns including thread. This term includes material made of fiberglass, natural fibers, synthetic fibers, or composite.
Finishing
means the chemical treatment of a textile (
e.g.,
with resins, softeners, stain resist or soil release agents, water repellants, flame retardants, antistatic agents, or hand builders) that improves the appearance and/or usefulness of the textile substrate.
Finishing materials
means the purchased substances (including auxiliaries added to the finish to improve the finishing process or the characteristics of the finished textile) that are applied individually or as mixtures to textile substrates to impart desired properties.
Finishing operations
means the collection of equipment used to finish a textile substrate including chemical finish applicator(s), flashoff area(s) and drying or curing oven(s).
Laminated fabric
means fabric composed of a high-strength reinforcing base fabric between two plies of flexible thermoplastic film. Two or more fabrics or textiles or a fabric and a paper substrate may be bonded with an adhesive to form a laminate. The bonding of a fabric substrate to paper is not subject to the requirements of this subpart.
Manufacturer's formulation data
means data on a material (such as a coating, printing, slashing, dyeing and finishing) that are supplied by the material manufacturer based on knowledge of the ingredients used to manufacture that material, rather than based on testing of the material. Manufacturer's formulation data may include, but are not limited to, information on density, organic HAP content, and coating, printing, dyeing, slashing,
finishing, thinning, or cleaning material content.
Mass fraction of organic HAP
means the ratio of the mass of organic HAP to the mass of a material in which it is contained; kg of organic HAP per kg of material.
Month
means a calendar month or a pre-specified period of 28 days to 35 days to allow for flexibility in recordkeeping when data are based on a business accounting period.
No organic HAP
means no organic HAP in table 5 to this subpart is present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and no organic HAP not listed in table 5 to this subpart is present at 1.0 percent by mass or more. The organic HAP content of a regulated material is determined according to § 63.4321(e)(1).
Operating scenario
means for a dyeing/finishing process operation or group of process operations, the combination of operating conditions (including but not limited to, type of substrate, type and mass fraction of organic HAP in dyeing/finishing materials applied, and the process operation temperature and pressure) affecting the fraction of organic HAP applied in dyeing and finishing operations discharged to wastewater. For example, a dyeing process operation run at atmospheric pressure would be a different operating scenario from the same dyeing process operation run under pressure.
Organic HAP content
means the mass of organic HAP per mass of solids for a coating or printing material calculated using Equation 1 of § 63.4321. The organic HAP content is determined for the coating or printing material as purchased.
Organic HAP overall control efficiency
means the total efficiency of a control system, determined either by:
(1) The product of the capture efficiency as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.4361 and the control device organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.4362; or
(2) A liquid-liquid material balance in accordance with the requirements of § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5) or § 63.4351(d)(5).
Permanent total enclosure (PTE)
means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51, for a PTE and that directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
Point of determination
means each point where process wastewater exits the dyeing/finishing process unit.
Printing
means the application of color and patterns to textiles, usually in the form of a paste, using a variety of techniques including, but not limited to roller, rotary screen, and ink jet printing. After application of the printing material, the textile usually is treated with steam, heat, or chemicals to fix the color.
Printing material
means the purchased substances, usually including gums or thickeners, dyes and appropriate chemicals such as defoamers and resins that are mixed to produce the print pastes applied to textile substrates as patterns and colors.
Printing operation
means equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a web substrate to prepare it for printing material application (surface preparation), to apply printing material to one or both sides of a web substrate (printing application) and to dry or cure the printing material after application by exposure to heat or radiation (printing material drying or curing), or to clean printing operation equipment (equipment cleaning). A single printing operation may include any combination of these types of equipment, but always includes at least the point at which a printing or cleaning material is applied and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP emissions from that printing or cleaning material occur. There may be multiple printing operations in an affected source.
Publically owned treatment works
or
POTW
means any device or system used in the treatment (including recycling and reclamation) of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature which is owned by a “State” or “municipality” (as defined by section 502(4) of the CWA). This definition includes sewers, pipes or other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to a POTW providing treatment.
Regulated materials
means the organic-containing materials that are used in the three printing, coating, and
dyeing subcategories defined in § 63.4281(a). Organic-HAP containing regulated materials are the source of the organic HAP emissions limited by the requirements of this subpart. The specific regulated materials for each subcategory are defined in § 63.4282.
Research or laboratory operation
means an operation whose primary purpose is for research and development of new processes and products that is conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel and is not engaged in the manufacture of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in a
de minimis
manner.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.
Slashing
means the application of a chemical sizing solution to warp yarns prior to weaving to protect against snagging or abrasion that could occur during weaving.
Slashing materials,
also known as sizing, means the purchased compounds that are applied to warp yarns prior to weaving. Starch, gelatin, oil, wax, and manufactured polymers such as polyvinyl alcohol, polystyrene, polyacrylic acid and polyacetates are used as sizing compounds.
Slashing operation
means the equipment used to mix and prepare size for application and the slasher, which is the equipment used to apply and dry size on warp yarn.
Solids
means the nonvolatile portion of the coating and printing materials that makes up the dry film on a coated substrate and the pattern or color on a printed substrate.
Startup, initial
means the first time equipment is brought online in a facility.
Surface preparation
means chemical treatment of part or all of a substrate to prepare it for coating or printing material application.
Temporary total enclosure
means an enclosure constructed for the purpose of measuring the capture efficiency of pollutants emitted from a given source as defined in Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51.
Textile
means any one of the following:
(1) Staple fibers and filaments suitable for conversion to or use as yarns, or for the preparation of woven, knit, or nonwoven fabrics;
(2) Yarns made from natural or manufactured fibers;
(3) Fabrics and other manufactured products made from staple fibers and filaments and from yarn; and
(4) Garments and other articles fabricated from fibers, yarns, or fabrics.
Thinning material
means an organic solvent that is added to a coating or printing material after the coating or printing material is received from the supplier.
Total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH)
means the total amount of nonaqueous volatile organic material determined according to Methods 204A through 204C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 and substituting the term TVH each place in the methods where the term VOC is used. The TVH includes both VOC and non-VOC.
Uncontrolled web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation
means acoating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation from which none of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
means any compounds defined as VOC in 40 CFR 51.100(s).
Wastewater
means water that is generated in a web coating, web printing, slashing, dyeing or finishing operation and is collected, stored, or treated prior to being discarded or discharged.
Web
means a continuous textile substrate which is flexible enough to be wound or unwound as rolls.
[68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9630, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 41150, July 8, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. OOOO, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart OOOO of Part 63—Emission Limits for New or Reconstructed and Existing Affected Sources in the Printing, Coating and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles Source Category
If you are required to comply with emission limitations in accordance with §§ 63.4290 and 63.4291, you must comply with the applicable emission limits in the following table:
If your affected source is a . . .
And it conducts . . .
Then this is the organic HAP emission limit for each compliance period . . .
1. New or reconstructed coating and printing affected source
Coating operations only,
or
Printing operations only,
or
Both coating and printing operations
You may choose any one of the following limits:
Reduce organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere by achieving at least a 98 percent organic HAP overall control efficiency; Limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to no more than 0.08 kg of organic HAP per kg of solids applied; or If you use an oxidizer to control organic HAP emissions, operate the oxidizer such that an outlet organic HAP concentration of no greater than 20 ppmv on a dry basis is achieved and the efficiency of the capture system is 100 percent.
2. Existing coating and printing affected source
Coating operations only,
or
Printing operations only,
or
Both coating and printing operations
You may choose any one of the following limits:
Reduce organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere by achieving at least a 97 percent organic HAP overall control efficiency;
Limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to no more than 0.12 kg of organic HAP per kg of solids applied; or
If you use an oxidizer to control organic HAP emissions, operate the oxidizer such that an outlet organic HAP concentration of no greater than 20 ppmv on a dry basis is achieved and the efficiency of the capture system is 100 percent.
3. New, reconstructed or existing dyeing finishing affected source
a. Dyeing operations only
You must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to no more than 0.016 kg of organic HAP per kg of dyeing materials applied.
b. Finishing operations only
You must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to no more than 0.0003 kg of organic HAP per kg of finishing materials applied.
c. Both dyeing and finishing operations
You must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to no more than 0.016 kg of organic HAP per kg of dyeing and finishing materials applied.
4. New, reconstructed or existing slashing affected source
Slashing operations only
You must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to no more than zero kg organic HAP per kg of slashing materials as determined according to § 63.4321(e)(1)(iv) of this subpart.
Pt. 63, Subpt. OOOO, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart OOOO of Part 63—Operating Limits if Using Add-On Control Devices and Capture System
If you are required to comply with the operating limits by § 63.4292, you must comply with the applicable operating limits in the following table:
For the following device . . .
You must meet the following operating
limit . . .
And you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limit by . . .
1. Thermal oxidizer
a. The average temperature in any 3-hour block period must not fall below the temperature limit established according to § 63.4363(a)
i. Collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4364(c);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour block average temperature at or above the temperature limit.
2. Catalytic oxidizer
a. The average temperature measured at the inlet to the catalyst bed in any 3-hour block period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4363(b); and either
i. Collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4364(c);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour block average catalyst bed inlet temparature at or above temperature limit.
b. Ensure that the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed in any 3-hour block period does not fall below the temperature difference limit established according to § 63.4363(b)(2); or
Collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4364(c), reducing the data to 3-hour block averages, and maintaining the 3-hour block average temperature difference at or above the temperature difference limit.
c. Develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan according to § 63.4363(b)(4)
Maintaining an up-to-date inspection and maintenance plan, records of annual catalyst activity checks, records of monthly inspections of the oxidizer system, and records of the annual internal inspections of the catalyst bed. If a problem is discovered during a monthly or annual inspection required by § 63.4363(b)(4), you must take corrective action as soon as practicable consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations.
3. Emission capture system
Submit monitoring plan to the Administrator that identifies operating parameters to be monitored according to § 63.4364(e)
Conduct monitoring according to the plan (§ 63.4364(e)(3)).
Pt. 63, Subpt. OOOO, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart OOOO of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart OOOO
[You must comply with the applicable General Provisions requirements according to the following table:]
Citation
Subject
Applicable to subpart OOOO
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1)-(12)
General Applicability
Yes
§ 63.1(b)(1)-(3)
Initial Applicability Determination
Yes
Applicability to subpart OOOO is also specified in § 63.4281.
§ 63.1(c)(1)
Applicability After Standard Established
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(2)-(3)
Applicability of Permit Program for Area Sources
No
Area sources are not subject to subpart OOOO.
§ 63.1(c)(4)-(5)
Extensions and Notifications
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(6)
Reclassification
Yes
§ 63.1(e)
Applicability of Permit Program Before Relevant Standard is Set
Yes
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
Additional definitions are specified in § 63.4371.
§ 63.3(a)-(c)
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
§ 63.4(a)(1)-(5)
Prohibited Activities
Yes
§ 63.4(b)-(c)
Circumvention/Severability
Yes
§ 63.5(a)
Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(b)(1)-(6)
Requirements for Existing, Newly Constructed, and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
§ 63.5(d)
Application for Approval of Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(e)
Approval of Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(f)
Approval of Construction/Reconstruction Based on Prior State Review
Yes
§ 63.6(a)
Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements—Applicability
Yes
§ 63.6(b)(1)-(7)
Compliance Dates for New and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
Section 63.4283 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(c)(1)-(5)
Compliance Dates for Existing Sources
Yes
Section 63.4283 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4300(b) for general duty requirement.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes
§ 63.6(e)(3)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Plan
Yes, before September 12, 2019.
No, on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance Except During Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.6(f)(2)-(3)
Methods for Determining Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(g)(1)-(3)
Use of an Alternative Standard
Yes
§ 63.6(h)
Compliance With Opacity/Visible Emission Standards
No
Subpart OOOO does not establish opacity standards and does not require continuous opacity monitoring systems (COMS).
§ 63.6(i)(1)-(16)
Extension of Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
Yes
§ 63.7(a)(1)
Performance Test Requirements—Applicability
Yes
Applies to all affected sources. Additional requirements for performance testing are specified in §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362.
§ 63.7(a)(2)
Performance Test Requirements—Dates
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard.
§ 63.7(a)(3)
Performance Tests Required by the Administrator
Yes
§ 63.7(b)-(d)
Performance Test Requirements—Notification, Quality Assurance, Facilities Necessary for Safe Testing, Conditions During Test
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Conduct of performance tests
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4360.
§ 63.7(e)(2)-(4)
Conduct of performance tests
Yes
§ 63.7(f)
Performance Test Requirements—Use of Alternative Test Method
Yes
Applies to all test methods except those used to determine capture system efficiency.
§ 63.7(g)-(h)
Performance Test Requirements—Data Analysis, Recordkeeping, Waiver of Test
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards.
§ 63.8(a)(1)-(3)
Monitoring Requirements—Applicability
Yes
Applies only to monitoring of capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards. Additional requirements for monitoring are specified in § 63.4364.
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Additional Monitoring Requirements
No
Subpart OOOO does not have monitoring requirements for flares.
§ 63.8(b)
Conduct of Monitoring
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(1)
Continuous Monitoring Systems (CMS) Operation and Maintenance
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
Section 63.4364 specifies the requirements for the operation of CMS for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(2)-(3)
CMS Operation and Maintenance
Yes
Applies only to monitoring of capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards. Additional requirements for CMS operations and maintenance are specified in § 63.4364.
§ 63.8(c)(4)
CMS
No
Section 63.4364 specifies the requirements for the operation of CMS for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(5)
COMS
No
Subpart OOOO does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.8(c)(6)
CMS Requirements
No
Section 63.4364 specifies the requirements for monitoring systems for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(7)
CMS Out of Control Periods
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(8)
CMS Out of Control Periods and Reporting
No
Section 63.4311 requires reporting of CMS out-of-control periods.
§ 63.8(d)-(e)
Quality Control Program and CMS Performance Evaluation
No
Subpart OOOO does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.8(f)(1)-(5)
Use of an Alternative Monitoring Method
Yes
§ 63.8(f)(6)
Alternative to Relative Accuracy Test
No
Subpart OOOO does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.8(g)(1)-(5)
Data Reduction
No
Sections 63.4363 and 63.4364 specify monitoring data reduction.
§ 63.9(a)
Applicability and General Information
Yes
§ 63.9(b)
Initial Notifications
No
Subpart OOOO provides 1 year for an existing source to submit an initial notification.
§ 63.9(c)
Request for Extension of Compliance
Yes
§ 63.9(d)
Notification that Source is Subject to Special Compliance Requirements
Yes
§ 63.9(e)
Notification of Performance Test
Yes
Applies only to capture system and add-on control device performance tests at sources using these to comply with the standards.
§ 63.9(f)
Notification of Visible Emissions/Opacity Test
No
Subpart OOOO does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.9(g)(1)-(3)
Additional Notifications When Using CMS
No
Subpart OOOO does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.9(h)
Notification of Compliance Status
Yes
Section 63.4310 specifies the dates for submitting the notification of compliance status.
§ 63.9(i)
Adjustment of Submittal Deadlines
Yes
§ 63.9(j)
Change in Previous Information
Yes
§ 63.9(k)
Electronic reporting procedures
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
§ 63.10(a)
Recordkeeping/Reporting—Applicability and General Information
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(1)
General Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes
Additional Requirements are specified in §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)
Recordkeeping of Occurrence and Duration of Startups and Shutdowns
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4312(i).
§ 63.10(b)(2)(ii)
Recordkeeping of Failures to Meet Standards
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4312(i).
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Recordkeeping Relevant to Maintenance of Air Pollution Control and Monitoring Equipment
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv)-(v)
Actions Taken to Minimize Emissions During Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4312(i)(4) for a record of actions taken to minimize emissions during a deviation from the standard.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi)
Recordkeeping for CMS malfunctions
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4312(i) for records of periods of deviation from the standard, including instances where a CMS is inoperative or out-of-control.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vii)-(xi)
Records
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xii)
Records
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiii)
No
Subpart OOOO does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiv)
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Recordkeeping Requirements for Applicability Determinations
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(1)-(6)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(7)-(8)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
No
See
§ 63.4312(i)(1) for records of periods of deviation from the standard, including instances where a CMS is inoperative or out-of-control.
§ 63.10(c)(10)-(14)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(15)
Records Regarding the Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Plan
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.10(d)(1)
General Reporting Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.4311.
§ 63.10(d)(2)
Report of Performance Test Results
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.4311(b).
§ 63.10(d)(3)
Reporting Opacity or Visible Emissions Observations
No
Subpart OOOO does not require opacity or visible emissions observations.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress Reports for Sources With Compliance Extensions
Yes
§ 63.10(d)(5)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Reports
Yes, before September 12, 2019
No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4311(a)(7).
§ 63.10(e)(1)-(2)
Additional CMS Reports
No
Subpart OOOO does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.10(e)(3)
Excess Emissions/CMS Performance Reports
No
Section 63.4311(a) specifies the contents of periodic compliance reports.
§ 63.10(e)(4)
COMS Data Reports
No
Subpart OOOO does not specify requirements for opacity or COMS.
§ 63.10(f)
Recordkeeping/Reporting Waiver
Yes
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements/Flares
No
Subpart OOOO does not specify use of flares for compliance.
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes
§ 63.13
Addresses
Yes
§ 63.14
Incorporation by Reference
Yes
ASNI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, part 10.
§ 63.15
Availability of Information/Confidentiality
Yes
[84 FR 9631, Mar. 15, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 73907, Nov. 19, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. OOOO, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart OOOO of Part 63—Default Organic HAP Mass Fraction for Solvents and Solvent Blends
You may use the mass fraction values in the following table for solvent blends for which you do not have test data or manufacturer's formulation data.
Solvent/solvent blend
CAS. No.
Average
organic
HAP mass
fraction
Typical organic HAP, percent by mass
1. Toluene
108-88-3
1.0
Toluene.
2. Xylene(s)
1330-20-7
1.0
Xylenes, ethylbenzene.
3. Hexane
110-54-3
0.5
n-hexane.
4. n-Hexane
110-54-3
1.0
n-hexane.
5. Ethylbenzene
100-41-4
1.0
Ethylbenzene.
6. Aliphatic 140
0
None.
7. Aromatic 100
0.02
1% xylene, 1% cumene.
8. Aromatic 150
0.09
Naphthalene.
9. Aromatic naphta
64742-95-6
0.02
1% xylene, 1% cumene.
10. Aromatic solvent
64742-94-5
0.1
Naphthalene.
11. Exempt mineral spirits
8032-32-4
0
None.
12. Ligroines (VM
P)
8032-32-4
0
None.
13. Lactol spirits
64742-89-6
0.15
Toluene.
14. Low aromatic white spirit
64742-82-1
0
None.
15. Mineral spirits
64742-88-7
0.01
Xylenes.
16. Hydrotreated naphtha
64742-48-9
0
None.
17. Hydrotreated light distillate
64742-47-8
0.001
Toluene.
18. Stoddard solvent
8052-41-3
0.01
Xylenes.
19. Super high-flash naphtha
64742-95-6
0.05
Xylenes.
20. Varsol ® solvent
8052-49-3
0.01
0.5% xylenes, 0.5% ethylbenzene.
21. VM
P naphtha
64742-89-8
0.06
3% toluene, 3% xylene.
22. Petroleum distillate mixture
68477-31-6
0.08
4% naphthalene, 4% biphenyl.
Pt. 63, Subpt. OOOO, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart OOOO of Part 63—Default Organic HAP Mass Fraction for Petroleum Solvent Groups
a
You may use the mass fraction values in the following table for solvent blends for which you do not have test data or manufacturer's formulation data:
Solvent type
Average
organic HAP mass
fraction
Typical organic HAP, percent by mass
Aliphatic
b
0.03
1% Xylene, 1% Toluene, and 1% Ethylbenzene.
Aromatic
c
0.06
4% Xylene, 1% Toluene, and 1% Ethylbenzene.
a
Use this table only if the solvent blend does not match any of the solvent blends in Table 4 to this subpart and you only know whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic.
b
Mineral Spirits 135, Mineral Spirits 150 EC, Naphtha, Mixed Hydrocarbon, Aliphatic Hydrocarbon, Aliphatic Naphtha, Naphthol Spirits, Petroleum Spirits, Petroleum Oil, Petroleum Naphtha, Solvent Naphtha, Solvent Blend.
c
Medium-flash Naphtha, High-flash Naphtha, Aromatic Naphtha, Light Aromatic Naphtha, Light Aromatic Hydrocarbons, Aromatic Hydrocarbons, Light Aromatic Solvent.
Pt. 63, Subpt. OOOO, Table 6

# Table 6 to Subpart OOOO of Part 63—List of Hazardous Air Pollutants That Must Be Counted Toward Total Organic HAP Content if Present at 0.1 Percent or More by Mass
Chemical name
CAS No.
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
79-34-5
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
79-00-5
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine
57-14-7
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane
96-12-8
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine
122-66-7
1,3-Butadiene
106-99-0
1,3-Dichloropropene
542-75-6
1,4-Dioxane
123-91-1
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
88-06-2
2,4/2,6-Dinitrotoluene (mixture)
25321-14-6
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
121-14-2
2,4-Toluene diamine
95-80-7
2-Nitropropane
79-46-9
3,3'-Dichlorobenzidine
91-94-1
3,3'-Dimethoxybenzidine
119-90-4
3,3'-Dimethylbenzidine
119-93-7
4,4'-Methylene bis(2-chloroaniline)
101-14-4
Acetaldehyde
75-07-0
Acrylamide
79-06-1
Acrylonitrile
107-13-1
Allyl chloride
107-05-1
alpha-Hexachlorocyclohexane (a-HCH)
319-84-6
Aniline
62-53-3
Benzene
71-43-2
Benzidine
92-87-5
Benzotrichloride
98-07-7
Benzyl chloride
100-44-7
beta-Hexachlorocyclohexane (b-HCH)
319-85-7
Bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
117-81-7
Bis(chloromethyl)ether
542-88-1
Bromoform
75-25-2
Captan
133-06-2
Carbon tetrachloride
56-23-5
Chlordane
57-74-9
Chlorobenzilate
510-15-6
Chloroform
67-66-3
Chloroprene
126-99-8
Cresols (mixed)
1319-77-3
DDE
3547-04-4
Dichloroethyl ether
111-44-4
Dichlorvos
62-73-7
Epichlorohydrin
106-89-8
Ethyl acrylate
140-88-5
Ethylene dibromide
106-93-4
Ethylene dichloride
107-06-2
Ethylene oxide
75-21-8
Ethylene thiourea
96-45-7
Ethylidene dichloride (1,1-Dichloroethane)
75-34-3
Formaldehyde
50-00-0
Heptachlor
76-44-8
Hexachlorobenzene
118-74-1
Hexachlorobutadiene
87-68-3
Hexachloroethane
67-72-1
Hydrazine
302-01-2
Isophorone
78-59-1
Lindane (hexachlorocyclohexane, all isomers)
58-89-9
m-Cresol
108-39-4
Methylene chloride
75-09-2
Naphthalene
91-20-3
Nitrobenzene
98-95-3
Nitrosodimethylamine
62-75-9
o-Cresol
95-48-7
o-Toluidine
95-53-4
Parathion
56-38-2
p-Cresol
106-44-5
p-Dichlorobenzene
106-46-7
Pentachloronitrobenzene
82-68-8
Pentachlorophenol
87-86-5
Propoxur
114-26-1
Propylene dichloride
78-87-5
Propylene oxide
75-56-9
Quinoline
91-22-5
Tetrachloroethene
127-18-4
Toxaphene
8001-35-2
Trichloroethylene
79-01-6
Trifluralin
1582-09-8
Vinyl bromide
593-60-2
Vinyl chloride
75-01-4
Vinylidene chloride
75-35-4
[84 FR 9634, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Subpart PPPP—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Plastic Parts and Products

# Source:
69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 63.4480
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) for plastic parts and products surface coating facilities. This subpart also establishes requirements to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission limitations.
§ 63.4481
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) Plastic parts and products include, but are not limited to, plastic components of the following types of products as well as the products themselves: Motor vehicle parts and accessories for automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles; sporting and recreational goods; toys; business machines; laboratory and medical equipment; and household and other consumer products. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the source category to which this subpart applies is the surface coating of any plastic parts or products, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and it includes the subcategories listed in paragraphs (a)(2) through (5) of this section.
(1) Surface coating is the application of coating to a substrate using, for example, spray guns or dip tanks. When application of coating to a substrate occurs, then surface coating also includes associated activities, such as surface preparation, cleaning, mixing, and storage. However, these activities do not comprise surface coating if they are not directly related to the application of the coating. Coating application with handheld, non-refillable aerosol containers, touch-up markers, marking pens, or the application of paper film or plastic film which may be pre-coated with an adhesive by the manufacturer are not coating operations for the purposes of this subpart.
(2) The general use coating subcategory includes all surface coating operations that are not automotive lamp coating operations, thermoplastic olefin (TPO) coating operations, or assembled on-road vehicle coating operations.
(3) The automotive lamp coating subcategory includes the surface coating of plastic components of the body of an exterior automotive lamp including, but not limited to, headlamps, tail lamps, turn signals, and marker (clearance) lamps; typical coatings used are reflective argent coatings and clear topcoats. This subcategory does not include the coating of interior automotive lamps, such as dome lamps and instrument panel lamps.
(4) The TPO coating subcategory includes the surface coating of TPO substrates; typical coatings used are adhesion promoters, color coatings, clear coatings and topcoats. The coating of TPO substrates on fully assembled on-road vehicles is not included in the TPO coating subcategory.
(5) The assembled on-road vehicle coating subcategory includes surface coating of fully assembled motor vehicles and trailers intended for on-road use, including, but not limited to: automobiles, light-duty trucks, heavy duty trucks, and busses that have been repaired after a collision or otherwise repainted; fleet delivery trucks; and motor homes and other recreational vehicles (including camping trailers and fifth wheels). This subcategory also includes the incidental coating of parts, such as radiator grilles, that are removed from the fully assembled on-road vehicle to facilitate concurrent coating of all parts associated with the vehicle. The assembled on-road vehicle coating subcategory does not include the surface coating of plastic parts prior to their attachment to an on-road vehicle on an original equipment manufacturer's (OEM) assembly line. The assembled on-road vehicle coating subcategory also does not include the use of adhesives, sealants, and caulks used in assembling on-road vehicles. Body fillers used to correct small surface defects and rubbing compounds used to remove surface scratches are not considered coatings subject to this subpart.
(b) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a new, reconstructed, or existing affected source, as defined in § 63.4482, that uses 378 liters (100 gallons (gal)) per year, or more, of coatings that contain hazardous air pollutants (HAP) in the surface coating of plastic parts and products defined in paragraph (a) of this section; and that is a major source, is located at a major source, or is part of a major source of emissions of HAP. A major source of HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams (Mg) (10 tons) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg (25 tons) or more per year. You do not need to include coatings that meet the definition of non-HAP coating contained in § 63.4581 in determining whether you use 378 liters (100 gallons) per year, or more, of coatings in the surface coating of plastic parts and products.
(c) This subpart does not apply to surface coating or a coating operation that meets any of the criteria of paragraphs (c)(1) through (17) of this section.
(1) A coating operation conducted at a facility where the facility uses only coatings, thinners and other additives, and cleaning materials that contain no organic HAP, as determined according to § 63.3941(a).
(2) Surface coating operations that occur at research or laboratory facilities, or is part of janitorial, building, and facility maintenance operations, or that occur at hobby shops that are operated for noncommercial purposes.
(3) The surface coating of plastic parts and products performed on-site at installations owned or operated by the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such State) or the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the surface coating of military munitions manufactured by or for the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such State).
(4) Surface coating where plastic is extruded onto plastic parts or products to form a coating.
(5) Surface coating of magnet wire.
(6) In-mold coating operations or gel coating operations in the manufacture of reinforced plastic composite parts that meet the applicability criteria for reinforced plastics composites production (subpart WWWW of this part).
(7) Surface coating of plastic components of wood furniture that meet the applicability criteria for wood furniture manufacturing (subpart JJ of this part).
(8) Surface coating of plastic components of large appliances that meet the applicability criteria for large appliance surface coating (subpart NNNN of this part).
(9) Surface coating of plastic components of metal furniture that meet the applicability criteria for metal furniture surface coating (subpart RRRR of this part).
(10) Surface coating of plastic components of wood building products that meet the applicability criteria for wood building products surface coating (subpart QQQQ of this part).
(11) Surface coating of plastic components of aerospace vehicles that meet the applicability criteria for aerospace manufacturing and rework (40 CFR part 63, subpart GG).
(12) Surface coating of plastic parts intended for use in an aerospace vehicle or component using specialty coatings as defined in appendix A to subpart GG of this part.
(13) Surface coating of plastic components of ships that meet the applicability criteria for shipbuilding and ship repair (subpart II of this part).
(14) Surface coating of plastic using a web coating process that meets the applicability criteria for paper and other web coating (subpart JJJJ of this part).
(15) Surface coating of fiberglass boats or parts of fiberglass boats (including, but not limited to, the use of assembly adhesives) where the facility meets the applicability criteria for boat manufacturing (subpart VVVV of this part), except where the surface coating of the boat is a post-mold coating operation performed on personal watercraft or parts of personal watercraft. This subpart does apply to post-mold coating operations performed on personal watercraft and parts of personal watercraft.
(16) Surface coating of plastic components of automobiles and light-duty trucks that meet the applicability criteria in § 63.3082(b) of the Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks NESHAP (40 CFR part 63, subpart IIII) at a facility that meets the applicability criteria in § 63.3081(b).
(17) Screen printing.
(d) If your facility meets the applicability criteria in § 63.3081(b) of the Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks NESHAP (40 CFR part 63, subpart IIII) and you perform surface coating of plastic parts or products that meets both the applicability criteria in § 63.3082(c) and the applicability criteria of this subpart, then for the surface coating of any or all of your plastic parts or products that meets the applicability criteria in § 63.3082(c), you may choose to comply with the requirements of subpart IIII of this part in lieu of complying with this subpart. Surface coating operations on plastic parts or products (e.g., parts for motorcycles or lawnmowers) not intended for use in automobiles, light-duty trucks, or other motor vehicles as defined in § 63.3176 cannot be made part of your affected source under subpart IIII of this part.
(e) If you own or operate an affected source that meets the applicability criteria of this subpart and at the same
facility you also perform surface coating that meets the applicability criteria of any other final surface coating NESHAP in this part, you may choose to comply as specified in paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(1) You may have each surface coating operation that meets the applicability criteria of a separate NESHAP comply with that NESHAP separately.
(2) You may comply with the emission limitation representing the predominant surface coating activity at your facility, as determined according to paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. However, you may not establish assembled on-road vehicle or automotive lamp coating operations as the predominant activity. You must not consider any surface coating activity that is subject to the Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks NESHAP (40 CFR part 63, subpart IIII) in determining the predominant surface coating activity at your facility.
(i) If a surface coating operation accounts for 90 percent or more of the surface coating activity at your facility (that is, the predominant activity), then compliance with the emission limitations of the predominant activity for all surface coating operations constitutes compliance with these and other applicable surface coating NESHAP. In determining predominant activity, you must include coating activities that meet the applicability criteria of other surface coating NESHAP and constitute more than 1 percent of total coating activities at your facility. Coating activities that meet the applicability criteria of other surface coating NESHAP but comprise less than 1 percent of coating activities need not be included in the determination of predominant activity but must be included in the compliance calculation.
(ii) You must use kilogram (kg) (pound (lb)) of solids used as a measure of relative surface coating activity over a representative period of operation. You may estimate the relative mass of coating solids used from parameters other than coating consumption and mass solids content (
e.g.,
design specifications for the parts or products coated and the number of items produced). The determination of predominant activity must accurately reflect current and projected coating operations and must be verifiable through appropriate documentation. The use of parameters other than coating consumption and mass solids content must be approved by the Administrator. You may use data for any reasonable time period of at least 1 year in determining the relative amount of coating activity, as long as they represent the way the source will continue to operate in the future and are approved by the Administrator. You must determine the predominant activity at your facility and submit the results of that determination with the initial notification required by § 63.4510(b). You must also determine predominant activity annually and include the determination in the next semi-annual compliance report required by § 63.4520(a).
(3) You may comply with a facility-specific emission limit calculated from the relative amount of coating activity that is subject to each emission limit. If you elect to comply using the facility-specific emission limit alternative, then compliance with the facility-specific emission limit and the emission limitations in this subpart for all surface coating operations constitutes compliance with this subpart and other applicable surface coating NESHAP. The procedures for calculating the facility-specific emission limit are specified in § 63.4490. In calculating a facility-specific emission limit, you must include coating activities that meet the applicability criteria of other surface coating NESHAP and constitute more than 1 percent of total coating activities at your facility. You must not consider any surface coating activity that is subject to the Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks NESHAP (40 CFR part 63, subpart IIII) in determining a facility-specific emission limit for your facility. Coating activities that meet the applicability criteria of other surface coating NESHAP but comprise less than 1 percent of total coating activities need not be included in the calculation of the facility-specific emission limit but
must be included in the compliance calculations.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 22660, Apr. 26, 2004; 71 FR 76927, Dec. 22, 2006; 72 FR 20237, Apr. 24, 2007]
§ 63.4482
What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, and existing affected source within each of the four subcategories listed in § 63.4481(a).
(b) The affected source is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section that are used for surface coating of plastic parts and products within each subcategory.
(1) All coating operations as defined in § 63.4581;
(2) All storage containers and mixing vessels in which coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials are stored or mixed;
(3) All manual and automated equipment and containers used for conveying coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials; and
(4) All storage containers and all manual and automated equipment and containers used for conveying waste materials generated by a coating operation.
(c) An affected source is a new source if it meets the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and the criteria in either paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section.
(1) You commenced the construction of the source after December 4, 2002 by installing new coating equipment.
(2) The new coating equipment is used to coat plastic parts and products at a source where no plastic parts surface coating was previously performed.
(3) The new coating equipment is used to perform plastic parts and products coating in a subcategory that was not previously performed.
(d) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in § 63.2.
(e) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.
§ 63.4483
When do I have to comply with this subpart?
The date by which you must comply with this subpart is called the compliance date. The compliance date for each type of affected source is specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. The compliance date begins the initial compliance period during which you conduct the initial compliance demonstration described in §§ 63.4540, 63.4550, and 63.4560.
(a) For a new or reconstructed affected source, the compliance date is the applicable date in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section:
(1) If the initial startup of your new or reconstructed affected source is before April 19, 2004, the compliance date is April 19, 2004.
(2) If the initial startup of your new or reconstructed affected source occurs after April 19, 2004, the compliance date is the date of initial startup of your affected source.
(b) For an existing affected source, the compliance date is the date 3 years after April 19, 2004.
(c) For an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP emissions, the compliance date is specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For any portion of the source that becomes a new or reconstructed affected source subject to this subpart, the compliance date is the date of initial startup of the affected source or April 19, 2004, whichever is later.
(2) For any portion of the source that becomes an existing affected source subject to this subpart, the compliance date is the date 1 year after the area source becomes a major source or 3 years after April 19, 2004, whichever is later.
(d) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.4510 according to the dates specified in that section and in subpart A of this part. Some of the notifications must be submitted before the compliance dates described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

# Emission Limitations
§ 63.4490
What emission limits must I meet?
(a) For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere from the affected source to the applicable
limit specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, determined according to the requirements in § 63.4541, § 63.4551, or § 63.4561.
(1) For each new general use coating affected source, limit organic HAP emissions to no more than 0.16 kg (0.16 lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used during each 12-month compliance period.
(2) For each new automotive lamp coating affected source, limit organic HAP emissions to no more than 0.26 kg (0.26 lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used during each 12-month compliance period.
(3) For each new TPO coating affected source, limit organic HAP emissions to no more than 0.22 kg (0.22 lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used during each 12-month compliance period.
(4) For each new assembled on-road vehicle coating affected source, limit organic HAP emissions to no more than 1.34 kg (1.34 lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used during each 12-month compliance period.
(b) For an existing affected source, you must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere from the affected source to the applicable limit specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, determined according to the requirements in § 63.4541, § 63.4551, or § 63.4561.
(1) For each existing general use coating affected source, limit organic HAP emissions to no more than 0.16 kg (0.16 lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used during each 12-month compliance period.
(2) For each existing automotive lamp coating affected source, limit organic HAP emissions to no more than 0.45 kg (0.45 lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used during each 12-month compliance period.
(3) For each existing TPO coating affected source, limit organic HAP emissions to no more than 0.26 kg (0.26 lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used during each 12-month compliance period.
(4) For each existing assembled on-road vehicle coating affected source, limit organic HAP emissions to no more than 1.34 kg (1.34 lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used during each 12-month compliance period.
(c) If your facility's surface coating operations meet the applicability criteria of more than one of the subcategory emission limits specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, you may comply separately with each subcategory emission limit or comply using one of the alternatives in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) If the general use or TPO surface coating operations subject to only one of the emission limits specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), or (b)(3) of this section account for 90 percent or more of the surface coating activity at your facility (
i.e.,
it is the predominant activity at your facility), then compliance with that emission limitation for all surface coating operations constitutes compliance with the other applicable emission limitations. You must use kg (lb) of solids used as a measure of relative surface coating activity over a representative period of operation. You may estimate the relative mass of coating solids used from parameters other than coating consumption and mass solids content (
e.g.,
design specifications for the parts or products coated and the number of items produced). The determination of predominant activity must accurately reflect current and projected coating operations and must be verifiable through appropriate documentation. The use of parameters other than coating consumption and mass solids content must be approved by the Administrator. You may use data for any reasonable time period of at least 1 year in determining the relative amount of coating activity, as long as they represent the way the source will continue to operate in the future and are approved by the Administrator. You must determine the predominant activity at your facility and submit the results of that determination with the initial notification required by § 63.4510(b). Additionally, you must determine the facility's predominant activity annually and include the determination in the next semi-annual compliance report required by § 63.4520(a).
(2) You may calculate and comply with a facility-specific emission limit as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. If you elect to comply using the facility-specific emission limit alternative, then compliance with the facility-specific emission limit and the emission limitations in this subpart for all surface coating operations constitutes compliance with this and other applicable surface coating NESHAP. In calculating a facility-specific emission limit, you must include coating activities that meet the applicability criteria of the other subcategories and constitute more than 1 percent of total coating activities. Coating activities that meet the applicability criteria of other surface coating NESHAP but comprise less than 1 percent of coating activities need not be included in the determination of predominant activity but must be included in the compliance calculation.
(i) You are required to calculate the facility-specific emission limit for your facility when you submit the notification of compliance status required in § 63.4510(c), and on a monthly basis afterward using the coating data for the relevant 12-month compliance period.
(ii) Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the facility-specific emission limit for your surface coating operations for each 12-month compliance period.
ER19AP04.002
Where:
Facility-specific emission limit = Facility-specific emission limit for each 12-month compliance period, kg (lb) organic HAP per kg (lb) coating solids used.
Limit
i
= The new source or existing source emission limit applicable to coating operation, i, included in the facility-specific emission limit, converted to kg (lb) organic HAP per kg (lb) coating solids used, if the emission limit is not already in those units. All emission limits included in the facility-specific emission limit must be in the same units.
Solids
i
= The kg (lb) of solids used in coating operation, i, in the 12-month compliance period that is subject to emission limit, i. You may estimate the mass of coating solids used from parameters other than coating consumption and mass solids content (
e.g.,
design specifications for the parts or products coated and the number of items produced). The use of parameters other than coating consumption and mass solids content must be approved by the Administrator.
n = The number of different coating operations included in the facility-specific emission limit.
(iii) If you need to convert an emission limit in another surface coating NESHAP from kg (lb) organic HAP per liter (gallon) coating solids used to kg (lb) organic HAP per kg (lb) coating solids used, you must use the default solids density of 1.50 kg solids per liter coating solids (12.5 lb solids per gal solids).
§ 63.4491
What are my options for meeting the emission limits?
You must include all coatings (as defined in § 63.4581), thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in the affected source when determining whether the organic HAP emission rate is equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490. To make this determination, you must use at least one of the three compliance options listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. You may apply any of the compliance options to an individual coating operation, or to multiple coating operations as a group, or to the entire affected source. You may use different compliance options for different coating operations, or at different times on the same coating operation. You may employ different
compliance options when different coatings are applied to the same part, or when the same coating is applied to different parts. However, you may not use different compliance options at the same time on the same coating operation. If you switch between compliance options for any coating operation or group of coating operations, you must document this switch as required by § 63.4530(c), and you must report it in the next semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4520.
(a)
Compliant material option.
Demonstrate that the organic HAP content of each coating used in the coating operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, and that each thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used contains no organic HAP. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4540, 63.4541, and 63.4542 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit using this option.
(b)
Emission rate without add-on controls option.
Demonstrate that, based on the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation(s), the organic HAP emission rate for the coating operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, calculated as a rolling 12-month emission rate and determined on a monthly basis. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4550, 63.4551, and 63.4552 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using this option.
(c)
Emission rate with add-on controls option.
Demonstrate that, based on the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation(s), and the emissions reductions achieved by emission capture systems and add-on controls, the organic HAP emission rate for the coating operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, calculated as a rolling 12-month emission rate and determined on a monthly basis. If you use this compliance option, you must also demonstrate that all emission capture systems and add-on control devices for the coating operation(s) meet the operating limits required in § 63.4492, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4561(j), and that you meet the work practice standards required in § 63.4493. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4560 through 63.4568 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards using this option.
§ 63.4492
What operating limits must I meet?
(a) For any coating operation(s) on which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option, you are not required to meet any operating limits.
(b) For any controlled coating operation(s) on which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, except those for which you use a solvent recovery system and conduct a liquid-liquid material balance according to § 63.4561(j), you must meet the operating limits specified in table 1 to this subpart. These operating limits apply to the emission capture and control systems on the coating operation(s) for which you use this option, and you must establish the operating limits during the performance tests required in § 63.4560 according to the requirements in § 63.4567. You must meet the operating limits established during the most recent performance tests required in § 63.4560 at all times after you establish them.
(c) If you use an add-on control device other than those listed in Table 1 to this subpart, or wish to monitor an alternative parameter and comply with a different operating limit, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of alternative monitoring under § 63.8(f).
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41150, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4493
What work practice standards must I meet?
(a) For any coating operation(s) on which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option, you are not required to meet any work practice standards.
(b) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must develop and implement a work practice
plan to minimize organic HAP emissions from the storage, mixing, and conveying of coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in, and waste materials generated by the controlled coating operation(s) for which you use this option; or you must meet an alternative standard as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The plan must specify practices and procedures to ensure that, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are implemented.
(1) All organic-HAP-containing coatings, thinners and/or other additives, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be stored in closed containers.
(2) Spills of organic-HAP-containing coatings, thinners and/or other additives, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be minimized.
(3) Organic-HAP-containing coatings, thinners and/or other additives, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be conveyed from one location to another in closed containers or pipes.
(4) Mixing vessels which contain organic-HAP-containing coatings and other materials must be closed except when adding to, removing, or mixing the contents.
(5) Emissions of organic HAP must be minimized during cleaning of storage, mixing, and conveying equipment.
(c) As provided in § 63.6(g), we, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, may choose to grant you permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section.

# General Compliance Requirements
§ 63.4500
What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
(a) You must be in compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Any coating operation(s) for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option, as specified in § 63.4491(a) and (b), must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490 at all times.
(2) Any coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, as specified in § 63.4491(c), must be in compliance with the emission limitations as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490 at all times.
(ii) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the operating limits for emission capture systems and add-on control devices required by § 63.4492 at all times, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4561(j).
(iii) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4493 at all times.
(b) Before January 5, 2021, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including all air pollution control and monitoring equipment you use for purposes of complying with this subpart, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). On and after January 5, 2021, at all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the affected source.
(c) Before January 5, 2021, if your affected source uses an emission capture system and add-on control device, you must develop a written SSMP according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3). The plan must address the startup, shutdown, and corrective actions in the event of a malfunction of the emission capture system or the add-on control device. The plan must also address any
coating operation equipment that may cause increased emissions or that would affect capture efficiency if the process equipment malfunctions, such as conveyors that move parts among enclosures. On and after January 5, 2021, the SSMP is not required.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 20465, Apr. 20, 2006; 85 FR 41150, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4501
What parts of the General Provisions apply to me?
Table 2 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.15 apply to you.

# Notifications, Reports, and Records
§ 63.4510
What notifications must I submit?
(a)
General.
You must submit the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(f)(4), and 63.9(b) through (e) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Initial notification.
You must submit the initial notification required by § 63.9(b) for a new or reconstructed affected source no later than 120 days after initial startup, 120 days after April 19, 2004, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. For an existing affected source, you must submit the initial notification no later than 1 year after April 19, 2004, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. If you are using compliance with the Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks NESHAP (subpart IIII of this part) as provided for under § 63.4481(d) to constitute compliance with this subpart for any or all of your plastic parts coating operations, then you must include a statement to this effect in your initial notification, and no other notifications are required under this subpart in regard to those plastic parts coating operations. If you are complying with another NESHAP that constitutes the predominant activity at your facility under § 63.4481(e)(2) to constitute compliance with this subpart for your plastic parts coating operations, then you must include a statement to this effect in your initial notification, and no other notifications are required under this subpart in regard to those plastic parts coating operations.
(c)
Notification of compliance status.
You must submit the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 30 calendar days following the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4540, § 63.4550, or § 63.4560 that applies to your affected source. The notification of compliance status must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (11) of this section and in § 63.9(h).
(1) Company name and address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.
(3) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the initial compliance period described in § 63.4540, § 63.4550, or § 63.4560 that applies to your affected source.
(4) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4491 that you used on each coating operation in the affected source during the initial compliance period.
(5) Statement of whether or not the affected source achieved the emission limitations for the initial compliance period.
(6) If you had a deviation, include the information in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) A description and statement of the cause of the deviation.
(ii) If you failed to meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, include all the calculations you used to determine the kg (lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used. You do not need to submit information provided by the materials' suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.
(7) For each of the data items listed in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section that is required by the compliance option(s) you used to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit, include an example of how you
determined the value, including calculations and supporting data. Supporting data may include a copy of the information provided by the supplier or manufacturer of the example coating or material, or a summary of the results of testing conducted according to § 63.4541(a), (b), or (c). You do not need to submit copies of any test reports.
(i) Mass fraction of organic HAP for one coating, for one thinner and/or other additive, and for one cleaning material.
(ii) Mass fraction of coating solids for one coating.
(iii) Density for one coating, one thinner and/or other additive, and one cleaning material, except that if you use the compliant material option, only the example coating density is required.
(iv) The amount of waste materials and the mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials for which you are claiming an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4551.
(8) The calculation of kg (lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used for the compliance option(s) you used, as specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) For the compliant material option, provide an example calculation of the organic HAP content for one coating, using Equation 1 of § 63.4541.
(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for each month; the calculation of the total mass of coating solids used each month; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C, 2, and 3, respectively, of § 63.4551.
(iii) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4551; the calculation of the total mass of coating solids used each month using Equation 2 of § 63.4551; the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices using Equations 1 and 1A through 1D of § 63.4561 and Equations 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4561, as applicable; the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions each month using Equation 4 of § 63.4561; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate using Equation 5 of § 63.4561.
(9) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (iv) of this section, except that the requirements in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4561(j).
(i) For each emission capture system, a summary of the data and copies of the calculations supporting the determination that the emission capture system is a permanent total enclosure (PTE) or a measurement of the emission capture system efficiency. Include a description of the protocol followed for measuring capture efficiency, summaries of any capture efficiency tests conducted, and any calculations supporting the capture efficiency determination. If you use the data quality objective (DQO) or lower confidence limit (LCL) approach, you must also include the statistical calculations to show you meet the DQO or LCL criteria in appendix A to subpart KK of this part. You do not need to submit complete test reports.
(ii) A summary of the results of each add-on control device performance test. You do not need to submit complete test reports.
(iii) A list of each emission capture system's and add-on control device's operating limits and a summary of the data used to calculate those limits.
(iv) A statement of whether or not you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4493.
(10) If you are complying with a single emission limit representing the predominant activity under § 63.4490(c)(1), include the calculations and supporting information used to demonstrate that this emission limit represents the predominant activity as specified in § 63.4490(c)(1).
(11) If you are complying with a facility-specific emission limit under
§ 63.4490(c)(2), include the calculation of the facility-specific emission limit and any supporting information as specified in § 63.4490(c)(2).
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 22661, Apr. 26, 2004; 85 FR 73907, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.4520
What reports must I submit?
(a)
Semiannual compliance reports.
You must submit semiannual compliance reports for each affected source according to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section. The semiannual compliance reporting requirements may be satisfied by reports required under other parts of the Clean Air Act (CAA), as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1)
Dates.
Unless the Administrator has approved or agreed to a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must prepare and submit each semiannual compliance report according to the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. Note that the information reported for each of the months in the reporting period will be based on the last 12 months of data prior to the date of each monthly calculation.
(i) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the first semiannual reporting period which begins the day after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4540, § 63.4550, or § 63.4560 that applies to your affected source and ends on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the initial compliance period.
(ii) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must cover the subsequent semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.
(iii) Each semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.
(iv) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the date specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.
(2)
Inclusion with title V report.
Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a semiannual compliance report pursuant to this section along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the semiannual compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation in this subpart, its submission will be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a semiannual compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permitting authority.
(3)
General requirements.
The semiannual compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section, and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (7) and (c)(1) of this section that is applicable to your affected source.
(i) Company name and address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.
(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 6-month period ending on June 30 or December 31. Note that the information reported for each of the 6 months in the reporting period will be based on the last 12 months of data prior to the date of each monthly calculation.
(iv) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4491
that you used on each coating operation during the reporting period. If you switched between compliance options during the reporting period, you must report the beginning and ending dates for each option you used.
(v) If you used the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option (§ 63.4491(b) or (c)), the calculation results for each rolling 12-month organic HAP emission rate during the 6-month reporting period.
(vi) If you used the predominant activity alternative (§ 63.4490(c)(1)), include the annual determination of predominant activity if it was not included in the previous semi-annual compliance report.
(vii) If you used the facility-specific emission limit alternative (§ 63.4490(c)(2)), include the calculation of the facility-specific emission limit for each 12-month compliance period during the 6-month reporting period.
(4)
No deviations.
If there were no deviations from the emission limitations in §§ 63.4490, 63.4492, and 63.4493 that apply to you, the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period. If you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and there were no periods during which the continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) were out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS were out-of-control during the reporting period.
(5)
Deviations: Compliant material option.
If you used the compliant material option and there was a deviation from the applicable organic HAP content requirements in § 63.4490, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) Identification of each coating used that deviated from the applicable emission limit, and each thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used that contained organic HAP, and the date, time, and duration each was used.
(ii) The calculation of the organic HAP content (using Equation 1 of § 63.4541) for each coating identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (
e.g.,
information provided by coating suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(iii) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (
e.g.,
information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(iv) Before January 5, 2021, a statement of the cause of each deviation. On and after January 5, 2021, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(v) On and after January 5, 2021, the number of deviations and, for each deviation, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4500(b).
(6)
Deviations: Emission rate without add-on controls option.
If you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the 12-month organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490.
(ii) The calculations used to determine the 12-month organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period in which the deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations for Equations 1, 1A through 1C, 2, and 3 of § 63.4551; and if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4551(e)(4). You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(iii) Before January 5, 2021, a statement of the cause of each deviation. On and after January 5, 2021, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(iv) On and after January 5, 2021, the number of deviations, date, time, duration, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4500(b).
(7)
Deviations: Emission rate with add-on controls option.
If you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490 or the applicable operating limit(s) in table 1 to this subpart (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), before January 5, 2021, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (xiv) of this section. This includes periods of SSM during which deviations occurred. On and after January 5, 2021, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (xii), (xiv), and (xv) of this section. If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option and there was a deviation from the applicable work practice standards in § 63.4493(b), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(7)(xiii) of this section.
(i) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the 12-month organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490.
(ii) The calculations used to determine the 12-month organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used each month using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4551; and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4551(e)(4); the calculation of the total mass of coating solids used each month using Equation 2 of § 63.4551; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices using Equations 1 and 1A through 1D of § 63.4561, and Equations 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4561, as applicable; the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions each month using Equation 4 of § 63.4561; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate using Equation 5 of § 63.4561. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(iii) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture system or add-on control devices started and stopped.
(iv) A brief description of the CPMS.
(v) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(vi) Before January 5, 2021, the date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks. On and after January 5, 2021, the number of instances that the CPMS was inoperative, and for each instance, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being inoperative; and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4500(b).
(vii) Before January 5, 2021, the date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8). On and after January 5, 2021, the number of instances that the CPMS was out of control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7) and, for each instance, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(viii) Before January 5, 2021, the date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in table 1 to this subpart; date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device; and whether each deviation occurred
during a period of SSM or during another period. On and after January 5, 2021, the number of deviations from an operating limit in table 1 to this subpart and, for each deviation, the date, time, and duration of each deviation; the date, time, and duration of any bypass of the add-on control device.
(ix) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(x) Before January 5, 2021, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in table 1 of this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes. On and after January 5, 2021, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(xi) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(xii) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.
(xiii) Before January 5, 2021, for each deviation from the work practice standards, a description of the deviation, the date and time period of the deviation, and the actions you took to correct the deviation. On and after January 5, 2021, for deviations from the work practice standards, the number of deviations, and, for each deviation, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(xiii)(A) and (B) of this section:
(A) A description of the deviation; the date, time, and duration of the deviation; and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4500(b).
(B) The description required in paragraph (a)(7)(xiii)(A) of this section must include a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable.
(xiv) Before January 5, 2021, a statement of the cause of each deviation. On and after January 5, 2021, for deviations from an emission limit in § 63.4490 or an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable) and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4500(b).
(xv) On and after January 5, 2021, for each deviation from an emission limit in § 63.4490 or operating limit in table 1 to this subpart, a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4490 or operating limit in table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(b)
Performance test reports.
If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must submit reports of performance test results for emission capture systems and add-on control devices no later than 60 days after completing the tests as specified in § 63.10(d)(2).
(c)
SSM reports.
Before January 5, 2021, if you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and you had a SSM during the semiannual reporting period, you must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. On and after January 5, 2021, the reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section are not required.
(1) If your actions were consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, you must include the information specified in § 63.10(d) in the semiannual compliance report required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If your actions were not consistent with your startup, shutdown,
and malfunction plan, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must describe the actions taken during the event in a report delivered by facsimile, telephone, or other means to the Administrator within 2 working days after starting actions that are inconsistent with the plan.
(ii) You must submit a letter to the Administrator within 7 working days after the end of the event, unless you have made alternative arrangements with the Administrator as specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii). The letter must contain the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii).
(d)
Performance test reports.
On and after January 5, 2021, you must submit the results of the performance tests required in § 63.4560 following the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13, unless the Administrator agrees to or specifies an alternate reporting method.
(3) If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is Confidential Business Information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e)
Initial notification reports.
On and after January 5, 2021, the owner or operator shall submit the initial notifications required in § 63.9(b) and the notification of compliance status required in § 63.9(h) and § 63.4510(c) to the EPA via the CEDRI. The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The owner or operator must upload to CEDRI an electronic copy of each applicable notification in portable document format (PDF). The applicable notification must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report generated using the appropriate form in CEDRI or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(f)
Semiannual compliance reports.
On and after January 5, 2021, or once the
reporting template has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, the owner or operator shall submit the semiannual compliance report required in paragraph (a) of this section to the EPA via the CEDRI. (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
)). The owner or operator must use the appropriate electronic template on the CEDRI website for this subpart or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri
). The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. If the reporting form for the semiannual compliance report specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, you must submit the report to the Administrator at the appropriate addresses listed in § 63.13. Once the form has been available in CEDRI for 1 year, you must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI. The reports must be submitted by the deadlines specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report generated using the appropriate form in CEDRI or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(g)
Reporting during EPA system outages.
If you are required to electronically submit a report through the CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of the EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date, time and length of the outage; a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of the EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(h)
Reporting during force majeure events.
If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of
war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41150, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4530
What records must I keep?
You must collect and keep records of the data and information specified in this section. Failure to collect and keep these records is a deviation from the applicable standard.
(a) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, and the documentation supporting each notification and report. If you are using the predominant activity alternative under § 63.4490(c), you must keep records of the data and calculations used to determine the predominant activity. If you are using the facility-specific emission limit alternative under § 63.4490(c), you must keep records of the data used to calculate the facility-specific emission limit for the initial compliance demonstration. You must also keep records of any data used in each annual predominant activity determination and in the calculation of the facility-specific emission limit for each 12-month compliance period included in the semi-annual compliance reports.
(b) A current copy of information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, such as manufacturer's formulation data, or test data used to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP and density for each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material, and the mass fraction of coating solids for each coating. If you conducted testing to determine mass fraction of organic HAP, density, or mass fraction of coating solids, you must keep a copy of the complete test report. If you use information provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier of the material that was based on testing, you must keep the summary sheet of results provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier. You are not required to obtain the test report or other supporting documentation from the manufacturer or supplier.
(c) For each compliance period, the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) A record of the coating operations on which you used each compliance option and the time periods (beginning and ending dates and times) for each option you used.
(2) For the compliant material option, a record of the calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating, using Equation 1 of § 63.4541.
(3) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used each month using Equations 1, 1A through 1C, and 2 of § 63.4551 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4551(e)(4); the calculation of the total mass of coating solids used each month using Equation 2 of § 63.4551; and the calculation of each 12-month organic HAP emission rate using Equation 3 of § 63.4551.
(4) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, records of the calculations specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners and/or other additives,
and cleaning materials used each month using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4551; and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4551(e)(4);
(ii) The calculation of the total mass of coating solids used each month using Equation 2 of § 63.4551;
(iii) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices using Equations 1 and 1A through 1D of § 63.4561 and Equations 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4561, as applicable;
(iv) The calculation of each month's organic HAP emission rate using Equation 4 of § 63.4561; and
(v) The calculation of each 12-month organic HAP emission rate using Equation 5 of § 63.4561.
(d) A record of the name and mass of each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during each compliance period. If you are using the compliant material option for all coatings at the source, you may maintain purchase records for each material used rather than a record of the mass used.
(e) A record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during each compliance period.
(f) A record of the mass fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each compliance period.
(g) If you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4551 for organic HAP contained in waste materials sent to or designated for shipment to a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) according to § 63.4551(e)(4), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The name and address of each TSDF to which you sent waste materials for which you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4551, a statement of which subparts under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, and 266 apply to the facility; and the date of each shipment.
(2) Identification of the coating operations producing waste materials included in each shipment and the month or months in which you used the allowance for these materials in Equation 1 of § 63.4551.
(3) The methodology used in accordance with § 63.4551(e)(4) to determine the total amount of waste materials sent to or the amount collected, stored, and designated for transport to a TSDF each month; and the methodology to determine the mass of organic HAP contained in these waste materials. This must include the sources for all data used in the determination, methods used to generate the data, frequency of testing or monitoring, and supporting calculations and documentation, including the waste manifest for each shipment.
(h) Before January 5, 2021, you must keep records of the date, time, and duration of each deviation. On and after January 5, 2021, for each deviation from an emission limitation reported under § 63.4520(a)(5) through (7), a record of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.
(1) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4520(a)(5) through (7).
(2) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4520(a)(5) through (7).
(3) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 63.4490 or any applicable operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under § 63.4520(a)(5) through (7).
(4) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4500(b) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(i) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must also keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) Before January 5, 2021, for each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of SSM. On and after January 5, 2021, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of SSM is not required.
(2) Before January 5, 2021, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to
SSM. On and after January 5, 2021, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to SSM are not required.
(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you.
(4) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.4565(a).
(5) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.4564 and 63.4565(b) through (e), including the records specified in paragraphs (i)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section that apply to you.
(i)
Records for a liquid-to-uncaptured gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
Records of the mass of total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH) as measured by Method 204A or 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for each material used in the coating operation, and the total TVH for all materials used during each capture efficiency test run, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run, as measured by Method 204D or 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(ii)
Records for a gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
Records of the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system as measured by Method 204B or 204C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 at the inlet to the add-on control device, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run as measured by Method 204D or 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(iii)
Records for an alternative protocol.
Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.4565(e), if applicable.
(6) The records specified in paragraphs (i)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 63.4566.
(i) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.4564 and 63.4566.
(ii) Records of the coating operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.
(7) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.4567 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 1 to this subpart.
(8) A record of the work practice plan required by § 63.4493 and documentation that you are implementing the plan on a continuous basis.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41152, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4531
In what form and for how long must I keep my records?
(a) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). Where appropriate, the records may be maintained as electronic spreadsheets or as a database. On and after January 5, 2021, any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are in reports that were submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to
make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
(b) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.
(c) You must keep each record on-site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records off-site for the remaining 3 years.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41153, July 8, 2020]

# Compliance Requirements for the Compliant Material Option
§ 63.4540
By what date must I conduct the initial compliance demonstration?
You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4541. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4483 and ends on the last day of the 12th month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through that month plus the next 12 months. The initial compliance demonstration includes the calculations according to § 63.4541 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period, you used no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, and that you used no thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials that contained organic HAP as determined according to § 63.4541(a).
§ 63.4541
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
You may use the compliant material option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all the coating operations in the affected source. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must use no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeds the applicable emission limits in § 63.4490 and must use no thinner and/or other additive, or cleaning material that contains organic HAP as determined according to this section. Any coating operation for which you use the compliant material option is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards required in §§ 63.4492 and 63.4493, respectively. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each general use coating, TPO coating, automotive lamp coating, and assembled on-road vehicle coating affected source unless you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.4490(c). If you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.4490(c), you must demonstrate that all coating operations included in the predominant activity determination or calculation of the facility-specific emission limit comply with that limit. You must meet all the requirements of this section. Use the procedures in this section on each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration. You do not need to redetermine the organic HAP content of coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials that are reclaimed on-site (or reclaimed off-site if you have documentation showing that you received back the exact same materials that were sent off-site) and reused in the coating operation for which you use the compliant material option, provided these materials in their condition as received were demonstrated to comply with the compliant material option.
(a)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material used.
You
must determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during the compliance period by using one of the options in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1)
Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63).
You may use Method 311 for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP. Use the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section when performing a Method 311 test.
(i) Count each organic HAP in Table 5 to this subpart that is measured to be present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 5 to this subpart) is measured to be 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. Express the mass fraction of each organic HAP you count as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (
e.g.,
0.3791).
(ii) Calculate the total mass fraction of organic HAP in the test material by adding up the individual organic HAP mass fractions and truncating the result to three places after the decimal point (
e.g.,
0.763).
(2)
EPA Method 24 (appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60).
For coatings, you may use EPA Method 24 to determine the mass fraction of nonaqueous volatile matter and use that value as a substitute for mass fraction of organic HAP. As an alternative to using EPA Method 24, you may use ASTM D2369-10 (Reapproved 2015)
e
(incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14). For reactive adhesives in which some of the HAP react to form solids and are not emitted to the atmosphere, you may use the alternative method contained in appendix A to this subpart, rather than EPA Method 24. You may use the volatile fraction that is emitted, as measured by the alternative method in appendix A to this subpart, as a substitute for the mass fraction of organic HAP.
(3)
Alternative method.
You may use an alternative test method for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP once the Administrator has approved it. You must follow the procedure in § 63.7(f) to submit an alternative test method for approval.
(4)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may rely on information other than that generated by the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, such as manufacturer's formulation data, if it represents each organic HAP in Table 5 to this subpart that is present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 5 to this subpart) is 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. For reactive adhesives in which some of the HAP react to form solids and are not emitted to the atmosphere, you may rely on manufacturer's data that expressly states the organic HAP or volatile matter mass fraction emitted. If there is a disagreement between such information and results of a test conducted according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, then the test method results will take precedence unless, after consultation you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data are correct.
(5)
Solvent blends.
Solvent blends may be listed as single components for some materials in data provided by manufacturers or suppliers. Solvent blends may contain organic HAP which must be counted toward the total organic HAP mass fraction of the materials. When test data and manufacturer's data for solvent blends are not available, you may use the default values for the mass fraction of organic HAP in these solvent blends listed in Table 3 or 4 to this subpart. If you use the tables, you must use the values in Table 3 for all solvent blends that match Table 3 entries according to the instructions for Table 3, and you may use Table 4 only if the solvent blends in the materials you use do not match any of the solvent blends in Table 3 and you know only whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic. However, if the results of a Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63) test indicate higher values than those listed on Table 3 or 4 to this subpart, the Method 311 results will take precedence unless, after consultation you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data are correct.
(b)
Determine the mass fraction of coating solids for each coating.
You must determine the mass fraction of coating solids (kg (lb) of coating solids per kg (lb) of coating) for each coating used during the compliance period by a test, by information provided by the supplier or the manufacturer of the material, or by calculation, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Method 24 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 60).
Use Method 24 for determining the mass fraction of coating solids. For reactive adhesives in which some of the liquid fraction reacts to form solids, you may use the alternative method contained in appendix A to this subpart, rather than Method 24, to determine the mass fraction of coating solids.
(2)
Alternative method.
You may use an alternative test method for determining the solids content of each coating once the Administrator has approved it. You must follow the procedure in § 63.7(f) to submit an alternative test method for approval.
(3)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may obtain the mass fraction of coating solids for each coating from the supplier or manufacturer. If there is disagreement between such information and the test method results, then the test method results will take precedence unless, after consultation you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data are correct.
(c)
Calculate the organic HAP content of each coating.
Calculate the organic HAP content, kg (lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used, of each coating used during the compliance period using Equation 1 of this section:
ER19AP04.003
Where:
H
c
= Organic HAP content of the coating, kg (lb) of organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used.
W
c
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in the coating, kg organic HAP per kg coating, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section.
S
c
= Mass fraction of coating solids, kg coating solids per kg coating, determined according to paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Compliance demonstration.
The calculated organic HAP content for each coating used during the initial compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490; and each thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during the initial compliance period must contain no organic HAP, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section. You must keep all records required by §§ 63.4530 and 63.4531. As part of the notification of compliance status required in § 63.4510, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the compliant material option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because you used no coatings for which the organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, and you used no thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials that contained organic HAP, determined according to the procedures in paragraph (a) of this section.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41153, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4542
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) For each compliance period to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must use no coating for which the organic HAP content (determined using Equation 1 of § 63.4541) exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, and use no thinner and/or other additive, or cleaning material that contains organic HAP, determined according to § 63.4541(a). A compliance period consists of 12 months. Each month, after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4540, is the end of a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. If you are complying with a facility-specific emission limit under § 63.4490(c), you must also perform the calculation using Equation 1 in § 63.4490(c)(2) on a monthly basis using the data from the previous 12 months of operation.
(b) If you choose to comply with the emission limitations by using the compliant material option, the use of any coating, thinner and/or other additive, or cleaning material that does not meet the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section is a deviation from the emission limitations that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4510(c)(6) and 63.4520(a)(5).
(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4520, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the compliant material option. If there were no deviations from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because you used no coatings for which the organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, and you used no thinner and/or other additive, or cleaning material that contained organic HAP, determined according to § 63.4541(a).
(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4530 and 63.4531.

# Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
§ 63.4550
By what date must I conduct the initial compliance demonstration?
You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4551. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4483 and ends on the last day of the 12th month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next 12 months. You must determine the mass of organic HAP emissions and mass of coating solids used each month and then calculate an organic HAP emission rate at the end of the initial compliance period. The initial compliance demonstration includes the calculations according to § 63.4551 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490.
§ 63.4551
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
You may use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all the coating operations in the affected source. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the emission rate without add-on controls option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, but is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards in §§ 63.4492 and 63.4493, respectively. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each general use, TPO, automotive lamp, and assembled on-road vehicle coating operation unless you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.4490(c). If you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.4490(c), you must demonstrate that all coating operations included in the predominant activity determination or calculation of the facility-specific emission limit comply with that limit. You must meet all the requirements of this section. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed on-site (or reclaimed off-site if you have documentation showing that you received back the exact same materials that were sent off-site) and reused in the coating operation for which
you use the emission rate without add-on controls option. If you use coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed on-site, the amount of each used in a month may be reduced by the amount of each that is reclaimed. That is, the amount used may be calculated as the amount consumed to account for materials that are reclaimed.
(a)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material.
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during each month according to the requirements in § 63.4541(a).
(b)
Determine the mass fraction of coating solids.
Determine the mass fraction of coating solids (kg (lb) of coating solids per kg (lb) of coating) for each coating used during each month according to the requirements in § 63.4541(b).
(c)
Determine the density of each material.
Determine the density of each liquid coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during each month from test results using ASTM D1475-13 or ASTM D2111-10 (Reapproved 2015) (both incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material, or reference sources providing density or specific gravity data for pure materials. If there is disagreement between ASTM D1475-13 or ASTM D2111-10 (Reapproved 2015) and other such information sources, the test results will take precedence unless, after consultation you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data are correct. If you purchase materials or monitor consumption by weight instead of volume, you do not need to determine material density. Instead, you may use the material weight in place of the combined terms for density and volume in Equations 1A, 1B, 1C, and 2 of this section.
(d)
Determine the volume of each material used.
Determine the volume (liters) of each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during each month by measurement or usage records. If you purchase materials or monitor consumption by weight instead of volume, you do not need to determine the volume of each material used. Instead, you may use the material weight in place of the combined terms for density and volume in Equations 1A, 1B, 1C, and 2 of this section.
(e)
Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions.
The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used during each month minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions using Equation 1 of this section.
ER19AP04.004
Where:
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions during the month, kg.
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the month, kg, as calculated in Equation 1A of this section.
B = Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners and/or other additives used during the month, kg, as calculated in Equation 1B of this section.
C = Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the month, kg, as calculated in Equation 1C of this section.
R
w
= Total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during the month, kg, determined according to paragraph (e)(4) of this section. (You may assign a value of zero to R
W
if you do not wish to use this allowance.)
(1) Calculate the kg organic HAP in the coatings used during the month using Equation 1A of this section:
ER19AP04.005
Where:
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the month, kg.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the month, liters.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, kg coating per liter coating.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, kg organic HAP per kg coating. For reactive adhesives as defined in § 63.4581, use the mass fraction of organic HAP that is emitted as determined using the method in appendix A to this subpart.
m = Number of different coatings used during the month.
(2) Calculate the kg of organic HAP in the thinners and/or other additives used during the month using Equation 1B of this section:
ER19AP04.006
Where:
B = Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners and/or other additives used during the month, kg.
Vol
t,j
= Total volume of thinner and/or other additive, j, used during the month, liters.
D
t,j
= Density of thinner and/or other additive, j, kg per liter.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner and/or other additive, j, kg organic HAP per kg thinner and/or other additive. For reactive adhesives as defined in § 63.4581, use the mass fraction of organic HAP that is emitted as determined using the method in appendix A to this subpart.
n = Number of different thinners and/or other additives used during the month.
(3) Calculate the kg organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the month using Equation 1C of this section:
ER19AP04.007
Where:
C = Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the month, kg.
Vol
s,k
= Total volume of cleaning material, k, used during the month, liters.
D
s,k
= Density of cleaning material, k, kg per liter.
W
s,k
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, kg organic HAP per kg material.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used during the month.
(4) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF in Equation 1 of this section, then you must determine the mass according to paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You may only include waste materials in the determination that are generated by coating operations in the affected source for which you use Equation 1 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility that is regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266. The TSDF may be either off-site or on-site. You may not include organic HAP contained in wastewater.
(ii) You must determine either the amount of the waste materials sent to a TSDF during the month or the amount collected and stored during the month and designated for future transport to a TSDF. Do not include in your determination any waste materials sent to a TSDF during a month if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that month or a previous month.
(iii) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.
(iv) You must document the methodology you use to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain, as required in § 63.4530(g). If waste manifests include this information, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them.
(f)
Calculate the total mass of coating solids used.
Determine the total mass of coating solids used, kg, which is the combined mass of coating solids for all the coatings used during each month, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER19AP04.008
Where:
M
st
= Total mass of coating solids used during the month, kg.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the month, liters.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, kgs per liter coating, determined according to § 63.4551(c).
M
s,i
= Mass fraction of coating solids for coating, i, kgs solids per kg coating, determined according to § 63.4541(b).
m = Number of coatings used during the month.
(g)
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate.
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg (lb) organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used, using Equation 3 of this section:
ER19AP04.009
Where:
H
yr
= Average organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg organic HAP emitted per kg coating solids used.
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions from all materials used during month, y, kg, as calculated by Equation 1 of this section.
M
st
= Total mass of coating solids used during month, y, kg, as calculated by Equation 2 of this section.
y = Identifier for months.
n = Number of full or partial months in the compliance period (for the initial compliance period, n equals 12 if the compliance date falls on the first day of a month; otherwise n equals 13; for all following compliance periods, n equals 12).
(h)
Compliance demonstration.
The organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period calculated using Equation 3 of this section must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit for each subcategory in § 63.4490 or the predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit allowed in § 63.4490(c). You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4530 and 63.4531. As part of the notification of compliance status required by § 63.4510, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, determined according to the procedures in this section.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41153, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4552
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, determined according to § 63.4551(a) through (g), must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490. A compliance period consists of 12 months. Each month after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4550 is the end of a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4551(a) through (g) on a monthly basis using data from the previous 12 months of operation. If you are complying with a facility-specific emission limit under § 63.4490(c), you must also perform the calculation using Equation 1 in § 63.4490(c)(2) on a monthly basis using the data from the previous 12 months of operation.
(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any 12-month compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4510(c)(6) and 63.4520(a)(6).
(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4520, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, you must submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, determined according to § 63.4551(a) through (g).
(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4530 and 63.4531.

# Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
§ 63.4560
By what date must I conduct performance tests and initial compliance demonstrations?
(a)
New and reconstructed affected sources.
For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4483. Except for solvent
recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4561(j), you must conduct according to the schedule in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section initial and periodic performance tests of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4564, 63.4565, and 63.4566 and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4492. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4561(j), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4483.
(i) You must conduct the initial performance test and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4492 no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4483.
(ii) You must conduct periodic performance tests and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4492 within 5 years following the previous performance test. You must conduct the first periodic performance test before July 8, 2023, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and have conducted a performance test on or after July 8, 2018. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test. For any control device for which you are using the catalytic oxidizer control option at § 63.4567(b) and following the catalyst maintenance procedures in § 63.4567(b)(4), you are not required to conduct periodic control device performance testing as specified by this paragraph. For any control device for which instruments are used to continuously measure organic compound emissions, you are not required to conduct periodic control device performance testing as specified by this paragraph.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4493 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4483.
(3) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4561. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4483 and ends on the last day of the 12th month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next 12 months. You must determine the mass of organic HAP emissions and mass of coatings solids used each month and then calculate an organic HAP emission rate at the end of the initial compliance period. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4564, 63.4565, and 63.4566; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4561(j); calculations according to § 63.4561 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4568; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4493.
(4) For the initial compliance demonstration, you do not need to comply with the operating limits for the emission capture system and add-on control device required by § 63.4492 until after you have completed the initial performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Instead, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture system, add-on control device, and continuous parameter monitors during the period between the compliance date and the performance test. You must begin complying with the operating limits established based on the initial performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for your affected source on the date you complete the performance tests. The requirements in this paragraph (a)(4) do not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid
material balances according to the requirements in § 63.4561(j).
(b)
Existing affected sources.
For an existing affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4483. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4561(j), you must conduct according to the schedule in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section initial and periodic performance tests of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4564, 63.4565, and 63.4566 and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4492. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4561(j), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4483.
(i) You must conduct the initial performance test and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4492 no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4483.
(ii) You must conduct periodic performance tests and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4492 within 5 years following the previous performance test. You must conduct the first periodic performance test before July 8, 2023, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and have conducted a performance test on or after July 8, 2018. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test. For any control device for which you are using the catalytic oxidizer control option at § 63.4567(b) and following the catalyst maintenance procedures in § 63.4567(b)(4), you are not required to conduct periodic control device performance testing as specified by this paragraph. For any control device for which instruments are used to continuously measure organic compound emissions, you are not required to conduct periodic control device performance testing as specified by this paragraph.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4493 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4483.
(3) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4561. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4483 and ends on the last day of the 12th month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next 12 months. You must determine the mass of organic HAP emissions and mass of coatings solids used each month and then calculate an organic HAP emission rate at the end of the initial compliance period. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4564, 63.4565, and 63.4566; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4561(j); calculations according to § 63.4561 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4568; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4493.
(c) You are not required to conduct an initial performance test to determine capture efficiency or destruction efficiency of a capture system or control device if you receive approval to use the results of a performance test that has been previously conducted on that capture system or control device. Any such previous tests must meet the conditions described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. You are still required to conduct a periodic
performance test according to the applicable requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(1) The previous test must have been conducted using the methods and conditions specified in this subpart.
(2) Either no process or equipment changes must have been made since the previous test was performed, or the owner or operator must be able to demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process or equipment changes.
(3) Either the required operating parameters were established in the previous test or sufficient data were collected in the previous test to establish the required operating parameters.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41153, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4561
How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
(a) You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all of the coating operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled coating operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use the emission rate with add-on controls option. To demonstrate initial compliance, the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limitations in §§ 63.4490, 63.4492, and 63.4493. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each general use, TPO, automotive lamp, and assembled on-road vehicle coating operation, unless you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.4490(c). If you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.4490(c), you must demonstrate that all coating operations included in the predominant activity determination or calculation of the facility-specific emission limit comply with that limit. You must meet all the requirements of this section. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite (or reclaimed off-site if you have documentation showing that you received back the exact same materials that were sent off-site) and reused in the coatings operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option. If you use coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed on-site, the amount of each used in a month may be reduced by the amount of each that is reclaimed. That is, the amount used may be calculated as the amount consumed to account for materials that are reclaimed.
(b)
Compliance with operating limits.
Except as provided in § 63.4560(a)(4), and except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section, you must establish and demonstrate continuous compliance during the initial compliance period with the operating limits required by § 63.4492, using the procedures specified in §§ 63.4567 and 63.4568.
(c)
Compliance with work practice requirements.
You must develop, implement, and document your implementation of the work practice plan required by § 63.4493 during the initial compliance period, as specified in § 63.4530.
(d)
Compliance with emission limits.
You must follow the procedures in paragraphs (e) through (n) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490 for each affected source in each subcategory.
(e)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, density, volume used, and mass fraction of coating solids.
Follow the procedures specified in § 63.4551(a)
through (d) to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, density, and volume of each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during each month; and the mass fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each month.
(f)
Calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls.
Using Equation 1 of § 63.4551, calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used during each month in the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.
(g)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation.
Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions reduced for each controlled coating operation during each month. The emission reduction determination quantifies the total organic HAP emissions that pass through the emission capture system and are destroyed or removed by the add-on control device. Use the procedures in paragraph (h) of this section to calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct a liquid-liquid material balance, use the procedures in paragraph (j) of this section to calculate the organic HAP emission reduction.
(h)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation not using liquid-liquid material balance.
Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. The calculation applies the emission capture system efficiency and add-on control device efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation served by the emission capture system and add-on control device during each month. You must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device for any period of time a deviation specified in § 63.4563(c) or (d) occurs in the controlled coating operation, including a deviation during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, unless you have other data indicating the actual efficiency of the emission capture system and add-on control device and the use of these data is approved by the Administrator. Equation 1 of this section treats the materials used during such a deviation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation.
ER19AP04.010
Where:
H
C
= Mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the controlled coating operation during the month, kg.
A
C
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation during the month, kg, as calculated in Equation 1A of this section.
B
C
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners and/or other additives used in the controlled coating operation during the month, kg, as calculated in Equation 1B of this section.
C
C
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during the month, kg, as calculated in Equation 1C of this section.
R
w
= Total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during the compliance period, kg, determined according to § 63.4951(e)(4). (You may assign a value of zero to R
w
if you do not wish to use this allowance.)
H
UNC
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used during all deviations specified in § 63.4563(c) and (d) that occurred during the month in the controlled coating operation, kg, as calculated in Equation 1D of this section.
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures specified in §§ 63.4564 and 63.4565 to measure and record capture efficiency.
DRE = Organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures in §§ 63.4564 and 63.4566 to measure and record the organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency.
(1) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation, kg (lb), using Equation 1A of this section:
ER19AP04.011
Where:
A
C
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation during the month, kg.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the month, liters.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, kg per liter.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, kg per kg. For reactive adhesives as defined in § 63.4581, use the mass fraction of organic HAP that is emitted as determined using the method in appendix A to this subpart.
m = Number of different coatings used.
(2) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners and/or other additives used in the controlled coating operation, kg (lb), using Equation 1B of this section:
ER19AP04.012
Where:
B
C
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners and/or other additives used in the controlled coating operation during the month, kg.
Vol
t,j
= Total volume of thinner and/or other additive, j, used during the month, liters.
D
t,j
= Density of thinner and/or other additive, j, kg per liter.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner and/or other additive, j, kg per kg. For reactive adhesives as defined in § 63.4581, use the mass fraction of organic HAP that is emitted as determined using the method in appendix A to this subpart.
n = Number of different thinners and/or other additives used.
(3) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during the month, kg (lb), using Equation 1C of this section:
ER19AP04.013
Where:
C
C
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during the month, kg.
Vol
s,k
= Total volume of cleaning material, k, used during the month, liters.
D
s,k
= Density of cleaning material, k, kg per liter.
W
s,k
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, kg per kg.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used.
(4) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during deviations specified in § 63.4563(c) and (d), using Equation 1D of this section:
ER19AP04.014
Where:
H
UNC
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used during all deviations specified in § 63.4563(c) and (d) that occurred during the month in the controlled coating operation, kg.
Vol
h
= Total volume of coating, thinner and/or other additive, or cleaning material, h, used in the controlled coating operation during deviations, liters.
D
h
= Density of coating, thinner and/or other additives, or cleaning material, h, kg per liter.
W
h
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, thinner and/or other additives, or cleaning material, h, kg organic HAP per kg coating. For reactive adhesives as defined in § 63.4581, use the mass fraction of organic HAP that is emitted as determined using the method in appendix A to this subpart.
q = Number of different coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation using liquid-liquid material balances.
For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emission reduction by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during each month. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for each month as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (6) of this section. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by the solvent recovery system as specified in paragraph (j)(7) of this section.
(1) For each solvent recovery system, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system each month. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.
(2) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the month, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(3) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg volatile organic matter per kg coating. You may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using EPA Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, ASTM D2369-10 (Reapproved 2015)
e
(incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), or an EPA approved alternative method. Alternatively, you may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the coating. In the event of any inconsistency between information provided by the manufacturer or supplier and the results of EPA Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, ASTM D2369-10 (Reapproved 2015)
e
, or an approved alternative method, the test method results will take precedence unless, after consultation you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data are correct.
(4) Determine the density of each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg per liter, according to § 63.4551(c).
(5) Measure the volume of each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.
(6) Each month, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER19AP04.015
Where:
R
V
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system during the month, percent.
M
VR
= Mass of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg.
Vol
i
= Volume of coating, i, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent
recovery system during the month, liters.
D
i
= Density of coating, i, kg per liter.
WV
c,i
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for coating, i, kg volatile organic matter per kg coating. For reactive adhesives as defined in § 63.4581, use the mass fraction of organic HAP that is emitted as determined using the method in appendix A to this subpart.
Vol
j
= Volume of thinner and/or other additive, j, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.
D
j
= Density of thinner and/or other additive, j, kg per liter.
WV
t,j
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for thinner and/or other additive, j, kg volatile organic matter per kg thinner and/or other additive. For reactive adhesives as defined in § 63.4581, use the mass fraction of organic HAP that is emitted as determined using the method in appendix A to this subpart.
Vol
k
= Volume of cleaning material, k, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.
D
k
= Density of cleaning material, k, kg per liter.
WV
s,k
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for cleaning material, k, kg volatile organic matter per kg cleaning material.
m = Number of different coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month.
n = Number of different thinners and/or other additives used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month.
(7) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, using Equation 3 of this section and according to paragraphs (j)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section:
ER19AP04.016
Where:
H
CSR
= Mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance during the month, kg.
A
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, calculated using Equation 3A of this section.
B
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners and/or other additives used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, calculated using Equation 3B of this section.
C
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, calculated using Equation 3C of this section.
R
V
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system, percent, from Equation 2 of this section.
(i) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, using Equation 3A of this section.
ER19AP04.017
Where:
A
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the month in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, liters.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, kg per liter.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, kg organic HAP per kg coating. For reactive adhesives as defined in § 63.4581, use the mass fraction of organic HAP that is emitted as determined using the method in appendix A to this subpart.
m = Number of different coatings used.
(ii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners and/or other additives used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, using Equation 3B of this section:
ER19AP04.018
Where:
B
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners and/or other additives used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg.
Vol
t,j
= Total volume of thinner and/or other additive, j, used during the month in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, liters.
D
t,j
= Density of thinner and/or other additive, j, kg per liter.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner and/or other additive, j, kg organic HAP per kg thinner and/or other additive. For reactive adhesives as defined in § 63.4581, use the mass fraction of organic HAP that is emitted as determined using the method in appendix A to this subpart.
n = Number of different thinners and/or other additives used.
(iii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg, using Equation 3C of this section:
ER19AP04.019
Where:
C
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg.
Vol
s,k
= Total volume of cleaning material, k, used during the month in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, liters.
D
s,k
= Density of cleaning material, k, kg per liter.
W
s,k
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, kg organic HAP per kg cleaning material.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used.
(k)
Calculate the total mass of coating solids used.
Determine the total mass of coating solids used, kg, which is the combined mass of coating solids for all the coatings used during each month in the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, using Equation 2 of § 63.4551.
(l)
Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions for each month.
Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions, kg, during each month, using Equation 4 of this section:
ER19AP04.020
Where:
H
HAP
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions for the month, kg.
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used during the month, kg, determined according to paragraph (f) of this section.
H
C,i
= Total mass of organic HAP emission reduction for controlled coating operation, i, not using a liquid-liquid material balance, during the month, kg, from Equation 1 of this section.
H
CSR,j
= Total mass of organic HAP emission reduction for coating operation, j, controlled by a solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance, during the month, kg, from Equation 3 of this section.
q = Number of controlled coating operations not controlled by a solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance.
r = Number of coating operations controlled by a solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance.
(m)
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period.
Determine the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg (lb) of organic HAP emitted per kg (lb) coating solids used, using Equation 5 of this section:
ER19AP04.021
Where:
H
annual
= Organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg organic HAP emitted per kg coating solids used.
H
HAP,y
= Organic HAP emissions for month, y, kg, determined according to Equation 4 of this section.
M
st,y
= Total mass of coating solids used during month, y, kg, from Equation 2 of § 63.4551.
y = Identifier for months.
n = Number of full or partial months in the compliance period (for the initial compliance period, n equals 12 if the compliance date falls on the first day of a month; otherwise n equals 13; for all following compliance periods, n equals 12).
(n)
Compliance demonstration.
The organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period, calculated using Equation 5 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit for each subcategory in § 63.4490 or the predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit allowed in § 63.4490(c). You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4530 and 63.4531. As part of the notification of compliance status required by § 63.4510, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, and for control devices other than solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance, you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4492 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4493.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41154, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4562
[Reserved]
§ 63.4563
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, determined according to the procedures in § 63.4561, must be equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490. A compliance period consists of 12 months. Each month after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4560 is the end of a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4561 on a monthly basis using data from the previous 12 months of operation. If you are complying with a facility-specific emission limit under § 63.4490(c), you must also perform the calculation using Equation 1 in § 63.4490(c)(2) on a monthly basis using the data from the previous 12 months of operation.
(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any 12-month compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4510(c)(6) and 63.4520(a)(7).
(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4492 that applies to you, as specified in Table 1 to this subpart, when the coating line is in operation.
(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4510(c)(6) and 63.4520(a)(7).
(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, then you must
assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation, unless you have other data indicating the actual efficiency of the emission capture system and add-on control device and the use of these data is approved by the Administrator.
(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4568(b) for controlled coating operations for which you do not conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4510(c)(6) and 63.4520(a)(7). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in §§ 63.4561(h), you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4561.
(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4493. If you did not develop a work practice plan, or you did not implement the plan, or you did not keep the records required by § 63.4530(i)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4510(c)(6) and 63.4520(a)(7).
(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4520, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limits in § 63.4490, the operating limits in § 63.4492, and the work practice standards in § 63.4493, submit a statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4490, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4492 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4493 during each compliance period.
(g) On and after January 5, 2021, deviations that occur due to malfunction of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or coating operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are required to operate in accordance with § 63.4500(b). The Administrator will determine whether the deviations are violations according to the provisions in § 63.4500(b).
(h)-(i) [Reserved]
(j) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4530 and 63.4531.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 20465, Apr. 20, 2006; 85 FR 41154, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4564
What are the general requirements for performance tests?
(a) Before January 5, 2021, you must conduct each performance test required by § 63.4560 according to the requirements in § 63.7(e)(1) and under the conditions in this section, unless you obtain a waiver of the performance test according to the provisions in § 63.7(h). On and after January 5, 2021, you must conduct each performance test required by § 63.4560 according to the requirements in this section unless you obtain a waiver of the performance test according to the provisions in § 63.7(h).
(1) Representative coating operation operating conditions. You must conduct the performance test under representative operating conditions for the coating operation. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, or nonoperation do not constitute representative conditions for purposes of conducting a performance test. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(2)
Representative emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions.
You must conduct the performance test when the emission capture system and add-on control device are operating at a representative flow rate, and the add-on control device is
operating at a representative inlet concentration. You must record information that is necessary to document emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation.
(b) You must conduct each performance test of an emission capture system according to the requirements in § 63.4565. You must conduct each performance test of an add-on control device according to the requirements in § 63.4566.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41155, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4565
How do I determine the emission capture system efficiency?
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine capture efficiency as part of each performance test required by § 63.4560.
(a)
Assuming 100 percent capture efficiency.
You may assume the capture system efficiency is 100 percent if both of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are met:
(1) The capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
(2) All coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation are applied within the capture system; coating solvent flash-off, curing, and drying occurs within the capture system; and the removal or evaporation of cleaning materials from the surfaces they are applied to occurs within the capture system. For example, this criterion is not met if parts enter the open shop environment when being moved between a spray booth and a curing oven.
(b)
Measuring capture efficiency.
If the capture system does not meet both of the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, then you must use one of the three protocols described in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section to measure capture efficiency. The capture efficiency measurements use TVH capture efficiency as a surrogate for organic HAP capture efficiency. For the protocols in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the capture efficiency measurement must consist of three test runs. Each test run must be at least 3 hours duration or the length of a production run, whichever is longer, up to 8 hours. For the purposes of this test, a production run means the time required for a single part to go from the beginning to the end of the production, which includes surface preparation activities and drying and curing time.
(c)
Liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
The liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol compares the mass of liquid TVH in materials used in the coating operation to the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the emission capture system. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the coating operation where coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied coatings and materials subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the coating operation where capture devices collect emissions for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or spray booth, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204A or 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to determine the mass fraction of TVH liquid input from each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used in the coating operation during each capture efficiency test run. To make the determination, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term volatile organic compounds (VOC) in the methods.
(3) Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the total mass of TVH liquid input from all the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation during each capture efficiency test run:
ER19AP04.022
Where:
TVH
used
= Mass of liquid TVH in materials used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
i
= Mass fraction of TVH in coating, thinner and/or other additive, or cleaning material, i, that is used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg TVH per kg material.
Vol
i
= Total volume of coating, thinner and/or other additive, or cleaning material, i, used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, liters.
D
i
= Density of coating, thinner and/or other additive, or cleaning material, i, kg material per liter material.
n = Number of different coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run.
(4) Use Method 204D or 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of TVH emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system. They are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR 51 if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the coating operation for which capture efficiency is being determined, must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(5) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system using Equation 2 of this section:
ER19AP04.023
Where:
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
TVH
used
= Total mass of TVH liquid input used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
uncaptured
= Total mass of TVH that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
(6) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(d)
Gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
The gas-to-gas protocol compares the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system to the mass of TVH emissions not captured. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the gas-to-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the coating operation where coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied coatings and materials subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the coating operation where capture devices collect emissions generated by the coating operation for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or a spray booth, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204B or 204C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system
during each capture efficiency test run as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) The sampling points for the Method 204B or 204C measurement must be upstream from the add-on control device and must represent total emissions routed from the capture system and entering the add-on control device.
(ii) If multiple emission streams from the capture system enter the add-on control device without a single common duct, then the emissions entering the add-on control device must be simultaneously measured in each duct and the total emissions entering the add-on control device must be determined.
(3) Use Method 204D or 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of TVH emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the coating operation for which capture efficiency is being determined, must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(4) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system using Equation 3 of this section:
ER19AP04.024
Where:
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
TVH
captured
= Total mass of TVH captured by the emission capture system as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device during the emission capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
uncaptured
= Total mass of TVH that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
(5) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(e)
Alternative capture efficiency protocol.
As an alternative to the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and subject to the approval of the Administrator, you may determine capture efficiency using any other capture efficiency protocol and test methods that satisfy the criteria of either the DQO or LCL approach as described in appendix A to subpart KK of this part.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41155, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4566
How do I determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency?
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency as part of the performance test required by § 63.4560. For each performance test, you must conduct three test runs as specified in § 63.7(e)(3) and each test run must last at least 1 hour.
(a) For all types of add-on control devices, use the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Use EPA Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, to select sampling sites and velocity traverse points.
(2) Use EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, or
2G of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, to measure gas volumetric flow rate.
(3) Use EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, for gas analysis to determine dry molecular weight.
(4) Use EPA Method 4 of appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60, to determine stack gas moisture.
(5) Methods for determining gas volumetric flow rate, dry molecular weight, and stack gas moisture must be performed, as applicable, during each test run.
(b) Measure total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon at the inlet and outlet of the add-on control device simultaneously, using either EPA Method 25 or 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60.
(1) Use EPA Method 25 of appendix A-7 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be more than 50 parts per million (ppm) at the control device outlet.
(2) Use EPA Method 25A of appendix A-7 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be 50 ppm or less at the control device outlet.
(3) Use EPA Method 25A of appendix A-7 if the add-on control device is not an oxidizer.
(4) You may use EPA Method 18 in appendix A-6 of part 60 to subtract methane emissions from measured total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon.
(c) If two or more add-on control devices are used for the same emission stream, then you must measure emissions at the outlet to the atmosphere of each device. For example, if one add-on control device is a concentrator with an outlet to the atmosphere for the high-volume dilute stream that has been treated by the concentrator, and a second add-on control device is an oxidizer with an outlet to the atmosphere for the low-volume concentrated stream that is treated with the oxidizer, you must measure emissions at the outlet of the oxidizer and the high volume dilute stream outlet of the concentrator.
(d) For each test run, determine the total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rates for the inlet and the outlet of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section. If there is more than one inlet or outlet to the add-on control device, you must calculate the total gaseous organic mass flow rate using Equation 1 of this section for each inlet and each outlet and then total all of the inlet emissions and total all of the outlet emissions:
ER19AP04.025
Where:
M
f
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate, kg/per hour (h).
C
c
= Concentration of organic compounds as carbon in the vent gas, as determined by Method 25 or Method 25A, parts per million by volume (ppmv), dry basis.
Q
sd
= Volumetric flow rate of gases entering or exiting the add-on control device, as determined by Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G, dry standard cubic meters/hour (dscm/h).
0.0416 = Conversion factor for molar volume, kg-moles per cubic meter (mol/m
3
) (@ 293 Kelvin (K) and 760 millimeters of mercury (mmHg)).
(e) For each test run, determine the add-on control device organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER19AP04.026
Where:
DRE = Organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent.
M
fi
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the inlet(s) to the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, kg/h.
M
fo
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the outlet(s) of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, kg/h.
(f) Determine the emission destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device as the average of the efficiencies determined in the three test runs and calculated in Equation 2 of this section.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41155, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4567
How do I establish the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits during the performance test?
During performance tests required by § 63.4560 and described in §§ 63.4564, 63.4565, and 63.4566, you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4492 according to this section, unless you have received approval for alternative monitoring and operating limits under § 63.8(f) as specified in § 63.4492.
(a)
Thermal oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a thermal oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During performance tests, you must monitor and record the combustion temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must monitor the temperature in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average combustion temperature maintained during the performance test. This average combustion temperature is the minimum operating limit for your thermal oxidizer.
(b)
Catalytic oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a catalytic oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to either paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) or paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section.
(1) During performance tests, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.
(2) For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed and the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test. These are the minimum operating limits for your catalytic oxidizer.
(3) You must monitor the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and implement a site-specific inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. During performance tests, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed during the performance test. This is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer.
(4) You must develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer(s) for which you elect to monitor according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The plan must address, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Annual sampling and analysis of the catalyst activity (
i.e.,
conversion efficiency) following the manufacturer's or catalyst supplier's recommended procedures. If problems are found during the catalyst activity test, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(ii) Monthly external inspection of the catalytic oxidizer system, including the burner assembly and fuel supply lines for problems and, as necessary, adjust the equipment to assure proper air-to-fuel mixtures.
(iii) Annual internal inspection of the catalyst bed to check for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found during the annual internal inspection of the catalyst, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations. If the catalyst bed is replaced and is not of like or better kind and quality as the old catalyst then you must conduct a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency according to § 63.4566. If a catalyst bed is replaced and the replacement catalyst is of like or better kind and quality as the old catalyst, then a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency is not required and you may continue to use the previously established operating limits for that catalytic oxidizer.
(c)
Regenerative carbon adsorbers.
If your add-on control device is a regenerative carbon adsorber, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During performance tests, you must monitor and record the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, and the carbon bed temperature after each carbon bed regeneration and cooling cycle for the regeneration cycle either immediately preceding or immediately following the performance test.
(2) The operating limits for your regenerative carbon adsorber are the minimum total desorbing gas mass flow recorded during the regeneration cycle and the maximum carbon bed temperature recorded after the cooling cycle.
(d)
Condensers.
If your add-on control device is a condenser, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During performance tests, you must monitor and record the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs of the performance test.
(2) For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature maintained during the performance test. This average condenser outlet gas temperature is the maximum operating limit for your condenser.
(e)
Concentrators.
If your add-on control device includes a concentrator, you must establish operating limits for the concentrator according to paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) During performance tests, you must monitor and record the desorption concentrate stream gas temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.
(2) For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature. This is the minimum operating limit for the desorption concentrate gas stream temperature.
(3) During each performance test, you must monitor and record the pressure drop of the dilute stream across the concentrator at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.
(4) For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average pressure drop. This is the minimum operating limit for the dilute stream across the concentrator.
(f)
Emission capture systems.
For each capture device that is not part of a PTE that meets the criteria of § 63.4565(a), establish an operating limit for either the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. The operating limit for a PTE is specified in Table 1 to this subpart.
(1) During the capture efficiency determination required by § 63.4560 and described in §§ 63.4564 and 63.4565, you must monitor and record either the gas volumetric flow rate or the duct static pressure for each separate capture device in your emission capture system at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs at a point in the duct between the capture device and the add-on control device inlet.
(2) Calculate and record the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for the three test runs for each capture device. This average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure is the minimum operating limit for that specific capture device.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41155, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4568
What are the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance?
(a)
General.
You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (c), (e), (f), and (g) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) of this section.
(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four equally
spaced successive cycles of CPMS operation in 1 hour.
(2) You must determine the average of all recorded readings for each successive 3-hour period of the emission capture system and add-on control device operation.
(3) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS.
(4) Before January 5, 2021, you must maintain the CPMS at all times and have available necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment. On and after January 5, 2021, you must maintain the CPMS at all times in accordance with § 63.4500(b) and keep necessary parts readily available for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.
(5) Before January 5, 2021, you must operate the CPMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times that a controlled coating operation is operating, except during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, if applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments). On and after January 5, 2021, you must operate the CPMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times in accordance with § 63.4500(b).
(6) You must not use emission capture system or add-on control device parameter data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities when calculating data averages. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in calculating the data averages for determining compliance with the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits.
(7) A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the CPMS to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Before January 5, 2021, any period for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for required calculations is a deviation from the monitoring requirements. On and after January 5, 2021, except for periods of required quality assurance or control activities, any period for which the CPMS fails to operate and record data continuously as required by paragraph (a)(5) of this section, or generates data that cannot be included in calculating averages as specified in (a)(6) of this section constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements.
(b)
Capture system bypass line.
You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section for each emission capture system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(1) You must monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism controlling the bypass line in a nondiverting position in such a way that the valve or closure mechanism cannot be opened without creating a record that the valve was opened. The method used to monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism must meet one of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i)
Flow control position indicator.
Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes and provides a record indicating whether the emissions are directed to the add-on control device or diverted from the add-on control device. The time of occurrence and flow control position must be recorded, as well as every time the flow direction is changed. The flow control position indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(ii)
Car-seal or lock-and-key valve closures.
Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. You must visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position, and the emissions are not diverted away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(iii)
Valve closure monitoring.
Ensure that any bypass line valve is in the closed (nondiverting) position through monitoring of valve position at least once every 15 minutes. You must inspect the monitoring system at least once every month to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position.
(iv)
Automatic shutdown system.
Use an automatic shutdown system in which the coating operation is stopped when flow is diverted by the bypass line away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running. You must inspect the automatic shutdown system at least once every month to verify that it will detect diversions of flow and shut down the coating operation.
(v)
Flow direction indicator.
Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow direction indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes and provides a record indicating whether the emissions are directed to the add-on control device or diverted from the add-on control device. Each time the flow direction changes, the next reading of the time of occurrence and flow direction must be recorded. The flow direction indicator must be installed in each bypass line or air makeup supply line that could divert the emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(2) If any bypass line is opened, you must include a description of why the bypass line was opened and the length of time it remained open in the semiannual compliance reports required in § 63.4520.
(c)
Thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.
If you are using a thermal oxidizer or catalytic oxidizer as an add-on control device (including those used with concentrators or with carbon adsorbers to treat desorbed concentrate streams), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) For a thermal oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) For a catalytic oxidizer, install gas temperature monitors upstream and/or downstream of the catalyst bed as required in § 63.3967(b).
(3) For all thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3)(i) through (v) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device. For the purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), a thermocouple is part of the temperature sensor.
(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.
(ii) Use a temperature sensor with a measurement sensitivity of 5 degrees Fahrenheit or 1.0 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.
(iii) Before using the sensor for the first time or when relocating or replacing the sensor, perform a validation check by comparing the sensor output to a calibrated temperature measurement device or by comparing the sensor output to a simulated temperature.
(iv) Conduct an accuracy audit every quarter and after every deviation. Accuracy audit methods include comparisons of sensor output to redundant temperature sensors, to calibrated temperature measurement devices, or to temperature simulation devices.
(v) Conduct a visual inspection of each sensor every quarter if redundant temperature sensors are not used.
(d)
Regenerative carbon adsorbers.
If you are using a regenerative carbon adsorber as an add-on control device, you must monitor the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and cooling cycle, and comply with paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) and (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The regeneration desorbing gas mass flow monitor must be an integrating device having a measurement sensitivity of plus or minus 10 percent capable of recording the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow for each regeneration cycle.
(2) The carbon bed temperature monitor must be capable of recording the temperature within 15 minutes of completing any carbon bed cooling cycle.
(3) For all regenerative carbon adsorbers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (v) of this section for each temperature monitoring device.
(e)
Condensers.
If you are using a condenser, you must monitor the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature and comply with paragraphs (a) and (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The temperature monitor must provide a gas temperature record at least once every 15 minutes.
(2) For all condensers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (v) of this section for each temperature monitoring device.
(f)
Concentrators.
If you are using a concentrator, such as a zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed concentrator, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must install a temperature monitor in the desorption gas stream. The temperature monitor must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3) of this section.
(2) You must install a device to monitor pressure drop across the zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed. The pressure monitoring device must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (g)(2) of this section.
(g)
Emission capture systems.
The capture system monitoring system must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For each flow measurement device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (g)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Locate a flow sensor in a position that provides a representative flow measurement in the duct from each capture device in the emission capture system to the add-on control device.
(ii) Use a flow sensor with an accuracy of at least 10 percent of the flow.
(iii) Perform an initial sensor calibration in accordance with the manufacturer's requirements.
(iv) Perform a validation check before initial use or upon relocation or replacement of a sensor. Validation checks include comparison of sensor values with electronic signal simulations or via relative accuracy testing.
(v) Conduct an accuracy audit every quarter and after every deviation. Accuracy audit methods include comparisons of sensor values with electronic signal simulations or via relative accuracy testing.
(vi) Perform leak checks monthly.
(vii) Perform visual inspections of the sensor system quarterly if there is no redundant sensor.
(2) For each pressure drop measurement device, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (g)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in or as close to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure drop across each opening you are monitoring.
(ii) Use a pressure sensor with an accuracy of at least 0.5 inches of water column or 5 percent of the measured value, whichever is larger.
(iii) Perform an initial calibration of the sensor according to the manufacturer's requirements.
(iv) Conduct a validation check before initial operation or upon relocation or replacement of a sensor. Validation checks include comparison of sensor values to calibrated pressure measurement devices or to pressure simulation using calibrated pressure sources.
(v) Conduct accuracy audits every quarter and after every deviation. Accuracy audits include comparison of sensor values to calibrated pressure measurement devices or to pressure simulation using calibrated pressure sources.
(vi) Perform monthly leak checks on pressure connections. A pressure of at least 1.0 inches of water column to the connection must yield a stable sensor result for at least 15 seconds.
(vii) Perform a visual inspection of the sensor at least monthly if there is no redundant sensor.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41156, July 8, 2020]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.4580
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by us, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or a delegated authority such as your
State, local, or tribal agency. If the Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency (as well as the EPA) has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.4481 through 4483 and §§ 63.4490 through 4493.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.4581
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Additive
means a material that is added to a coating after purchase from a supplier (e.g., catalysts, activators, accelerators).
Add-on control
means an air pollution control device, such as a thermal oxidizer or carbon adsorber, that reduces pollution in an air stream by destruction or removal before discharge to the atmosphere.
Adhesive, adhesive coating
means any chemical substance that is applied for the purpose of bonding two surfaces together. Products used on humans and animals, adhesive tape, contact paper, or any other product with an adhesive incorporated onto or in an inert substrate shall not be considered adhesives under this subpart.
Assembled on-road vehicle coating
means any coating operation in which coating is applied to the surface of some component or surface of a fully assembled motor vehicle or trailer intended for on-road use including, but not limited to, components or surfaces on automobiles and light-duty trucks that have been repaired after a collision or otherwise repainted, fleet delivery trucks, and motor homes and other recreational vehicles (including camping trailers and fifth wheels). Assembled on-road vehicle coating includes the concurrent coating of parts of the assembled on-road vehicle that are painted off-vehicle to protect systems, equipment, or to allow full coverage. Assembled on-road vehicle coating does not include surface coating operations that meet the applicability criteria of the Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks NESHAP. Assembled on-road vehicle coating also does not include the use of adhesives, sealants, and caulks used in assembling on-road vehicles.
Automotive lamp coating
means any coating operation in which coating is applied to the surface of some component of the body of an exterior automotive lamp, including the application of reflective argent coatings and clear topcoats. Exterior automotive lamps include head lamps, tail lamps, turn signals, brake lights, and side marker lights. Automotive lamp coating does not include any coating operation performed on an assembled on-road vehicle.
Capture device
means a hood, enclosure, room, floor sweep, or other means of containing or collecting emissions and directing those emissions into an add-on air pollution control device.
Capture efficiency or capture system efficiency
means the portion (expressed as a percentage) of the pollutants from an emission source that is delivered to an add-on control device.
Capture system
means one or more capture devices intended to collect emissions generated by a coating operation in the use of coatings or cleaning materials, both at the point of application and at subsequent points where emissions from the coatings and cleaning materials occur, such as flashoff,
drying, or curing. As used in this subpart, multiple capture devices that collect emissions generated by a coating operation are considered a single capture system.
Cleaning material
means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials, such as dirt, grease, oil, and dried or wet coating (
e.g.,
depainting), from a substrate before or after coating application or from equipment associated with a coating operation, such as spray booths, spray guns, racks, tanks, and hangers. Thus, it includes any cleaning material used on substrates or equipment or both.
Coating
means a material applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints, sealants, liquid plastic coatings, caulks, inks, adhesives, and maskants. Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils for metal, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances, or paper film or plastic film which may be pre-coated with an adhesive by the film manufacturer, are not considered coatings for the purposes of this subpart. A liquid plastic coating means a coating made from fine particle-size polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in solution (also referred to as a plastisol).
Coating operation
means equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a substrate to prepare it for coating application (surface preparation) or to remove dried coating; to apply coating to a substrate (coating application) and to dry or cure the coating after application; or to clean coating operation equipment (equipment cleaning). A single coating operation may include any combination of these types of equipment, but always includes at least the point at which a given quantity of coating or cleaning material is applied to a given part and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP are emitted from the specific quantity of coating or cleaning material on the specific part. There may be multiple coating operations in an affected source. Coating application with handheld, non-refillable aerosol containers, touch-up markers, or marking pens is not a coating operation for the purposes of this subpart.
Coatings solids
means the nonvolatile portion of the coating that makes up the dry film.
Continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS)
means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart, used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of coating operation, or capture system, or add-on control device parameters.
Controlled coating operation
means a coating operation from which some or all of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.
Deviation
means:
(1) Before January 5, 2021, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to, any emission limit or operating limit or work practice standard;
(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(iii) Fails to meet any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during SSM, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart; and
(2) On and after January 5, 2021, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:
(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or
(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.
Emission limitation
means the aggregate of all requirements associated with a compliance option including emission limit, operating limit, work practice standard, etc.
Enclosure
means a structure that surrounds a source of emissions and captures and directs the emissions to an add-on control device.
Exempt compound
means a specific compound that is not considered a VOC due to negligible photochemical reactivity. The exempt compounds are listed in 40 CFR 51.100(s).
Facility maintenance
means the routine repair or renovation (including the surface coating) of the tools, equipment, machinery, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the affected facility and that are necessary for the facility to function in its intended capacity.
General use coating
means any coating operation that is not an automotive lamp, TPO, or assembled on-road vehicle coating operation.
Hobby shop
means any surface coating operation, located at an affected source, that is used exclusively for personal, noncommercial purposes by the affected source's employees or assigned personnel.
Manufacturer's formulation data
means data on a material (such as a coating) that are supplied by the material manufacturer based on knowledge of the ingredients used to manufacture that material, rather than based on testing of the material with the test methods specified in § 63.4541. Manufacturer's formulation data may include, but are not limited to, information on density, organic HAP content, volatile organic matter content, and coating solids content.
Mass fraction of coating solids
means the ratio of the mass of solids (also known as the mass of nonvolatiles) to the mass of a coating in which it is contained; kg of coating solids per kg of coating.
Mass fraction of organic HAP
means the ratio of the mass of organic HAP to the mass of a material in which it is contained, expressed as kg of organic HAP per kg of material.
Month
means a calendar month or a pre-specified period of 28 days to 35 days to allow for flexibility in recordkeeping when data are based on a business accounting period.
Non-HAP coating
means, for the purposes of this subpart, a coating that contains no more than 0.1 percent by mass of any individual organic HAP that is listed in table 5 to this subpart and no more than 1.0 percent by mass for any other individual HAP.
Organic HAP content
means the mass of organic HAP emitted per mass of coating solids used for a coating calculated using Equation 1 of § 63.4541. The organic HAP content is determined for the coating in the condition it is in when received from its manufacturer or supplier and does not account for any alteration after receipt. For reactive adhesives in which some of the HAP react to form solids and are not emitted to the atmosphere, organic HAP content is the mass of organic HAP that is emitted, rather than the organic HAP content of the coating as it is received.
Permanent total enclosure (PTE)
means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51, for a PTE and that directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
Personal watercraft
means a vessel (boat) which uses an inboard motor powering a water jet pump as its primary source of motive power and which is designed to be operated by a person or persons sitting, standing, or kneeling on the vessel, rather than in the conventional manner of sitting or standing inside the vessel.
Plastic part and product
means any piece or combination of pieces of which at least one has been formed from one or more resins. Such pieces may be solid, porous, flexible or rigid.
Protective oil
means an organic material that is applied to metal for the purpose of providing lubrication or protection from corrosion without forming a solid film. This definition of protective oil includes, but is not limited to, lubricating oils, evaporative oils (including those that evaporate completely), and extrusion oils.
Reactive adhesive
means adhesive systems composed, in part, of volatile monomers that react during the adhesive curing reaction, and, as a result, do not evolve from the film during use. These volatile components instead become integral parts of the adhesive through chemical reaction. At least 70 percent of the liquid components of the
system, excluding water, react during the process.
Research or laboratory facility
means a facility whose primary purpose is for research and development of new processes and products, that is conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and is not engaged in the manufacture of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in a
de minimis
manner.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.
Startup, initial
means the first time equipment is brought online in a facility.
Surface preparation
means use of a cleaning material on a portion of or all of a substrate. This includes use of a cleaning material to remove dried coating, which is sometimes called depainting.
Temporary total enclosure
means an enclosure constructed for the purpose of measuring the capture efficiency of pollutants emitted from a given source as defined in Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51.
Thermoplastic olefin (TPO)
means polyolefins (blends of polypropylene, polyethylene and its copolymers). This also includes blends of TPO with polypropylene and polypropylene alloys including, but not limited to, thermoplastic elastomer (TPE), TPE polyurethane (TPU), TPE polyester (TPEE), TPE polyamide (TPAE), and thermoplastic elastomer polyvinyl chloride (TPVC).
Thermoplastic olefin (TPO) coating
means any coating operation in which the coatings are components of a system of coatings applied to a TPO substrate, including adhesion promoters, primers, color coatings, clear coatings and topcoats. Thermoplastic olefin coating does not include the coating of TPO substrates on assembled on-road vehicles.
Thinner
means an organic solvent that is added to a coating after the coating is received from the supplier.
Total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH)
means the total amount of nonaqueous volatile organic matter determined according to Methods 204 and 204A through 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 and substituting the term TVH each place in the methods where the term VOC is used. The TVH includes both VOC and non-VOC.
Uncontrolled coating operation
means a coating operation from which none of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.
Volatile organic compound (VOC)
means any compound defined as VOC in 40 CFR 51.100(s).
Wastewater
means water that is generated in a coating operation and is collected, stored, or treated prior to being discarded or discharged.
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41156, July 8, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. PPPP, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart PPPP of Part 63—Operating Limits if Using the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
If you are required to comply with operating limits by § 63.4491(c), you must comply with the applicable operating limits in the following table:
For the following device . . .
You must meet the following operating limit . . .
And you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limit by . . .
1. Thermal oxidizer
a. The average combustion temperature in any 3-hour period must not fall below the combustion temperature limit established according to § 63.4567(a).
i. Collecting the combustion temperature data according to § 63.4568(c);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average combustion temperature at or above the temperature limit.
2. Catalytic oxidizer
a. The average temperature measured just before the catalyst bed in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4567(b); and either
i. Collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4568(c);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average temperature before the catalyst bed at or above the temperature limit.
b. Ensure that the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed in any 3-hour period does not fall below the temperature difference limit established according to § 63.4567(b)(2); or
i. Collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4568(c);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average temperature difference at or above the temperature difference limit.
c. Develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan according to § 63.4567(b)(4).
i. Maintaining an up-to-date inspection and maintenance plan, records of annual catalyst activity checks, records of monthly inspections of the oxidizer system, and records of the annual internal inspections of the catalyst bed. If a problem is discovered during a monthly or annual inspection required by § 63.4567(b)(4), you must take corrective action as soon as practicable consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations.
3. Regenerative carbon adsorber
a. The total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each carbon bed regeneration cycle must not fall below the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow limit established according to § 63.4567(c); and
i. Measuring the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle according to § 63.4568(d); and
ii. Maintaining the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow at or above the mass flow limit.
b. The temperature of the carbon bed, after completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle, must not exceed the carbon bed temperature limit established according to § 63.4567(c).
i. Measuring the temperature of the carbon bed after completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle according to § 63.4568(d); and
ii. Operating the carbon beds such that each carbon bed is not returned to service until completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle until the recorded temperature of the carbon bed is at or below the temperature limit.
4. Condenser
a. The average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature in any 3-hour period must not exceed the temperature limit established according to § 63.4567(d).
i. Collecting the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature according to § 63.4568(e);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average gas temperature at the outlet at or below the temperature limit.
5. Concentrators, including zeolite wheels and rotary carbon adsorbers
a. The average gas temperature of the desorption concentrate stream in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4567(e); and
i. Collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4568(f);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average temperature at or above the temperature limit.
b. The average pressure drop of the dilute stream across the concentrator in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4567(e).
i. Collecting the pressure drop data according to § 63.4568(f);
ii. Reducing the pressure drop data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average pressure drop at or above the pressure drop limit.
6. Emission capture system that is a PTE according to § 63.4565(a)
a. The direction of the air flow at all times must be into the enclosure; and either
i. Collecting the direction of air flow, and either the facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings according to § 63.4568(g)(1) or the pressure drop across the enclosure according to § 63.4568(g)(2); and
ii. Maintaining the facial velocity of air flow through all natural draft openings or the pressure drop at or above the facial velocity limit or pressure drop limit, and maintaining the direction of air flow into the enclosure at all times.
b. The average facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings in the enclosure must be at least 200 feet per minute; or
i.
See
items 6.a.i and 6.a.ii.
c. The pressure drop across the enclosure must be at least 0.007 inch H
2
O, as established in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
i.
See
items 6.a.i and 6.a.ii.
7. Emission capture system that is not a PTE according to § 63.4565(a)
a. The average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure in each duct between a capture device and add-on control device inlet in any 3-hour period must not fall below the average volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure limit established for that capture device according to § 63.4567(f).
i. Collecting the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for each capture device according to § 63.4568(g);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for each capture device at or above the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure limit.
Pt. 63, Subpt. PPPP, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart PPPP of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart PPPP of Part 63
You must comply with the applicable General Provisions requirements according to the following table:
Citation
Subject
Applicable to
subpart PPPP
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1)-(12)
General Applicability
Yes
§ 63.1(b)(1)-(3)
Initial Applicability Determination
Yes
Applicability to subpart PPPP is also specified in § 63.4481.
§ 63.1(c)(1)
Applicability After Standard Established
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(2)
Applicability of Permit Program for Area Sources
No
Area sources are not subject to subpart PPPP.
§ 63.1(c)(5)
Extensions and Notifications
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(6)
Reclassification
Yes
§ 63.1(e)
Applicability of Permit Program Before Relevant Standard is Set
Yes
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
Additional definitions are specified in § 63.4581.
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
§ 63.4(a)(1)-(2)
Prohibited Activities
Yes
§ 63.4(b)-(c)
Circumvention/Fragmentation
Yes
§ 63.5(a)
Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(b)(1), (3), (4), (6)
Requirements for Existing, Newly Constructed, and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
§ 63.5(d)(1)(i)-(ii)(F), (d)(1)(ii)(H), (d)(1)(ii)(J), (d)(1)(iii), (d)(2)-(4)
Application for Approval of Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(e)
Approval of Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(f)
Approval of Construction/Reconstruction Based on Prior State Review
Yes
§ 63.6(a)
Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements—Applicability
Yes
§ 63.6(b)(1)-(5), (b)(7)
Compliance Dates for New and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
Section 63.4483 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(c)(1), (2), (5)
Compliance Dates for Existing Sources
Yes
Section 63.4483 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)-(ii)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes before January 5, 2021. No on and after January 5, 2021
See
§ 63.4500(b) for general duty requirement.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes
§ 63.6(e)(3)(i), (e)(3)(iii)-(ix)
SSMP
Yes before January 5, 2021. No on and after January 5, 2021
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance Except During SSM
Yes before January 5, 2021. No on and after January 5, 2021
§ 63.6(f)(2)-(3)
Methods for Determining Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(g)
Use of an Alternative Standard
Yes
§ 63.6(h)
Compliance With Opacity/Visible Emission Standards
No
Subpart PPPP does not establish opacity standards and does not require continuous opacity monitoring systems (COMS).
§ 63.6(i)(1)-(14), (16)
Extension of Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
Yes
§ 63.7(a)(1)
Performance Test Requirements—Applicability
Yes
Applies to all affected sources. Additional requirements for performance testing are specified in §§ 63.4564, 63.4565, and 63.4566.
§ 63.7(a)(2), except (a)(2)(i)-(viii)
Performance Test Requirements—Dates
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards. Section 63.4560 specifies the schedule for performance test requirements that are earlier than those specified in § 63.7(a)(2).
§ 63.7(a)(3)-(4)
Performance Tests Required By the Administrator, Force Majeure
Yes
§ 63.7(b)-(d)
Performance Test Requirements—Notification, Quality Assurance, Facilities Necessary for Safe Testing, Conditions During Test
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Conduct of Performance Tests
Yes before January 5, 2021. No on and after January 5, 2021
See
§ 63.4500 and § 63.4564(a).
§ 63.7(e)(2)-(4)
Conduct of Performance Tests
Yes
§ 63.7(f)
Performance Test Requirements—Use Alternative Test Method
Yes
Applies to all test methods except those of used to determine capture system efficiency.
§ 63.7(g)-(h)
Performance Test Requirements—Data Analysis, Recordkeeping, Reporting, Waiver of Test
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards.
§ 63.8(a)(1)-(2)
Monitoring Requirements—Applicability
Yes
Applies only to monitoring of capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards. Additional requirements for monitoring are specified in § 63.4568.
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Additional Monitoring Requirements
No
Subpart PPPP does not have monitoring requirements for flares.
§ 63.8(b)
Conduct of Monitoring
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(1)
Continuous Monitoring System (CMS) Operation and Maintenance
Yes before January 5, 2021. No on and after January 5, 2021
Section 63.4568 specifies the requirements for the operation of CMS for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(2)-(3)
CMS Operation and Maintenance
Yes
Applies only to monitoring of capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard. Additional requirements for CMS operations and maintenance are specified in § 63.4568.
§ 63.8(c)(4)
CMS
No
Section 63.4568 specifies the requirements for the operation of CMS for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(5)
COMS
No
Subpart PPPP does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.8(c)(6)
CMS Requirements
No
Section 63.4568 specifies the requirements for monitoring systems for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(7)
CMS Out-of-Control Periods
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(8)
CMS Out-of-Control Periods and Reporting
No
Section 63.4520 requires reporting of CMS out-of-control periods.
§ 63.8(d)-(e)
Quality Control Program and CMS Performance Evaluation
No
Subpart PPPP does not require the use of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
§ 63.8(f)(1)-(5)
Use of an Alternative Monitoring Method
Yes
§ 63.8(f)(6)
Alternative to Relative Accuracy Test
No
Subpart PPPP does not require the use of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
§ 63.8(g)
Data Reduction
No
Sections 63.4567 and 63.4568 specify monitoring data reduction.
§ 63.9(a)-(d)
Notification Requirements
Yes
§ 63.9(e)
Notification of Performance Test
Yes
Applies only to capture system and add-on control device performance tests at sources using these to comply with the standards.
§ 63.9(f)
Notification of Visible Emissions/Opacity Test
No
Subpart PPPP does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.9(g)
Additional Notifications When Using CMS
No
Subpart PPPP does not require the use of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
§ 63.9(h)(1)-(3), (5)-(6)
Notification of Compliance Status
Yes
Section 63.4510 specifies the dates for submitting the notification of compliance status.
§ 63.9(i)
Adjustment of Submittal Deadlines
Yes
§ 63.9(j)
Change in Previous Information
Yes
§ 63.9(k)
Electronic reporting procedures
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
§ 63.10(a)
Recordkeeping/Reporting—Applicability and General Information
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(1)
General Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in §§ 63.4530 and 63.4531.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)-(ii)
Recordkeeping of Occurrence and Duration of Startups and Shutdowns and of Failures to Meet Standards
Yes before January 5, 2021. No on and after January 5, 2021
See
§ 63.4530(h).
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Recordkeeping Relevant to Maintenance of Air Pollution Control and Monitoring Equipment
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv)-(v)
Actions Taken to Minimize Emissions During SSM
Yes before January 5, 2021. No on and after January 5, 2021
See
§ 63.4530(h)(4) for a record of actions taken to minimize emissions during a deviation from the standard.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi)
Recordkeeping for CMS Malfunctions
Yes before January 5, 2021. No on and after January 5, 2021
See
§ 63.4530(h) for records of periods of deviation from the standard, including instances where a CMS is inoperative or out-of-control.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vii)-(xii)
Records
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiii)
No
Subpart PPPP does not require the use of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiv)
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Recordkeeping Requirements for Applicability Determinations
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(1), (5)-(6)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(7)-(8)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
No
See
§ 63.4530(h) for records of periods of deviation from the standard, including instances where a CMS is inoperative or out-of-control.
§ 63.10(c)(10)-(14)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(15)
Records Regarding the SSMP
Yes before January 5, 2021. No on and after January 5, 2021
§ 63.10(d)(1)
General Reporting Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.4520.
§ 63.10(d)(2)
Report of Performance Test Results
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.4520(b).
§ 63.10(d)(3)
Reporting Opacity or Visible Emissions Observations
No
Subpart PPPP does not require opacity or visible emissions observations.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress Reports for Sources With Compliance Extensions
Yes
§ 63.10(d)(5)
SSM Reports
Yes before January 5, 2021. No on and after January 5, 2021
See
§ 63.4520(a)(7).
§ 63.10(e)(1)-(2)
Additional CMS Reports
No
Subpart PPPP does not require the use of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
§ 63.10(e)(3)
Excess Emissions/CMS Performance Reports
No
Section 63.4520(b) specifies the contents of periodic compliance reports.
§ 63.10(e)(4)
COMS Data Reports
No
Subpart PPPP does not specify requirements for opacity or COMS.
§ 63.10(f)
Recordkeeping/Reporting Waiver
Yes
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements/Flares
No
Subpart PPPP does not specify use of flares for compliance.
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes
§ 63.13
Addresses
Yes
§ 63.14
IBR
Yes
§ 63.15
Availability of Information/Confidentiality
Yes
[85 FR 41156, July 8, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 73907, Nov. 19, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. PPPP, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart PPPP of Part 63—Default Organic HAP Mass Fraction for Solvents and Solvent Blends
You may use the mass fraction values in the following table for solvent blends for which you do not have test data or manufacturer's formulation data and which match either the solvent blend name or the chemical abstract series (CAS) number. If a solvent blend matches both the name and CAS number for an entry, that entry's organic HAP mass fraction must be used for that solvent blend. Otherwise, use the organic HAP mass fraction for the entry matching either the solvent blend name or CAS number, or use the organic HAP mass fraction from table 4 to this subpart if neither the name or CAS number match.
Solvent/solvent blend
CAS. No.
Average organic
HAP mass
fraction
Typical organic HAP,
percent by mass
1. Toluene
108-88-3
1.0
Toluene.
2. Xylene(s)
1330-20-7
1.0
Xylenes, ethylbenzene.
3. Hexane
110-54-3
0.5
n-hexane.
4. n-Hexane
110-54-3
1.0
n-hexane.
5. Ethylbenzene
100-41-4
1.0
Ethylbenzene.
6. Aliphatic 140
0
None.
7. Aromatic 100
0.02
1% xylene, 1% cumene.
8. Aromatic 150
0.09
Naphthalene.
9. Aromatic naphtha
64742-95-6
0.02
1% xylene, 1% cumene.
10. Aromatic solvent
64742-94-5
0.1
Naphthalene.
11. Exempt mineral spirits
8032-32-4
0
None.
12. Ligroines (VM
P)
8032-32-4
0
None.
13. Lactol spirits
64742-89-6
0.15
Toluene.
14. Low aromatic white spirit
64742-82-1
0
None.
15. Mineral spirits
64742-88-7
0.01
Xylenes.
16. Hydrotreated naphtha
64742-48-9
0
None.
17. Hydrotreated light distillate
64742-47-8
0.001
Toluene.
18. Stoddard solvent
8052-41-3
0.01
Xylenes.
19. Super high-flash naphtha
64742-95-6
0.05
Xylenes.
20. Varsol ® solvent
8052-49-3
0.01
0.5% xylenes, 0.5% ethylbenzene.
21. VM
P naphtha
64742-89-8
0.06
3% toluene, 3% xylene.
22. Petroleum distillate mixture
68477-31-6
0.08
4% naphthalene, 4% biphenyl.
Pt. 63, Subpt. PPPP, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart PPPP of Part 63—Default Organic HAP Mass Fraction for Petroleum Solvent Groups
a
You may use the mass fraction values in the following table for solvent blends for which you do not have test data or manufacturer's formulation data.
Solvent type
Average
organic
HAP mass
fraction
Typical organic HAP, percent by mass
Aliphatic
b
0.03
1% Xylene, 1% Toluene, and 1% Ethylbenzene.
Aromatic
c
0.06
4% Xylene, 1% Toluene, and 1% Ethylbenzene.
a
Use this table only if the solvent blend does not match any of the solvent blends in Table 3 to this subpart by either solvent blend name or CAS number and you only know whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic.
b
Mineral Spirits 135, Mineral Spirits 150 EC, Naphtha, Mixed Hydrocarbon, Aliphatic Hydrocarbon, Aliphatic Naphtha, Naphthol Spirits, Petroleum Spirits, Petroleum Oil, Petroleum Naphtha, Solvent Naphtha, Solvent Blend.
c
Medium-flash Naphtha, High-flash Naphtha, Aromatic Naphtha, Light Aromatic Naphtha, Light Aromatic Hydrocarbons, Aromatic Hydrocarbons, Light Aromatic Solvent.
Pt. 63, Subpt. PPPP, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart PPPP of Part 63—List of HAP That Must Be Counted Toward Total Organic HAP Content if Present at 0.1 Percent or More by Mass
Chemical name
CAS No.
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
79-34-5
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
79-00-5
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine
57-14-7
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane
96-12-8
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine
122-66-7
1,3-Butadiene
106-99-0
1,3-Dichloropropene
542-75-6
1,4-Dioxane
123-91-1
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
88-06-2
2,4/2,6-Dinitrotoluene (mixture)
25321-14-6
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
121-14-2
2,4-Toluene diamine
95-80-7
2-Nitropropane
79-46-9
3,3′-Dichlorobenzidine
91-94-1
3,3′-Dimethoxybenzidine
119-90-4
3,3′-Dimethylbenzidine
119-93-7
4,4′-Methylene bis(2-chloroaniline)
101-14-4
Acetaldehyde
75-07-0
Acrylamide
79-06-1
Acrylonitrile
107-13-1
Allyl chloride
107-05-1
alpha-Hexachlorocyclohexane (a-HCH)
319-84-6
Aniline
62-53-3
Benzene
71-43-2
Benzidine
92-87-5
Benzotrichloride
98-07-7
Benzyl chloride
100-44-7
beta-Hexachlorocyclohexane (b-HCH)
319-85-7
Bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
117-81-7
Bis(chloromethyl)ether
542-88-1
Bromoform
75-25-2
Captan
133-06-2
Carbon tetrachloride
56-23-5
Chlordane
57-74-9
Chlorobenzilate
510-15-6
Chloroform
67-66-3
Chloroprene
126-99-8
Cresols (mixed)
1319-77-3
DDE
3547-04-4
Dichloroethyl ether
111-44-4
Dichlorvos
62-73-7
Epichlorohydrin
106-89-8
Ethyl acrylate
140-88-5
Ethylene dibromide
106-93-4
Ethylene dichloride
107-06-2
Ethylene oxide
75-21-8
Ethylene thiourea
96-45-7
Ethylidene dichloride (1,1-Dichloroethane)
75-34-3
Formaldehyde
50-00-0
Heptachlor
76-44-8
Hexachlorobenzene
118-74-1
Hexachlorobutadiene
87-68-3
Hexachloroethane
67-72-1
Hydrazine
302-01-2
Isophorone
78-59-1
Lindane (hexachlorocyclohexane, all isomers)
58-89-9
m-Cresol
108-39-4
Methylene chloride
75-09-2
Naphthalene
91-20-3
Nitrobenzene
98-95-3
Nitrosodimethylamine
62-75-9
o-Cresol
95-48-7
o-Toluidine
95-53-4
Parathion
56-38-2
p-Cresol
106-44-5
p-Dichlorobenzene
106-46-7
Pentachloronitrobenzene
82-68-8
Pentachlorophenol
87-86-5
Propoxur
114-26-1
Propylene dichloride
78-87-5
Propylene oxide
75-56-9
Quinoline
91-22-5
Tetrachloroethene
127-18-4
Toxaphene
8001-35-2
Trichloroethylene
79-01-6
Trifluralin
1582-09-8
Vinyl bromide
593-60-2
Vinyl chloride
75-01-4
Vinylidene chloride
75-35-4
[85 FR 41160, July 8, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. PPPP, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart PPPP of Part 63—Determination of Weight Volatile Matter Content and Weight Solids Content of Reactive Adhesives

# 1.0 Applicability and Principle
1.1
Applicability:
This method applies to the determination of weight volatile matter content and weight solids content for most one-part or multiple-part reactive adhesives. Reactive adhesives are composed, in large part, of monomers that react during the adhesive curing reaction, and, as a result, do not volatilize. The monomers become integral parts of the cured adhesive through chemical reaction. At least 70 weight percent of the system, excluding water and non-volatile solids such as fillers, react during the process. This method is not appropriate for cyanoacrylates. For cyanoacrylates, South Coast Air Quality Management District Test Method 316B should be used. This method is not appropriate for one-part moisture cure urethane adhesives or for silicone adhesives. For one-part moisture cure urethane adhesives and for silicone adhesives, EPA Method 24 should be used.
1.2 Principle: One-part and multiple-part reactive adhesives undergo a reactive conversion from liquid to solid during the application and assembly process. Reactive adhesives are applied to a single surface, but then are usually quickly covered with another mating surface to achieve a bonded assembly. The monomers employed in such systems typically react and are converted to non-volatile solids. If left uncovered, as in a EPA Method 24 (or ASTM D2369-10 (Reapproved 2015)
e
) test, the reaction is inhibited by the presence of oxygen and volatile loss of the reactive components competes more heavily with the cure reaction. If this were to happen under normal use conditions, the adhesives would not provide adequate performance. This method minimizes this undesirable deterioration of the adhesive performance.

# 2.0 Materials and Apparatus
2.1 Aluminum foil, aluminum sheet, non-leaching plastic film or non-leaching plastic sheet, approximately 3 inches by 3 inches. Precondition the foil, film, or sheet for 30 minutes in an oven at 110 ±5 degrees Celsius and store in a desiccator prior to use. Use tongs or rubber gloves or both to handle the foil, film, or sheet.
2.2 Flat, rigid support panels slightly larger than the foil, film, or sheet. Polypropylene with a minimum thickness of
1/8
inch is recommended for the support panels. Precondition the support panels for 30 minutes in an oven at 110 ±5 degrees Celsius and store in a desiccator prior to use. Use tongs or rubber gloves or both to handle the support panels.
2.3 Aluminum spacers,
1/8
inch thick. Precondition the spacers for 30 minutes in an oven at 110 ±5 degrees Celsius and store in a desiccator prior to use. Use tongs or rubber gloves or both to handle the spacers.
2.4 Forced draft oven, type IIA or IIB as specified in ASTM E145-94 (Reapproved 2001), “Standard Specification for Gravity-Convection and Forced-Ventilation Ovens” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
2.5 Electronic balance capable of weighing to ±0.0001 grams (0.1 mg).
2.6 Flat bottom weight (approximately 3 lbs) or clamps.

# Material and Apparatus Notes
1—The foil, film, or sheet should be thick or rigid enough so that it can be easily handled in the test procedure.

# 3.0 Procedure
3.1 Two procedures are provided. In Procedure A the initial specimen weight is determined by weighing the foil, film, or sheet before and after the specimen is dispensed onto the foil, film, or sheet. In Procedure B the initial specimen weight is determined by weighing the adhesive cartridge (kit) before and after the specimen is dispensed.
3.2 At least four test specimens should be run for each test material. Run the test at
room temperature, 74 degrees Fahrenheit (23 degrees Celsius).

# Procedure A
1. Zero electronic balance.
2. Place 2 pieces of aluminum foil (or aluminum sheet, plastic film, or plastic sheet) on scale.
3. Record weight of aluminum foils. (A).
4. Tare balance.
5. Remove top piece of aluminum foil.
6. Dispense a 10 to 15 gram specimen of premixed adhesive onto bottom piece of aluminum foil. Place second piece of aluminum foil on top of the adhesive specimen to make a sandwich.
7. Record weight of sandwich (specimen and aluminum foils). (B).
8. Remove sandwich from scale, place sandwich between two support panels with aluminum spacers at the edges of the support panels to make a supported sandwich. The spacers provide a standard gap. Take care to mate the edges.
9. Place the supported sandwich on a flat surface.
10. Place the weight on top of the supported sandwich to spread the adhesive specimen to a uniform thickness within the sandwich. Check that no adhesive squeezes out from between the pieces of aluminum foil or through tears in the aluminum foil.
11. Allow to cure 24 hours.
12. Remove the sandwich from between the support panels. Record the weight of the sandwich. This is referred to as the 24 hr weight. (C).
13. Bake sandwich at 110 degrees Celsius for 1 hour.
14. Remove sandwich from the oven, place immediately in a desiccator, and cool to room temperature. Record post bake sandwich weight. (D).

# Procedure B
1. Zero electronic balance.
2. Place two pieces of aluminum foil (or aluminum sheet, plastic film, or plastic sheet) on scale.
3. Record weight of aluminum foils. (A).
4. Tare balance.
5. Place one support panel on flat surface. Place first piece of aluminum foil on top of this support panel.
6. Record the weight of a pre-mixed sample of adhesive in its container. If dispensing the adhesive from a cartridge (kit), record the weight of the cartridge (kit) plus any dispensing tips. (F).
7. Dispense a 10 to 15 gram specimen of mixed adhesive onto the first piece of aluminum foil. Place second piece of aluminum foil on top of the adhesive specimen to make a sandwich.
8. Record weight of the adhesive container. If dispensing the adhesive from a cartridge (kit), record the weight of the cartridge (kit) plus any dispensing tips. (G).
9. Place the aluminum spacers at the edges of the bottom support panel polypropylene sheet. The spacers provide a standard gap.
10. Place the second support panel on top of the assembly to make a supported sandwich. Take care to mate the edges.
11. Place the supported sandwich on a flat surface.
12. Place the weight on top of the supported sandwich to spread the adhesive specimen to a uniform thickness within the sandwich. Check that no adhesive squeezes out from between the pieces of aluminum foil or through tears in the aluminum foil.
13. Allow to cure 24 hours.
14. Remove the sandwich from between the support panels. Record the weight of the sandwich. This is referred to as the 24 hr weight. (C).
15. Bake sandwich at 110 degrees Celsius for 1 hour.
16. Remove sandwich from the oven, place immediately in a desiccator, and cool to room temperature.
17. Record post-bake sandwich weight. (D).

# Procedural Notes
1—The support panels may be omitted if the aluminum foil (or aluminum sheet, plastic film, or plastic sheet) will not tear and the adhesive specimen will spread to a uniform thickness within the sandwich when the flat weight is placed directly on top of the sandwich.
2—Clamps may be used instead of a flat bottom weight to spread the adhesive specimen to a uniform thickness within the sandwich.
3—When dispensing from a static mixer, purging is necessary to ensure uniform, homogeneous specimens. The weighing in Procedure B, Step 6 must be performed after any purging.
4—Follow the adhesive manufacturer's directions for mixing and for dispensing from a cartridge (kit).

# 4.0 Calculations
4.1 The total weight loss from curing and baking of each specimen is used to determine the weight percent volatile matter content of that specimen

# Procedure A
Weight of original specimen (S) = (B)−(A)
Weight of post-bake specimen (P) = (D)−(A)
Total Weight Loss (L) = (S)−(P)

# Procedure B
Weight of original specimen (S) = (F)−(G)
Weight of post-bake specimen (P) = (D)−(A)
Total Weight Loss (L) = (S)−(P)

# Procedure A and Procedure B

# Weight Percent Volatile Matter Content
(V) = [(Total weight loss)/(Initial specimen weight)] × 100 = [(L)/(S)] × 100
4.2 The weight volatile matter content of a material is the average of the weight volatile matter content of each specimen of that material. For example, if four specimens of a material were tested, then the weight percent volatile matter content for that material is:
V = [V1 + V2 + V3 + V4]/4
Where:
Vi = the weight percent volatile matter content of specimen i of the material.
4.3 The weight percent solids content of the material is calculated from the weight percent volatile content of the material.
Weight Percent Solids Content (N) = 100−(V)

# Calculation Notes
1—The weight loss during curing and the weight loss during baking may be calculated separately. These values may be useful for identifying sources of variation in the results obtained for different specimens of the same material.
2—For both Procedure A and Procedure B, the weight loss during curing is (S)−[(C)−(A)] and the weight loss during baking is (C)−(D).
[69 FR 20990, Apr. 19, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41161, July 8, 2020]

# Subpart QQQQ—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Wood Building Products

# Source:
68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 63.4680
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) for wood building products surface coating sources. This subpart also establishes requirements to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission limitations.
§ 63.4681
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the source category to which this subpart applies is surface coating of wood building products, which means the application of coatings using, for example, roll coaters or curtain coaters in the finishing or laminating of any wood building product that contains more than 50 percent by weight wood or wood fiber excluding the weight of any glass components, and is used in the construction, either interior or exterior, of a residential, commercial, or institutional building. The wood building products source category includes the subcategories listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1)
Doors, windows, and miscellaneous.
The doors, windows, and miscellaneous subcategory includes doors, windows, finished doorskins, and door and window components such as millwork, moulding, or trim, and other miscellaneous wood building products including, but not limited to, all moulding and trim, shingles, and shutters.
(2)
Flooring.
The flooring subcategory includes solid wood flooring, engineered wood flooring, and wood laminate flooring.
(3)
Interior wall paneling and tileboard.
The interior wall paneling and tileboard subcategory includes interior wall paneling products. Tileboard is a premium interior wall paneling product.
(4)
Other interior panels.
The other interior panel subcategory includes panels that are sold for uses other than interior wall paneling, such as coated particleboard, hardboard, and perforated panels.
(5)
Exterior siding and primed doorskins.
The exterior siding and primed doorskins subcategory includes lap or panel siding, trimboard, and primed doorskins. Doorskins that are coated with more than primer are included in the doors, windows, and miscellaneous subcategory.
(b) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a new, reconstructed, or existing affected source, as defined in § 63.4682, that uses 4,170 liters (1,100 gallons) per year, or more, of coatings in the source category defined in paragraph (a) of this section and that is a major source, is located at a major source, or is part of a major source of emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP). A major source of
HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams (Mg) (10 tons) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg (25 tons) or more per year.
(c) This subpart does not apply to surface coating and other operations that meet the criteria of paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Surface coating in the processes identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (xi) of this section that are part of plywood and composite wood product manufacturing and subject to subpart DDDD of this part including:
(i) Edge seals applied to a reconstituted wood product or plywood.
(ii) Anti-skid coatings applied to reconstituted wood products.
(iii) Primers applied to waferboard or oriented strand board (OSB) siding at the site of manufacture of the waferboard or OSB siding.
(iv) Surface coating that occurs during the manufacture of fiberboard, including application of clay slurry, titanium dioxide, or asphalt coatings to fiberboard.
(v) Painting of company logo information on plywood or reconstituted wood products.
(vi) Application of trademarks and grade stamp to reconstituted wood products or plywood.
(vii) Application of nail lines to reconstituted wood products.
(viii) Synthetic patches, wood patches, and wood putty applied to plywood.
(ix) Application of concrete forming and other drying or tempering oils to wood building products.
(x) Veneer composing.
(xi) Application of shelving edge fillers to reconstituted wood products.
(2) Surface coating of wood furniture subject to subpart JJ of this part, including finishing, gluing, cleaning, and washoff operations associated with the production of wood furniture or wood furniture components. The surface coating of millwork and trim associated with cabinet manufacturing is also subject to subpart JJ of this part and not to this subpart.
(3) Surface coating that occurs during the manufacture of prefabricated homes and mobile/modular homes.
(4) Surface coating that occurs at research or laboratory facilities; janitorial, building, and facility construction or maintenance operations; or hobby shops that are operated for personal rather than for commercial purposes. The source category also does not include non-commercial coating operations or coating applications using handheld nonrefillable aerosol containers.
(5) Wood treatment or fire retardant operations located at wood building products sources that involve impregnating the wood product with the wood treatment chemicals or fire retardant by using a retort or other pressure vessel.
(d) If you have an affected source with surface coating operations subject to the requirements of another subpart of this part that account for at least 95 percent of the total (annual) coating usage for the affected source, you may demonstrate compliance with the requirements, including all applicable emission limit(s), for that subpart for the entire affected source.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7698, Mar. 4, 2019]
§ 63.4682
What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, and existing affected source.
(b) The affected source is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section that are used for surface coating of wood building products:
(1) All coating operations as defined in § 63.4781;
(2) All storage containers and mixing vessels in which coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials are stored or mixed;
(3) All manual and automated equipment and containers used for conveying coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials; and
(4) All storage containers and all manual and automated equipment and containers used for conveying waste materials generated by a coating operation.
(c) An affected source is a new affected source if its construction commenced after June 21, 2002, and the construction is of a completely new wood building products surface coating source where previously no wood building products surface coating source had existed.
(d) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in § 63.2.
(e) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.
§ 63.4683
When do I have to comply with this subpart?
The date by which you must comply with this subpart is called the compliance date. The compliance date for each type of affected source is specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. The compliance date begins the initial compliance period during which you conduct the initial compliance demonstration described in §§ 63.4740, 63.4750, and 63.4760.
(a) For a new or reconstructed affected source, the compliance date is the applicable date in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section:
(1) If the initial startup of your new or reconstructed affected source is before May 28, 2003, the compliance date is May 28, 2003; except that the compliance date for the revised requirements promulgated at §§ 63.4700, 63.4710, 63.4720, 63.4730, 63.4741, 63.4751, 63.4752, 63.4761, 63.4763, 63.4764, 63.4766, 63.4781, table 4 of this subpart QQQQ, and appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 is September 3, 2019.
(2) If the initial startup of your new or reconstructed affected source occurs after May 28, 2003, the compliance date is March 4, 2019 or the date of initial startup of your affected source, whichever is later; except that if you commenced construction or reconstruction of your new or reconstructed affected source after May 28, 2003, but on or before May 16, 2018, the compliance date for the revised requirements promulgated at §§ 63.4700, 63.4710, 63.4720, 63.4730, 63.4741, 63.4751, 63.4752, 63.4761, 63.4763, 63.4764, 63.4766, 63.4781, table 4 of this subpart QQQQ, and appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 is September 3, 2019.
(b) For an existing affected source, the compliance date is the date 3 years after May 28, 2003, except that the compliance date for the revised requirements promulgated at §§ 63.4700, 63.4710, 63.4720, 63.4730, 63.4741, 63.4751, 63.4752, 63.4761, 63.4763, 63.4764, 63.4766, 63.4781, table 4 of this subpart QQQQ of part 63, and appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 is September 3, 2019.
(c) For an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP emissions, the compliance date is specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For any portion of the source that becomes a new or reconstructed affected source subject to this subpart, the compliance date is the date of initial startup of the affected source or May 28, 2003, whichever is later.
(2) For any portion of the source that becomes an existing affected source subject to this subpart, the compliance date is the date 1 year after the area source becomes a major source or 3 years after May 28, 2003, whichever is later.
(d) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.4710 according to the dates specified in that section and in subpart A of this part. Some of the notifications must be submitted before the compliance dates described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7698, Mar. 4, 2019]

# Emission Limitations
§ 63.4690
What emission limits must I meet?
(a) For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to no more than the applicable emission limit(s) in Table 1 to this subpart, determined according to the requirements in § 63.4741, § 63.4751, or § 63.4761.
(b) For an existing affected source, you must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to no more than the applicable emission limit(s) in Table 2 to this subpart, determined according to the requirements in § 63.4741, § 63.4751, or § 63.4761.
(c) If the affected source applies coatings to products that are in different subcategories as described in § 63.4681(a), then you must demonstrate
initial and continuous compliance by selecting one of the approaches described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Conduct separate compliance demonstrations for each applicable subcategory emission limit and reflect these separate determinations in notifications, reports, and records required by §§ 63.4710, 63.4720, and 63.4730, respectively.
(2) Demonstrate compliance with the most stringent of the applicable subcategory emission limits.
§ 63.4691
What are my options for meeting the emission limits?
You must include all coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the affected source when determining whether the organic HAP emission rate is equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. To make this determination, you must use at least one of the three compliance options listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. You may apply any of the compliance options to an individual coating operation or to multiple coating operations as a group or to the entire affected source. You may use different compliance options for different coating operations or at different times on the same coating operation. However, you may not use different compliance options at the same time on the same coating operation. If you switch between compliance options for any coating operation or group of coating operations, you must document this switch as required by § 63.4730(c), and you must report it in the next semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4720.
(a)
Compliant material option.
Demonstrate that the organic HAP content of each coating used in the coating operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit(s) in § 63.4690, and that each thinner and each cleaning material used contains no organic HAP. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4740, 63.4741, and 63.4742 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using this option.
(b)
Emission rate without add-on controls option.
Demonstrate that, based on the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation(s), the organic HAP emission rate for the coating operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit(s) in § 63.4690, calculated as a rolling 12-month emission rate and determined on a monthly basis. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4750, 63.4751, and 63.4752 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using this option.
(c)
Emission rate with add-on controls option.
Demonstrate that, based on the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation(s) and the emission reductions achieved by emission capture systems and add-on controls, the organic HAP emission rate for the coating operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit(s) in § 63.4690, calculated as a rolling 12-month emission rate and determined on a monthly basis. If you use this compliance option, you must also demonstrate that all emission capture systems and add-on control devices for the coating operation(s) meet the operating limits required in § 63.4692, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j), and that you meet the work practice standards required in § 63.4693. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4760 through 63.4768 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards using this option.
§ 63.4692
What operating limits must I meet?
(a) For any coating operation(s) on which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option, you are not required to meet any operating limits.
(b) For any controlled coating operation(s) on which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, except those for which you use a solvent recovery system and conduct a liquid-liquid material balance according to § 63.4761(j), you must meet the operating limits specified in Table 3 to this subpart. These operating limits apply to the emission capture and control systems on the coating operation(s) for which you use this option, and you must establish the operating limits during the performance test according
to the requirements in § 63.4767. You must meet the operating limits at all times after you establish them.
(c) If you use an add-on control device other than those listed in Table 3 to this subpart, or wish to monitor an alternative parameter and comply with a different operating limit, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of alternative monitoring under § 63.8(f).
§ 63.4693
What work practice standards must I meet?
(a) For any coating operation(s) on which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option, you are not required to meet any work practice standards.
(b) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must develop and implement a work practice plan to minimize organic HAP emissions from the storage, mixing, and conveying of coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in, and waste materials generated by, the coating operation(s); or you must meet an alternative standard as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The plan must specify practices and procedures to ensure that, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are implemented. You must make the plan available upon request for inspection by the Administrator.
(1) All organic-HAP coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be stored in closed containers.
(2) Spills of organic-HAP coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be minimized.
(3) Organic-HAP coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be conveyed from one location to another in closed containers or pipes.
(4) Mixing vessels that contain organic-HAP coatings and other materials must be closed except when adding to, removing, or mixing the contents.
(5) Emissions of organic-HAP must be minimized during cleaning of storage, mixing, and conveying equipment.
(c) If your affected source has an existing documented plan that incorporates steps taken to minimize emissions from the sources specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, then your existing plan can be used to meet the requirement for a work practice plan as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) As provided in § 63.6(g), we, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA), may choose to grant you permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section.

# General Compliance Requirements
§ 63.4700
What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
(a) You must be in compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Any coating operation(s) for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option, as specified in § 63.4691(a) and (b), must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690 at all times.
(2) Any coating operation(s) at existing sources for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, as specified in § 63.4691(c), must be in compliance with the applicable emission limitations as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Before September 3, 2019, the coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690 at all times, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction (SSM). On and after September 3, 2019, the coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690 at all times.
(ii) Before September 3, 2019, the coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable operating limits for emission capture systems and add-on control devices required by § 63.4692 at all times, except during periods of SSM, and except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct
liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j). On and after September 3, 2019, the coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the operating limits for emission capture systems and add-on control devices required by § 63.4692 at all times, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j).
(iii) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4693 at all times.
(3) For new or reconstructed sources with initial startup after May 16, 2018, any coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, as specified in § 63.4691(c), must be in compliance with the applicable emission limitations and work practice standards as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690 at all times.
(ii) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the operating limits for emission capture systems and add-on control devices required by § 63.4692 at all times, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j).
(iii) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4693 at all times.
(b) For existing sources as of March 4, 2019, before September 3, 2019, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including all air pollution control and monitoring equipment you use for purposes of complying with this subpart, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). On and after September 3, 2019 for such existing sources and after March 4, 2019 for new or reconstructed sources, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(c) If your affected source uses an emission capture system and add-on control device, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture system, add-on control device, and continuous parameter monitors during the period between the compliance date specified for your affected source in § 63.4683 and the date when the initial emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests have been completed, as specified in § 63.4760. This requirement does not apply to a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j) in lieu of conducting performance tests.
(d) For existing sources, before September 3, 2019, if your affected source uses an emission capture system and add-on control device, you must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP) according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3). The SSMP must address startup, shutdown, and corrective actions in the event of a malfunction of the emission capture system or the add-on control device. The SSMP must also address any coating operation equipment that may cause increased emissions or that would affect capture efficiency if the process equipment malfunctions, such as conveyors that move parts among enclosures.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 20465, Apr. 20, 2006; 84 FR 7699, Mar. 4, 2019]
§ 63.4701
What parts of the General Provisions apply to me?
Table 4 to this subpart indicates which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.15 apply to you.

# Notifications, Reports, and Records
§ 63.4710
What notifications must I submit?
(a)
General.
You must submit the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(f)(4), and 63.9(b) through (e) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Initial Notification.
You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b) for a new or reconstructed affected source no later than 120 days after initial startup, 120 days after May 28, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. For an existing affected source, you must submit the Initial Notification no later than 120 days after May 28, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.
(c)
Notification of Compliance Status.
You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 30 calendar days following the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4740, § 63.4750, or § 63.4760 that applies to your affected source. The Notification of Compliance Status must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section and in § 63.9(h).
(1) Company name and address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.
(3) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the initial compliance period described in § 63.4740, § 63.4750, or § 63.4760 that applies to your affected source.
(4) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4691 that you used on each coating operation in the affected source during the initial compliance period.
(5) Statement of whether or not the affected source achieved the emission limitations for the initial compliance period.
(6) If you had a deviation, include the information in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) A description and statement of the cause of the deviation.
(ii) If you failed to meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, include all the calculations you used to determine the grams organic HAP emitted per liter of coating solids used (pounds (lb) organic HAP emitted per gallon of coating solids used). You do not need to submit information provided by the materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.
(7) For each of the data items listed in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section that is required by the compliance option(s) you used to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit, include an example of how you determined the value, including calculations and supporting data. Supporting data can include a copy of the information provided by the supplier or manufacturer of the example coating or material or a summary of the results of testing conducted according to § 63.4741(a), (b), or (c). You do not need to submit copies of any test reports.
(i) Mass fraction of organic HAP for one coating, for one thinner, and for one cleaning material.
(ii) Volume fraction of coating solids for one coating.
(iii) Density for one coating, one thinner, and one cleaning material, except that if you use the compliant material option, only the example coating density is required.
(iv) The amount of waste materials and the mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials for which you are claiming an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4751.
(8) The calculation of grams organic HAP emitted per liter coating solids used (lb organic HAP emitted per gallon coating solids used) for the compliance option(s) you used, as specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) For the compliant material option, provide an example calculation of the organic HAP content for one coating, using Equation 2 of § 63.4741.
(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic
HAP emissions for each month; the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate, using Equations 1 and 1A (or 1A-alt) through 1C, 2, and 3, respectively, of § 63.4751.
(iii) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4751; the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4751; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1, 1A through 1D, 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4761, as applicable; the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions each month, using Equation 4 of § 63.4761; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 5 of § 63.4761.
(9) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (iv) of this section, except that the requirements in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j).
(i) For each emission capture system, a summary of the data and copies of the calculations supporting the determination that the emission capture system is a permanent total enclosure (PTE) or a measurement of the emission capture system efficiency. Include a description of the protocol followed for measuring capture efficiency, summaries of any capture efficiency tests conducted, and any calculations supporting the capture efficiency determination. If you use the data quality objective (DQO) or lower confidence limit (LCL) approach, you must also include the statistical calculations to show you meet the DQO or LCL criteria in appendix A to subpart KK of this part. You do not need to submit complete test reports.
(ii) A summary of the results of each add-on control device performance test. You do not need to submit complete test reports.
(iii) A list of each emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits and a summary of the data used to calculate those limits.
(iv) A statement of whether or not you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4693.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7699, Mar. 4, 2019; 85 FR 73907, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.4720
What reports must I submit?
(a)
Semiannual compliance reports.
You must submit semiannual compliance reports for each affected source according to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section. The semiannual compliance reporting requirements may be satisfied by reports required under other parts of the Clean Air Act (CAA), as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1)
Dates.
Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must prepare and submit each semiannual compliance report according to the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. Note that the information reported for each of the months in the reporting period will be based on the last 12 months of data prior to the date of each monthly calculation.
(i) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the first semiannual reporting period which begins the day after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4740, § 63.4750, or § 63.4760 that applies to your affected source and ends on June 30 or December 31, whichever occurs first following the end of the initial compliance period.
(ii) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must cover the subsequent semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.
(iii) Each semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31,
whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.
(iv) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the date specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.
(2)
Inclusion with title V report.
Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a semiannual compliance report pursuant to this section along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the semiannual compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation in this subpart, its submission shall be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a semiannual compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permitting authority.
(3)
General requirements.
The semiannual compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section, and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (7) and (c)(1) of this section that is applicable to your affected source.
(i) Company name and address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.
(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 6-month period ending on June 30 or December 31. Note that the information reported for each of the 6 months in the reporting period will be based on the last 12 months of data prior to the date of each monthly calculation.
(iv) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4691 that you used on each coating operation during the reporting period. If you switched between compliance options during the reporting period, you must report the beginning and ending dates you used each option.
(v) If you used the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option (§ 63.4691(b) or (c)), the calculation results for each rolling 12-month organic HAP emission rate during the 6-month reporting period.
(4)
No deviations.
If there were no deviations from the emission limitations in §§ 63.4690, 63.4692, and 63.4693 that apply to you, the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period. If you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and there were no periods during which the continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) were out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS were out-of-control during the reporting period.
(5)
Deviations: compliant material option.
If you used the compliant material option, and there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Identification of each coating used that deviated from the emission limit, each thinner and cleaning material used that contained organic HAP, and the dates and time periods each was used.
(ii) The calculation of the organic HAP content (using Equation 2 of § 63.4741) for each coating identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section. You do not need to submit background data
supporting this calculation (
e.g.,
information provided by coating suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(iii) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (
e.g.,
information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(iv) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(6)
Deviations: emission rate without add-on controls option.
If you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the 12-month organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690.
(ii) The calculations used to determine the 12-month organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period in which the deviation occurred. You must provide the calculations for Equations 1, 1A (or 1A-alt) through 1C, 2, and 3 in § 63.4751; and if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4751(e)(4). You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(iii) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(7)
Deviations: Emission rate with add-on controls option.
You must be in compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) For existing sources, before September 3, 2019, if you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and there was a deviation from an emission limitation (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(i)(A) through (N) of this section. This includes periods of SSM during which deviations occurred.
(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the 12-month organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690.
(B) The calculations used to determine the 12-month organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4751; and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4751(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4751; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1D of § 63.4761, and Equations 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4761, as applicable; the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions each month, using Equation 4 of § 63.4761; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 5 of § 63.4761. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(C) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.
(D) A brief description of the CPMS.
(E) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(F) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.
(G) The date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).
(H) The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 3 to this subpart, date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of SSM or during another period.
(I) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 3 to this subpart, each
bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(J) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 3 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period by identifying deviations due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(K) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(L) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.
(M) For each deviation from the work practice standards, a description of the deviation, the date and time period of the deviation, and the actions you took to correct the deviation.
(N) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(ii) After March 4, 2019 for new and reconstructed sources, and on and after September 3, 2019 for existing sources, if you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and there was a deviation from an emission limitation (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(ii)(A) through (M) of this section.
(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the 12-month organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690.
(B) The calculations used to determine the 12-month organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4751; and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4751(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4751; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1D of § 63.4761, and Equations 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4761, as applicable; the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions each month, using Equation 4 of § 63.4761; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 5 of § 63.4761. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (
e.g.,
information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).
(C) A brief description of the CPMS.
(D) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(E) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.
(F) The date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).
(G) The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 3 to this subpart, date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device.
(H) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 3 to this subpart, each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(I) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 3 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period by identifying deviations due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes; a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit,
and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(J) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(K) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.
(L) For each deviation from the standard, including work practice standards, a description of the deviation, the date and time period of the deviation, and the actions you took to correct the deviation.
(M) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(b)
Performance test reports.
If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must submit reports of performance test results for emission capture systems and add-on control devices no later than 60 days after completing the tests as specified in § 63.10(d)(2).
(c)
SSM reports.
For existing sources, before September 3, 2019, if you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and you had an SSM during the semiannual reporting period, you must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If your actions were consistent with your SSMP, you must include the information specified in § 63.10(d) in the semiannual compliance report required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If your actions were not consistent with your SSMP, you must submit an immediate SSM report as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must describe the actions taken during the event in a report delivered by facsimile, telephone, or other means to the Administrator within 2 working days after starting actions that are inconsistent with the plan.
(ii) You must submit a letter to the Administrator within 7 working days after the end of the event, unless you have made alternative arrangements with the Administrator as specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii). The letter must contain the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii).
(d)
Electronic reporting.
(1) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i)
Data collected using test methods supported by EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.
Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on EPA's ERT website.
(ii)
Data collected using test methods that are not supported by EPA's ERT as listed on EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.
The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(iii)
Confidential business information (CBI).
If you claim some of the information submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is CBI, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated through the use of EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to
the EPA via EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required in § 63.4710(c) and the semiannual compliance reports required in paragraph (a) of this section to the EPA via the CEDRI. (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
)). For semiannual compliance reports, you must use the appropriate electronic report in CEDRI for this subpart or an alternative electronic file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri
). If the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, you must submit the report to the Administrator at all the appropriate addresses listed in § 63.13. Once the reporting template has been available in CEDRI for 1 year, you must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI. For the Notification of Compliance Status, you must submit a file in portable document format (PDF) to CEDRI. The reports must be submitted by the deadlines specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted.
(3) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(ii) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(iii) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(iv) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(v) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(A) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(C) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(D) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(vi) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(vii) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(4) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(ii) You must submit the notification to the Administrator in writing as soon
as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(iii) You must provide to the Administrator:
(A) A written description of the force majeure event;
(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(C) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(D) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(iv) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(v) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7699, Mar. 4, 2019]
§ 63.4730
What records must I keep?
You must collect and keep records of the data and information specified in this section. Failure to collect and keep these records is a deviation from the applicable standard.
(a) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, and the documentation supporting each notification and report.
(b) A current copy of information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, such as manufacturer's formulation data, or test data used to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP and density for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. If you conducted testing to determine mass fraction of organic HAP, density, or volume fraction of coating solids, you must keep a copy of the complete test report. If you use information provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier of the material that was based on testing, you must keep the summary sheet of results provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier. You are not required to obtain the test report or other supporting documentation from the manufacturer or supplier.
(c) For each compliance period, the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) A record of the coating operations at which you used each compliance option and the time periods (beginning and ending dates and times) you used each option.
(2) For the compliant material option, a record of the calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating, using Equation 2 of § 63.4741.
(3) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1, 1A (or 1A-alt) through 1C, and 2 of § 63.4751; and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4751(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4751; and the calculation of each 12-month organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 3 of § 63.4751.
(4) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, records of the calculations specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4751; and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4751(e)(4).
(ii) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4751.
(iii) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1D of § 63.4761, and Equations 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4761, as applicable.
(iv) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions each month, using Equation 4 of § 63.4761.
(v) The calculation of each 12-month organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 5 of § 63.4761.
(d) A record of the name and volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period.
(e) A record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period.
(f) A record of the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each compliance period.
(g) A record of the density for each coating used during each compliance period; and, if you use either the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option, the density for each thinner and cleaning material used during each compliance period.
(h) If you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4751 for organic HAP contained in waste materials sent to or designated for shipment to a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) according to § 63.4751(e)(4), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The name and address of each TSDF to which you sent waste materials for which you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4751; a statement of which subparts under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, and 266 apply to the facility; and the date of each shipment.
(2) Identification of the coating operations producing waste materials included in each shipment and the month or months in which you used the allowance for these materials in Equation 1 of § 63.4751.
(3) The methodology used in accordance with § 63.4751(e)(4) to determine the total amount of waste materials sent to or the amount collected, stored, and designated for transport to a TSDF each month; and the methodology to determine the mass of organic HAP contained in these waste materials. This must include the sources for all data used in the determination, methods used to generate the data, frequency of testing or monitoring, and supporting calculations and documentation, including the waste manifest for each shipment.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) You must keep records of the date, time, and duration of each deviation.
(k) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (2) of this section.
(1) For existing sources, before September 3, 2019:
(i) For each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of SSM.
(ii) The records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to SSM.
(iii) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to you.
(iv) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.4765(a).
(v) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.4764 and 63.4765(b) through (e), including the records specified in paragraphs (k)(1)(v)(A) through (C) of this section that apply to you.
(A)
Records for a liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
Records of the mass of total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH) as measured by Method 204A or F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for each material used in the coating operation, and the total TVH for all materials used during each capture efficiency test run, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(B)
Records for a gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
Records of the mass of TVH emissions captured by the
emission capture system as measured by Method 204B or C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 at the inlet to the add-on control device, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(C)
Records for an alternative protocol.
Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.4765(e), if applicable.
(vi) The records specified in paragraphs (k)(1)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 63.4766.
(A) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.4764 and 63.4766.
(B) Records of the coating operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.
(vii) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.4767 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 3 to this subpart.
(viii) A record of the work practice plan required by § 63.4693, and documentation that you are implementing the plan on a continuous basis.
(2) After March 4, 2019 for new and reconstructed sources, and on and after September 3, 2019 for existing sources:
(i) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to you.
(ii) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.4765(a).
(iii) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.4764 and 63.4765(b) through (e), including the records specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section that apply to you.
(A)
Records for a liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
Records of the mass of total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH) as measured by Method 204A or F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for each material used in the coating operation, and the total TVH for all materials used during each capture efficiency test run, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(B)
Records for a gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
Records of the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system as measured by Method 204B or C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 at the inlet to the add-on control device, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either
a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(C)
Records for an alternative protocol.
Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.4765(e), if applicable.
(iv) The records specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 63.4766.
(A) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.4764 and 63.4766.
(B) Records of the coating operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.
(v) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.4767 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 3 to this subpart.
(vi) A record of the work practice plan required by § 63.4693, and documentation that you are implementing the plan on a continuous basis.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7701, Mar. 4, 2019]
§ 63.4731
In what form and for how long must I keep my records?
(a) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). Where appropriate, the records may be maintained as electronic spreadsheets or as a database.
(b) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.
(c) You must keep each record on-site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records off-site for the remaining 3 years.

# Compliance Requirements for the Compliant Material Option
§ 63.4740
By what date must I conduct the initial compliance demonstration?
You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4741. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4683 and ends on the last day of the 12th month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next 12 months. The initial compliance demonstration includes the calculations according to § 63.4741 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period, you used no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, and that you used no thinners or cleaning materials that contained organic HAP.
§ 63.4741
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
You may use the compliant material option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all the coating operations in the affected source. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must use no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690 and must use no thinner or cleaning material that contains organic HAP as determined according to this section. Any coating operation for which you use the compliant material option is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards required in §§ 63.4692 and 63.4693, respectively. To demonstrate initial compliance with
the emission limitations using the compliant material option, you must meet all the requirements of this section for the coating operation or group of coating operations using this option. Use the procedures in this section on each coating, thinner, and cleaning material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the compliant material option, provided these materials in their condition as received were demonstrated to comply with the compliant material option. If the mass fraction of organic HAP of a coating equals zero, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section, and you use the compliant material option, you are not required to comply with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for that coating.
(a)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material used.
You must determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during the compliance period by using one of the options in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1)
Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63).
You may use Method 311 for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP. Use the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section when performing a Method 311 test. If these values cannot be determined using Method 311, the owner or operator shall submit an alternative technique for determining their values for approval by the Administrator.
(i) Count each organic HAP in table 7 to subpart QQQQ of part 63 that is measured to be present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 7 to this subpart) is measured to be 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. Express the mass fraction of each organic HAP you count as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (
e.g.,
0.3791).
(ii) Calculate the total mass fraction of organic HAP in the test material by adding up the individual organic HAP mass fractions and truncating the result to three places after the decimal point (
e.g.,
0.763).
(2)
Method 24 (appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60).
For coatings, you may use Method 24 to determine the mass fraction of nonaqueous volatile matter and use that value as a substitute for mass fraction of organic HAP. (
Note:
Method 24 is not appropriate for those coatings with a water content that would result in an effective detection limit greater than the applicable emission limit.) One of the voluntary consensus standards in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) may be used as an alternative to using Method 24.
(i) ASTM Method D2111-10 (Reapproved 2015), “Standard Test Methods for Specific Gravity and Density of Halogenated Organic Solvents and Their Admixtures,” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14);
(ii) ASTM Method D2369-10 (Reapproved 2015)
e
, “Standard Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings,” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14);
(iii) ASTM Method D2697-03 (Reapproved 2014), “Standard Test Method for Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings,” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14); and
(iv) ASTM Method D6093-97 (Reapproved 2016), “Standard Test Method for Percent Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings Using a Helium Gas Pycnometer,” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(3)
Alternative method.
You may use an alternative test method for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP once the Administrator has approved it. You must follow the procedure in § 63.7(f) to submit an alternative test method for approval.
(4)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may rely on information other than that generated by the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, such as manufacturer's formulation data, if it represents each organic HAP in table 7 to this subpart that is present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or
more for other compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in table 7 to this subpart) is 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. For reactive adhesives in which some of the HAP react to form solids and are not emitted to the atmosphere, you may rely on manufacturer's data that expressly states the organic HAP or volatile matter mass fraction emitted. If there is a disagreement between such information and results of a test conducted according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, then the test method results will take precedence unless, after consultation, you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency the formulation data are correct.
(5)
Solvent blends.
Solvent blends may be listed as single components for some materials in data provided by manufacturers or suppliers. Solvent blends may contain organic HAP which must be counted toward the total organic HAP mass fraction of the materials. When test data and manufacturer's data for solvent blends are not available, you may use the default values for the mass fraction of organic HAP in these solvent blends listed in Table 5 or Table 6 to this subpart. If you use the tables, you must use the values in Table 5 for all solvent blends that match Table 5 entries, and you may only use Table 6 if the solvent blends in the materials you use do not match any of the solvent blends in Table 5 and you only know whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic. However, if the results of a Method 311 (40 CFR part 63, appendix A) test indicate higher values than those listed on Table 5 or Table 6 to this subpart, the Method 311 results will take precedence.
(b)
Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating.
You must determine the volume fraction of coating solids (liters of coating solids per liter of coating) for each coating used during the compliance period by one of the methods specified in paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(1)
ASTM Method D2697-03 (Reapproved 2014) or D6093-97 (Reapproved 2016).
You may use ASTM Method D2697-03 (Reapproved 2014), “Standard Test Method for Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), or D6093-97 (Reapproved 2016), “Standard Test Method for Percent Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings Using a Helium Gas Pycnometer” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), to determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. Divide the nonvolatile volume percent obtained with the methods by 100 to calculate volume fraction of coating solids. If these values cannot be determined using these methods, the owner operator may submit an alternative technique for determining their values for approval by the Administrator.
(2)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may obtain the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating from the supplier or manufacturer.
(3)
Calculation of volume fraction of coating solids.
If the volume fraction of coating solids cannot be determined using the options in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, you must determine it using Equation 1 of this section:
ER98AD03.000
Where:
V
s
= Volume fraction of coating solids, liters coating solids per liter coating.
m
volatiles
= Total volatile matter content of the coating, including HAP, volatile organic compounds (VOC), water, and exempt compounds, determined according to Method 24 in appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60, grams volatile matter per liter coating.
D
avg
= Average density of volatile matter in the coating, grams volatile matter per liter volatile matter, determined from test results using ASTM Method D1475-13, “Standard Test Method for Density of Liquid Coatings, Inks, and Related Products,” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material, or reference sources providing density or specific gravity data for pure materials. If there is disagreement between ASTM Method D1475-13 test results and other information sources, the test results will take precedence.
(c)
Determine the density of each coating.
Determine the density of each
coating used during the compliance period from test results using ASTM Method D1475-13, “Standard Test Method for Density of Liquid Coatings, Inks, and Related Products,” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), or information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material. If there is disagreement between ASTM Method D1475-13 test results and the supplier's or manufacturer's information, the test results will take precedence.
(d)
Calculate the organic HAP content of each coating.
Calculate the organic HAP content, grams organic HAP per liter coating solids, of each coating used during the compliance period, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER98AD03.001
Where:
H
c
= Organic HAP content of the coating, grams organic HAP per liter coating solids.
D
c
= Density of coating, grams coating per liter coating, determined according to paragraph (c) of this section.
W
c
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in the coating, grams organic HAP per gram coating, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section.
V
s
= Volume fraction of coating solids, liter coating solids per liter coating, determined according to paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Compliance demonstration.
The organic HAP content for each coating used during the initial compliance period, determined using Equation 2 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690; and each thinner and cleaning material used during the initial compliance period must contain no organic HAP, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section. You must keep all records required by §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required in § 63.4710, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the compliant material option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because you used no coatings for which the organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, and you used no thinners or cleaning materials that contained organic HAP, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7702, Mar. 4, 2019; 88 FR 14287, Mar. 8, 2023]
§ 63.4742
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) For each compliance period to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must use no coating for which the organic HAP content determined using Equation 2 of § 63.4741 exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690; and use no thinner or cleaning material that contains organic HAP, determined according to § 63.4741(a). A compliance period consists of 12 months. Each month after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4740 is the end of a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months.
(b) If you choose to comply with the emission limitations by using the compliant material option, the use of any coating, thinner, or cleaning material that does not meet the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section is a deviation from the emission limitations that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(5).
(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4720, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the compliant material option. If there were no deviations from the emission limitations in § 63.4690, submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because you used no coating for which the organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, and you used no thinner or cleaning material that contained organic HAP, determined according to § 63.4741(a).
(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731.

# Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
§ 63.4750
By what date must I conduct the initial compliance demonstration?
You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4751. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4683 and ends on the last day of the 12th month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next 12 months. You must determine the mass of organic HAP emissions and volume of coating solids used each month and then calculate a 12-month organic HAP emission rate at the end of the initial 12-month compliance period. The initial compliance demonstration includes the calculations according to § 63.4751 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690.
§ 63.4751
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
You may use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all the coating operations in the affected source. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the emission rate without add-on controls option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. Any coating operation for which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards required in §§ 63.4692 and 63.4693, respectively. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690 for the coating operation(s). When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option.
(a)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material.
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each month according to the requirements in § 63.4741(a).
(b)
Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating.
Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each month according to the requirements in § 63.4741(b).
(c)
Determine the density of each material.
Determine the density of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each month from test results using ASTM Method D1475-13 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material, or reference sources providing density or specific gravity data for pure materials. If there is disagreement between ASTM Method D1475-13 test results and such other information sources, the test results will take precedence.
(d)
Determine the volume of each material used.
Determine the volume (liters) of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each month by measurement or usage records.
(e)
Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions.
The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each month minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials. Calculate it using Equation 1 of this section.
ER98AD03.002
Where:
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions during the month, grams.
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the month, grams, as calculated in Equation 1A (or 1A-alt) of this section.
B = Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used during the month, grams, as calculated in Equation 1B of this section.
C = Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the month, grams, as calculated in Equation 1C of this section.
R
w
= Total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during the month, grams, determined according to paragraph (e)(4) of this section. (You may assign a value of zero to R
w
if you do not wish to use this allowance.)
(1) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the month, using Equation 1A of this section:
ER98AD03.003
Where:
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the month, grams.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the month, liters.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, grams coating per liter coating.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, grams organic HAP per gram coating.
m = Number of different coatings used during the month.
(2) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used during the month, using Equation 1B of this section:
ER98AD03.004
Where:
B = Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used during the month, grams.
Vol
t,j
= Total volume of thinner, j, used during the month, liters.
D
t,j
= Density of thinner, j, grams per liter.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner, j, grams organic HAP per gram thinner.
n = Number of different thinners used during the month.
(3) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the month using Equation 1C of this section:
ER98AD03.005
Where:
C = Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the month, grams.
Vol
s,k
= Total volume of cleaning material, k, used during the month, liters.
D
s,k
= Density of cleaning material, k, grams per liter.
W
s,k
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, grams organic HAP per gram material.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used during the month.
(4) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF in Equation 1 of this section, then you must determine it according to paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You may include in the determination only waste materials that are generated by coating operations for which you use Equation 1 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266. The TSDF may be either off-site or on-site. You may not include organic HAP contained in wastewater.
(ii) You must determine either the amount of the waste materials sent to a TSDF during the month or the amount collected and stored during the month and designated for future transport to a TSDF. Do not include in your determination any waste materials sent to a TSDF during a month if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that month or a previous month.
(iii) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.
(iv) You may use any reasonable methodology to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain, and you must document your methodology as required in § 63.4730(h). To the extent that waste manifests include this information, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them.
(f)
Calculate the total volume of coating solids used.
Determine the total volume of coating solids used which is the combined volume of coating solids for all the coatings used during each month, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER98AD03.006
Where:
V
st
= Total volume of coating solids used during the month, liters.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the month, liters.
V
s,i
= Volume fraction of coating solids for coating, i, liter solids per liter coating, determined according to § 63.4741(b).
m = Number of coatings used during the month.
(g)
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate.
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the 12-month compliance period, grams organic HAP per liter coating solids used, using Equation 3 of this section:
ER98AD03.007
Where:
H
yr
= Organic HAP emission rate for the 12-month compliance period, grams organic HAP per liter coating solids.
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions, grams, from all materials used during month, y, as calculated by Equation 1 of this section.
V
st
= Total volume of coating solids used during month, y, liters, as calculated by Equation 2 of this section.
y = Identifier for months.
(h)
Compliance demonstration.
The organic HAP emission rate for the initial 12-month compliance period, calculated using Equation 3 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4710, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, determined according to this section.
(i)
Alternative compliance demonstration.
As an alternative to paragraph (h) of this section, you may demonstrate initial compliance by identifying each
organic HAP component in the coating(s) and conducting a performance test using Method 320 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 or NCASI Method ISS/FP A105.01 (incorporated by reference in § 63.14) (for formaldehyde) or Method 326 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 (for isocyanates) to obtain an organic HAP emission factor (EF). The voluntary consensus standard ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to using Method 320 under the conditions specified in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(1) You must also calculate the mass of organic HAP emitted from the coatings used during the month using Equation 1A-alt of this section:
ER04MR19.010
Where:
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the month, grams.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the month, liters.
D
c,j
= Density of coating, i, grams coating per liter of coatings.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, grams organic HAP per gram coating.
EF
c,i
= Organic HAP emission factor (three-run average from performance testing, evaluated as proportion of mass organic HAP emitted to mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the performance test).
m = Number of different coatings used during the month.
(2) Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the 12-month compliance period, grams organic HAP per liter coating solids used, using Equation 3 of this section.
(3) The organic HAP emission rate for the initial 12-month compliance period, calculated using Equation 3 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4710, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, determined according to this section.
(4) If ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) is used, the conditions specified in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) and (ii) must be met.
(i) Test plan preparation and implementation in the Annexes to ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010), sections A1 through A8 are mandatory.
(ii) In ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) Annex A5 (Analyte Spiking Technique), the percent (%) R must be determined for each target analyte (Equation A5.5 of ASTM D6348-03). In order for the test data to be acceptable for a compound, %R must be between 70 and 130 percent. If the %R value does not meet this criterion for a target compound, the test data are not acceptable for that compound, and the test must be repeated for that analyte following adjustment of the sampling and/or analytical procedure before the retest. The %R value for each compound must be reported in the test report, and all field measurements must be corrected with the calculated %R value for that compound using the following equation: Reported Result = (Measured Concentration in the Stack × 100)/%R.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7702, Mar. 4, 2019]
§ 63.4752
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, calculated using Equation 3 of § 63.4751, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. A compliance period consists of 12 months. Each
month after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4750 is the end of a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4751(a) through (g) on a monthly basis using data from the previous 12 months of operation.
(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any 12-month compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, this is a deviation from the emission limitations for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(6).
(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4720, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, you must submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, determined according to § 63.4751(a) through (g).
(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731.
(e) If you use the alternative compliance demonstration described in § 63.4751(i), you must identify each organic HAP component in the coating(s) and conduct a performance test every 5 years to obtain an organic HAP emission factor (EF). You must use the following methods, as appropriate: Method 320 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 or NCASI Method ISS/FP A105.01 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) (for formaldehyde) or Method 326 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 (for isocyanates). The voluntary consensus standard ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to using Method 320 under the conditions specified in § 63.4751(i)(4)(i) and (ii).
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7703, Mar. 4, 2019]

# Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
§ 63.4760
By what date must I conduct performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?
(a)
New and reconstructed affected sources.
For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4683. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to §§ 63.4764, 63.4765, and 63.4766, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4692 no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4683. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j), you must initiate the first material balance no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4683.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4693 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4683.
(3) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4761. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4683 and ends on the last day of the 12th month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next 12 months. You must determine the mass of organic HAP emissions and volume of coating solids used each month and then calculate a 12-month organic HAP emission rate at the end of the initial 12-month compliance period. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance
tests conducted according to §§ 63.4764, 63.4765, and 63.4766; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4761(j); calculations according to § 63.4761 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period, the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the emission limit in § 63.4690(a); the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4768; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4693.
(4) You do not need to comply with the operating limits for the emission capture system and add-on control device required by § 63.4692 until after you have completed the performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Instead, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture system, add-on control device, and continuous parameter monitors during the period between the compliance date and the performance test. You must begin complying with the operating limits for your affected source on the date you complete the performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The requirements in this paragraph (a)(4) do not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to the requirements in § 63.4761(j).
(b)
Existing affected sources.
For an existing affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4683. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4764, 63.4765, and 63.4766 and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4692 no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4683. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4683.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4693 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4683.
(3) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4761. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4683 and ends on the last day of the 12th month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next 12 months. You must determine the mass of organic HAP emissions and volume of coating solids used each month and then calculate a 12-month organic HAP emission rate at the end of the initial 12-month compliance period. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4764, 63.4765, and 63.4766; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4761(j); calculations according to § 63.4761 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the emission limit in § 63.4690(b); the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4768; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4693.
§ 63.4761
How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
(a) You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all of the coating operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled coating operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material
option or the emission rate without add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use the emission rate with add-on controls option. To demonstrate initial compliance, the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limitations in §§ 63.4690, 63.4692, and 63.4693. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.
(b)
Compliance with operating limits.
Except as provided in § 63.4760(a)(4), and except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to the requirements of § 63.4761(j), you must establish and demonstrate continuous compliance during the initial compliance period with the operating limits required by § 63.4692, using the procedures specified in §§ 63.4767 and 63.4768.
(c)
Compliance with work practice requirements.
You must develop, implement, and document your implementation of the work practice plan required by § 63.4693 during the initial compliance period, as specified in § 63.4730.
(d)
Compliance with emission limits.
You must follow the procedures in paragraphs (e) through (n) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690.
(e)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, density, volume used, and volume fraction of coating solids.
Follow the procedures specified in § 63.4751(a) through (d) to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, density, and volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each month; and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each month.
(f)
Calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls.
Using Equation 1 of § 63.4751, calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each month in the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.
(g)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation.
Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions reduced for each controlled coating operation during each month. The emission reduction determination quantifies the total organic HAP emissions that pass through the emission capture system and are destroyed or removed by the add-on control device. Use the procedures in paragraph (h) of this section to calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct a liquid-liquid material balance, use the procedures in paragraph (j) of this section to calculate the organic HAP emission reduction.
(h)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation not using liquid-liquid material balances.
For each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emission reduction, using Equation 1 of this section. The calculation applies the emission capture system efficiency and add-on control device efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation served by the emission capture system and add-on control device during each month. For any period of time a deviation specified in § 63.4763(c) or (d) occurs in the controlled coating operation, including a
deviation during a period of SSM, you must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device. Equation 1 of this section treats the materials used during such a deviation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation.
ER98AD03.008
Where:
H
c
= Mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the controlled coating operation during the month, grams.
A
c
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation during the month, grams.
B
c
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation during the month, grams, as calculated in Equation 1B of this section.
C
c
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during the month, grams, as calculated in Equation 1C of this section.
H
unc
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during all deviations specified in § 63.4763(c) and (d) that occurred during the month in the controlled coating operation, grams, as calculated in Equation 1D of this section.
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures specified in §§ 63.4764 and 63.4765 to measure and record capture efficiency.
DRE = Organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures in §§ 63.4764 and 63.4766 to measure and record the organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency.
(1) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation, grams, using Equation 1A of this section:
ER98AD03.009
Where:
A
c
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation, grams.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the month, liters.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, grams per liter.
W
c,i
= mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, grams per gram.
m = Number of different coatings used.
(2) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation, grams, using Equation 1B of this section:
ER98AD03.010
Where:
B
c
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation during the month, grams.
Vol
t,j
= Total volume of thinner, j, used during the month, liters.
D
t,j
= Density of thinner, j, grams per liter.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner, j, grams per gram.
n = Number of different thinners used.
(3) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during
the month, grams, using Equation 1C of this section:
ER98AD03.011
Where:
C
c
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during the month, grams.
Vol
s,k
= Total volume of cleaning material, k, used during the month, liters.
D
s,k
= Density of cleaning material, k, grams per liter.
W
s,k
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, grams per gram.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used.
(4) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during deviations specified in § 63.4763(c) and (d), using Equation 1D of this section:
ER98AD03.012
Where:
H
unc
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during all deviations specified in § 63.4763(c) and (d) that occurred during the month in the controlled coating operation, grams.
Vol
h
= Total volume of coating, thinner, or cleaning material, h, used in the controlled coating operation during deviations, liters.
D
h
= Density of coating, thinner, or cleaning material, h, grams per liter.
W
h
= mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, thinner, or cleaning material, h, grams organic HAP per gram coating.
q = Number of different coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation using liquid-liquid material balances.
For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emission reduction by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during each month. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for each month as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (6) of this section. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by the solvent recovery system as specified in paragraph (j)(7) of this section.
(1) For each solvent recovery system, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system each month. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.
(2) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the month, grams, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(3) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams volatile organic matter per gram coating. You may determine the volatile organic
matter mass fraction using Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, one of the voluntary consensus standards specified in § 63.4741(a)(2)(i) through (iv), or an EPA approved alternative method, or you may use information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the coating. In the event of any inconsistency between information provided by the manufacturer or supplier and the results of Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, or an approved alternative method, the test method results will take precedence unless after consultation, a regulated source could demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data were correct.
(4) Determine the density of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams per liter, according to § 63.4751(c).
(5) Measure the volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.
(6) Each month, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER98AD03.013
Where:
R
v
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system during the month, percent.
M
vr
= Mass of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams.
Vol
i
= Volume of coating, i, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.
D
i
= Density of coating, i, grams per liter.
WV
c,i
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for coating, i, grams volatile organic matter per gram coating.
Vol
j
= Volume of thinner, j, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.
D
j
= Density of thinner, j, grams per liter.
WV
t,j
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for thinner, j, grams volatile organic matter per gram thinner.
Vol
k
= Volume of cleaning material, k, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.
D
k
= Density of cleaning material, k, grams per liter.
WV
s,k
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for cleaning material, k, grams volatile organic matter per gram cleaning material.
m = Number of different coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month.
n = Number of different thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month.
(7) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, using Equation 3 of this section:
ER98AD03.014
Where:
H
CSR
= Mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams.
A
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation
controlled by the solvent recovery system, grams, calculated using Equation 3A of this section.
B
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, grams, calculated using Equation 3B of this section.
C
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, grams, calculated using Equation 3C of this section.
R
V
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system, percent, from Equation 2 of this section.
(i) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, grams, using Equation 3A of this section:
ER98AD03.015
Where:
A
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the month in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, liters.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, grams per liter.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, grams per gram.
m = Number of different coatings used.
(ii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, grams, using Equation 3B of this section:
ER98AD03.016
Where:
B
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams.
Vol
t,j
= Total volume of thinner, j, used during the month in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, liters.
D
t,j
= Density of thinner, j, grams per liter.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner, j, grams per gram.
n = Number of different thinners used.
(iii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams, using Equation 3C of this section.
ER98AD03.017
Where:
C
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams.
Vol
s,k
= Total volume of cleaning material, k, used during the month in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, liters.
D
s,k
= Density of cleaning material, k, grams per liter.
W
s,k
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, grams per gram.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used.
(k)
Calculate the total volume of coating solids used.
Determine the total volume of coating solids used, liters, which is the combined volume of coating solids for all the coatings used during each month in the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, using Equation 2 of § 63.4751.
(l)
Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions for each month.
Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions, grams, during each month, using Equation 4 of this section.
ER98AD03.018
Where:
H
HAP
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions for the month, grams.
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the month, grams, determined according to paragraph (f) of this section.
H
c,i
= Total mass of organic HAP emission reduction for controlled coating operation, i, not using a liquid-liquid material balance, during the month, grams, from Equation 1 of this section.
H
CSR,j
= Total mass of organic HAP emission reduction for coating operation, j, controlled by a solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance, during the month, grams, from Equation 3 of this section.
q = Number of controlled coating operations not using a liquid-liquid material balance.
r = Number of coating operations controlled by a solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance.
(m)
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the 12-month compliance period.
Determine the organic HAP emission rate for the 12-month compliance period, grams organic HAP per liter coating solids used, using Equation 5 of this section:
ER98AD03.019
Where:
H
annual
= Organic HAP emission rate for the 12-month compliance period, grams organic HAP per liter coating solids.
H
HAP,y
= Organic HAP emission rate for month, y, determined according to Equation 4 of this section.
V
st,y
= Total volume of coating solids, liters, used during month, y, from Equation 2 of § 63.4751.
y = Identifier for months.
(n)
Compliance demonstration.
To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limit, the organic HAP emission rate, calculated using Equation 5 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4710, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4692 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4693.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7703, Mar. 4, 2019]
§ 63.4762
[Reserved]
§ 63.4763
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, the organic HAP
emission rate for each compliance period, calculated using Equation 5 of § 63.4761, must be equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. A compliance period consists of 12 months. Each month after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4760 is the end of a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4761 on a monthly basis using data from the previous 12 months of operation.
(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any 12-month compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(7).
(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4692 that applies to you, as specified in Table 3 to this subpart.
(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 3 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(7).
(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 3 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4761(h), you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4761.
(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4768(b) for controlled coating operations for which you do not conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when a controlled coating operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(7). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4761(h), you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4761.
(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4693. If you did not develop a work practice plan, or you did not implement the plan, or you did not keep the records required by § 63.4730(k)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(7).
(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4720, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, submit a statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4692 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4693 during each compliance period.
(g) [Reserved]
(h) For existing sources, before September 3, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of SSM of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or coating operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period you identify as an SSM are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e).
(i) [Reserved]
(j) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 20466, Apr. 20, 2006; 84 FR 7703, Mar. 4, 2019]
§ 63.4764
What are the general requirements for performance tests?
(a) You must conduct each performance test required by § 63.4760 according to the requirements in § 63.7(e)(1) and under the conditions in this section unless you obtain a waiver of the performance test according to the provisions in § 63.7(h).
(1)
Representative coating operation operating conditions.
You must conduct the performance test under representative operating conditions for the coating operation. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, and nonoperation do not constitute representative conditions. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(2)
Representative emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions.
You must conduct the performance test when the emission capture system and add-on control device are operating at a representative flow rate, and the add-on control device is operating at a representative inlet concentration. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record information that is necessary to document emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation.
(b) You must conduct each performance test of an emission capture system according to the requirements in § 63.4765. You must conduct each performance test of an add-on control device according to the requirements in § 63.4766.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7704, Mar. 4, 2019]
§ 63.4765
How do I determine the emission capture system efficiency?
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine capture efficiency as part of the performance test required by § 63.4760.
(a)
Assuming 100 percent capture efficiency.
You may assume the capture system efficiency is 100 percent if both of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are met:
(1) The capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
(2) All coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation are applied within the capture system; coating solvent flash-off and coating, curing, and drying occurs within the capture system; and the removal or evaporation of cleaning materials from the surfaces they are applied to occurs within the capture system. For example, this criterion is not met if parts enter the open shop environment when being moved between a spray booth and a curing oven.
(b)
Measuring capture efficiency.
If the capture system does not meet both of the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, then you must use one of the three protocols described in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section to measure capture efficiency. The capture efficiency measurements use TVH capture efficiency as a surrogate for organic HAP capture efficiency. For the protocols in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the capture efficiency measurement must consist of three test runs. Each test run must be at least 3 hours in duration or the length of a production run, whichever is longer, up to 8 hours. For the purposes of this test, a production run means the time required for a single part to go from the beginning to the end of production, which includes surface preparation activities and drying or curing time.
(c)
Liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
The liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol compares the mass of liquid TVH in materials used in the coating operation to the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the emission capture system. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section
to measure emission capture system efficiency using the liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the coating operation where coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied coatings and materials subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the coating operation where capture devices collect emissions for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or spray booth, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204A or 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to determine the mass fraction of TVH liquid input from each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation during each capture efficiency test run. To make the determination, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term volatile organic compounds (VOC) in the methods.
(3) Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the total mass of TVH liquid input from all the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation during each capture efficiency test run.
ER98AD03.020
Where:
TVH
used
= Mass of liquid TVH in materials used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, grams.
TVH
i
= Mass fraction of TVH in coating, thinner, or cleaning material, i, that is used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, grams TVH per gram material.
Vol
i
= Total volume of coating, thinner, or cleaning material, i, used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, liters.
D
i
= Density of coating, thinner, or cleaning material, i, grams material per liter material.
n = Number of different coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run.
(4) Use Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, grams, of TVH emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the coating operation for which capture efficiency is being determined, must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(5) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system using Equation 2 of this section:
ER98AD03.021
Where:
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
TVH
used
= Total mass of TVH liquid input used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, grams.
TVH
uncaptured
= Total mass of TVH that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, grams, determined according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(6) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(d)
Gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
The gas-to-gas protocol compares the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system to the mass of TVH emissions not captured. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the gas-to-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the coating operation where coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied coatings and materials subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the coating operation where capture devices collect emissions generated by the coating operation for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or a spray booth, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204B or 204C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, grams, of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system during each capture efficiency test run as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) The sampling points for the Method 204B or 204C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 measurement must be upstream from the add-on control device and must represent total emissions routed from the capture system and entering the add-on control device.
(ii) If multiple emission streams from the capture system enter the add-on control device without a single common duct, then the emissions entering the add-on control device must be simultaneously measured in each duct, and the total emissions entering the add-on control device must be determined.
(3) Use Method 204D or 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, grams, of TVH emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the coating operation for which capture efficiency is being determined, must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(4) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system using Equation 3 of this section:
ER98AD03.022
Where:
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
TVH
captured
= Total mass of TVH captured by the emission capture system as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device during the emission capture efficiency test run, grams, determined according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
TVH
uncaptured
= Total mass of TVH that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, grams, determined according to paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(5) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(e)
Alternative capture efficiency protocol.
As an alternative to the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, you may determine capture efficiency using any other capture efficiency protocol and test methods that satisfy the criteria of either the DQO or LCL approach as described in appendix A to subpart KK of this part.
§ 63.4766
How do I determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency?
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency as part of the performance test required by § 63.4760. You must conduct three test runs as specified in § 63.7(e)(3), and each test run must last at least 1 hour.
(a) For all types of add-on control devices, use the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Use Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, to select sampling sites and velocity traverse points.
(2) Use Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, or Method 2G of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, to measure gas volumetric flow rate.
(3) Use Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, for gas analysis to determine dry molecular weight. You may also use as an alternative to Method 3B, the manual method for measuring the oxygen, carbon dioxide, and carbon monoxide content of exhaust gas in ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus]” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(4) Use Method 4 of appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60 to determine stack gas moisture.
(5) Methods for determining gas volumetric flow rate, dry molecular weight, and stack gas moisture must be performed, as applicable, during each test run.
(b) Measure total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon at the inlet and outlet of the add-on control device simultaneously, using Method 25 or 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, and Method 320 or 326 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section. The voluntary consensus standard ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) (incorporated by reference in § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to using Method 320 if the conditions specified in § 63.4751(i)(4)(i) and (ii) are met. You must use the same method for both the inlet and outlet measurements.
(1) Use Method 25 of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer, and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be more than 50 parts per million (ppm) at the control device outlet.
(2) Use Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer, and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be 50 ppm or less at the control device outlet.
(3) Use Method 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 if the add-on control device is not an oxidizer.
(4) If Method 25A is used, and if formaldehyde is a major organic HAP component of the surface coating exhaust stream, use Method 320 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 or NCASI Method ISS/FP A105.01 (incorporated by reference in § 63.14) or ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) (incorporated by reference in § 63.14) to determine formaldehyde concentration.
(5) In addition to Method 25 or 25A, use Method 326 of appendix A to 40 CFR
part 63 if isocyanate is a major organic HAP component of the surface coating exhaust stream.
(c) If two or more add-on control devices are used for the same emission stream, then you must measure emissions at the outlet of each device. For example, if one add-on control device is a concentrator with an outlet for the high-volume, dilute stream that has been treated by the concentrator, and a second add-on control device is an oxidizer with an outlet for the low-volume, concentrated stream that is treated with the oxidizer, you must measure emissions at the outlet of the oxidizer and the high volume dilute stream outlet of the concentrator.
(d) For each test run, determine the total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rates for the inlet and the outlet of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section. If there is more than one inlet or outlet to the add-on control device, you must calculate the total gaseous organic mass flow rate using Equation 1 of this section for each inlet and each outlet and then total all of the inlet emissions and total all of the outlet emissions. The mass emission rates for formaldehyde and individual isocyanate must be determined separately.
ER04MR19.000
Where:
M
f
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate, grams per hour (h).
MW = Molecular weight of analyte of interest (12 for Method 25 and 25A results).
C
c
= Concentration of organic compounds in the vent gas (as carbon if determined by Method 25 or Method 25A), parts per million by volume (ppmv), dry basis.
Q
sd
= Volumetric flow rate of gases entering or exiting the add-on control device, as determined by Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G, dry standard cubic meters/hour (dscm/h).
41.6 = Conversion factor for molar volume, gram-moles per cubic meter (mol/m
3
) (@293 Kelvin (K) and 760 millimeters of mercury (mmHg)).
(e) For each test run, determine the add-on control device organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER98AD03.024
Where:
DRE = Organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent.
M
fi
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the inlet(s) to the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, grams/h.
M
fo
= total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the outlet(s) of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, grams/h.
(f) Determine the emission destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device as the average of the efficiencies determined in the three test runs and calculated in Equation 2 of this section. Destruction and removal efficiency must be determined independently for formaldehyde and isocyanates.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7704, Mar. 4, 2019]
§ 63.4767
How do I establish the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits during the performance test?
During the performance test required by § 63.4760 and described in §§ 63.4764, 63.4765, and 63.4766, you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4692 according to this section, unless you have received approval for alternative monitoring and operating limits under § 63.8(f) as specified in § 63.4692.
(a)
Thermal oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a thermal oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the combustion temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test
runs. You must monitor the temperature in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average combustion temperature maintained during the performance test. This average combustion temperature is the minimum operating limit for your thermal oxidizer.
(b)
Catalytic oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a catalytic oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to either paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) or paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature before the catalyst bed and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test. This is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer.
(3) As an alternative to monitoring the temperature difference across the catalyst bed, you may monitor the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and implement a site-specific inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature before the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature before the catalyst bed during the performance test. This is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer. (
Note:
For regenerative catalytic oxidizers, the inlet to the catalyst is defined as the general zone between the inlets to the catalyst beds located in the multiple regeneration towers; select either a monitoring location or multiple monitoring locations. If multiple monitoring locations are selected, either establish separate operating limits for each location or calculate an average of the multiple measurements and set a single operating limit.)
(4) You must develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer(s) for which you elect to monitor according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The plan must address, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Annual sampling and analysis of the catalyst activity (
i.e,
conversion efficiency) following the recommended procedures from the manufacturer, the catalyst supplier, or the catalyst test provider.
(ii) Monthly inspection of the oxidizer system, including the burner assembly and fuel supply lines for problems and, as necessary, adjust the equipment to assure proper air-to-fuel mixtures.
(iii) Annual internal and monthly external visual inspection of the catalyst bed to check for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found, you must take corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendation and conduct a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency according to § 63.4766.
(c)
Carbon adsorbers.
If your add-on control device is a carbon adsorber, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must monitor and record the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, and the carbon bed temperature after each carbon bed regeneration and cooling cycle for the regeneration cycle either immediately preceding or immediately following the performance test.
(2) The operating limits for your carbon adsorber are the minimum total desorbing gas mass flow recorded during the regeneration cycle, and the maximum carbon bed temperature recorded after the cooling cycle.
(d)
Condensers.
If your add-on control device is a condenser, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature
at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature maintained during the performance test. This average condenser outlet gas temperature is the maximum operating limit for your condenser.
(e)
Concentrators.
If your add-on control device includes a concentrator, you must establish operating limits for the concentrator according to paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the desorption concentrate stream gas temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature. This is the minimum operating limit for the desorption concentrate gas stream temperature.
(3) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the pressure drop of the dilute stream across the concentrator at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.
(4) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average pressure drop. This is the maximum operating limit for the dilute stream across the concentrator.
(f)
Emission capture system.
For each capture device that is not part of a PTE that meets the criteria of § 63.4765(a), establish an operating limit for either the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. The operating limit for a PTE is specified in Table 3 to this subpart.
(1) During the capture efficiency determination required by § 63.4760 and described in §§ 63.4764 and 63.4765, you must monitor and record either the gas volumetric flow rate or the duct static pressure for each separate capture device in your emission capture system at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs at a point in the duct between the capture device and the add-on control device inlet.
(2) Calculate and record the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for the three test runs for each capture device. This average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure is the minimum operating limit for that specific capture device.
§ 63.4768
What are the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance?
(a)
General.
You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (c), (e), (f), and (g) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) of this section.
(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four equally spaced successive cycles of CPMS operation in 1 hour.
(2) You must determine the average of all recorded readings for each successive 3-hour period of the emission capture system and add-on control device operation.
(3) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS.
(4) You must maintain the CPMS at all times and have available necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.
(5) You must operate the CPMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times that a controlled coating operation is operating, except during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, if applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments).
(6) You must not use emission capture system or add-on control device parameter data recorded during periods when the control device is not receiving emissions, monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities when calculating data averages. You must use all the data collected during all other periods
in calculating the data averages for determining compliance with the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits.
(7) A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the CPMS to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Any period for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for required calculations is a deviation from the monitoring requirements.
(b)
Capture system bypass line.
You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section for each emission capture system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(1) You must monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism controlling the bypass line in a nondiverting position in such a way that the valve or closure mechanism cannot be opened without creating a record that the valve was opened. The method used to monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism must meet one of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i)
Flow control position indicator.
Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes and provides a record indicating whether the emissions are directed to the add-on control device or diverted from the add-on control device. The time of occurrence and flow control position must be recorded, as well as every time the flow direction is changed. The flow control position indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(ii)
Car-seal or lock-and-key valve closures.
Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. You must visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position, and the emissions are not diverted away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(iii)
Valve closure monitoring.
Ensure that any bypass line valve is in the closed (non-diverting) position through monitoring of valve position at least once every 15 minutes. You must inspect the monitoring system at least once every month to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position.
(iv)
Automatic shutdown system.
Use an automatic shutdown system in which the coating operation is stopped when flow is diverted by the bypass line away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running. You must inspect the automatic shutdown system at least once every month to verify that it will detect diversions of flow and shut down the coating operation.
(2) If any bypass line is opened and there was a deviation from the applicable emission limitation, you must include a description of why the bypass line was opened and the length of time it remained open in the semiannual compliance reports required in § 63.4720.
(c)
Thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.
If you are using a thermal oxidizer or catalytic oxidizer as an add-on control device (including those used with concentrators or with carbon adsorbers to treat desorbed concentrate streams), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) For a thermal oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) For a catalytic oxidizer, you must install a gas temperature monitor in the gas stream immediately before the catalyst bed, and if you established operating limits according to § 63.4767(b)(1) and (2), also install a gas temperature monitor in the gas stream immediately after the catalyst bed.
(i) If you establish operating limits according to § 63.4767(b)(1) and (2), then you must install the gas temperature monitors both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed. The temperature monitors must be in the gas stream immediately before and after
the catalyst bed to measure the temperature difference across the bed.
(ii) If you establish operating limits according to § 63.4767(b)(3) and (4), then you must install a gas temperature monitor upstream of the catalyst bed. The temperature monitor must be in the gas stream immediately before the catalyst bed to measure the temperature.
(3) For all thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device.
(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.
(ii) Use a temperature sensor with a measurement sensitivity of 4 degrees Fahrenheit or 0.75 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.
(iii) Shield the temperature sensor system from electromagnetic interference and chemical contaminants.
(iv) If a gas temperature chart recorder is used, it must have a measurement sensitivity in the minor division of at least 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
(v) Perform an electronic calibration at least semiannually according to the procedures in the manufacturer's owners manual. Following the electronic calibration, you must conduct a temperature sensor validation check in which a second or redundant temperature sensor placed nearby the process temperature sensor must yield a reading within 30 degrees Fahrenheit of the process temperature sensor reading.
(vi) Conduct calibration and validation checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating temperature range or install a new temperature sensor.
(vii) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity and electrical connections for continuity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion.
(d)
Carbon adsorbers.
If you are using a carbon adsorber as an add-on control device, you must monitor the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and cooling cycle, and comply with paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) and (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The regeneration desorbing gas mass flow monitor must be an integrating device having a measurement sensitivity of plus or minus 10 percent capable of recording the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow for each regeneration cycle.
(2) The carbon bed temperature monitor must have a measurement sensitivity of 1 percent of the temperature recorded or 1 degree Fahrenheit, whichever is greater, and must be capable of recording the temperature within 15 minutes of completing any carbon bed cooling cycle.
(e)
Condensers.
If you are using a condenser, you must monitor the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature and comply with paragraphs (a) and (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The gas temperature monitor must have a measurement sensitivity of 1 percent of the temperature recorded or 1 degree Fahrenheit, whichever is greater.
(2) The temperature monitor must provide a gas temperature record at least once every 15 minutes.
(f)
Concentrators.
If you are using a concentrator, such as a zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed concentrator, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must install a temperature monitor in the desorption gas stream. The temperature monitor must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3) of this section.
(2) You must install a device to monitor pressure drop across the zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed. The pressure monitoring device must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in or as close to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure.
(ii) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration, and internal and external corrosion.
(iii) Use a gauge with a minimum tolerance of 0.5 inch of water or a transducer with a minimum tolerance of 1 percent of the pressure range.
(iv) Check the pressure tap daily.
(v) Using a manometer, check gauge calibration quarterly and transducer calibration monthly.
(vi) Conduct calibration checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.
(vii) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity, electrical connections for continuity, and mechanical connections for leakage.
(g)
Emission capture systems.
The capture system monitoring system must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For each flow measurement device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (g)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Locate a flow sensor in a position that provides a representative flow measurement in the duct from each capture device in the emission capture system to the add-on control device.
(ii) Reduce swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.
(iii) Conduct a flow sensor calibration check at least semiannually.
(iv) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity, electrical connections for continuity, and mechanical connections for leakage.
(2) For each pressure drop measurement device, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (g)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in or as close to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure drop across each opening you are monitoring.
(ii) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration, and internal and external corrosion.
(iii) Check pressure tap pluggage daily.
(iv) Using an inclined manometer with a measurement sensitivity of 0.0002 inch water, check gauge calibration quarterly and transducer calibration monthly.
(v) Conduct calibration checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.
(vi) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity, electrical connections for continuity, and mechanical connections for leakage.

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.4780
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by us, the EPA, or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the EPA Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Approval of alternatives to the work practice standards under § 63.4693.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of major changes to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.4781
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Add-on control
means an air pollution control device, such as a thermal oxidizer or carbon adsorber, that reduces pollution in an air stream by destruction or removal before discharge to the atmosphere.
Adhesive
means any chemical substance that is applied for the purpose of bonding two surfaces together.
Block average
is an average of data points collected over any specified, continuous 180-minute block of time (
e.g.,
a 3-hour block could be noon to 3 p.m., with a subsequent total of eight 3-hour blocks within a 24-hour period).
Capture device
means a hood, enclosure, room, floor sweep, or other means of containing or collecting emissions and directing those emissions into an add-on air pollution control device.
Capture efficiency
or
capture system efficiency
means the portion (expressed as a percentage) of the pollutants from an emission source that is delivered to an add-on control device.
Capture system
means one or more capture devices intended to collect emissions generated by a coating operation in the use of coatings or cleaning materials, both at the point of application and at subsequent points where emissions from the coatings or cleaning materials occur, such as flashoff, drying, or curing. As used in this subpart, multiple capture devices that collect emissions generated by a coating operation are considered a single capture system.
Cleaning material
means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials, such as dirt, grease, oil, and dried or wet coating (
e.g.,
depainting), from a substrate before or after coating application or from equipment associated with a coating operation, such as spray booths, spray guns, racks, tanks, and hangers. Thus, it includes any cleaning material used on substrates or equipment or both.
Coating
means a material applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints, sealants, caulks, inks, adhesives, and maskants. Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils for metal, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances are not considered coatings for the purposes of this subpart.
Coating operation
means equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a substrate to prepare it for coating application or to remove dried coating (surface preparation), to apply coating to a substrate (coating application) and to dry or cure the coating after application, or to clean coating operation equipment (equipment cleaning). A single coating operation may include any combination of these types of equipment, but always includes at least the point at which a coating or cleaning material is applied and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP emissions from that coating or cleaning material occur. There may be multiple coating operations in an affected source. Coating application with hand-held nonrefillable aerosol containers, touchup markers, or marking pens is not a coating operation for the purposes of this subpart.
Coating solids
means the nonvolatile portion of the coating that makes up the dry film.
Continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS)
means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of coating operation, or capture system, or add-on control device parameters.
Controlled coating operation
means a coating operation from which some or all of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) On and after September 3, 2019, fails to meet any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during SSM.
Emission limitation
means an emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard.
Enclosure
means a structure that surrounds a source of emissions and captures and directs the emissions to an add-on control device.
Exempt compound
means a specific compound that is not considered a VOC due to negligible photochemical reactivity. The exempt compounds are listed in 40 CFR 51.100(s).
Finished wood product
means any wood building product to which a protective, decorative, or functional layer has been applied. Materials used include, but are not limited to, paints, stains, sealers, topcoats, basecoats, primers, enamels, inks, and adhesives.
Laminated wood product
means any wood building product to which a protective, decorative, or functional layer has been bonded with an adhesive. Products that are produced by bonding layers to the substrate as a part of the substrate manufacturing process (prior to pressing) are not considered laminated products under this subpart.
Manufacturer's formulation data
means data on a material (such as a coating) that are supplied by the material manufacturer based on knowledge of the ingredients used to manufacture that material, rather than based on testing of the material with the test methods specified in § 63.4741. Manufacturer's formulation data may include, but are not limited to, information on density, organic HAP content, volatile organic matter content, and coating solids content.
Mass fraction of organic HAP
means the ratio of the mass of organic HAP to the mass of a material in which it is contained, expressed as grams of organic HAP per gram of material.
Millwork
means lumber that has been remanufactured into a wood building product or component such as door, window, and staircase part(s), or decorative trim.
Month
means a calendar month or a pre-specified period of 28 days to 35 days to allow for flexibility in recordkeeping when data are based on a business accounting period.
Organic HAP content
means the mass of organic HAP per volume of coating solids for a coating calculated using Equation 2 of § 63.4741. The organic HAP content is determined for the coating in the condition it is in when received from its manufacturer or supplier and does not account for any alteration after receipt.
Permanent total enclosure (PTE)
means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51, for a PTE and that directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
Protective oil
means an organic material that is applied to metal for the purpose of providing lubrication or protection from corrosion without forming a solid film. This definition of protective oil includes, but is not limited to, lubricating oils, evaporative oils (including those that evaporate completely), and extrusion oils.
Research or laboratory facility
means a facility whose primary purpose is for research and development of new processes and products, that is conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and is not engaged in the manufacture of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in a de minimis manner.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.
Startup, initial
means the first time equipment is brought online in a source.
Surface preparation
means use of a cleaning material on a portion of or all of a substrate. This includes use of a cleaning material to remove dried coating, which is sometimes called “depainting.”
Temporary total enclosure
means an enclosure constructed for the purpose of measuring the capture efficiency of pollutants emitted from a given source as defined in Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51.
Thinner
means an organic solvent that is added to a coating after the coating is received from the supplier.
Tileboard
means hardboard that meets the specifications for Class I given by the standard ANSI A135.4-2012 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) as approved by the American National Standards Institute. The standard specifies requirements and test methods for water absorption, thickness swelling, modulus of rupture, tensile strength, surface finish, dimensions,
squareness, edge straightness, and moisture content for five classes of hardboard. Tileboard is also known as Class I hardboard or tempered hardboard.
Total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH)
means the total amount of nonaqueous volatile organic matter determined according to Methods 204 and 204A through 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 and substituting the term TVH each place in the methods where the term VOC is used. The TVH includes both VOC and non-VOC.
Uncontrolled coating operation
means a coating operation from which none of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.
Volatile organic compound (VOC)
means any compound defined as VOC in 40 CFR 51.100(s).
Volume fraction of coating solids
means the ratio of the volume of coating solids (also known as volume of nonvolatiles) to the volume of coating; liters of coating solids per liter of coating.
Wastewater
means water that is generated in a coating operation and is collected, stored, or treated prior to being discarded or discharged.
Wood building product
means any product that contains more than 50 percent by weight wood or wood fiber, excluding the weight of any glass components, and is used in the construction, either interior or exterior, of a residential, commercial, or institutional building.
[68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7704, Mar. 4, 2019]
Pt. 63, Subpt. QQQQ, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart QQQQ of Part 63—Emission Limits for New or Reconstructed Affected Sources
You must comply with the emission limits that apply to your affected source in the following table as required by § 63.4690.
If the affected source applies coating to products in the following subcategory. . .
Then, the organic HAP emission limit for the affected source, in grams HAP/liter solids (lb HAP/gal solids)
1 2
is:
1. Exterior siding and primed doorskins
0 (0.00)
2. Flooring
0 (0.00)
3. Interior wall paneling or tileboard
5 (0.04)
4. Other interior panels
0 (0.00)
5. Doors, windows, and miscellaneous
57 (0.48)
1
Determined as a rolling 12-month emission rate according to the requirements in § 63.4741, § 63.4751, or § 63.4761, as applicable.
2
If the affected source applies coatings to products in more than one of the subcategories listed in the table, then you must determine the applicable emission limit according to § 63.4690(c).
Pt. 63, Subpt. QQQQ, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart QQQQ of Part 63—Emission Limits for Existing Affected Sources
You must comply with the emission limits that apply to your affected source in the following table as required by § 63.4690.
If the affected source applies coating to products in the following subcategory. . .
Then, the organic HAP emission limit for the affected source, in grams HAP/liter solids (lb HAP/gal solids)
1 2
is:
1. Exterior siding and primed doorskins
7 (0.06)
2. Flooring
93 (0.78)
3. Interior wall paneling or tileboard
183 (1.53)
4. Other interior panels
20 (0.17)
5. Doors, windows, and miscellaneous
231 (1.93)
1
Determined as a rolling 12-month emission rate according to the requirements in § 63.4741, § 63.4751, or § 63.4761, as applicable.
2
If the affected source applies coatings to products in more than one of the subcategories listed in the table, then you must determine the applicable emission limit according to § 63.4690(c).
Pt. 63, Subpt. QQQQ, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart QQQQ of Part 63—Operating Limits if Using the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
If you are required to comply with operating limits by § 63.4692, you must comply with the applicable operating limits in the following table:
For the following device . . .
You must meet the following operating limit . . .
And you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limit by . . .
1. Thermal oxidizer
a. The average combustion temperature in any 3-hour period must not fall below the combustion temperature limit established according to § 63.4767(a)
i. Collecting the combustion temperature data according to § 63.4768(c);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour block average combustion temperature at or above the temperature limit.
2. Catalytic oxidizer
a. The average temperature difference measured across the catalyst bed in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4767(b); or
i. Collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4768(c);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour block temperature difference across the catalyst bed at or above the temperature limit.
b. Ensure that the inlet temperature of the catalyst bed in any 3-hour period does not fall below the temperature limit established according to § 63.4767(b)(2) and develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan according to § 63.4767(b)(3) and (4)
i. Collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4768(c), reducing the data to 3-hour block averages, and maintaining the 3-hour average temperature at or above the temperature limit; and
ii. Complying with the inspection and maintenance plan developed according to § 63.4767(b)(3) and (4).
3. Carbon absorber
a. The total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each carbon bed regeneration cycle must not fall below the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow limit established according to § 63.4767(c)
i. Measuring the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle according to § 63.4768(d); and
ii. Maintaining the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow at or above the mass flow limit.
b. The temperature of the carbon bed, after completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle, must not exceed the carbon bed temperature limit established according to § 63.4767(c)
i. Measuring the temperature of the carbon bed, after completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle, according to § 63.4768(d); and
ii. Operating and carbon beds such that each carbon bed is not returned to service until completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle until the recorded temperature of the carbon bed is at or below the temperature limit.
4. Condenser
a. The average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature in any 3-hour period must not exceed the temperature limit established according to § 63.4767(d)
i. Collecting the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature according to § 63.4768(e);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour block average gas temperature at the outlet at or below the temperature limit.
5. Emission capture system that is a PTE according to § 63.4765(a)
a. The direction of the air flow at all times must be into the enclosure; and either
i. Collecting the direction of the air flow; and either the facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings according to § 63.4768(g)(1) or the pressure drop across the enclosure according to § 63.4768(g)(2); and
ii. Maintaining the facial velocity of air flow through all natural draft openings or the pressure drop at or above the facial velocity limit or pressure drop limit, and maintaining the direction of air flow into the enclosure at all times.
b. The average facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings in the enclosure must be at least 200 feet per minute; or
i. See items 5.a.i and 5.a.ii.
c. The pressure drop across the enclosure must be at least 0.007 inch H
2
O, as established in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51
i. See items 5.a.i and 5.a.ii.
6. Emission capture system that is not a PTE according to § 63.4765(a)
a. The average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure in each duct between a capture device and add-on control device inlet in any 3-hour period must not fall below the average volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure limit established for that capture device according to § 63.4767(f)
i. Collecting the gas volumetric flow gas or duct static pressure for each capture device according to § 63.4768(g);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour block average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for each capture device at or above the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure limit.
7. Concentrators, including zeolite wheels and rotary carbon absorbers
The average gas temperature of the desorption concentrate stream in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4767(e); and
i. Collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4768(f);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour block average temperature at or above the temperature limit.
b. The average pressure drop of the dilute stream across the concentrator in any 3-hour period must not exceed the limit established according to § 63.4767(e)
i. Collecting the pressure drop data according to § 63.4768(f); and
ii. Reducing the pressure drop data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour block average pressure drop at or below at the pressure drop limit.
Pt. 63, Subpt. QQQQ, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart QQQQ of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart QQQQ of Part 63
You must comply with the applicable General Provisions requirements according to the following table:
Citation
Subject
Applicable
to subpart
QQQQ
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1)-(14)
General Applicability
Yes
§ 63.1(b)(1)-(3)
Initial Applicability Determination
Yes
Applicability to subpart QQQQ is also specified in § 63.4681.
§ 63.1(c)(1)
Applicability After Standard Established
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(2)
Applicability of Permit Program for Area Sources
No
Area sources are not subject to subpart QQQQ.
§ 63.1(c)(3)
[Reserved]
No
§ 63.1(c)(4)-(5)
Extensions and Notifications
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(6)
Reclassification
Yes
§ 63.1(d)
[Reserved]
No
§ 63.1(e)
Applicability of Permit Program Before Relevant Standard is Set
Yes
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
Additional definitions are specified in § 63.4781.
§ 63.3(a)-(c)
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
§ 63.4(a)(1)-(5)
Prohibited Activities
Yes
§ 63.4(b)-(c)
Circumvention/Severability
Yes
§ 63.5(a)
Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(b)(1)-(6)
Requirements for Existing, Newly Constructed, and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
§ 63.5(c)
[Reserved]
No
§ 63.5(d)
Application for Approval of Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(e)
Approval of Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(f)
Approval of Construction/Reconstruction Based on Prior State Review
Yes
§ 63.6(a)
Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements—Applicability
Yes
§ 63.6(b)(1)-(7)
Compliance Dates for New and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
§ 63.4683 specifies compliance dates.
§ 63.6(c)(1)-(5)
Compliance Dates for Existing Sources
Yes
§ 63.4683 specifies compliance dates.
§ 63.6(d)
[Reserved]
No
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
General Duty to Minimize Emissions
No
See § 63.4700(b) for general duty requirement.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Requirement to Correct Malfunctions ASAP
No
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Operation and Maintenance Requirements Enforceable Independent of Emissions Limitations
Yes
§ 63.6(e)(2)
[Reserved]
No
§ 63.6(e)(3)
SSMP
No
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance Except During SSM
No
§ 63.6(f)(2)-(3)
Methods for Determining Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(g)(1)-(3)
Use of an Alternative Standard
Yes
§ 63.6(h)
Compliance with Opacity/Visible Emissions Standards
No
Subpart QQQQ does not establish opacity standards and does not require continuous opacity monitoring systems (COMS).
§ 63.6(i)(1)-(16)
Extension of Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
Yes
§ 63.7(a)(1)
Performance Test Requirements—Applicability
Yes
Applies to all affected sources. Additional requirements for performance testing are specified in §§ 63.4751, 63.4752, 63.4764, 63.4765, and 63.4766.
§ 63.7(a)(2)
Performance Test Requirements—Dates
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard. § 63.4760 specifies the schedule for performance test requirements that are earlier than those specified in § 63.7(a)(2).
§ 63.7(a)(3)
Performance Tests Required By the Administrator
Yes
§ 63.7(a)(4)
Notification of Delay in Performance Testing Due to Force Majeure
Yes
§ 63.7(b)-(d)
Performance Test Requirements—Notification, Quality Assurance, Facilities Necessary for Safe Testing, Conditions During Test
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Performance Testing
Yes
§ 63.7(f)
Performance Test Requirements—Use of Alternative Test Method
Yes
Applies to all test methods except those used to determine capture system efficiency.
§ 63.7(g)-(h)
Performance Test Requirements—Data Analysis, Recordkeeping, Reporting, Waiver of Test
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard.
§ 63.8(a)(1)-(2)
Monitoring Requirements—Applicability
Yes
Applies only to monitoring of capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard. Additional requirements for monitoring are specified in § 63.4768.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
[Reserved]
No
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Additional Monitoring Requirements
No
Subpart QQQQ does not have monitoring requirements for flares.
§ 63.8(b)
Conduct of Monitoring
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(1)
Continuous Monitoring System (CMS) Operation and Maintenance
Yes
Applies only to monitoring of capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standard. Additional requirements for CMS operations and maintenance are specified in § 63.4768.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(i)
General Duty to Minimize Emissions and CMS Operation
No
§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii)
Operation and Maintenance of CMS
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Requirement to Develop SSM Plan for CMS
No
§ 63.8(c)(2)-(3)
Monitoring System Installation
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(4)
CMSs
No
§ 63.4768 specifies the requirements for the operation of CMS for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(5)
COMS
No
Subpart QQQQ does not have opacity for visible emission standards.
§ 63.8(c)(6)
CMS Requirements
Yes
§ 63.4768 specifies the requirements for monitoring systems for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(7)
CMS Out-of-Control Periods
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(8)
CMS Out-of-Control Periods Reporting
No
§ 63.4720 requires reporting of CMS out-of-control periods.
§ 63.8(d)-(e)
Quality Control Program and CMS Performance Evaluation
No
Subpart QQQQ does not require the use of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
§ 63.8(f)(1)-(5)
Use of an Alternative Monitoring Method
Yes
§ 63.8(f)(6)
Alternative to Relative Accuracy Test
No
Subpart QQQQ does not require the use of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
§ 63.8(g)(1)-(5)
Data Reduction
No
§§ 63.4767 and 63.4768 specify monitoring data reduction.
§ 63.9(a)-(d)
Notification Requirements
Yes
§ 63.9(e)
Notification of Performance Test
Yes
Applies only to capture system and add-on control device performance tests at sources using these to comply with the standard.
§ 63.9(f)
Notification of Visible Emissions/Opacity Test
No
Subpart QQQQ does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.9(g)(1)-(3)
Additional Notifications When Using CMS
No
Subpart QQQQ does not require the use of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
§ 63.9(h)
Notification of Compliance Status
Yes
§ 63.4710 specifies the dates for submitting the Notification of Compliance Status.
§ 63.9(i)
Adjustment of Submittal Deadlines
Yes
§ 63.9(j)
Change in Previous Information
Yes
§ 63.9(k)
Electronic reporting procedures
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
§ 63.10(a)
Recordkeeping/Reporting—Applicability and General Information
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(1)
General Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)-(ii)
Recordkeeping of Occurrence and Duration of Startups and Shutdowns
No
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Recordkeeping Relevant to CMS
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv)-(v)
Recordkeeping Relevant to SSM
No
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi)-(xi)
Recordkeeping for CMS Malfunctions
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xii)
Records
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiii)
No
Subpart QQQQ does not require the use of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiv)
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Recordkeeping Requirements for Applicability Determinations
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(1)-(6)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(7)-(8)
No
The same records are required in § 63.4720(a)(7).
§ 63.10(c)(9)-(14)
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(15)
Use of SSM Plan
No
§ 63.10(d)(1)
General Reporting Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.4720.
§ 63.10(d)(2)
Report of Performance Test Results
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.4720(b).
§ 63.10(d)(3)
Reporting Opacity or Visible Emissions Observations
No
Subpart QQQQ does not require opacity or visible emissions observations.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress Reports for Sources With Compliance Extensions
Yes
§ 63.10(d)(5)
SSM Reports
No
Malfunctions shall be reported based on compliance option under § 63.4720(a)(5-7).
§ 63.10(e)(1)-(2)
Additional CMS Reports
No
Subpart QQQQ does not require the use of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
§ 63.10(e)(3)
Excess Emissions/CMS Performance Reports
No
§ 63.4720(b) specifies the contents of periodic compliance reports.
§ 63.10(e)(4)
COMS Data Reports
No
Subpart QQQQ does not specify requirements for opacity or COMS.
§ 63.10(f)
Recordkeeping/Reporting Waiver
Yes
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements/Flares
No
Subpart QQQQ does not specify use of flares for compliance.
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes
§ 63.13
Addresses
Yes
§ 63.14
Incorporation by Reference
Yes
Test Methods ANSI A135.4-2012, ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Part 10, ASTM D1475-13, ASTM D2111-10 (Reapproved 2015), ASTM D2369-10 (Reapproved 2015)
e
, ASTM D2697-03 (Reapproved 2014), ASTM D4840-99 (2018)
e
, ASTM D6093-97 (Reapproved 2016), ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) and NCASI Method ISS/FP A105.01 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
§ 63.15
Availability of Information/Confidentiality
Yes
§ 63.16
Requirements for Performance Track Member Facilities
Yes
[84 FR 7705, Mar. 4, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 73908, Nov. 19, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. QQQQ, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart QQQQ of Part 63—Default Organic HAP Mass Fraction for Solvents and Solvent Blends
You may use the mass fraction values in the following table for solvent blends for which you do not have test data or manufacturer's formulation data.
Solvent/solvent blend
CAS. No.
Average organic HAP mass fraction
Typical organic HAP, percent by mass
1. Toluene
108-88-3
1.0
Toluene.
2. Xylene(s)
1330-20-7
1.0
Xylenes, ethylbenzene.
3. Hexane
110-54-3
0.5
n-hexane.
4. n-Hexane
110-54-3
1.0
n-hexane.
5. Ethylbenzene
100-41-4
1.0
Ethylbenzene.
6. Aliphatic 140
0
None.
7. Aromatic 100
0.02
1% xylene, 1% cumene.
8. Aromatic 150
0.09
Naphthalene.
9. Aromatic naphtha
64742-95-6
0.02
1% xylene, 1% cumene.
10. Aromatic solvent
64742-94-5
0.1
Naphthalene.
11. Exempt mineral spirits
8032-32-4
0
None.
12. Ligroines (VM
P)
8032-32-4
0
None.
13. Lactol spirits
64742-89-6
0.15
Toluene.
14. Low aromatic white spirit
64742-82-1
0
None.
15. Mineral spirits
64742-88-7
0.01
Xylenes.
16. Hydrotreated naphtha
64742-48-9
0
None.
17. Hydrotreated light distillate
64742-47-8
0.001
Toluene.
18. Stoddard solvent
8052-41-3
0.01
Xylenes.
19. Super high-flash naphtha
64742-95-6
0.05
Xylenes.
20. Varsol ® solvent
8052-49-3
0.01
0.5% xylenes, 0.5% ethylbenzene.
21. VM
P naphtha
64742-89-8
0.06
3% toluene, 3% xylene.
22. Petroleum distillate mixture
68477-31-6
0.08
4% naphthalene, 4% biphenyl.
Pt. 63, Subpt. QQQQ, Table 6

# Table 6 to Subpart QQQQ of Part 63—Default Organic HAP Mass Fraction for Petroleum Solvent Groups
a
You may use the mass fraction values in the following table for solvent blends for which you do not have test data or manufacturer's formulation data.
Solvent type
Average organic HAP mass fraction
Typical organic HAP, percent by mass
Aliphatic
b
0.03
1% xylene, 1% toluene, and 1% ethylbenzene.
Aromatic
c
0.06
4% xylene, 1% toluene, and 1% ethylbenzene.
a
Use this table only if the solvent blend does not match any of the solvent blends in Table 5 to this subpart and you only know whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic.
b
E.g.,
Mineral Spirits 135, Mineral Spirits 150 EC, Naphtha, Mixed Hydrocarbon, Aliphatic Hydrocarbon, Aliphatic Naphtha, Naphthol Spirits, Petroleum Spirits, Petroleum Oil, Petroleum Naphtha, Solvent Naphtha, Solvent Blend.
c
E.g.,
Medium-flash Naphtha, High-flash Naphtha, Aromatic Naphtha, Light Aromatic Naphtha, Light Aromatic Hydrocarbons, Aromatic Hydrocarbons, Light Aromatic Solvent.
Pt. 63, Subpt. QQQQ, Table 7

# Table 7 to Subpart QQQQ of Part 63—List of HAP That Must Be Counted Toward Organic HAP Content if Present at 0.1 Percent or More by Mass
Chemical name
CAS No.
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
79-34-5
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
79-00-5
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine
57-14-7
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane
96-12-8
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine
122-66-7
1,3-Butadiene
106-99-0
1,3-Dichloropropene
542-75-6
1,4-Dioxane 123-91-1
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
88-06-2
2,4/2,6-Dinitrotoluene (mixture)
25321-14-6
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
121-14-2
2,4-Toluene diamine
95-80-7
2-Nitropropane
79-46-9
3,3′-Dichlorobenzidine
91-94-1
3,3′-Dimethoxybenzidine
119-90-4
3,3′-Dimethylbenzidine
119-93-7
4,4′-Methylene bis(2-chloroaniline)
101-14-4
Acetaldehyde
75-07-0
Acrylamide
79-06-1
Acrylonitrile
107-13-1
Allyl chloride
107-05-1
alpha-Hexachlorocyclohexane (a-HCH)
319-84-6
Aniline
62-53-3
Benzene
71-43-2
Benzidine
92-87-5
Benzotrichloride
98-07-7
Benzyl chloride
100-44-7
beta-Hexachlorocyclohexane (b-HCH)
319-85-7
Bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
117-81-7
Bis(chloromethyl)ether
542-88-1
Bromoform
75-25-2
Captan
133-06-2
Carbon tetrachloride
56-23-5
Chlordane
57-74-9
Chlorobenzilate
510-15-6
Chloroform
67-66-3
Chloroprene
126-99-8
Cresols (mixed)
1319-77-3
DDE
3547-04-4
Dichloroethyl ether
111-44-4
Dichlorvos
62-73-7
Epichlorohydrin
106-89-8
Ethyl acrylate
140-88-5
Ethylene dibromide
106-93-4
Ethylene dichloride
107-06-2
Ethylene oxide
75-21-8
Ethylene thiourea
96-45-7
Ethylidene dichloride (1,1-Dichloroethane)
75-34-3
Formaldehyde
50-00-0
Heptachlor
76-44-8
Hexachlorobenzene
118-74-1
Hexachlorobutadiene
87-68-3
Hexachloroethane
67-72-1
Hydrazine
302-01-2
Isophorone
78-59-1
Lindane (hexachlorocyclohexane, all isomers)
58-89-9
m-Cresol
108-39-4
Methylene chloride
75-09-2
Naphthalene
91-20-3
Nitrobenzene
98-95-3
Nitrosodimethylamine
62-75-9
o-Cresol
95-48-7
o-Toluidine
95-53-4
Parathion
56-38-2
p-Cresol
106-44-5
p-Dichlorobenzene
106-46-7
Pentachloronitrobenzene
82-68-8
Pentachlorophenol
87-86-5
Propoxur
114-26-1
Propylene dichloride
78-87-5
Propylene oxide
75-56-9
Quinoline
91-22-5
Tetrachloroethene
127-18-4
Toxaphene
8001-35-2
Trichloroethylene
79-01-6
Trifluralin
1582-09-8
Vinyl bromide
593-60-2
Vinyl chloride
75-01-4
Vinylidene chloride
75-35-4
[88 FR 14287, Mar. 8, 2023]

# Subpart RRRR—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture

# Source:
68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 63.4880
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) for metal furniture surface coating facilities. This subpart also establishes requirements to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission limitations.
§ 63.4881
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the source category to which this subpart applies is surface coating of metal furniture.
(1) Surface coating is the application of coatings to a substrate using, for example, spray guns or dip tanks.
(2) Metal furniture means furniture or components of furniture constructed either entirely or partially from metal. Metal furniture includes, but is not limited to, components of the following types of products as well as the products themselves: household, office, institutional, laboratory, hospital, public building, restaurant, barber and beauty shop, and dental furniture; office and store fixtures; partitions; shelving; lockers; lamps and lighting fixtures; and wastebaskets.
(b) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a new, reconstructed, or existing affected source as defined in § 63.4882, in the source category defined in paragraph (a) of this section, and that is a major source, is located at a major source, or is part of a major source of emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP). A major source of HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams (Mg) (10 tons) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg (25 tons) or more per year.
(c) This subpart does not apply to surface coating that meets any of the criteria of paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Surface coating conducted at an affected source that uses only coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that contain no organic HAP.
(2) Surface coating of metal components of wood furniture conducted in an operation that is subject to the wood furniture manufacturing NESHAP in subpart JJ of this part.
(3) Surface coating that occurs at research or laboratory facilities or that is part of janitorial, building, and facility maintenance operations.
(4) Surface coating of only small items such as knobs, hinges, or screws that have a wider use beyond metal furniture are not subject to this subpart unless the surface coating occurs at an affected metal furniture source.
(5) Surface coating of metal furniture conducted for the purpose of repairing or maintaining metal furniture used by a major source and not for commerce is not subject to this subpart, unless organic HAP emissions from the surface coating itself are as high as the rates specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(6) Surface coating of metal furniture performed on-site at installations owned or operated by the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any State).
§ 63.4882
What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, and existing affected source.
(b) The affected source is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section that are used for surface coating of metal furniture:
(1) All coating operations as defined in § 63.4981;
(2) All storage containers and mixing vessels in which coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials are stored or mixed;
(3) All manual and automated equipment and containers and all pumps and piping within the affected source used
for conveying coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials; and
(4) All storage containers, all pumps and piping, and all manual and automated equipment and containers within the affected source used for conveying waste materials generated by a coating operation.
(c) An affected source is a new affected source if you commenced its construction after April 24, 2002, and the construction is of a completely new metal furniture surface coating facility where previously no metal furniture surface coating facility had existed.
(d) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in § 63.2.
(e) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.
§ 63.4883
When do I have to comply with this subpart?
The date by which you must comply with this subpart is called the compliance date. The compliance date for each type of affected source is specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. The compliance date begins the initial compliance period during which you conduct the initial compliance demonstration described in §§ 63.4940, 63.4950, and 63.4960.
(a) For a new or reconstructed affected source, the compliance date is the applicable date in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section:
(1) If the initial startup of your new or reconstructed affected source is before May 23, 2003, the compliance date is May 23, 2003.
(2) If the initial startup of your new or reconstructed affected source occurs after May 23, 2003, the compliance date is the date of initial startup of your affected source.
(b) For an existing affected source, the compliance date is the date 3 years after May 23, 2003.
(c) For an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP emissions, the compliance date is specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For any portion of the source that becomes a new or reconstructed affected source subject to this subpart, the compliance date is the date of initial startup of the affected source or May 23, 2003, whichever is later.
(2) For any portion of the source that becomes an existing affected source subject to this subpart, the compliance date is the date 1 year after the area source becomes a major source or 3 years after May 23, 2003, whichever is later.
(d) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.4910 according to the dates specified in that section and in subpart A of this part. Some of the notifications must be submitted before the compliance dates described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

# Emission Limitations
§ 63.4890
What emission limits must I meet?
(a) For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must emit no organic HAP during each compliance period, determined according to the procedures in § 63.4941.
(b)
Alternative emission limit.
You may request approval from the Administrator to use an alternative new source emission limit for specific metal furniture components or type of components for which you believe the emission limit in paragraph (a) of this section cannot be achieved.
(1) Any request to use an alternative emission limit under paragraph (b) of this section must contain specific information demonstrating why no organic HAP-free coating technology can be used on the metal furniture components. The request must be based on objective criteria related to the performance or appearance requirements of the finished coating, which may include but is not limited to the criteria listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) Low dried film thickness requirements (
e.g.,
less than 0.0254 millimeters (0.001 inch)).
(ii) Flexibility requirements for parts subject to repeated bending.
(iii) Chemical resistance to withstand chemical exposure in environments such as laboratories.
(iv) Resistance to the effects of exposure to ultraviolet light.
(v) Adhesion characteristics related to the condition of the substrate.
(vi) High gloss requirements.
(vii) Custom colors such as matching the color of a corporate logo.
(viii) Non-uniform surface finishes such as an antique appearance that requires visible cracking of the dried film.
(2) If the request to use an alternative emission limit under paragraph (b) of this section is approved, the new source must meet an emission limit of 0.094 kilogram (kg) organic HAP per liter (kg/liter) (0.78 pounds per gallon (lb/gal)) coating solids used for only those components subject to the approval. All other metal furniture surface coating operations at the new source must meet the emission limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Until approval to use the alternative emission limit has been granted by the Administrator under this paragraph (b)(2), you must meet the emission limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section and all other applicable requirements in this subpart.
(c) For an existing affected source, you must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to no more than 0.10 kg organic HAP per liter (0.83 lb/gal) of coating solids used during each compliance period, determined according to the procedures in § 63.4941, § 63.4951, or § 63.4961.
§ 63.4891
What are my options for demonstrating compliance with the emission limits?
You must include all coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the affected source when determining whether the organic HAP emission rate is equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890. To make this determination, you must use at least one of the three compliance options listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. You may apply any of the compliance options to an individual coating operation or to multiple coating operations as a group or to the entire affected source. You may use different compliance options for different coating operations or at different times on the same coating operation. However, you may not use different compliance options at the same time on the same coating operation. If you switch between compliance options for any coating operation or group of coating operations, you must document this switch as required by § 63.4930(c), and you must report it in the next semiannual (6-month period) compliance report required in § 63.4920.
(a)
Compliant material option.
Demonstrate that the organic HAP content of each coating used in the coating operation or group of coating operations is less than or equal to the applicable emission rate limit in § 63.4890 and that each thinner and each cleaning material used contains no organic HAP. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4940, 63.4941, and 63.4942 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using this option.
(b)
Emission rate without add-on controls option.
Demonstrate that, based on the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation or group of coating operations, the organic HAP emission rate for the coating operation or group of coating operations is less than or equal to the applicable emission rate limit in § 63.4890, calculated as a monthly emission rate. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4950, 63.4951, and 63.4952 to demonstrate compliance with the emission rate limit using this option.
(c)
Emission rate with add-on controls option.
Demonstrate that, based on the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation or group of coating operations, and the emission reductions achieved by emission capture and add-on control systems, the organic HAP emission rate is less than or equal to the applicable emission rate limit in § 63.4890, calculated as a monthly emission rate. If you use this compliance option, you must also demonstrate that all capture systems and add-on control devices for the coating operation or group of coating operations meet the operating limits required in § 63.4892, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4961(j); and that you meet the work practice standards required in § 63.4893. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4960 through 63.4967 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards using this option.
(d) If you choose to use the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option in paragraph (c) of this section and operate the coating operation, its emission capture system, or its add-on control device at multiple sets of representative operating conditions that result in different capture system or add-on control device efficiencies during a compliance period, you must follow one of the procedures in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Determine the operating conditions that result in the lowest emission capture system and add-on control device efficiencies through performance testing conducted according to §§ 63.4963, 63.4964, and 63.4965. Use these emission capture system and add-on control device efficiencies for all representative operating conditions during the compliance period.
(2) Develop a compliance calculation procedure for determining the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period that takes into account all of the representative operating conditions the source was operated under during the compliance period and submit the procedure to the Administrator for approval. Until you receive approval from the Administrator, you must determine compliance according to paragraph (c) of this section.
§ 63.4892
What operating limits must I meet?
(a) For any coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option to demonstrate compliance, you are not required to meet any operating limits.
(b) For any coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option to demonstrate compliance, except those for which you use a solvent recovery system and conduct a liquid-liquid material balance according to § 63.4961(j), you must meet the operating limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart. These operating limits apply to the emission capture and control systems on the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use emission capture and add-on controls to demonstrate compliance. You must establish the operating limits during the performance test according to the requirements in § 63.4966. You must meet the operating limits at all times after you establish them.
(c) If you use an add-on control device other than those listed in Table 1 to this subpart, or wish to monitor an alternative parameter and comply with a different operating limit, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of alternative monitoring under § 63.8(f).
§ 63.4893
What work practice standards must I meet?
(a) For any coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option to demonstrate compliance, you are not required to meet any work practice standards.
(b) For any coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option to demonstrate compliance, you must develop and implement a work practice plan to minimize organic HAP emissions from the storage, mixing, and conveying of coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in, and waste materials generated by, the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use this option; or you must meet an alternative standard as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The plan must specify practices and procedures to ensure that, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are implemented.
(1) All organic-HAP-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be stored in closed containers. You must ensure that these containers are kept closed at all times except when depositing or removing these materials from the container.
(2) Spills of organic-HAP-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be minimized.
(3) Organic-HAP-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be conveyed from one location to another in closed containers or pipes.
(4) Mixing vessels which contain organic-HAP-containing coatings and other materials must be closed except when adding to, removing, or mixing the contents.
(5) Emissions of organic HAP must be minimized during cleaning of storage, mixing, and conveying equipment.
(c) As provided in § 63.6(g), the Administrator may choose to grant you permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section.

# General Compliance Requirements
§ 63.4900
What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
(a) The affected source must be in compliance at all times with the applicable emission limitations specified in §§ 63.4890, 63.4892, and 63.4893.
(b) Before September 12, 2019, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including all air pollution control and monitoring equipment you use for purposes of complying with this subpart, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). On and after September 12, 2019, at all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the affected source.
(c) Before September 12, 2019, if your affected source uses an emission capture system and add-on control device to comply with the emission limitations in § 63.4890, you must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP) according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3). The SSMP must address the startup, shutdown, and corrective actions in the event of a malfunction of the emission capture system or the add-on control device. The SSMP must also address any coating operation equipment that may cause increased emissions or that would affect capture efficiency if the process equipment malfunctions, such as conveyors that move parts among enclosures. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required on and after September 12, 2019.
[84 FR 9635, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4901
What parts of the General Provisions apply to me?
Table 2 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.15 apply to you.

# Notifications, Reports, and Records
§ 63.4910
What notifications must I submit?
(a)
General.
You must submit the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(f)(4), and 63.9(b) through (e), (h), and (j) that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Initial Notification.
You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b) for a new or reconstructed affected source no later than 120 days after initial startup, 120 days after May 23, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. For an existing affected source, you must submit the Initial Notification no later than 1 year after May 23, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.
(c)
Notification of Compliance Status.
You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 30 calendar days following the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4940, § 63.4950, or § 63.4960 that applies to your affected source. The Notification of Compliance Status must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section and the applicable information specified in § 63.9(h).
(1) Company name and address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the report. Such certifications must also comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 70.5(d) or 40 CFR 71.5(d).
(3) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the initial compliance period described in § 63.4940, § 63.4950, or § 63.4960 that applies to your affected source.
(4) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4891 that you used on each coating operation in the affected source during the initial compliance period and that you will use for demonstrating continuous compliance.
(5) Statement of whether or not the affected source achieved the emission limitations for the initial compliance period.
(6) If you had a deviation, include the information in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) A description and statement of the cause of the deviation.
(ii) If you failed to meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, include all the calculations you used to determine compliance. You do not need to submit information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers or test reports.
(7) For each of the data items listed in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section that is required by the compliance option(s) you used to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit, include an example of how you determined the value, including calculations and supporting data. Supporting data can include a copy of the information provided by the supplier or manufacturer of the example coating or material or a summary of the results of testing conducted according to § 63.4941(a), (b), or (c). You do not need to submit copies of any test reports.
(i) Mass fraction of organic HAP for one coating, for one thinner, and for one cleaning material.
(ii) Volume fraction of coating solids for one coating.
(iii) Density for one coating, one thinner, and one cleaning material, except that if you use the compliant material option, only the example coating density is required.
(iv) The amount of waste materials and the mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials for which you are claiming an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4951.
(8) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance option(s) you used, as specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) For the compliant materials option, provide an example calculation of the organic HAP content for one coating, using Equation 2 of § 63.4941.
(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, provide the information specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions during the initial compliance period, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951.
(B) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used during the initial compliance period, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.
(C) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period, using Equation 3 of § 63.4951.
(iii) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, provide the information specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the initial compliance period, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951.
(B) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used during the initial compliance period, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.
(C) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction during the initial compliance period by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equation 1 of § 63.4961, and the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operations controlled by solvent recovery systems during each compliance period, using Equation 3 of § 63.4961 as applicable.
(D) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period, using Equation 4 of § 63.4961.
(9) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (v) of this section. However, the requirements in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4961(j).
(i) For each emission capture system, a summary of the data and copies of the calculations supporting the determination that the emission capture system is a permanent total enclosure (PTE) or a measurement of the emission capture system efficiency. Include a description of the protocol followed for measuring capture efficiency, summaries of any capture efficiency tests conducted, and any calculations supporting the capture efficiency determination. If you use the data quality objective (DQO) or lower confidence limit (LCL) approach, you must also include the statistical calculations to show you meet the DQO or LCL criteria in appendix A to subpart KK of this part. You do not need to submit complete test reports.
(ii) A summary of the results of each add-on control device performance test. You do not need to submit complete test reports.
(iii) A list of each emission capture system's and add-on control device's operating limits and a summary of the data used to calculate those limits.
(iv) A statement of whether or not you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4893.
(v) Before September 12, 2019, a statement of whether or not you developed and implemented the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.4900. This statement is not required on and after September 12, 2019.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9635, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 73908, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.4920
What reports must I submit?
(a)
Semiannual compliance reports.
You must submit semiannual compliance reports for each affected source according to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section. The semiannual compliance reporting requirements may be satisfied by reports required under other parts of the Clean Air Act (CAA), such as those detailed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1)
Dates.
Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must prepare and submit each semiannual compliance report according to the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the first semiannual reporting period which begins the day after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4940, § 63.4950, or § 63.4960 that applies to your affected source and ends on June 30 or December 31, whichever occurs first following the end of the initial compliance period.
(ii) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must cover the subsequent semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.
(iii) Each semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.
(iv) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting 6-month monitoring reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent semiannual compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established for the 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 6-month monitoring reports instead of according to the dates specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. However, under no circumstances shall the semiannual compliance report be submitted more than 30 days after the end of the semiannual reporting period established in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2)
Inclusion with title V report.
Each affected source that has obtained a
title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the 6-month monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a semiannual compliance report pursuant to this section along with, or as part of, the 6-month monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the semiannual compliance report includes all information required by the part 70 or part 71 6-month monitoring report concerning deviations from the requirements of this subpart as defined in § 63.4981, the submission of the semiannual compliance report shall be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviation information in the part 70 or part 71 6-month monitoring report. However, in such situations, the 6-month monitoring report must cross-reference the semiannual compliance report, and submission of a semiannual compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permitting authority.
(3)
General requirements.
The semiannual compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section, and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (7) of this section that is applicable to your affected source.
(i) Company name and address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the report. Such certifications must also comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 70.5(d) or 40 CFR 71.5(d).
(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 6-month period ending on June 30 or December 31.
(iv) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4891 that you used on each coating operation during the reporting period. If you switched between compliance options during the reporting period, you must report the beginning and ending dates you used each option.
(v) If you used the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option (§ 63.4891(b) or (c)), the calculation results for each organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period ending in the 6-month reporting period.
(4)
No deviations.
If there were no deviations from the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards in §§ 63.4890, 63.4892, and 63.4893, respectively, that apply to you, the semiannual compliance report must include an affirmative statement that there were no deviations from the emission limits, operating limits, or work practice standards in §§ 63.4890, 63.4892, and 63.4893 during the reporting period. If there were no deviations from these emission limitations, the semiannual compliance report must include the affirmative statement that is described in either § 63.4942(c), § 63.4952(c), or § 63.4962(f), as applicable. If you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and there were no periods during which the continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) were out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS were out-of-control during the reporting period as specified in § 63.8(c)(7).
(5)
Deviations: Compliant material option.
If you used the compliant material option, and there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) Identification of each coating used that deviated from the emission limit, and of each thinner and cleaning material used that contained organic HAP, and the dates and time periods each was used.
(B) The calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, using Equation 2 of § 63.4941. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials
suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.
(C) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.
(D) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) Identification of each coating used that deviated from the emission limit, and of each thinner and cleaning material used that contained organic HAP, and the date, time, and duration each was used.
(B) The calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating identified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A) of this section, using Equation 2 of § 63.4941. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.
(C) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.
(D) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(E) The number of deviations and, for each deviation, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4890, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(6)
Deviations: Emission rate without add-on controls option.
If you used the emission rate without add-on controls option, and there was a deviation from any applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.
(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.
(B) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for each month, using Equations 1 of § 63.4951.
(C) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.
(D) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each month, using Equation 3 of § 63.4951.
(E) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.
(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.
(B) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for each month, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951.
(C) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.
(D) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each month, using Equation 3 of § 63.4951.
(E) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(F) The number of deviations, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4890, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(7)
Deviations: Emission rate with add-on controls option.
If you used the emission rate with add-on controls option,
and there was a deviation from any applicable emission limitation (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(i)(A) through (Q) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction during which deviations occurred. You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.
(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.
(B) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each month, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) for treatment or disposal during each compliance period, according to § 63.4951(e)(4).
(C) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.
(D) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equation 1 of § 63.4961, and Equation 3 of § 63.4961 for the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by solvent recovery systems each compliance period, as applicable.
(E) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, using Equation 4 of § 63.4961.
(F) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.
(G) A brief description of the CPMS.
(H) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(I) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.
(J) The date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).
(K) The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart; date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device; and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.
(L) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total affected source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(M) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(N) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total affected source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(O) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.
(P) For each deviation from the work practice standards, a description of the deviation; the date and time period of the deviation; and the actions you took to correct the deviation.
(Q) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(ii)(A) through (O), (Q), and (R) of this section if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890 or the applicable operating limit(s) in Table 1 to this subpart (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere) and
the information in paragraph (a)(7)(ii)(P) of this section if there was a deviation from the work practice standards in § 63.4893(b).
(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.
(B) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each month, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) for treatment or disposal during each compliance period, according to § 63.4951(e)(4).
(C) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.
(D) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equation 1 of § 63.4961, and Equation 3 of § 63.4961 for the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by solvent recovery systems each compliance period, as applicable.
(E) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, using Equation 4 of § 63.4961.
(F) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture system or add-on control devices started and stopped.
(G) A brief description of the CPMS.
(H) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(I) For each instance that the CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being inoperative, and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(J) For each instance that the CPMS was out-of-control, as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(K) The date, time, and duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart; and the date, time, and duration of any bypass of the add-on control device.
(L) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total affected source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(M) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(N) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total affected source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.
(O) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.
(P) For deviations from the work practice standards in § 63.4893(b), the number of deviations, and, for each deviation: A description of the deviation; the date, time, and duration of the deviation; and the actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4900(b). The description of the deviation must include a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(Q) For deviations from an emission limit in § 63.4890 or operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(R) For each deviation from an emission limit in § 63.4890 or operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated
pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4890, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(b)
Performance test reports.
If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must submit reports of performance test results for emission capture systems and add-on control devices no later than 60 days after completing the tests as specified in § 63.10(d)(2).
(c) Before September 12, 2019, if you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the semiannual reporting period, you must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. The reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section are not required on and after September 12, 2019.
(1) If your actions were consistent with your SSMP, you must include the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5) in the semiannual compliance report required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If your actions were not consistent with your SSMP, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must describe the actions taken during the event in a report delivered by facsimile, telephone, or other means to the Administrator within 2 working days after starting actions that are inconsistent with the plan.
(ii) You must submit a letter to the Administrator within 7 working days after the end of the event, unless you have made alternative arrangements with the Administrator as specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii). The letter must contain the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii).
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9636, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4921
What are my electronic reporting requirements?
(a) Beginning no later than June 13, 2019, you must submit the results of the performance test required § 63.4920(b) following the procedure specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website147 (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13, unless the Administrator agrees to or specifies an alternate reporting method.
(3) If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Beginning on March 15, 2021, the owner or operator shall submit the initial notifications required in § 63.9(b) and the notification of compliance status required in § 63.9(h) and § 63.4910(c) to the EPA via CEDRI. The CEDRI
interface can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov
). The owner or operator must upload to CEDRI an electronic copy of each applicable notification in portable document format (PDF). The applicable notification must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report generated using the appropriate form in CEDRI or an alternate electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(c) Beginning on March 15, 2021, or once the reporting template has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, the owner or operator shall submit the semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4920 to the EPA via CEDRI. The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov
).). The owner or operator must use the appropriate electronic template on the CEDRI website for this subpart or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri
). The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. If the reporting form for the semiannual compliance report specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, you must submit the report to the Administrator at the appropriate addresses listed in § 63.13. Once the form has been available in CEDRI for 1 year, you must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI. The reports must be submitted by the deadlines specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report generated using the appropriate form in CEDRI or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(d) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date, time and length of the outage; a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the
date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(e) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
[84 FR 9638, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4930
What records must I keep?
You must collect and keep records of the data and information specified in this section. Failure to collect and keep these records is a deviation from the applicable standard.
(a) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, and the documentation supporting each notification and report.
(b) A current copy of information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers. This would include records pertaining to the design and manufacturer's specifications for the life of the add-on control equipment. It would also include information such as manufacturer's formulation data for the materials used, or test data used to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP and density for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. If you conducted testing to determine mass fraction of organic HAP, density, or volume fraction of coating solids, you must keep a copy of the complete test report. If you use information provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier of the material that was based on testing, you must keep the summary sheet of results provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier. You are not required to obtain the test report or other supporting documentation from the manufacturer or supplier.
(c) For each compliance period, the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) A record of the coating operations at which you used each compliance option and the time periods (beginning and ending dates and times) you used each option.
(2) For the compliant material option, a record of the calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating, using Equation 2 of § 63.4941.
(3) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic
HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each compliance period, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period, according to § 63.4951(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used during each compliance period, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, using Equation 3 of § 63.4951.
(4) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, records of the calculations specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each compliance period, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period, according to § 63.4951(e)(4);
(ii) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used during each compliance period, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951;
(iii) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equation 1 of § 63.4961, and the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by a solvent recovery system during the compliance period, using Equation 3 of § 63.4961, as applicable;
(iv) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, using Equation 4 of § 63.4961.
(d) A record of the name and volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period.
(e) A record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period.
(f) A record of the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each compliance period.
(g) If a determination of density is required by the compliance option(s) you used to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit, a record of the density for each coating used during each compliance period; and, if you use either the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option, the density for each thinner and cleaning material used during each compliance period.
(h) If you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4951 for organic HAP contained in waste materials sent to or designated for shipment to a TSDF according to § 63.4951(e)(4), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The name and address of each TSDF to which you sent waste materials for which you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4951, a statement of which subparts under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, and 266 apply to the facility, and the date of each shipment.
(2) Identification of the coating operations producing waste materials included in each shipment and the month or months in which you used the allowance for these materials in Equation 1 of § 63.4951.
(3) The methodology used in accordance with § 63.4951(e)(4) to determine the total amount of waste materials sent to or the amount collected, stored, and designated for transport to a TSDF each month; and the methodology to determine the mass of organic HAP contained in these waste materials. This must include the sources for all data used in the determination, methods used to generate the data, frequency of testing or monitoring, and supporting calculations and documentation, including the waste manifest for each shipment.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Before September 12, 2019, you must keep records of the date, time, and duration of each deviation. On and after September 12, 2019, for each deviation from an emission limitation reported under § 63.4920(a)(5) through (7),
you must keep a record of the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.
(1) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4920(a)(5) through (7).
(2) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4920(a)(5) through (7).
(3) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 63.4890 or any applicable operating limit(s) in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under § 63.4920(a)(5) through (7).
(4) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4900(b) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(k) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must also keep the records specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) Before September 12, 2019, for each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. The record in this paragraph (k)(1) is not required on and after September 12, 2019.
(2) Before September 12, 2019, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. The records in this paragraph (k)(2) are not required on and after September 12, 2019.
(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you.
(4) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.4964(a).
(5) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.4963 and 63.4964(b) through (e), including the records specified in paragraphs (k)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section that apply to you.
(i)
Records for a liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
Records of the mass of total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH) as measured by Method 204A or F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for each material used in the coating operation, and the total TVH for all materials used, during each capture efficiency test run, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run, as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(ii)
Records for a gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
Records of the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system as measured by Method 204B or C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 at the inlet to the add-on control device, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run, as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(iii)
Records for an alternative protocol.
Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.4964(e), if applicable.
(6) The records specified in paragraphs (k)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section for each add-on control device organic
HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 63.4965.
(i) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.4963 and 63.4965.
(ii) Records of the coating operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.
(7) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.4966 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 1 to this subpart.
(8) A record of the work practice plan required by § 63.4893 and documentation that you are implementing the plan on a continuous basis.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9639, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4931
In what form and for how long must I keep my records?
(a) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). Where appropriate, the records may be maintained as electronic spreadsheets or as a database. Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are in reports that were submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
(b) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.
(c) You must keep each record on-site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep these records off-site for the remaining 3 years. You must keep records on-site pertaining to the design and manufacturer's specifications for operation of add-on control equipment for the life of the equipment.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9639, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Compliance Requirements for the Compliant Material Option
§ 63.4940
By what date must I conduct the initial compliance demonstration?
You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4941. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4883 and ends on the last day of the first full month following the compliance date. The initial compliance demonstration includes the calculations according to § 63.4941 and supporting documentation showing that, during the initial compliance period, you used no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, and you used no thinners or cleaning materials that contained organic HAP.
§ 63.4941
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
You may use the compliant material option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all the coating operations in the affected source to demonstrate compliance with an organic HAP emission limit. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, during the compliance period the coating operation or group of coating operations must use no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890 and must use no thinner or cleaning material that contains organic HAP as determined according to this section. Any coating operation for which you use the compliant material option is not required to comply with the operating limits or work practice
standards required in §§ 63.4892 and 63.4893, respectively. To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations using the compliant material option, you must meet all the requirements of this section for the coating operation or group of coating operations using this option. Use the procedures in this section for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration. You do not need to redetermine the organic HAP content of cleaning materials that are reclaimed and reused onsite provided these materials in their condition as received were demonstrated to comply with the compliant material option.
(a)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material used.
You must determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during the compliance period by using one of the options in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1)
Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63).
You may use Method 311 for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP. Use the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section when performing a Method 311 test.
(i) Count each organic HAP in Table 5 to this subpart that is measured to be present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other organic HAP compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 5 to this subpart) is measured to be 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. Express the mass fraction of each organic HAP you count as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.3791).
(ii) Calculate the total mass fraction of organic HAP in the test material by adding up the individual organic HAP mass fractions and truncating the result to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763).
(2)
Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60.
For coatings, you may use Method 24 to determine the mass fraction of nonaqueous volatile matter and use that value as a substitute for mass fraction of organic HAP. As an alternative to using Method 24, you may use ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), “Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14).
(3)
Alternative method.
You may use an alternative test method for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP once the Administrator has approved it. You must follow the procedure in § 63.7(f) to submit an alternative test method for approval.
(4)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may rely on information other than that generated by the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, such as manufacturer's formulation data, if it represents each organic HAP in Table 5 to this subpart that is present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other organic HAP compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 5 to this subpart) is 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. If there is a disagreement between such information and results of a test conducted according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, then the test method results will take precedence.
(5)
Solvent blends.
Solvent blends may be listed as single components for some materials in data provided by manufacturers or suppliers. Solvent blends may contain organic HAP which must be counted toward the total organic HAP mass fraction of the materials. When test data and manufacturer's data for solvent blends are not available, you may use the default values for the mass fraction of organic HAP in these solvent blends listed in Table 3 or 4 to this subpart. If you use the tables, you must use the values in Table 3 for all solvent blends that match Table 3 entries, and you may only use Table 4 if the solvent blends in the materials you use do not match any of the solvent blends in Table 3, and you only know whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic. However, if the results of a Method 311 test indicate higher values than those listed on Table 3 or 4 of this subpart, the Method 311 results will take precedence.
(b)
Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating.
You must
determine the volume fraction of coating solids (liters of coating solids per liter of coating) for each coating used during the compliance period by a test or by information provided by the supplier or the manufacturer of the material, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section. If test results obtained according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not agree with the information obtained under paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, the test results will take precedence.
(1)
Test results.
You may use ASTM D2697-03 (R2014), “Standard Test Method for Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings”, or D6093-97 (R2016), “Standard Test Method for Percent Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings Using a Helium Gas Pycnometer” (both incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), to determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. Divide the nonvolatile volume percent obtained with the methods by 100 to calculate volume fraction of coating solids. Alternatively, you may use another test method once you obtain approval from the Administrator according to the requirements of § 63.7(f).
(2)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may obtain the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating from the supplier or manufacturer.
(3)
Calculation of volume fraction of coating solids.
If the volume fraction of coating solids cannot be determined using the options in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, you must determine it using Equation 1 of this section:
ER23MY03.019
Where:
V
s
= Volume fraction of coating solids, liters coating solids per liter coating.
M
volatiles
= Total volatile matter content of the coating, including HAP, volatile organic compounds (VOC), water, and exempt compounds, determined according to Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60, or according to ASTM D2369—10 (R2015) Standard Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), grams volatile matter per liter coating.
D
avg
= Average density of volatile matter in the coating, grams volatile matter per liter volatile matter, determined from test results using ASTM D1475-13, “Standard Test Method for Density of Liquid Coatings, Inks, and Related Products” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material, or reference sources providing density or specific gravity data for pure materials. If there is disagreement between ASTM D1475-13 test results and other information sources, the test results will take precedence.
(c)
Determine the density of each coating.
You must determine the density of each coating used during the compliance period from test results using ASTM D1475-13, “Standard Test Method for Density of Liquid Coatings, Inks, and Related Products” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), or information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material. If there is disagreement between ASTM D1475-13 test results and the supplier's or manufacturer's information, the test results will take precedence.
(d)
Calculate the organic HAP content of each coating.
Calculate the organic HAP content, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids, of each coating used during the compliance period, using Equation 2 of this section, except that if the mass fraction of organic HAP in the coating equals zero, then the organic HAP content also equals zero and you are not required to use Equation 2 to calculate the organic HAP content.
ER23MY03.020
Where:
H
c
= Organic HAP content of the coating, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids.
D
c
= Density of coating, kg coating per liter coating, determined according to paragraph (c) of this section.
W
c
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in the coating, kg organic HAP per kg coating, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section.
V
s
= Volume fraction of coating solids, liter coating solids per liter coating, determined according to paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Compliance demonstration.
The calculated organic HAP content for each
coating used during the initial compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890 and each thinner and cleaning material used during the initial compliance period must contain no organic HAP, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section. You must keep all records required by §§ 63.4930 and 63.4931. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required in § 63.4910(c) and the semiannual compliance reports required in § 63.4920, you must identify each coating operation and group of coating operations for which you used the compliant material option. If there were no deviations from the emission limit, include a statement that each coating operation was in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because it used no coatings for which the organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, and it used no thinners or cleaning materials that contained organic HAP.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9639, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4942
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) Following the initial compliance period, you must complete a compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.4941(e) for each subsequent compliance period. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4940 is a compliance period.
(b) If you choose to comply with the emission limitations by using the compliant material option, the use of any coating, thinner, or cleaning material that does not meet the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section is a deviation from the emission limitations that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4910(c)(6) and 63.4920(a)(5).
(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4920, you must identify the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you used the compliant material option. If there were no deviations from the emission limits in § 63.4890, submit an affirmative statement that the coating operation or group of coating operations was in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because you used no coating for which the organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, and you used no thinner or cleaning material that contained organic HAP.
(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4930 and 63.4931.

# Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
§ 63.4950
By what date must I conduct the initial compliance demonstration?
You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4951. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4883 and ends on the last day of the first full month following the compliance date. The initial compliance demonstration includes the calculations showing that the organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.
§ 63.4951
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
You may use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all the coating operations in the affected source to demonstrate compliance with an organic HAP emission limit. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the emission rate without add-on controls option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must comply with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, but is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards in §§ 63.4892 and 63.4893, respectively. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limit
in § 63.4890 for the coating operation or group of coating operations. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option. You do not need to include organic HAP in coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation for which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option.
(a)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material.
You must determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during the compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4941(a).
(b)
Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating.
You must determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during the compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4941(b).
(c)
Determine the density of each material.
You must determine the density of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during the compliance period according to the requirements in § 63.4941(c).
(d)
Determine the volume of each material used.
You must determine the volume (liters) of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during the compliance period by measurement or usage records.
(e)
Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions.
The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the compliance period minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials. Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions:
ER23MY03.021
Where:
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions during the compliance period, kg.
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1A of this section.
B = Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1B of this section.
C = Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the compliance period, kg, as calculated in Equation 1C of this section.
R
w
= Total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during the compliance period, kg, determined according to paragraph (e)(4) of this section. The mass of any waste material reused during the same compliance period may not be included in R
w
. (You may assign a value of zero to R
w
if you do not wish to use this allowance.)
(1) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the compliance period, using Equation 1A of this section:
ER23MY03.022
Where:
A = Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the compliance period, kg.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the compliance period, liters.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, kg coating per liter coating.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, kg organic HAP per kg coating.
m = Number of different coatings used during the compliance period.
(2) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used during the compliance period, using Equation 1B of this section:
ER23MY03.023
Where:
B = Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used during the compliance period, kg.
Vol
t,j
= Total volume of thinner, j, used during the compliance period, liters.
D
t,j
= Density of thinner, j, kg per liter.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner, j, kg organic HAP per kg thinner.
n = Number of different thinners used during the compliance period.
(3) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used
during the compliance period using Equation 1C of this section:
ER23MY03.024
Where:
C = Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the compliance period, kg.
Vol
s,k
= Total volume of cleaning material, k, used during the compliance period, liters.
D
s,k
= Density of cleaning material, k, kg per liter.
W
s,k
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, kg organic HAP per kg material.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used during the compliance period.
(4) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF in the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions during the compliance period in Equation 1 of this section, then you must determine the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period, according to paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You may include in the determination of the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period only waste materials that are generated by coating operations for which you use Equation 1 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266. The TSDF may be either off-site or on-site. You may not include in the determination of the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period only waste materials that are generated by coating operations the organic HAP contained in wastewater, nor the organic HAP contained in any waste material reused during the same compliance period.
(ii) You must determine either the amount of the waste materials sent to a TSDF during the compliance period or the amount collected and stored during the compliance period and designated for future transport to a TSDF. Do not include in your determination of the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period only waste materials that are generated by coating operations any waste materials sent to a TSDF during a compliance period if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that or a previous compliance period.
(iii) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.
(iv) You must document your methodology to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain, as required in § 63.4930(h). To the extent that waste manifests include this information, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them.
(f)
Calculate the total volume of coating solids used.
Calculate the total volume of coating solids used, which is the combined volume of coating solids for all the coatings used during the compliance period, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER23MY03.025
Where:
V
st
= Total volume of coating solids used during the compliance period, liters.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the compliance period, liters.
V
s,i
= Volume fraction of coating solids for coating, i, liter solids per liter coating, determined according to § 63.4941(b).
m = Number of coatings used during the compliance period.
(g)
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate.
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids used, using Equation 3 of this section:
ER23MY03.026
Where:
H
avg
= Organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids.
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions from all materials used during the compliance period, kg, as calculated by Equation 1 of this section.
V
st
= Total volume of coating solids used during the compliance period, liters, as calculated by Equation 2 of this section.
(h)
Compliance demonstration.
The calculated organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4930 and 63.4931. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4910 and the semiannual compliance reports required in § 63.4920, you must identify the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limit, include a statement that the coating operation or group of coating operations was in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, determined according to this section.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9640, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4952
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) Following the initial compliance period, you must complete a compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.4951(h) for each subsequent compliance period. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4950 is a compliance period.
(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, this is a deviation from the emission limitations for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4910(c)(6) and 63.4920(a)(6).
(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4920, you must identify the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, you must submit an affirmative statement that the coating operation or group of coating operations was in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.
(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4930 and 63.4931.

# Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
§ 63.4960
By what date must I conduct initial performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?
(a)
New and reconstructed affected sources.
For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4883. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4961(j), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to §§ 63.4963, 63.4964, and 63.4965, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4892, no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4883. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4961(j), you must initiate the first material balance no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4883.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4893 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4883.
(3) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4961. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4883 and ends on the last day of the
first full month following the compliance date. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4963, 63.4964, and 63.4965; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4961(j); calculations showing whether the organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period was equal to or less than the emission limit in § 63.4890; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4967; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4893.
(4) You do not need to comply with the operating limits for the emission capture system and add-on control device required by § 63.4892 until after you have completed the performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Instead, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture system, add-on control device, and continuous parameter monitors during the period between the compliance date and the performance test. You must begin complying with the operating limits for your affected source on the date you complete the performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The requirements in this paragraph (a)(4) do not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances.
(b)
Existing affected sources.
For an existing affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4883. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4961(j), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4963, 63.4964, and 63.4965, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4892, no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4883. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4961(j), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4883.
(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4893 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4883.
(3) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4961. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4883 and ends on the last day of the first full month following the compliance date. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4963, 63.4964, and 63.4965; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4961(j); calculations showing whether the organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period was equal to or less than the emission limit in § 63.4890(c); the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4967; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4893.
§ 63.4961
How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
(a)
When add-on controls are used.
You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all of the coating operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled coating operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use the emission rate with add-on controls option. To demonstrate initial compliance, the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, and each
controlled coating operation must meet the operating limits and work practice standards required in §§ 63.4892 and 63.4893, respectively. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option.
(b)
Compliance with operating limits.
Except as provided in § 63.4960(a)(4), you must establish and demonstrate continuous compliance during the initial compliance period with the operating limits required by § 63.4892, using the procedures specified in §§ 63.4966 and 63.4967.
(c)
Compliance with work practice requirements.
You must develop, implement, and document your implementation of the work practice plan required by § 63.4893 during the initial compliance period, as specified in § 63.4930.
(d)
Compliance with emission limits.
You must follow the procedures in paragraphs (e) through (m) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.
(e)
Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, density, volume used, and volume fraction of coating solids.
Follow the procedures specified in § 63.4951(a) through (d) to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, density, and volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each compliance period.
(f)
Calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls.
Using Equation 1 of § 63.4951, calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the compliance period.
(g)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation.
Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions reduced for each controlled coating operation during each compliance period. The emission reduction determination quantifies the total organic HAP emissions that pass through the emission capture system and are destroyed or removed by the add-on control device. Use the procedures in paragraph (h) of this section to calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct a liquid-liquid material balance, use the procedures in paragraph (j) of this section to calculate the organic HAP emission reduction.
(h)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for controlled coating operations not using liquid-liquid material balance.
For each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emission reduction, using Equation 1 of this section. The calculation applies the emission capture system efficiency and add-on control device efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation served by the emission capture system and add-on control device during the compliance period. For any period of time a deviation specified in § 63.4962(c) or (d) occurs in the controlled coating operation, you must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device. Equation 1 of this section treats the materials used during such a deviation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation:
ER15MR19.001
Where:
H
R
= Mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the controlled coating operation during the compliance period, kg.
A
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation during the compliance period, excluding coatings used during deviations, kg, as calculated in Equation 1A of this section.
B
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation during the compliance period, excluding thinners used during deviations, kg, as calculated in Equation 1B of this section.
C
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during the compliance period, excluding cleaning materials used during deviations, kg, as calculated in Equation 1C of this section.
R
w
= Total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during the compliance period, kg, determined according to § 63.4951(e)(4). The mass of any waste material reused during the same compliance period may not be included in R
w
. (You may assign a value of zero to R
w
if you do not wish to use this allowance.)
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures specified in §§ 63.4963 and 63.4964 to measure and record capture efficiency.
DRE = Organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent. Use the test methods and procedures in §§ 63.4963 and 63.4965 to measure and record the organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency.
H
unc
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during all deviations specified in § 63.4962(c) and (d) that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled coating operation, kg, as calculated in Equation 1D of this section.
(1) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation, using Equation 1A of this section. Do not include in the calculation the coatings used during any deviation specified in § 63.4962(c) or (d) that occurred during the month. Include such coatings in the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during all deviations that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled coating operation in Equation 1D of this section.
ER23MY03.028
Where:
A
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation during the compliance period, excluding coatings used during deviations, kg.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the compliance period except during deviations, liters.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, kg per liter.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, kg per kg.
m = Number of different coatings used.
(2) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation, using Equation 1B of this section. Do not include in the calculation the thinners used during any deviation specified in § 63.4962(c) or (d) that occurred during the month. Include such coatings in the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during all deviations that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled coating operation in Equation 1D of this section.
ER23MY03.029
Where:
B
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation during the compliance period, excluding thinners used during deviations, kg.
Vol
t,j
= Total volume of thinner, j, used during the compliance period except during deviations, liters.
D
t,j
= Density of thinner, j, kg per liter.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner, j, kg per kg.
n = Number of different thinners used.
(3) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation, using Equation 1C of this section. Do not include in the calculation the cleaning materials used during any deviation specified in § 63.4962(c) or (d) that occurred during the compliance period. Include such cleaning materials in the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during all deviations that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled coating operation in Equation 1D of this section.
ER23MY03.030
Where:
C
I
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during the compliance period, excluding cleaning materials used during deviations, kg.
Vol
s,k
= Total volume of cleaning material, k, used during the compliance period except during deviations, liters.
D
s,k
= Density of cleaning material, k, kg per liter.
W
s,k
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, kg per kg.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used.
(4) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during deviations specified in § 63.4962(c) and (d), using Equation 1D of this section:
ER23MY03.031
Where:
H
unc
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during all deviations specified in § 63.4962(c) and (d) that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled coating operation, kg.
Vol
h
= Total volume of coating, thinner, or cleaning material, h, used in the controlled coating operation during deviations, liters.
D
h
= Density of coating, thinner, or cleaning material, h, kg per liter.
W
h
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, thinner, or cleaning material, h, kg organic HAP per kg coating.
q = Number of different coatings, thinning solvents, or cleaning materials.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for controlled coating operations using liquid-liquid material balance.
For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emission reduction by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for each compliance period as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (6) of this section. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by the solvent recovery system as specified in paragraph (j)(7) of this section.
(1) For each solvent recovery system, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system each compliance period. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.
(2) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the compliance period, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(3) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period. You may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), “Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14), or an EPA-approved alternative method. Alternatively, you
may use information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the coating. In the event of any inconsistency between information provided by the manufacturer or supplier and the results of Method 24, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), or an approved alternative method, the test method results will govern.
(4) Determine the density of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period according to § 63.4951(c).
(5) Measure the volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.
(6) For each compliance period, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER23MY03.032
Where:
R
V
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, percent.
M
VR
= Mass of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
Vol
i
= Volume of coating, i, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, liters.
D
i
= Density of coating, i, kg per liter.
WV
c,i
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for coating, i, kg volatile organic matter per kg coating.
Vol
j
= Volume of thinner, j, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, liters.
D
j
= Density of thinner, j, kg per liter.
WV
t,j
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for thinner, j, kg volatile organic matter per kg thinner.
Vol
k
= Volume of cleaning material, k, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, liters.
D
k
= Density of cleaning material, k, kg per liter.
WV
s,k
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for cleaning material, k, kg volatile organic matter per kg cleaning material.
m = Number of different coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.
n = Number of different thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.
(7) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, using Equation 3 of this section:
ER23MY03.033
Where:
H
CSR
= Mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.
A
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, calculated using Equation 3A of this section.
B
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, calculated using Equation 3B of this section.
C
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, calculated using Equation 3C of this section.
R
V
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system, percent, from Equation 2 of this section.
(i) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, using Equation 3A of this section.
ER23MY03.034
Where:
A
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg.
Vol
c,i
= Total volume of coating, i, used during the month in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, liters.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, kg coating per liter coating.
W
c,i
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in coating, i, kg organic HAP per kg coating.
m = Number of different coatings used.
(ii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, using Equation 3B of this section:
ER23MY03.035
Where:
B
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg.
Vol
t,j
= Total volume of thinner, j, used during the month in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, liters.
D
t,j
= Density of thinner, j, kg thinner per liter thinner.
W
t,j
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in thinner, j, kg organic HAP per kg thinner.
n = Number of different thinners used.
(iii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, using Equation 3C of this section:
ER23MY03.036
Where:
C
CSR
= Total mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg.
Vol
s,k
= Total volume of cleaning material, k, used during the month in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, liters.
D
s,k
= Density of cleaning material, k, kg cleaning material per liter cleaning material.
W
s,k
= Mass fraction of organic HAP in cleaning material, k, kg organic HAP per kg cleaning material.
p = Number of different cleaning materials used.
(k)
Calculate the total volume of coating solids used.
Calculate the total volume of coating solids used, which is the combined volume of coating solids for all the coatings used during the compliance period, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.
(l)
Calculate the organic HAP emissions rate.
Calculate the organic HAP emission rate to the atmosphere, using Equation 4 of this section:
ER23MY03.037
Where:
H
hap
= Organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids.
H
e
= Total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the compliance period, kg, determined according to paragraph (f) of this section.
H
R,i
= Total mass of organic HAP emission reduction for controlled coating operation, i, not using liquid-liquid material balances, during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 1 of this section.
H
CSR,j
= Total mass of organic HAP emission reduction for controlled coating operation, j, using a liquid-liquid material balance, during the compliance period, kg, from Equation 3 of this section.
V
st
= Total volume of coating solids used during the compliance period, liters, from Equation 2 of § 63.4951.
q = Number of controlled coating operations except those controlled with a solvent recovery system.
r = Number of coating operations controlled with a solvent recovery system.
(m)
Compliance demonstration.
To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limit during the compliance period as calculated using Equation 4 of this section, the HAP emission rate for the compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4930 and 63.4931. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4910 and the semiannual compliance reports required in § 63.4920, you must identify the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limit, include a statement that the coating operation or group of coating operations was in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4892 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4893.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9640, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4962
How do I conduct periodic performance tests and demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?
(a) Following the initial compliance period, you must complete a compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.4961(m) for each subsequent compliance period. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4960 is a compliance period.
(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4910(c)(6) and 63.4920(a)(7).
(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4892 that applies to you, as specified in Table 1 to this subpart, and you must conduct periodic performance tests as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4910(c)(6) and 63.4920(a)(7).
(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4961, you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4961.
(3) Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4961(j), within 5 years following the previous performance test, you must conduct according to the procedures in §§ 63.4963, 63.4964, and 63.4965 a periodic performance test of each capture system and add-on control device used, and you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4892. You must conduct the first periodic performance test and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4892 before March 15, 2022, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and have conducted a performance test on or after March 15, 2017. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later
than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test.
(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4967(b) for controlled coating operations for which you do not conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4910(c)(6) and 63.4920(a)(7). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations in § 63.4961, you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4961.
(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4893. If you did not develop a work practice plan, or you did not implement the plan, or you did not keep the records required by § 63.4930(k)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4910(c)(6) and 63.4920(a)(7).
(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4920, you must identify the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, submit an affirmative statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4892 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4893 during each compliance period.
(g)-(h) [Reserved]
(i) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4930 and 63.4931.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 20466, Apr. 20, 2006; 84 FR 9641, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4963
What are the general requirements for performance tests?
(a) You must conduct each performance test required by §§ 63.4960 and 63.4962 according to the requirements in this section unless you obtain a waiver of the performance test according to the provisions in § 63.7(h).
(1)
Representative coating operation operating conditions.
You must conduct the performance test under representative operating conditions for the coating operation. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, or nonoperation do not constitute representative conditions for purposes of conducting a performance test. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(2)
Representative emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions.
You must conduct the performance test when the emission capture system and add-on control device are operating at a representative flow rate, and the add-on control device is operating at a representative inlet concentration. You must record information that is necessary to document emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation.
(b) You must conduct each performance test of an emission capture system according to the requirements in § 63.4964. You must conduct each performance test of an add-on control device according to the requirements in § 63.4965.
(c) The performance test to determine add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency must consist of three runs as specified in § 63.7(e)(3) and each run must last at least 1 hour.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9641, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4964
How do I determine the emission capture system efficiency?
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine capture efficiency as part of the performance test required by § 63.4960.
(a)
Assuming 100 percent capture efficiency.
You may assume the capture system efficiency is 100 percent if both of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are met:
(1) The capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
(2) All coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation are applied within the capture system; coating solvent flash-off and coating, curing, and drying occurs within the capture system; and the removal of or evaporation of cleaning materials from the surfaces they are applied to occurs within the capture system. For example, this criterion is not met if parts enter the open shop environment when being moved between a spray booth and a curing oven.
(b)
Measuring capture efficiency.
If the capture system does not meet both of the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, then you must use one of the three protocols described in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section to measure capture efficiency. The capture efficiency measurements use TVH capture efficiency as a surrogate for organic HAP capture efficiency. For the protocols in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the capture efficiency measurement must consist of three test runs. Each test run must be at least 3 hours duration or the length of a production run, whichever is longer, up to 8 hours. For the purposes of this test, a production run means the time required for a single part to go from the beginning to the end of production, which includes surface preparation activities and drying or curing time.
(c)
Liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
The liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol compares the mass of liquid TVH in materials used in the coating operation to the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the emission capture system. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the coating operation where coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied coatings and materials subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the coating operation where capture devices collect emissions for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or spray booth, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204A or 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to determine the mass fraction, kg TVH per kg material, of TVH liquid input from each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation during each capture efficiency test run. To make the determination, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(3) Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the mass of TVH liquid input from all the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation during each capture efficiency test run:
ER23MY03.038
Where:
TVH
used
= Mass of liquid total volatile hydrocarbons in materials used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, lb.
TVH
i
= Mass fraction of TVH in coating, thinner, or cleaning material, i, that is used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg TVH per kg material.
Vol
i
= Total volume of coating, thinner, or cleaning material, i, used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, liters.
D
i
= Density of coating, thinner, or cleaning material, i, kg material per liter material.
n = Number of different coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run.
(4) Use Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass of TVH emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the coating operation for which capture efficiency is being determined, must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(5) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER23MY03.039
Where:
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
TVH
used
= Total mass of TVH liquid input used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
uncaptured
= Total mass of TVH that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
(6) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(d)
Gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
The gas-to-gas protocol compares the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system to the mass of TVH emissions not captured. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the gas-to-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the coating operation where coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied coatings and materials subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the coating operation where capture devices collect emissions generated by the coating operation for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or a spray booth, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204B or 204C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system during each capture efficiency test run as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) The sampling points for the Method 204B or 204C measurement must be upstream from the add-on control device and must represent total emissions routed from the capture system and entering the add-on control device.
(ii) If multiple emission streams from the capture system enter the add-on control device without a single common duct, then the emissions entering the add-on control device must be simultaneously measured in each duct and the total emissions entering the
add-on control device must be determined.
(3) Use Method 204D or 204E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass of TVH emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement, substitute TVH for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the coating operation for which capture efficiency is being determined, must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(4) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system, using Equation 3 of this section:
ER23MY03.040
Where:
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
TVH
captured
= Total mass of TVH captured by the emission capture system as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device during the emission capture efficiency test run, kg.
TVH
uncaptured
= Total mass of TVH that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
(5) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(e)
Alternative capture efficiency protocol.
As an alternative to the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, you may determine capture efficiency using any other capture efficiency protocol and test methods that satisfy the criteria of either the DQO or LCL approach as described in appendix A to subpart KK of this part.
§ 63.4965
How do I determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency?
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency as part of the performance test required by § 63.4960. You must conduct three test runs as specified in § 63.7(e)(3), and each test run must last at least 1 hour.
(a) For all types of add-on control devices, use the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Use Method 1 or 1A in appendix A-1 of part 60, as appropriate, to select sampling sites and velocity traverse points.
(2) Use Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F in appendix A-1, or Method 2G in appendix A-2, of part 60, as appropriate, to measure gas volumetric flow rate.
(3) Use Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A-2 of part 60, as appropriate, for gas analysis to determine dry molecular weight. You may also use as an alternative to Method 3B, the manual method for measuring the oxygen, carbon dioxide, and carbon monoxide content of exhaust gas in ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus]” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14).
(4) Use Method 4 in appendix A-3 of part 60 to determine stack gas moisture.
(5) Methods for determining gas volumetric flow rate, dry molecular weight, and stack gas moisture must be performed, as applicable, during each test run.
(b) Measure total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon at the inlet and outlet of the add-on control device
simultaneously, using either Method 25 or 25A in appendix A-7 of part 60, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. You must use the same method for both the inlet and outlet measurements. You may use Method 18 in appendix A-6 of part 60 to subtract methane emissions from measured total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon.
(1) Use EPA Method 25 to appendix A-7 to part 60 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be more than 50 parts per million (ppm) at the control device outlet.
(2) Use EPA Method 25A to appendix A-7 to part 60 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be 50 ppm or less at the control device outlet.
(3) Use EPA Method 25A to appendix A-7 to part 60 if the add-on control device is not an oxidizer.
(c) If two or more add-on control devices are used for the same emission stream, then you must measure emissions at the outlet of each device. For example, if one add-on control device is a concentrator with an outlet for the high-volume, dilute stream that has been treated by the concentrator, and a second add-on control device is an oxidizer with an outlet for the low-volume, concentrated stream that is treated with the oxidizer, you must measure emissions at the outlet of the oxidizer and the high volume dilute stream outlet of the concentrator.
(d) For each test run, determine the total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rates for the inlet and the outlet of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section. If there is more than one inlet or outlet to the add-on control device, you must calculate the total gaseous organic mass flow rate using Equation 1 of this section for each inlet and each outlet and then total all of the inlet emissions and total all of the outlet emissions.
ER23MY03.041
Where:
M
f
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate, kg/per hour (h).
Q
sd
= Volumetric flow rate of gases entering or exiting the add-on control device, as determined by Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G, dry standard cubic meters/hour (dscm/h).
C
c
= Concentration of organic compounds as carbon in the vent gas, as determined by Method 25 or Method 25A, parts per million by volume (ppmv), dry basis.
0.0416 = Conversion factor for molar volume, kg-moles per cubic meter (mol/m
3
) (@ 293 Kelvin (K) and 760 millimeters of mercury (mmHg)).
(e) For each test run, determine the add-on control device organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:
ER23MY03.042
Where:
DRE = Organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent.
M
fi
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the inlet(s) to the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, kg/h.
M
fo
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the outlet(s) of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, kg/h.
(f) Determine the emission destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device as the average of the efficiencies determined in the three test runs and calculated in Equation 2 of this section.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9641, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 41161, July 8, 2020]
§ 63.4966
How do I establish the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits during performance tests?
During the performance tests required by §§ 63.4960 and 63.4962, and described in §§ 63.4963, 63.4964, and 63.4965, you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4892 according to this section, unless you have received approval for alternative monitoring and operating limits under § 63.8(f) as specified in § 63.4892.
(a)
Thermal oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a thermal oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the combustion temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must monitor the temperature in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average combustion temperature maintained during the performance test. This average combustion temperature is the minimum operating limit for your thermal oxidizer.
(b)
Catalytic oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a catalytic oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to either paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) or paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed and the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test. These are the minimum operating limits for your catalytic oxidizer.
(3) As an alternative to monitoring the temperature difference across the catalyst bed, you may monitor the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and implement a site-specific inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed during the performance test. This is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer.
(4) You must develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer(s) for which you elect to monitor according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The plan must address, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Annual sampling and analysis of the catalyst activity (
i.e.,
conversion efficiency) following the manufacturer's or catalyst supplier's recommended procedures.
(ii) Monthly inspection of the oxidizer system, including the burner assembly and fuel supply lines for problems and, as necessary, adjust the equipment to assure proper air-to-fuel mixtures.
(iii) Annual internal and monthly external visual inspection of the catalyst bed to check for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found, you must replace the catalyst bed or take corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations and conduct a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency according to § 63.4965.
(c)
Carbon adsorbers.
If your add-on control device is a carbon adsorber, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must monitor and record the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, and the carbon bed temperature after each carbon bed regeneration and cooling cycle, for the regeneration cycle either immediately preceding or immediately following the performance test.
(2) The operating limits for your carbon adsorber are the minimum total desorbing gas mass flow recorded during the regeneration cycle and the maximum carbon bed temperature recorded after the cooling cycle.
(d)
Condensers.
If your add-on control device is a condenser, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature
at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature maintained during the performance test. This average condenser outlet gas temperature is the maximum operating limit for your condenser.
(e)
Emission capture system.
For each capture device that is not part of a PTE that meets the criteria of § 63.4964(a), establish an operating limit for either the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure, as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. The operating limit for a PTE is specified in Table 1 to this subpart.
(1) During the capture efficiency determination required by §§ 63.4960 and 63.4962, and described in §§ 63.4963 and 63.4964, you must monitor and record either the gas volumetric flow rate or the duct static pressure for each separate capture device in your emission capture system at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs at a point in the duct between the capture device and the add-on control device inlet.
(2) Calculate and record the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for the three test runs for each capture device. This average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure is the minimum operating limit for that specific capture device.
(f)
Concentrators.
If your add-on control device includes a concentrator, you must establish operating limits for the concentrator according to paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the desorption concentrate stream gas temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.
(2) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature. This is the minimum operating limit for the desorption concentrate gas stream temperature.
(3) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the pressure drop of the dilute stream across the concentrator at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.
(4) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average pressure drop. This is the maximum operating limit for the dilute stream across the concentrator.
(g)
Bioreactors.
If you are using a bioreactor, you must comply with the provisions for the use of an alternative monitoring method as set forth in 40 CFR 63.8(f).
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9641, Mar. 15, 2019]
§ 63.4967
What are the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance?
(a)
General.
You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (c), (e), and (f) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) of this section.
(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four equally spaced successive cycles of CPMS operation in 1 hour.
(2) You must determine the average of all recorded readings for each 3-hour period of the emission capture system and add-on control device operation.
(3) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS.
(4) You must maintain the CPMS at all times in accordance with § 63.4900(b) and have readily available necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.
(5) Before September 12, 2019, you must operate the CPMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times that a controlled coating operation is operating, except during monitoring malfunctions, repairs to correct the monitor malfunctions, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, if applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments). On and after September 12, 2019, you must operate the CPMS and
collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times in accordance with § 63.4900(b).
(6) You must not use emission capture system or add-on control device parameter data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, repairs to correct the monitor malfunctions, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities when calculating data averages. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in calculating the data averages for determining compliance with the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits.
(7) A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the CPMS to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Any period for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for required calculations is a deviation from the monitoring requirements.
(b)
Capture system bypass line.
You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section for each emission capture system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(1) You must monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism controlling the bypass line in a nondiverting position in such a way that the valve or closure mechanism cannot be opened without creating a record that the valve was opened. The method used to monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism must meet one of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i)
Flow control position indicator.
Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes and provides a record indicating whether the emissions are directed to the add-on control device or diverted from the add-on control device. The time of occurrence and flow control position must be recorded, as well as every time the flow direction is changed. The flow control position indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(ii)
Car-seal or lock-and-key valve closures.
Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. You must visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position, and the emissions are not diverted away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(iii)
Valve closure monitoring.
Ensure that any bypass line valve is in the closed (nondiverting) position through monitoring of valve position at least once every 15 minutes. You must inspect the monitoring system at least once every month to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position.
(iv)
Automatic shutdown system.
Use an automatic shutdown system in which the coating operation is stopped when flow is diverted by the bypass line away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running. You must inspect the automatic shutdown system at least once every month to verify that it will detect diversions of flow and shut down the coating operation.
(2) If any bypass line is opened, you must include a description of why the bypass line was opened and the length of time it remained open in the semiannual compliance reports required in § 63.4920.
(c)
Thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.
If you are using a thermal oxidizer or catalytic oxidizer as an add-on control device (including those used with concentrators or with carbon adsorbers to treat desorbed concentrate streams), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) For a thermal oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) For a catalytic oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the gas
stream immediately before the catalyst bed, and if you are establishing operating limits according to § 63.4966(b)(1) and (2), also install a gas temperature monitor in the gas stream immediately after the catalyst bed.
(3) For each gas temperature monitoring device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device. For the purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), a thermocouple is part of the temperature sensor.
(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.
(ii) Use a temperature sensor with an accuracy of at least 5 degrees Fahrenheit or 1.0 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.
(iii) Perform an initial calibration according to the manufacturer's requirements.
(iv) Before using the sensor for the first time or upon relocation or replacement of the sensor, perform a validation check by comparing the sensor output to a calibrated temperature measurement device or by comparing the sensor output to a simulated temperature.
(v) Conduct an accuracy audit every quarter and after every 24 hour excursion. Accuracy audit methods include comparisons of sensor output to redundant temperature sensors, to calibrated temperature measurement devices, or to temperature simulation devices.
(vi) Conduct a visual inspection of each sensor every quarter if redundant temperature sensors are not used.
(d)
Carbon adsorbers.
If you are using a carbon adsorber as an add-on control device, you must monitor the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and cooling cycle, and comply with paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) and (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The regeneration desorbing gas mass flow monitor must be an integrating device having a measurement sensitivity of plus or minus 10 percent, capable of recording the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow for each regeneration cycle.
(2) The carbon bed temperature monitor must be capable of recording the temperature within 15 minutes of completing any carbon bed cooling cycle.
(3) For all carbon adsorbers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device.
(e)
Condensers.
If you are using a condenser, you must monitor the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature and comply with paragraphs (a) and (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The temperature monitor must provide a gas temperature record at least once every 15 minutes.
(2) For all condensers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device.
(f)
Emission capture systems.
The capture system monitoring system must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For each flow measurement device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Locate a flow sensor in a position that provides a representative flow measurement in the duct from each capture device in the emission capture system to the add-on control device.
(ii) Use a flow sensor with an accuracy of at least 10 percent of the flow.
(iii) Perform an initial sensor calibration in accordance with the manufacturer's requirements.
(iv) Perform a validation check before initial use or upon relocation or replacement of a sensor. Validation checks include comparison of sensor values with electronic signal simulations or via relative accuracy testing.
(v) Perform accuracy audits every quarter and after every 24 hour excursion. Accuracy audits include comparison of sensor values with electronic signal simulations or with values obtained via relative accuracy testing.
(vi) Perform leak checks monthly.
(vii) Perform visual inspections of the sensor system quarterly if there is no redundant sensor.
(2) For each pressure drop measurement device, you must comply with the
requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in or as close to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure drop across each opening you are monitoring.
(ii) Use a pressure sensor with an accuracy of at least 0.5 inches of water column or 5 percent of the measured value, whichever is larger.
(iii) Perform an initial calibration of the sensor according to the manufacturer's requirements.
(iv) Conduct a validation check before initial operation or upon relocation or replacement of the sensor. Validation checks include comparison of the sensor values to calibrated pressure measurement devices or to pressure simulation using calibrated pressure sources.
(v) Conduct accuracy audits every quarter and after every 24 hour excursion. Accuracy audits include comparison of sensor values to calibrated pressure measurement devices or to pressure simulation using calibrated pressure sources.
(vi) Perform monthly leak checks on pressure connections. A pressure of at least 1.0 inches of water column to the connection must yield a stable sensor result for at least 15 seconds.
(vii) Perform a visual inspection of the sensor at least monthly if there is no redundant sensor.
(g)
Concentrators.
If you are using a concentrator, such as a zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed concentrator, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must install a temperature monitor in the desorption gas stream. The temperature monitor must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3) of this section.
(2) You must install a device to monitor pressure drop across the zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed. The pressure monitoring device must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(2) of this section.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9642, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.4980
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by us, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency (as well as EPA) has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Approval of alternatives to the work practice standards in § 63.4893 under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), and as defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.4981
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Add-on control
means an air pollution control device such as a thermal oxidizer or carbon adsorber that reduces pollution in an air stream by destruction or removal before discharge to the atmosphere.
Adhesive
means any chemical substance that is applied for the purpose of bonding two surfaces together.
Capture device
means a hood, enclosure, room, floor sweep, or other means
of containing or collecting emissions and directing those emissions into an add-on air pollution control device.
Capture efficiency
or
capture system efficiency
means the portion (expressed as a percentage) of the pollutants from an emission source that is delivered to an add-on control device.
Capture system
means one or more capture devices intended to collect emissions generated by a coating operation in the use of coatings or cleaning materials, both at the point of application and at subsequent points where emissions from the coatings and cleaning materials occur, such as flashoff, drying, or curing. As used in this subpart, multiple capture devices that collect emissions generated by a coating operation are considered a single capture system.
Cleaning material
means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials, such as dirt, grease, oil, and dried or wet coating (
e.g.,
depainting), from a substrate before or after coating application or from equipment associated with a coating operation, such as spray booths, spray guns, racks, tanks, and hangers. Thus, it includes any cleaning material used on substrates or equipment or both.
Coating
means a material applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints, sealants, caulks, inks, adhesives, and maskants. Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils for metal, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances are not considered coatings for the purposes of this subpart.
Coating operation
means equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a substrate to prepare it for coating application or to remove dried or wet coating (surface preparation); to apply coating to a substrate (coating application) and to dry or cure the coating after application; and to clean coating operation equipment (equipment cleaning). A single coating operation may include any combination of these types of equipment, but always includes at least the point at which a coating or cleaning material is applied and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP emissions from that coating or cleaning material occur. There may be multiple coating operations in an affected source. Coating application with hand-held nonrefillable aerosol containers, touchup markers, or marking pens is not a coating operation for the purposes of this subpart.
Coating solids
means the nonvolatile portion of the coating that makes up the dry film.
Continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS)
means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart, used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of coating operation, or capture system, or add-on control device parameters.
Controlled coating operation
means a coating operation from which some or all of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.
Deviation
means:
(1) Before September 12, 2019, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:
(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard;
(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(iii) Fails to meet any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart; and
(2) On and after September 12, 2019, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:
(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard; or
(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart
and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.
Emission limitation
means an emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard.
Enclosure
means a structure that surrounds a source of emissions and captures and directs the emissions to an add-on control device.
Exempt compound
means a specific compound that is not considered a VOC due to negligible photochemical reactivity. The exempt compounds are listed in 40 CFR 51.100(s).
Facility maintenance
means the routine repair or renovation (including surface coating) of the tools, equipment, machinery, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the affected facility and that are necessary for the facility to function in its intended capacity.
Manufacturer's formulation data
means data on a material (such as a coating) that are supplied by the material manufacturer based on knowledge of the ingredients used to manufacture that material, rather than based on testing of the material with the test methods specified in § 63.4941(a)(1) through (3). Manufacturer's formulation data may include, but are not limited to, information on density, organic HAP content, volatile organic matter content, and coating solids content.
Mass fraction of coating solids
means the ratio of the mass of coating solids to the mass of a coating in which it is contained, expressed as kg of coating solids per kg of coating.
Mass fraction of organic HAP
means the ratio of the mass of organic HAP to the mass of a material in which it is contained, expressed as kg of organic HAP per kg of material.
Month
means a calendar month or a pre-specified period of 28 days to 35 days to allow for flexibility in recordkeeping when data are based on a business accounting period.
Organic HAP content
means the mass of organic HAP per volume of coating solids for a coating, calculated using Equation 2 of § 63.4941. The organic HAP content is determined for the coating in the condition it is in when received from its manufacturer or supplier and does not account for any alteration after receipt.
Permanent total enclosure (PTE)
means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51, for a PTE and that directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
Protective oil
means an organic material that is applied to metal for the purpose of providing lubrication or protection from corrosion without forming a solid film. This definition of protective oil includes, but is not limited to, lubricating oils, evaporative oils (including those that evaporate completely), and extrusion oils.
Research or laboratory facility
means a facility whose primary purpose is for research and development of new processes and products, that is conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and is not engaged in the manufacture of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in a
de minimis
manner.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.
Startup, initial
means the first time equipment is brought online in a facility.
Surface preparation
means use of a cleaning material on a portion of or all of a substrate. This includes use of a cleaning material to remove dried coating, which is sometimes called “depainting” or “paint stripping,” for the purpose of preparing a substrate for coating application.
Temporary total enclosure
means an enclosure constructed for the purpose of measuring the capture efficiency of pollutants emitted from a given source as defined in Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51.
Thinner
means an organic solvent that is added to a coating after the coating is received from the supplier.
Total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH)
means the total amount of nonaqueous volatile organic matter determined according to Methods 204 and 204A through 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 and substituting the term TVH each place in the methods where the term VOC is used. The TVH includes both VOC and non-VOC.
Uncontrolled coating operation
means a coating operation from which none of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.
Volatile organic compound (VOC)
means any compound defined as VOC in 40 CFR 51.100(s).
Volume fraction of coating solids
means the ratio of the volume of coating solids (also known as volume of nonvolatiles) to the volume of coating, expressed as liters of coating solids per liter of coating.
Wastewater
means water that is generated in a coating operation and is collected, stored, or treated prior to being discarded or discharged.
[68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9642, Mar. 15, 2019]
Pt. 63, Subpt. RRRR, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart RRRR of Part 63—Operating Limits if Using the Emission Rate With Add-on Controls Option
If you are required to comply with operating limits by § 63.4892, you must comply with the applicable operating limits in the following table:
For the following device . . .
you must meet the following operating limit . . .
and you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limit by . . .
1. thermal oxidizer
a. the average combustion temperature in any 3-hour period must not fall below the combustion temperature limit established according to § 63.4966(a)
i. collecting the combustion temperature data according to § 63.4967(c);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average combustion temperature at or above the temperature limit.
2. catalytic oxidizer
a. the average temperature measured just before the catalyst bed in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4966(b); and either
i. collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4967(c);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average temperature before the catalyst bed at or above the temperature limit.
b. ensure that the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed in any 3-hour period does not fall below the temperature difference limit established according to § 63.4966(b), or
i. collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4967(c);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average temperature difference at or above the temperature difference limit.
c. develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan according to § 63.4966(b)(3) and (4).
i. maintaining an up-to-date inspection and maintenance plan, records of annual catalyst activity checks, records of monthly inspections of the oxidizer system, and records of the annual internal inspections of the catalyst bed. If a problem is discovered during a monthly or annual inspection required by § 63.4966(b)(4), you must take corrective action as soon as practicable consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations.
3. carbon adsorber
a. the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each carbon bed regeneration cycle must not fall below the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow limit established according to § 63.4966(c)
i. measuring the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle according § 63.4967(d); and
ii. maintaining the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow at or above the mass flow limit.
b. the temperature of the carbon bed after completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle must not exceed the carbon bed temperature limit established according to § 63.4966(c)
i. measuring the temperature of the carbon bed after completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle according to § 63.4967(d); and
ii. operating the carbon beds such that each carbon bed is not returned to service until completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle until the recorded temperature of the carbon bed is at or below the temperature limit.
4. condenser
a. the average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature in any 3-hour period must not exceed the temperature limit established according to § 63.4966(d)
i. collecting the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature according to § 63.4967(e);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average gas temperature at the outlet at or below the temperature limit.
5. emission capture system that is a PTE according to § 63.4964(a)
a. the direction of the air flow at all times must be into the enclosure; and either
i. collecting the direction of air flow, and either the facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings according to § 63.4967(f)(1) or the pressure drop across the enclosure according to § 63.4967(f)(2); and
ii. maintaining the facial velocity of air flow through all natural draft openings or the pressure drop at or above the facial velocity limit or pressure drop limit, and maintaining the direction of air flow into the enclosure at all times.
b. the average facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings in the enclosure must be at least 200 feet per minute; or
i. collecting the direction of air flow, and either the facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings according to § 63.4967(f)(1) or the pressure drop across the enclosure according to § 63.4967(f)(2); and
ii. maintaining the facial velocity of air flow through all natural draft openings or the pressure drop at or above the facial velocity limit or pressure drop limit, and maintaining the direction of air flow into the enclosure at all times.
c. the pressure drop across the enclosure must be at least 0.007 inch H
2
O, as established in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51
i. collecting the direction of air flow, and either the facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings according to § 63.4967(f)(1) or the pressure drop across the enclosure according to § 63.4967(f)(2); and
ii. maintaining the facial velocity of air flow through all natural draft openings or the pressure drop at or above the facial velocity limit or pressure drop limit, and maintaining the direction of air flow into the enclosure at all times.
6. emission capture system that is not a PTE according to § 63.4964(a)
a. the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure in each duct between a capture device and add-on control device inlet in any 3-hour period must not fall below the average volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure limit established for that capture device according to § 63.4966(e)
i. collecting the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for each capture device according to § 63.4967(f);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for each capture device at or above the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure limit.
7. concentrators, including zeolite wheels and rotary carbon adsorbers
a. the average gas temperature of the desorption concentrate stream in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4966(f)
i. collecting the temperature data according to § 63.4967(g);
ii. reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average temperature at or above the temperature limit.
b. the average pressure drop of the dilute stream across the concentrator in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 63.4966(f)
i. collecting the pressure drop data according to § 63.4967(g);
ii. reducing the pressure drop data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average pressure drop at or above the pressure drop.
8. bioreactor systems
a. the use of an alternative monitoring method as set forth in § 63.8(f)
Pt. 63, Subpt. RRRR, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart RRRR of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart RRRR
[You must comply with the applicable General Provisions requirements according to the following table:]
Citation
Subject
Applicable to subpart
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1)-(12)
General Applicability
Yes
§ 63.1(b)(1)-(3)
Initial Applicability Determination
Yes
Applicability to subpart RRRR is also specified in § 63.4881.
§ 63.1(c)(1)
Applicability After Standard Established
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(2)-(3)
Applicability of Permit Program for Area Sources
No
Area sources are not subject to subpart RRRR.
§ 63.1(c)(4)-(5)
Extensions and Notifications
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(6)
Reclassification
Yes
§ 63.1(e)
Applicability of Permit Program Before Relevant Standard is Set
Yes
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
Additional definitions are specified in § 63.4981.
§ 63.3(a)-(c)
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
§ 63.4(a)(1)-(5)
Prohibited Activities
Yes
§ 63.4(b)-(c)
Circumvention/Severability
Yes
§ 63.5(a)
Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(b)(1)-(6)
Requirements for Existing, Newly Constructed, and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
§ 63.5(d)
Application for Approval of Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(e)
Approval of Construction/Reconstruction
Yes
§ 63.5(f)
Approval of Construction/Reconstruction Based on Prior State Review
Yes
§ 63.6(a)
Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements—Applicability
Yes
§ 63.6(b)(1)-(7)
Compliance Dates for New and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
Section 63.4883 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(c)(1)-(5)
Compliance Dates for Existing Sources
Yes
Section 63.4883 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4900(b) for general duty requirement.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Operation and Maintenance
Yes
§ 63.6(e)(3)
Startup, shutdown, and malfunction Plan (SSMP)
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance Except During Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.6(f)(2)-(3)
Methods for Determining Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(g)(1)-(3)
Use of Alternative Standards
Yes
§ 63.6(h)
Compliance With Opacity/Visible Emission Standards
No
Subpart RRRR does not establish opacity standards and does not require continuous opacity monitoring systems (COMS).
§ 63.6(i)(1)-(16)
Extension of Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
Yes
§ 63.7(a)(1)
Performance Test Requirements—Applicability
Yes
Applies to all affected sources using an add-on control device to comply with the standards. Additional requirements for performance testing are specified in §§ 63.4963, 63.4964, and 63.4965.
§ 63.7(a)(2)
Performance Test Requirements—Dates
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards. Section 63.4960 specifies the schedule for performance test requirements that are earlier than those specified in § 63.7(a)(2).
§ 63.7(a)(3)
Performance Tests Required by the Administrator
Yes
§ 63.7(b)-(d)
Performance Test Requirements—Notification, Quality Assurance, Facilities Necessary Safe Testing, Conditions During Test
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Conduct of performance tests
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4963(a).
§ 63.7(e)(2)-(4)
Conduct of performance tests
Yes
§ 63.7(f)
Performance Test Requirements—Use of Alternative Test Method
Yes
Applies to all test methods except those used to determine capture system efficiency.
§ 63.7(g)-(h)
Performance Test Requirements—Data Analysis, Recordkeeping, Reporting, Waiver of Test
Yes
Applies only to performance tests for capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards.
§ 63.8(a)(1)-(3)
Monitoring Requirements—Applicability
Yes
Applies only to monitoring of capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards. Additional requirements for monitoring are specified in § 63.4967.
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Additional Monitoring Requirements
No
Subpart RRRR does not have monitoring requirements for flares.
§ 63.8(b)
Conduct of Monitoring
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(1)
Continuous Monitoring Systems (CMS) Operation and Maintenance
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.8(c)(2)-(3)
CMS Operation and Maintenance
Yes
Applies only to monitoring of capture system and add-on control device efficiency at sources using these to comply with the standards. Additional requirements for CMS operations and maintenance are specified in § 63.4967.
§ 63.8(c)(4)
CMS
No
Section 63.4967 specifies the requirements for the operation of CMS for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(5)
COMS
No
Subpart RRRR does not have opacity or visible emissions standards.
§ 63.8(c)(6)
CMS Requirements
No
Section 63.4967 specifies the requirements for monitoring systems for capture systems and add-on control devices at sources using these to comply.
§ 63.8(c)(7)
CMS Out-of-Control Periods
Yes
§ 63.8(c)(8)
CMS Out-of-Control Periods Reporting
No
Section 63.4920 requires reporting of CMS out-of-control periods.
§ 63.8(d)-(e)
Quality Control Program and CMS Performance Evaluation
No
Subpart RRRR does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.8(f)(1)-(5)
Use of an Alternative Monitoring Method
Yes
§ 63.8(f)(6)
Alternative to Relative Accuracy Test
No
Subpart RRRR does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.8(g)(1)-(5)
Data Reduction
No
Sections 63.4966 and 63.4967 specify monitoring data reduction.
§ 63.9(a)-(d)
Notification Requirements
Yes
§ 63.9(e)
Notification of Performance Test
Yes
Applies only to capture system and add-on control device performance tests at sources using these to comply with the standards.
§ 63.9(f)
Notification of Visible Emissions/Opacity Test
No
Subpart RRRR does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.9(g)(1)-(3)
Additional Notifications When Using CMS
No
Subpart RRRR does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.9(h)
Notification of Compliance Status
Yes
Section 63.4910 specifies the dates for submitting the notification of compliance status.
§ 63.9(i)
Adjustment of Submittal Deadlines
Yes
§ 63.9(j)
Change in Previous Information
Yes
§ 63.9(k)
Electronic reporting procedures
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
§ 63.10(a)
Recordkeeping/Reporting—Applicability and General Information
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(1)
General Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in §§ 63.4930 and 63.4931.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)
Recordkeeping of Occurrence and Duration of Startups and Shutdowns
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4930(j).
§ 63.10(b)(2)(ii)
Recordkeeping of Failures to Meet Standards
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4930(j).
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Recordkeeping Relevant to Maintenance of Air Pollution Control and Monitoring Equipment
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv)-(v)
Actions Taken to Minimize Emissions During SSM
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4930(j)(4) for a record of actions taken to minimize emissions during a deviation from the standard.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi)
Recordkeeping for CMS malfunctions
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4930(j) for records of periods of deviation from the standard, including instances where a CMS is inoperative or out-of-control.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vii)-(xi)
Records
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xii)
Records
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiii)
No
Subpart RRRR does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiv)
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Recordkeeping Requirements for Applicability Determinations
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(1)-(6)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(7)-(8)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
No
See
§ 63.4930(j)(1) for records of periods of deviation from the standard, including instances where a CMS is inoperative or out-of-control.
§ 63.10(c)(10)-(14)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
Yes
§ 63.10(c)(15)
Records Regarding the SSMP
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
§ 63.10(d)(1)
General Reporting Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.4920.
§ 63.10(d)(2)
Report of Performance Test Results
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.4920(b).
§ 63.10(d)(3)
Reporting Opacity or Visible Emissions Observations
No
Subpart RRRR does not require opacity or visible emissions observations.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress Reports for Sources With Compliance Extensions
Yes
§ 63.10(d)(5)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Reports
Yes, before September 12, 2019. No, on and after September 12, 2019
See
§ 63.4920(a)(7).
§ 63.10(e)(1)-(2)
Additional CMS Reports
No
Subpart RRRR does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.10(e)(3)
Excess Emissions/CMS Performance Reports
No
Section 63.4920(a) specifies the contents of periodic compliance reports.
§ 63.10(e)(4)
COMS Data Reports
No
Subpart RRRR does not specify requirements for opacity or COMS.
§ 63.10(f)
Recordkeeping/Reporting Waiver
Yes
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements/Flares
No
Subpart RRRR does not specify use of flares for compliance.
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes
§ 63.13
Addresses
Yes
§ 63.14
Incorporation by Reference
Yes
§ 63.15
Availability of Information/Confidentiality
Yes
[84 FR 9642, Mar. 15, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 73908, Nov. 19, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. RRRR, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart RRRR of Part 63—Default Organic HAP Mass Fraction for Solvents and Solvent Blends
You may use the mass fraction values in the following table for solvent blends for which you do not have test data or manufacturer's formulation data:
Solvent/Solvent blend
CAS. No.
Average organic HAP mass fraction
Typical organic HAP, percent by mass
1. Toluene
108-88-3
1.0
Toluene.
2. Xylene(s)
1330-20-7
1.0
Xylenes, ethylbenzene.
3. Hexane
110-54-3
0.5
n-hexane.
4. n-Hexane
110-54-3
1.0
n-hexane.
5. Ethylbenzene
100-41-4
1.0
Ethylbenzene.
6. Aliphatic 140
0
None.
7. Aromatic 100
0.02
1% xylene, 1% cumene.
8. Aromatic 150
0.09
Naphthalene.
9. Aromatic naphtha
64742-95-6
0.02
1% xylene, 1% cumene.
10. Aromatic solvent
64742-94-5
0.1
Naphthalene.
11. Exempt mineral spirits
8032-32-4
0
None.
12. Ligroines (VM
P)
8032-32-4
0
None.
13. Lactol spirits
64742-89-6
0.15
Toluene.
14. Low aromatic white spirit
64742-82-1
0
None.
15. Mineral spirits
64742-88-7
0.01
Xylenes.
16. Hydrotreated naphtha
64742-48-9
0
None.
17. Hydrotreated light distillate
64742-47-8
0.001
Toluene.
18. Stoddard solvent
8052-41-3
0.01
Xylenes.
19. Super high-flash naphtha
64742-95-6
0.05
Xylenes.
20. Varsol ® solvent
8052-49-3
0.01
0.5% xylenes, 0.5% ethyl benzene.
21. VM
P naphtha
64742-89-8
0.06
3% toluene, 3% xylene.
22. Petroleum distillate mixture
68477-31-6
0.08
4% naphthalene, 4% biphenyl.
Pt. 63, Subpt. RRRR, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart RRRR of Part 63—Default Organic HAP Mass Fraction for Petroleum Solvent Groups
1
You May Use the Mass Fraction Values in the Following Fable for Solvent Blends for Which You Do Not Have Test Data or Manufacturer's Formulation Data:
Solvent type
Average organic HAP mass fraction
Typical organic percent HAP, by mass
Aliphatic
2
0.03
1% Xylene, 1% Toluene, and 1% Ethylbenzene.
Aromatic
3
0.06
4% Xylene, 1% Toluene, and 1% Ethylbenzene.
1
Use this table only if the solvent blend does not match any of the solvent blends in Table 3 to this subpart and you only know whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic.
2
E.g., Mineral Spirits 135, Mineral Spirits 150 EC, Naphtha, Mixed Hydrocarbon, Aliphatic Hydrocarbon, Aliphatic Naphtha, Naphthol Spirits, Petroleum Spirits, Petroleum Oil, Petroleum Naphtha, Solvent Naphtha, Solvent Blend.
3
E.g., Medium-flash Naphtha, High-flash Naphtha, Aromatic Naphtha, Light Aromatic Naphtha, Light Aromatic Hydrocarbons, Aromatic Hydrocarbons, Light Aromatic Solvent.
Pt. 63, Subpt. RRRR, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart RRRR of Part 63—List of Hazardous Air Pollutants That Must Be Counted Toward Total Organic HAP Content if Present at 0.1 Percent or More by Mass
Chemical name
CAS No.
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
79-34-5
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
79-00-5
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine
57-14-7
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane
96-12-8
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine
122-66-7
1,3-Butadiene
106-99-0
1,3-Dichloropropene
542-75-6
1,4-Dioxane
123-91-1
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
88-06-2
2,4/2,6-Dinitrotoluene (mixture)
25321-14-6
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
121-14-2
2,4-Toluene diamine
95-80-7
2-Nitropropane
79-46-9
3,3'-Dichlorobenzidine
91-94-1
3,3'-Dimethoxybenzidine
119-90-4
3,3'-Dimethylbenzidine
119-93-7
4,4'-Methylene bis(2-chloroaniline)
101-14-4
Acetaldehyde
75-07-0
Acrylamide
79-06-1
Acrylonitrile
107-13-1
Allyl chloride
107-05-1
alpha-Hexachlorocyclohexane (a-HCH)
319-84-6
Aniline
62-53-3
Benzene
71-43-2
Benzidine
92-87-5
Benzotrichloride
98-07-7
Benzyl chloride
100-44-7
beta-Hexachlorocyclohexane (b-HCH)
319-85-7
Bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
117-81-7
Bis(chloromethyl)ether
542-88-1
Bromoform
75-25-2
Captan
133-06-2
Carbon tetrachloride
56-23-5
Chlordane
57-74-9
Chlorobenzilate
510-15-6
Chloroform
67-66-3
Chloroprene
126-99-8
Cresols (mixed)
1319-77-3
DDE
3547-04-4
Dichloroethyl ether
111-44-4
Dichlorvos
62-73-7
Epichlorohydrin
106-89-8
Ethyl acrylate
140-88-5
Ethylene dibromide
106-93-4
Ethylene dichloride
107-06-2
Ethylene oxide
75-21-8
Ethylene thiourea
96-45-7
Ethylidene dichloride (1,1-Dichloroethane)
75-34-3
Formaldehyde
50-00-0
Heptachlor
76-44-8
Hexachlorobenzene
118-74-1
Hexachlorobutadiene
87-68-3
Hexachloroethane
67-72-1
Hydrazine
302-01-2
Isophorone
78-59-1
Lindane (hexachlorocyclohexane, all isomers)
58-89-9
m-Cresol
108-39-4
Methylene chloride
75-09-2
Naphthalene
91-20-3
Nitrobenzene
98-95-3
Nitrosodimethylamine
62-75-9
o-Cresol
95-48-7
o-Toluidine
95-53-4
Parathion
56-38-2
p-Cresol
106-44-5
p-Dichlorobenzene
106-46-7
Pentachloronitrobenzene
82-68-8
Pentachlorophenol
87-86-5
Propoxur
114-26-1
Propylene dichloride
78-87-5
Propylene oxide
75-56-9
Quinoline
91-22-5
Tetrachloroethene
127-18-4
Toxaphene
8001-35-2
Trichloroethylene
79-01-6
Trifluralin
1582-09-8
Vinyl bromide
593-60-2
Vinyl chloride
75-01-4
Vinylidene chloride
75-35-4
[84 FR 9645, Mar. 15, 2019]

# Subpart SSSS—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil

# Source:
67 FR 39812, June 10, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 63.5080
What is in this subpart?
