(d) The initial decision will include a description of the right of a defendant found liable for a civil penalty or assessment to file a motion for reconsideration with the ALJ or a notice of appeal with the Administrator.
§ 142.31
Can a party request reconsideration of the initial decision?
(a) Any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision with the ALJ within 20 days of receipt of the initial decision. If the initial decision was served by mail, there is a rebuttable presumption that the initial decision was received by the party 5 days from the date of mailing.
(b) A motion for reconsideration must be accompanied by a supporting brief and must describe specifically each allegedly erroneous decision.
(c) Any response to a motion for reconsideration must be filed within 20 days of receipt of such motion.
(d) The ALJ will dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.
(e) If the ALJ issues a revised initial decision upon motion of a party, that party may not file another motion for reconsideration.
§ 142.32
When does the initial decision of the ALJ become final?
(a) The initial decision of the ALJ becomes the final decision of SBA, and shall be binding on all parties 30 days after it is issued, unless any party timely files a motion for reconsideration or any defendant adjudged to have submitted a false claim or statement timely appeals to the SBA Administrator, as set forth in § 142.33.
(b) If the ALJ disposes of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision, the ALJ's order on the motion for reconsideration becomes the final decision of SBA 30 days after the order is issued, unless a defendant adjudged to have submitted a false claim or statement timely appeals to the Administrator, within 30 days of the ALJ's order, as set forth in § 142.33.
§ 142.33
What are the procedures for appealing the ALJ decision?
(a) Any defendant who submits a timely answer and is found liable for a civil penalty or assessment in an initial decision may appeal the decision.
(b) The defendant may file a notice of appeal with the Administrator within 30 days following issuance of the initial decision, serving a copy of the notice of appeal on all parties and the ALJ. The Administrator may extend this deadline for up to thirty additional days if an extension request is filed within the
initial 30 day period and shows good cause.
(c) The defendant's appeal will not be considered until all timely motions for reconsideration have been resolved.
(d) If a timely motion for reconsideration is denied, a notice of appeal may be filed within 30 days following such denial or issuance of a revised initial decision, whichever applies.
(e) A notice of appeal must be supported by a written brief specifying why the initial decision should be reversed or modified.
(f) SBA's representative may file a brief in opposition to the notice of appeal within 30 days of receiving the defendant's notice of appeal and supporting brief.
(g) If a defendant timely files a notice of appeal, and the time for filing motions for reconsideration has expired, the ALJ will forward the record of the proceeding to the Administrator.
§ 142.34
Are there any limitations on the right to appeal to the Administrator?
(a) A defendant has no right to appear personally, or through a representative, before the Administrator.
(b) There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling.
(c) The Administrator will not consider any objection or evidence that was not raised before the ALJ unless the defendant demonstrates that the failure to object was caused by extraordinary circumstances. If the appealing defendant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Administrator that extraordinary circumstances prevented the presentation of evidence at the hearing, and that the additional evidence is material, the Administrator may remand the matter to the ALJ for consideration of the additional evidence.
§ 142.35
How does the Administrator dispose of an appeal?
(a) The Administrator may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment imposed by the ALJ in the initial decision or reconsideration decision.
(b) The Administrator will promptly serve each party to the appeal and the ALJ with a copy of his or her decision. This decision must contain a statement describing the right of any person, against whom a penalty or assessment has been made, to seek judicial review.
§ 142.36
Can I obtain judicial review?
If the initial decision is appealed, the decision of the Administrator is the final decision of SBA and is not subject to judicial review unless the defendant files a petition for judicial review within 60 days after the Administrator serves the defendant with a copy of the final decision.
§ 142.37
What judicial review is available?
31 U.S.C. 3805 authorizes judicial review by the appropriate United States District Court of any final SBA decision imposing penalties or assessments, and specifies the procedures for such review. To obtain judicial review, a defendant must file a petition in a timely fashion.
§ 142.38
Can the administrative complaint be settled voluntarily?
(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time. Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle the case from the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint until the ALJ issues an initial decision.
(c) The Administrator has exclusive authority to compromise or settle the case from the date of the ALJ's initial decision until initiation of any judicial review or any action to collect the penalties and assessments.
(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle the case while any judicial review or any action to recover penalties and assessments is pending.
(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the Administrator, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the Administrator or the Attorney General, as appropriate.
§ 142.39
How are civil penalties and assessments collected?
31 U.S.C. 3806 and 3808(b) authorize the Attorney General to bring specific actions for collection of such civil penalties and assessments including administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716. The penalties and assessments may not, however, be administratively offset against an overpayment of federal taxes (then or later owed) to the defendant by the United States.
§ 142.40
What if the investigation indicates criminal misconduct?
(a) Any investigating official may:
(1) Refer allegations of criminal misconduct directly to the Department of Justice for prosecution or for suit under the False Claims Act or other civil proceeding;
(2) Defer or postpone a report or referral to the reviewing official to avoid interference with a criminal investigation or prosecution; or
(3) Issue subpoenas under other statutory authority.
(b) Nothing in this part limits the requirement that SBA employees report suspected violations of criminal law to the SBA Office of Inspector General or to the Attorney General.
§ 142.41
How does SBA protect the rights of defendants?
These procedures separate the functions of the investigating official, reviewing official, and the ALJ, each of whom report to a separate organizational authority in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3801. Except for purposes of settlement, or as a witness or a representative in public proceedings, no investigating official, reviewing official, or SBA employee or agent who helps investigate, prepare, or present a case may (in such case, or a factually related case) participate in the initial decision or the review of the initial decision by the Administrator. This separation of functions and organization is designed to assure the independence and impartiality of each government official during every stage of the proceeding. The representative for SBA may be employed in the offices of either the investigating official or the reviewing official.
PART 143 [RESERVED]
Pt. 146

# PART 146—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
146.100
Conditions on use of funds.
146.105
Definitions.
146.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
146.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
146.205
Professional and technical services.
146.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
146.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
146.400
Penalties.
146.405
Penalty procedures.
146.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
146.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
146.600
Semi-annual compilation.
146.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 146—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 146—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 1352 and 15 U.S.C. 634(b)(6).

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

# Source:
55 FR 6737. 6747, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 146.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal
actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 146.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to professional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 146.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000,
Unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,
Shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either Subpart B or C.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 146.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 146.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement
if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 146.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 146.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section,
professional and technical services
shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or
reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 146.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 146.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 146.100 (a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 146.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section,
professional and technical services
shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 146.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $24,496 and not more than $244,958 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $24,496 and not
more than $244,958 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $24,496, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $24,496 and $244,958, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
[55 FR 6737. 6747, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 81 FR 31492, May 19, 2016; 82 FR 9969, Feb. 9, 2017; 83 FR 7363, Feb. 21, 2018; 84 FR 12061, Apr. 1, 2019; 85 FR 13727, Mar. 10, 2020; 86 FR 52957, Sept. 24, 2021; 87 FR 28758, May 11, 2022; 88 FR 50005, Aug. 1, 2023; 89 FR 48134, June 5, 2024]
§ 146.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 146.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 146.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 146.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 146.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 146, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 146—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31,
U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 146, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 146—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
EC08SE91.000
EC08SE91.001
EC08SE91.002
Pt. 147

# PART 147—GOVERNMENTWIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (NONPROCUREMENT)

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
Sec.
147.100
What does this part do?
147.105
Does this part apply to me?
147.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
147.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
147.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
147.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
147.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
147.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
147.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
147.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
147.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
147.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
147.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of SBA Awarding Officials
147.400
What are my responsibilities as an SBA awarding official?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
147.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
147.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
147.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
147.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?

# Subpart F—Definitions
147.605
Award.
147.610
Controlled substance.
147.615
Conviction.
147.620
Cooperative agreement.
147.625
Criminal drug statute.
147.630
Debarment.
147.635
Drug-free workplace.
147.640
Employee.
147.645
Federal agency or agency.
147.650
Grant.
147.655
Individual.
147.660
Recipient.
147.665
State.
147.670
Suspension.

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701-707.

# Source:
68 FR 66557, 66572, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
§ 147.100
What does this part do?
This part carries out the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.,
as amended) that applies to grants. It also applies the provisions of the Act to cooperative agreements and other financial assistance awards, as a matter of Federal Government policy.
§ 147.105
Does this part apply to me?
(a) Portions of this part apply to you if you are either—
(1) A recipient of an assistance award from the SBA; or
(2) A(n) SBA awarding official. (See definitions of award and recipient in §§ 147.605 and 147.660, respectively.)
(b) The following table shows the subparts that apply to you:
If you are . . .
see subparts . . .
(1) A recipient who is not an individual
A, B and E.
(2) A recipient who is an individual
A, C and E.
(3) A(n) SBA awarding official
A, D and E.
§ 147.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
This part does not apply to any award that the SBA Administrator or designee determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government.
§ 147.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?
It will affect future contract awards indirectly if you are debarred or suspended for a violation of the requirements of this part, as described in § 147.510(c). However, this part does not apply directly to procurement contracts. The portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 that applies to Federal procurement contracts is carried out through the Federal Acquisition Regulation in chapter 1 of Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations (the drug-free workplace coverage currently is in 48 CFR part 23, subpart 23.5).

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 147.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
There are two general requirements if you are a recipient other than an individual.
(a) First, you must make a good faith effort, on a continuing basis, to maintain a drug-free workplace. You must agree to do so as a condition for receiving any award covered by this part. The specific measures that you must take in this regard are described in more detail in subsequent sections of this subpart. Briefly, those measures are to—
(1) Publish a drug-free workplace statement and establish a drug-free awareness program for your employees (see §§ 147.205 through 147.220); and
(2) Take actions concerning employees who are convicted of violating drug statutes in the workplace (see § 147.225).
(b) Second, you must identify all known workplaces under your Federal awards (see § 147.230).
§ 147.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
You must publish a statement that—
(a) Tells your employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in your workplace;
(b) Specifies the actions that you will take against employees for violating that prohibition; and
(c) Lets each employee know that, as a condition of employment under any award, he or she:
(1) Will abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Must notify you in writing if he or she is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace and must do so no more than five calendar days after the conviction.
§ 147.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
You must require that a copy of the statement described in § 147.205 be given to each employee who will be engaged in the performance of any Federal award.
§ 147.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
You must establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(a) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(b) Your policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(c) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(d) The penalties that you may impose upon them for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.
§ 147.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
If you are a new recipient that does not already have a policy statement as described in § 147.205 and an ongoing awareness program as described in § 147.215, you must publish the statement and establish the program by the time given in the following table:
If . . .
then you . . .
(a) The performance period of the award is less than 30 days
must have the policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but before the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(b) The performance period of the award is 30 days or more
must have the policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(c) You believe there are extraordinary circumstances that will require more than 30 days for you to publish the policy statement and establish the awareness program
may ask the SBA awarding official to give you more time to do so. The amount of additional time, if any, to be given is at the discretion of the awarding official.
§ 147.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
There are two actions you must take if an employee is convicted of a drug violation in the workplace:
(a) First, you must notify Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, as required by § 147.205(c)(2), or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Second, within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either—
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
§ 147.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?
(a) You must identify all known workplaces under each SBA award. A failure to do so is a violation of your drug-free workplace requirements. You may identify the workplaces—
(1) To the SBA official that is making the award, either at the time of application or upon award; or
(2) In documents that you keep on file in your offices during the performance of the award, in which case you must make the information available for inspection upon request by SBA officials or their designated representatives.
(b) Your workplace identification for an award must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under the award takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (e.g., all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
(c) If you identified workplaces to the SBA awarding official at the time of application or award, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any workplace that you identified changes during the performance of the award, you must inform the SBA awarding official.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 147.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
As a condition of receiving a(n) SBA award, if you are an individual recipient, you must agree that—
(a) You will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity related to the award; and
(b) If you are convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity, you will report the conviction:
(1) In writing.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the conviction.
(3) To the SBA awarding official or other designee for each award that you currently have, unless § 147.301 or the award document designates a central point for the receipt of the notices. When notice is made to a central point,
it must include the identification number(s) of each affected award.
§ 147.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of SBA Awarding Officials
§ 147.400
What are my responsibilities as a(n) SBA awarding official?
As a(n) SBA awarding official, you must obtain each recipient's agreement, as a condition of the award, to comply with the requirements in—
(a) Subpart B of this part, if the recipient is not an individual; or
(b) Subpart C of this part, if the recipient is an individual.

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 147.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of this part if the SBA Administrator or designee determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
§ 147.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the SBA Administrator or designee determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
§ 147.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
If a recipient is determined to have violated this part, as described in § 147.500 or § 147.505, the SBA may take one or more of the following actions—
(a) Suspension of payments under the award;
(b) Suspension or termination of the award; and
(c) Suspension or debarment of the recipient under 13 CFR Part 145, for a period not to exceed five years.
§ 147.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
The SBA Administrator may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award, suspension or termination of an award, or suspension or debarment of a recipient if the SBA Administrator determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.

# Subpart F—Definitions
§ 147.605
Award.
Award
means an award of financial assistance by the SBA or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) A block grant or a grant in an entitlement program, whether or not the grant is exempted from coverage under the Governmentwide rule 13 CFR Part 147 that implements OMB Circular A-102 (for availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3) and specifies uniform administrative requirements.
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (
i.e.,
any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
§ 147.610
Controlled substance.
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances
Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.
§ 147.615
Conviction.
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.
§ 147.620
Cooperative agreement.
Cooperative agreement
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of grant in § 147.650), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
§ 147.625
Criminal drug statute.
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.
§ 147.630
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689.
§ 147.635
Drug-free workplace.
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.
§ 147.640
Employee.
(a)
Employee
means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
(1) All direct charge employees;
(2) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement in the performance of work under the award is insignificant to the performance of the award; and
(3) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the award and who are on the recipient's payroll.
(b) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the recipient (e.g., volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces).
§ 147.645
Federal agency or agency.
Federal agency or agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
§ 147.650
Grant.
Grant
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship—
(a) The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government's direct benefit or use; and
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.
§ 147.655
Individual.
Individual
means a natural person.
§ 147.660
Recipient.
Recipient
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.
§ 147.665
State.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 147.670
Suspension.
Suspension
means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.
PARTS 148-199 [RESERVED]
13 CFR Ch. III (1-1-25 Edition)
Economic Development Administration, Commerce

# CHAPTER III—ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Part
Page
300
General information
817
301
Eligibility, investment rate and application requirements
820
302
General terms and conditions for investment assistance
826
303
Planning investments and comprehensive economic development strategies
831
304
Economic Development Districts
835
305
Public works and economic development investments
837
306
Training, research and technical assistance investments
841
307
Economic adjustment assistance investments
843
308
Performance incentives
856
309
Redistributions of investment assistance
857
310
Special Impact Areas
858
311
[Reserved]
312
Regional Innovation Program
859
313
[Reserved]
314
Property
863
315
Trade adjustment assistance for firms
872
316-399
[Reserved]
Pt. 300

# PART 300—GENERAL INFORMATION
Sec.
300.1
Introduction and mission.
300.2
EDA Headquarters and regional offices.
300.3
Definitions.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3121; 42 U.S.C. 3122; 42 U.S.C. 3211; 15 U.S.C. 3701; Department of Commerce Organization Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 300.1
Introduction and mission.
EDA was created by Congress pursuant to the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 to provide financial assistance to both rural and urban distressed communities. EDA's mission is to lead the Federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy. EDA will fulfill its mission by fostering entrepreneurship, innovation and productivity through Investments in infrastructure development, capacity building and business development in order to attract private capital investments and new and better jobs to Regions experiencing substantial and persistent economic distress. EDA works in partnership with distressed Regions to address problems associated with long-term economic distress as well as to assist those Regions experiencing sudden and severe economic dislocations, such as those resulting from natural disasters, conversions of military installations, changing trade patterns and the depletion of natural resources. EDA Investments generally take the form of Grants to or Cooperative Agreements with Eligible Recipients.
[79 FR 76123, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 300.2
EDA Headquarters and regional offices.
(a) EDA's Headquarters Office is located at: U.S. Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration, 1401 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20230.
(b) EDA has regional offices throughout the United States and each regional office's contact information may be found on EDA's Internet Web site at
http://www.eda.gov
or in the applicable announcement of Federal Funding Opportunity issued by EDA. Please contact the appropriate regional office to learn about EDA Investment opportunities in your Region.
[79 FR 76123, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 300.3
Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary for Economic Development within the Department.
Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy
or
CEDS
means a strategy that meets the requirements of § 303.7 of this chapter.
Cooperative Agreement
means the financial assistance award of EDA funds to an Eligible Recipient where substantial involvement is expected between EDA and the Eligible Recipient in carrying out a purpose or activity authorized under PWEDA or another statute.
See
31 U.S.C. 6305.
Co-Recipient
means one of multiple Recipients awarded Investment Assistance under a single award. Unless otherwise provided in the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance, each Co-Recipient is jointly and severally liable for fulfilling the terms of the Investment Assistance.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Commerce.
District Organization
means an organization meeting the requirements of § 304.2 of this chapter.
Economic Development District
or
District
or
EDD
means any Region in the United States designated by EDA as an Economic Development District under § 304.1 of this chapter (or such regulation as was previously in effect before the effective date of this section) and also includes any economic development district designated as such under section 403 of PWEDA, as in effect on February 10, 1999.
EDA
means the Economic Development Administration within the Department.
Eligible Applicant
means an entity qualified to be an Eligible Recipient or its authorized representative.
Eligible Recipient
means any of the following:
(1) City or other political subdivision of a State, including a special purpose unit of State or local government engaged in economic or infrastructure development activities, or a consortium of political subdivisions;
(2) State;
(3) Institution of higher education or a consortium of institutions of higher education;
(4) Public or private non-profit organization or association, including a community or faith-based non-profit organization, acting in cooperation with officials of a political subdivision of a State;
(5) District Organization;
(6) Indian Tribe or a consortium of Indian Tribes; or
(7) Private individual or for-profit organization, but only for Training, Research and Technical Assistance Investments pursuant to § 306.1(d)(3) of this chapter.
Federal Agency
means a department, agency or instrumentality of the United States government.
Federal Funding Opportunity
or
FFO
means an announcement EDA publishes during the fiscal year at
http://www.grants.gov
and on EDA's Internet Web site at
http://www.eda.gov
that provides the funding amounts, application and programmatic requirements, funding priorities, special circumstances, and other information concerning a specific competitive solicitation for EDA's economic development assistance programs. EDA also may periodically publish FFOs on specific programs or initiatives.
Federally Declared Disaster
means a Presidentially Declared Disaster, a fisheries resource disaster pursuant to section 312(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1861a(a)), or other Federally declared disasters pursuant to applicable law.
Grant
means the financial assistance award of EDA funds to an Eligible Recipient, under which the Eligible Recipient bears responsibility for carrying out a purpose or activity authorized under PWEDA or another statute.
See
31 U.S.C. 6304.
Immediate Family
means a person's spouse (or domestic partner or significant other), parents, grandparents, siblings, children and grandchildren, but does not include distant relatives, such as cousins, unless the distant relative lives in the same household as the person.
In-Kind Contribution(s)
means non-cash contributions, which may include contributions of space, equipment, services and assumptions of debt that are fairly evaluated by EDA and that satisfy applicable Federal uniform administrative requirements and cost principles as set out in 2 CFR part 200.
Indian Tribe
means an entity on the list of recognized tribes published pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, as amended (Pub. L. 103-454) (25 U.S.C. 479a
et seq.
), and any Alaska Native Village or Regional Corporation (as defined in or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
). This term includes the governing body of an Indian Tribe, Indian corporation (restricted to Indians), Indian authority, or other non-profit Indian tribal organization or entity; provided that the Indian tribal organization, corporation, or entity is wholly owned by, and established for the benefit of, the Indian Tribe or Alaska Native Village.
Interested Party
means any officer, employee or member of the board of directors or other governing board of the Recipient, including any other parties that advise, approve, recommend or otherwise participate in the business decisions of the Recipient, such as agents, advisors, consultants, attorneys, accountants or shareholders. An Interested Party also includes the Interested Party's Immediate Family and other persons directly connected to the Interested Party by law or through a business arrangement.
Investment
or
Investment Assistance
means a Grant or Cooperative Agreement entered into by EDA and a Recipient.
Investment Rate
means, as set forth in § 301.4 of this chapter, the amount of the EDA Investment in a particular Project expressed as a percentage of the total Project cost.
Local Share
or
Matching Share
means the non-EDA funds and any In-Kind Contributions that are approved by EDA and provided by a Recipient or third party as a condition of an Investment. The Matching Share may include funds from another Federal Agency only if authorized by statute that allows such use, which may be determined by EDA's reasonable interpretation of such authority.
Presidentially Declared Disaster
means a major disaster or emergency declared under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.
).
Project
means the proposed or authorized activity (or activities) the purpose of which fulfills EDA's mission and program requirements as set forth in PWEDA or Stevenson-Wydler and this chapter and which may be funded in whole or in part by EDA Investment Assistance.
PWEDA
means the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3121
et seq.
).
Recipient
means an entity receiving EDA Investment Assistance, including any EDA-approved successor to the entity.
Region
or
Regional
means an economic unit of human, natural, technological, capital or other resources, defined geographically. Geographic areas comprising a Region need not be contiguous or defined by political boundaries, but should constitute a cohesive area capable of undertaking self-sustained economic development. For the limited purposes of determining economic distress levels and Investment Rates pursuant to part 301 of this chapter, a Region also may comprise a specific geographic area defined solely by its level of economic distress, as set forth in §§ 301.3(a)(2) and 301.3(a)(3) of this chapter.
Regional Commission
means any of the following:
(1) The Appalachian Regional Commission established under chapter 143 of title 40, United States Code;
(2) The Delta Regional Authority established under subtitle F of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009aa
et seq.
);
(3) The Denali Commission established under the Denali Commission Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 3121 note; 112 Stat. 2681-637
et seq.
); or
(4) The Northern Great Plains Regional Authority established under subtitle G of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009bb
et seq.
).
Regional Innovation Clusters
or
RICs
means networks of similar, synergistic, or complementary entities that support a single industry sector and its various supply chains. In general, RICs:
(1) Are based on a geographic area that may cross municipal, county, and other jurisdictional boundaries;
(2) May include catalysts of innovation and drivers of Regional economic growth, such as universities, government research centers, and other research and development resources;
(3) Have active channels for business transactions and communication; and
(4) Depend upon specialized infrastructure, labor markets, and services that build on the unique competitive assets of a location, including talent, technology, services, and hard and soft infrastructure, to spur innovation, job creation, and business expansion.
Special Impact Area
means a Region served by a Project for which the requirements of section 302 of PWEDA and § 303.7 of this chapter have, upon an application filed by an Eligible Recipient pursuant to section 214 of PWEDA and part 310 of this chapter, been waived in whole or in part by the Assistant Secretary.
Special Need
means a circumstance or legal status arising from actual or threatened severe unemployment or economic adjustment problems resulting from severe short-term or long-term changes in economic conditions, including:
(1) Substantial outmigration or population loss;
(2) Underemployment; that is, employment of workers at less than full-time or at less skilled tasks than their training or abilities permit;
(3) Military base closures or realignments, defense contractor reductions-in-force, or U.S. Department of Energy defense-related funding reductions;
(4) Natural or other major disasters or emergencies;
(5) Extraordinary depletion of natural resources;
(6) Closing or restructuring of an industrial firm or loss of a major employer;
(7) Negative effects of changing trade patterns; or
(8) Other circumstances set forth in an FFO.
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.
Stevenson-Wydler,
for purposes of EDA, means the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, as amended (15 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.
).
Subrecipient
means an Eligible Recipient that receives a redistribution of Investment Assistance in the form of a subgrant, under part 309 of this chapter, from another Eligible Recipient to carry out part of a Federal program.
Trade Act,
for purposes of EDA, means title II, chapters 3, 4 and 5, of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2341
et seq.
).
United States
means all of the States.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62865, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76123, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57052, Dec. 1, 2017; 86 FR 52959, Sept. 24, 2021]
Pt. 301

# PART 301—ELIGIBILITY, INVESTMENT RATE AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
301.1
Overview of eligibility requirements.

# Subpart B—Applicant Eligibility
301.2
Applicant eligibility.

# Subpart C—Economic Distress Criteria
301.3
Economic distress levels.

# Subpart D—Investment Rates and Matching Share Requirements
301.4
Investment rates.
301.5
Matching share requirements.
301.6
Supplementary Investment Assistance.

# Subpart E—Application Requirements; Evaluation Criteria
301.7
Investment Assistance application.
301.8
Application evaluation criteria.
301.9
Application selection criteria.
301.10
Formal application requirements.
301.11
Infrastructure.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3121; 42 U.S.C. 3141-3147; 42 U.S.C. 3149; 42 U.S.C. 3161; 42 U.S.C. 3175; 42 U.S.C. 3192; 42 U.S.C. 3194; 42 U.S.C. 3211; 42 U.S.C. 3233; Department of Commerce Delegation Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 301.1
Overview of eligibility requirements.
In order to receive EDA Investment Assistance, the following requirements must be met:
(a) The applicant must be an Eligible Applicant as set forth in subpart B of this part;
(b) The Region in which the Project will be located must meet the economic distress criteria set forth in subpart C of this part;
(c) The sources of funding for the Project must fulfill the Investment Rate and Matching Share requirements set forth in subpart D of this part;
(d) The Eligible Applicant must satisfy the formal application requirements set forth in subpart E of this part;
(e) The Project must meet the general requirements set forth in part 302 (General Terms and Conditions for Investment Assistance) and the specific program requirements (as applicable) set forth in part 303 (Planning Investments and Comprehensive Economic Development Strategies), part 304 (Economic Development Districts), part 305 (Public Works and Economic Development Investments), part 306 (Training, Research and Technical Assistance Investments), or part 307 (Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments) of this chapter; and
(f) EDA must select the Eligible Applicant's proposed Project.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76124, Dec. 19, 2014]

# Subpart B—Applicant Eligibility
§ 301.2
Applicant eligibility.
(a) An Eligible Applicant for EDA Investment Assistance is defined in § 300.3 of this chapter.
(b) An Eligible Applicant that is a non-profit organization must include in its application for Investment Assistance a resolution passed by (or a letter signed by) an authorized representative of a general purpose political subdivision of a State, acknowledging that it is acting in cooperation with officials of such political subdivision. EDA, at its sole discretion, may waive this cooperation requirement for certain Projects of a significant Regional or national scope under part 306 or 307 of this chapter.
See
§§ 306.3(b), 306.6(b), and 307.5(b) of this chapter.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 82 FR 57053, Dec. 1, 2017]

# Subpart C—Economic Distress Criteria
§ 301.3
Economic distress levels.
(a)
Part 305 (Public Works and Economic Development Investments) and part 307 (Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments).
(1) Except as otherwise provided by this paragraph (a), for a Project to be eligible for Investment Assistance under parts 305 or 307 of this chapter, the Project must be located in a Region that, on the date EDA receives an application for Investment Assistance, is subject to one or more of the following economic distress criteria:
(i) An unemployment rate that is, for the most recent 24-month period for which data are available, at least one percentage point greater than the national average unemployment rate;
(ii) Per capita income that is, for the most recent period for which data are available, 80 percent or less of the national average per capita income; or
(iii) A Special Need, as determined by EDA.
(2) A Project located within an Economic Development District, which is located in a Region that does not meet the economic distress criteria described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, also is eligible for Investment Assistance under parts 305 or 307 of this chapter if EDA determines that the Project will be of “substantial direct benefit” to a geographic area within the District that meets the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. For this purpose, a Project provides a “substantial direct benefit” if it provides significant employment opportunities for unemployed, underemployed or low-income residents of the geographic area within the District.
(3) A Project located in a geographic area of poverty or high unemployment that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but which is located in a Region that overall does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, is eligible for Investment Assistance under parts 305 or 307 of this chapter without regard to political or other subdivisions or boundaries.
(4)
Data requirements to demonstrate economic distress levels.
EDA will determine the economic distress levels pursuant to this subsection at the time EDA receives an application for Investment Assistance as follows:
(i) For economic distress levels based upon per capita income requirements, EDA will base its determination upon the most recent American Community Survey (“
ACS
”) published by the U.S. Census Bureau. For economic distress levels based upon the unemployment rate, EDA will base its determination upon the most recent data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (“
BLS
”), within the U.S. Department of Labor. For eligibility based upon either per capita income requirements or the unemployment rate, when the ACS or BLS data, as applicable, are not the most recent Federal data available, EDA will base its decision upon the most recent Federal data from other sources (including data available from the Census Bureau and the Bureaus of Economic Analysis, Labor Statistics, Indian Affairs, or any other Federal source determined by EDA to be appropriate). If no Federal data are available, an Eligible Applicant must submit to EDA the most recent data available from the State. The required data must be for the Region where the Project will be located (paragraph (a)(1) of this section), the geographic
area where substantial direct Project benefits will occur (paragraph (a)(2) of this section), or the geographic area of poverty or high unemployment (paragraph (a)(3) of this section), as applicable.
(ii) For economic distress based upon a Special Need, EDA will conduct the independent analysis it deems necessary under the facts and circumstances of a given case. Eligible Applicants are encouraged to submit reliable data substantiating their claim of a Special Need.
(b)
Part 303 (Planning Investments) and part 306 (Training, Research and Technical Assistance Investments).
There are no minimum economic distress level requirements for Investment Assistance awarded to Projects under parts 303 or 306 of this chapter.
(c)
Part 304 (Economic Development Districts).
For EDA to designate a Region as an Economic Development District under part 304 of this chapter, such Region must:
(1) Contain at least one geographic area that fulfills the economic distress criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and is identified in an approved CEDS; and
(2) Meet the Regional eligibility requirements set forth in § 304.1 of this chapter.
(d) EDA reserves the right to reject any documentation of Project eligibility that it determines is inaccurate or otherwise unreliable.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62865, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76124, Dec. 19, 2014]

# Subpart D—Investment Rates and Matching Share Requirements
§ 301.4
Investment rates.
(a)
Minimum Investment Rate.
There is no minimum Investment Rate for a Project.
(b)
Maximum Investment Rate
—(1)
General rule.
Except as otherwise provided by this paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of this section, the maximum EDA Investment Rate for all Projects shall be determined in accordance with Table 1 in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. The maximum EDA Investment Rate shall not exceed the sum of 50 percent, plus up to an additional 30 percent based on the relative needs of the Region in which the Project is located, as determined by EDA.
(i)(A)
Relative needs.
In determining the relative needs of the Region in which the Project is located, EDA will prioritize allocations of its Investment Assistance to ensure that the level of economic distress of a Region, rather than a preference for a specific geographic area or a specific type of economic distress, is the primary factor in allocating its Investment Assistance. In making this determination, EDA will take into consideration the following measures of economic distress:
(
1
) The severity of the unemployment rate and the duration of the unemployment in the Region;
(
2
) The per capita income levels and the extent of underemployment in the Region;
(
3
) The outmigration of population and the extent to which such outmigration is causing economic injury in the Region; and
(
4
) Such other factors as EDA deems relevant in determining the relative needs of the Region in which the Project is located.
(B) A Project is eligible for the maximum allowable Investment Rate as determined by EDA between the time EDA receives the application for Investment Assistance and the time that EDA awards Investment Assistance to the Project; however, the burden is on the Eligible Applicant to establish the relative needs of the Region in which the Project is located.
(ii)
Table 1.
Table 1 of this paragraph sets forth the maximum allowable Investment Rate for Projects located in Regions subject to certain levels of economic distress. In cases where Table 1 produces divergent results (
i.e.,
where Table 1 produces more than one maximum allowable Investment Rate based on the Region's levels of economic distress), the higher Investment Rate produced by Table 1 shall be the maximum allowable Investment Rate for the Project.
Table 1
Projects located in regions in which:
Maximum
allowable
investment rates
(percentage)
(A) The 24-month unemployment rate is at least 225% of the national average; or
80
(B) The per capita income is not more than 50% of the national average
80
(C) The 24-month unemployment rate is at least 200% of the national average; or
70
(D) The per capita income is not more than 60% of the national average
70
(E) The 24-month unemployment rate is at least 175% of the national average; or
60
(F) The per capita income is not more than 65% of the national average
60
(G) The 24-month unemployment rate is at least one percentage point greater than the national average; or
50
(H) The per capita income is not more than 80% of the national average
50
(2)
Projects subject to a Special Need.
EDA shall determine the maximum allowable Investment Rate for Projects subject to a Special Need (as determined by EDA pursuant to § 301.3(a)(1)(iii)) based on the actual or threatened overall economic situation of the Region in which the Project is located. However, unless the Project is eligible for a higher Investment Rate pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the maximum allowable Investment Rate for any Project subject to a Special Need shall be 80 percent.
(3)
Projects under part 303.
(i) The minimum Investment Rate for Projects under part 303 of this chapter shall be 50 percent.
(ii) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section or in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the maximum allowable Investment Rate for Projects under part 303 of this chapter shall be the maximum allowable Investment Rate set forth in Table 1 for the most economically distressed county or other equivalent political unit (
e.g.,
parish) within the Region. The maximum allowable Investment Rate shall not exceed 80 percent.
(iii) In compelling circumstances, the Assistant Secretary may waive the application of the first sentence in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(4)
Projects under part 306.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the maximum allowable Investment Rate for Projects under part 306 of this chapter shall generally be determined based on the relative needs (as determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section) of the Region which the Project will serve. As specified in section 204(c)(3) of PWEDA, the Assistant Secretary has the discretion to establish a maximum Investment Rate of up to 100 percent where the Project:
(i) Merits, and is not otherwise feasible without, an increase to the Investment Rate; or
(ii) Will be of no or only incidental benefit to the Eligible Recipient.
(5)
Special Projects.
Table 2 of this paragraph sets forth the maximum allowable Investment Rate for certain special Projects as follows:
Table 2
Projects
Maximum
allowable
investment rates
(percentage)
Projects that involve broad Regional planning and coordination with other entities outside the Eligible Applicant's political jurisdiction or area of authority, under special circumstances determined by EDA, and Projects that effectively leverage other Federal Agency resources
80
Projects of Indian Tribes
100
Projects for which EDA receives appropriations under section 703 of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3233) and Projects to address and implement post-disaster economic recovery efforts in Presidentially Declared Disaster areas in a timely manner
100
Projects of States or political subdivisions of States that the Assistant Secretary determines have exhausted their effective taxing and borrowing capacity, or Projects of non-profit organizations that the Assistant Secretary determines have exhausted their effective borrowing capacity
100
Projects under parts 305 or 307 that receive performance awards pursuant to § 308.2 of this chapter
100
Projects located in a District that receive planning performance awards pursuant to § 308.3 of this chapter
100
(c) Federal Funding Opportunity announcements may provide additional Investment Rate criteria and standards to ensure that the level of economic distress of a Region, rather than a preference for a geographic area or a specific type of economic distress, is the primary factor in allocating Investment Assistance.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62865, Oct. 22, 2008; 75 FR 4262, Jan. 27, 2010; 79 FR 76125, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 301.5
Matching share requirements.
The required Matching Share of a Project's eligible costs may consist of cash or In-Kind Contributions. In addition, the Eligible Applicant must provide documentation to EDA demonstrating that the Matching Share is committed to the Project, will be available as needed and is not or will not be conditioned or encumbered in any way that would preclude its use consistent with the requirements of the Investment Assistance. EDA shall determine at its sole discretion whether the Matching Share documentation adequately addresses the requirements of this section.
[82 FR 57053, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 301.6
Supplementary Investment Assistance.
(a) Pursuant to a request made by an Eligible Applicant, EDA Investment Assistance may supplement a grant awarded in another “designated Federal grant program,” if the Eligible Applicant qualifies for financial assistance under such program, but is unable to provide the required non-Federal share because of the Eligible Applicant's economic situation. For purposes of this section, a “designated Federal grant program” means a Federal grant program that:
(1) Provides assistance in the construction or equipping of public works, public service or development facilities;
(2) Is designated by EDA as eligible for supplementary Investment Assistance under this section; and
(3) Assists Projects that are otherwise eligible for Investment Assistance and consistent with the Eligible Applicant's CEDS.
(b) For a Project that meets the economic distress criteria provided in § 301.3(a), the Investment Assistance, combined with funds from a designated Federal grant program, may be at the maximum allowable Investment Rate, even if the designated Federal grant program has a lower grant rate. If the designated Federal grant program has a grant rate higher than the maximum EDA Investment Rate, the EDA Investment and other Federal funds together may exceed the EDA Investment Rate, provided that the EDA share of total funding does not exceed the maximum allowable Investment Rate.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76126, Dec. 19, 2014]

# Subpart E—Application Requirements; Evaluation Criteria
§ 301.7
Investment Assistance application.
(a) For all EDA Investment Assistance programs, including the Public Works, Economic Adjustment Assistance, Planning, Local Technical Assistance, Research and National Technical Assistance, and University Center programs, EDA will publish an FFO that specifies application submission requirements and evaluation procedures and criteria. Each FFO will be published on the EDA Web site and at
http://www.grants.gov
. All forms required for EDA Investment Assistance may be obtained electronically from
http://www.grants.gov
or from the appropriate regional office.
(b) PWEDA does not require nor does EDA provide an appeals process for denial of applications or EDA Investment Assistance.
[75 FR 4262, Jan. 27, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 76126, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57053, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 301.8
Application evaluation criteria.
EDA will screen all applications for the feasibility of the budget presented and conformance with EDA's statutory and regulatory requirements. EDA will assess the economic development needs of the affected Region in which the proposed Project will be located (or will service), as well as the capability of the Eligible Applicant to implement the proposed Project. EDA will also review applications for conformance with program-specific evaluation criteria set out in the applicable FFO.
[82 FR 57053, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 301.9
Application selection criteria.
(a) EDA will review completed application materials for compliance with the requirements set forth in PWEDA, this chapter, the applicable FFO, and other applicable Federal statutes and regulations. From those applications
that meet EDA's technical and legal requirements, EDA will select applications based on the:
(1) Availability of funds;
(2) Competitiveness of the applications in accord with the criteria set forth in § 301.8; and
(3) Funding priority considerations identified in the applicable FFO.
(b) EDA will endeavor to notify applicants as soon as practicable regarding whether their applications are selected for funding.
[79 FR 76127, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 301.10
Formal application requirements.
Each formal application for EDA Investment Assistance must:
(a) Include evidence of applicant eligibility (as set forth in § 301.2) and of economic distress (as set forth in § 301.3);
(b) Identify the sources of funds, both eligible Federal and non-EDA, and In-Kind Contributions that will constitute the required Matching Share for the Project (
see
the Matching Share requirements under § 301.5); and
(c) For Projects under parts 305 or 307 of this chapter, include a CEDS acceptable to EDA pursuant to part 303 of this chapter or otherwise incorporate by reference a current CEDS that EDA approves for the Project. The requirements stated in the preceding sentence shall not apply to:
(1) Strategy Grants, as defined in § 307.3 of this chapter; and
(2) A Project located in a Region designated as a Special Impact Area pursuant to part 310 of this chapter.
(d) Projects that propose the construction of a business, technology, or other type of incubator or accelerator, must include a feasibility study demonstrating the need for the Project and an operational plan based on industry best practices demonstrating the Eligible Applicant's plan for ongoing successful operations. EDA will provide further guidance in the applicable FFO. EDA may require the Recipient to demonstrate that the feasibility study has been conducted by an impartial third party, as determined by EDA.
[75 FR 4263, Jan. 27, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 76127, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 301.11
Infrastructure.
(a) EDA will fund both construction and non-construction infrastructure necessary to meet a Region's strategic economic development goals and needs, which in turn results in job creation. This includes infrastructure used to develop basic economic development assets as described in §§ 305.1 and 305.2 of this chapter (
e.g.,
roads, sewers, and water lines), as well as infrastructure that supports innovation and entrepreneurship. The following are examples of innovation and entrepreneurship-related infrastructure that support job creation:
(1)
Business Incubation.
Business incubation includes both physical facilities and business support services to advance the successful development of start-up companies by providing entrepreneurs with an array of targeted resources and services.
(2)
Business Acceleration.
Business acceleration includes both physical facilities and an array of business support services to help new and existing businesses develop new processes or products, get products and services to market more efficiently, expand market opportunities, or increase sales and exports.
(3)
Venture Development Organization.
A venture development organization (“
VDO
”) works to ensure that Regional economies operate as smoothly and efficiently as possible in support of innovation-based entrepreneurship. A VDO may make strategic investments of time, talent, and other resources toward innovation, entrepreneurship, and technology to help nurture and grow promising companies and ideas, thereby promoting and taking advantage of the innovation assets of a Region and addressing the needs of the high-growth, innovation-oriented start-up companies in the Region.
(4)
Proof of Concept Center.
A proof of concept center serves as a hub of collaborative and entrepreneurial activity designed to accelerate the commercialization of innovations into the marketplace. Such centers support innovation-based, high growth entrepreneurship through a range of services, including technology and market evaluation, business planning and
mentorship, network development, and early stage access to capital.
(5)
Technology Transfer.
Technology transfer is the process of transferring scientific findings from one organization to another for the purpose of further development and commercialization. The process typically includes: Identifying new technologies; protecting technologies through patents and copyrights; and forming development and commercialization strategies, such as marketing and licensing, for existing private sector companies or creating start-up companies based on the technology.
(b) In general, successful Projects, including innovation and entrepreneurship-related infrastructure, require the engagement of a broad range of Regional stakeholders and resources. Therefore through appropriate FFOs and program requirements, EDA will seek to advance interagency coordination by funding Projects that demonstrate effective leveraging of other Federal Agency resources based on a Region's strategic economic development goals and needs. For all types of Projects, EDA assistance may not be used to provide direct venture capital to a for-profit entity because of the restrictions set out in section 217 of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3154c) and part 309 of this chapter. Nonetheless, EDA may consider an application more competitive if it includes measures to address the need to provide entrepreneurs with access to early stage capital outside of the proposed EDA Project budget.
See
§ 301.8(b).
[79 FR 76127, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 57053, Dec. 1, 2017]
Pt. 302

# PART 302—GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE
Sec.
302.1
Environment.
302.2
Procedures in disaster areas.
302.3
Project servicing for loans, loan guaranties and Investment Assistance.
302.6
Additional requirements; Federal policies and procedures.
302.7
Amendments and changes.
302.8
Pre-approval Investment Assistance costs.
302.9
Inter-governmental review of projects.
302.10
Attorneys' and consultants' fees, employment of expediters, and post-employment restriction.
302.12
Project administration, operation and maintenance.
302.13
Maintenance of standards.
302.15
Acceptance of certifications made by Eligible Applicants.
302.16
Accountability.
302.17
Conflicts of interest.
302.18
Post-approval requirements.
302.19
Indemnification.
302.20
Civil rights.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 2341
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 3150; 42 U.S.C. 3152; 42 U.S.C. 3153; 42 U.S.C. 3192; 42 U.S.C. 3193; 42 U.S.C. 3194; 42 U.S.C. 3211; 42 U.S.C. 3212; 42 U.S.C. 3216; 42 U.S.C. 3218; 42 U.S.C. 3220; 42 U.S.C. 5141; 15 U.S.C. 3701; Department of Commerce Delegation Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 302.1
Environment.
EDA will undertake environmental reviews of Projects in accordance with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (Pub. L. 91-190; 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.,
as implemented under 40 CFR chapter V) (“
NEPA
”), and all applicable Federal environmental statutes, regulations, and Executive Orders. These authorities include the implementing regulations of NEPA requiring EDA to provide public notice of the availability of Project-specific environmental documents, such as environmental impact statements, environmental assessments, findings of no significant impact, and records of decision, to the affected or interested public, as specified in 40 CFR 1506.6(b). Depending on the Project's location, environmental information concerning specific Projects may be obtained from the individual serving as the Environmental Officer in the appropriate EDA regional office listed in the applicable FFO.
[79 FR 76128, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 302.2
Procedures in disaster areas.
When non-statutory EDA administrative or procedural conditions for Investment Assistance awards under PWEDA cannot be met by an Eligible Applicant as the result of a disaster, EDA may waive such conditions.
§ 302.3
Project servicing for loans, loan guaranties and Investment Assistance.
EDA will provide Project servicing to borrowers who received EDA loans or EDA-guaranteed loans and to lenders who received EDA loan guaranties under an EDA-administered program. Project servicing includes loans made under PWEDA prior to the effective date of the Economic Development Administration Reform Act of 1998, the Trade Act, and the Community Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1977 (Pub. L. 95-31; 42 U.S.C. 5184 note).
(a) EDA will continue to monitor such loans and loan guaranties in accordance with the applicable loans or loan guaranty program(s).
(b) Borrowers and lenders shall submit to EDA any requests for modifications of their loan or loan guaranty agreements with EDA, as applicable. EDA shall consider and respond to such modification requests in accordance with applicable laws and policies, including the budgetary constraints imposed by the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, as amended (2 U.S.C. 661c(e)).
(c) In the event that EDA determines it necessary or desirable to take actions to protect or further the interests of EDA in connection with loans, loan guaranties or evidence of purchased debt, EDA may:
(1) Assign or sell at public or private sale or otherwise dispose of for cash or credit, in its discretion and upon such terms and conditions as it shall determine to be reasonable, any evidence of debt, contract, claim, personal or real property, or security assigned to or held by it in connection with any EDA loans, EDA-guaranteed loans or Investment Assistance extended under PWEDA;
(2) Collect or compromise all obligations assigned to or held by it in connection with any EDA loans, EDA-guaranteed loans or Investment Assistance awarded under PWEDA until such time as such obligations may be referred to the Attorney General of the United States for suit or collection; and
(3) Take any and all other actions determined to be necessary or desirable in purchasing, servicing, compromising, modifying, liquidating, or otherwise administratively processing or disposing of loans or loan guaranties made or evidence of purchased debt in connection with any EDA loans, EDA-guaranteed loans or Investment Assistance awarded under PWEDA.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76128, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 302.6
Additional requirements; Federal policies and procedures.
Recipients are subject to all Federal laws and to Federal, Department, and EDA policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards, including 2 CFR part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.
[82 FR 57053, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 302.7
Amendments and changes.
(a) Recipients shall submit requests for amendments to Investment awards in writing to EDA for approval and shall provide such information and documentation as EDA deems necessary to justify the request.
(b) Any changes to Projects made without EDA's approval are made at the Recipient's risk of non-payment of costs, suspension, termination or other applicable EDA action with respect to the Investment.
§ 302.8
Pre-approval Investment Assistance costs.
Project activities carried out before approval of Investment Assistance shall be carried out at the sole risk of the Eligible Applicant. Such activity is subject to the rejection of the application, the disallowance of costs, or other adverse consequences as a result of non-compliance with EDA or Federal requirements, including procurement requirements, civil rights requirements, Federal labor standards, or Federal environmental, historic preservation, and related requirements.
[79 FR 76128, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 302.9
Inter-governmental review of projects.
(a) When an Eligible Applicant is not a State, Indian Tribe, or other general purpose governmental authority, the
Eligible Applicant must afford the appropriate general purpose local governmental authority (the “
Authority
”) in the Region a minimum of 15 days to review and comment on a proposed Project under EDA's Public Works and Economic Development program or a proposed construction Project or RLF Grant under EDA's Economic Adjustment Assistance program. Under these programs, the Eligible Applicant shall furnish the following with its application:
(1) If no comments are received from the Authority, a statement of efforts made to obtain such comments; or
(2) If comments are received from the Authority, a copy of the comments and a statement of any actions taken to address such comments.
(b) As required by 15 CFR part 13 and Executive Order 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,” as amended, if a State has adopted a process under Executive Order 12372 to review and coordinate proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development (commonly referred to as the “single point of contact review process”), all Eligible Applicants also must give State and local governments a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on the proposed Project, including review and comment from area-wide planning organizations in metropolitan areas, as provided for in 15 CFR part 13.
[79 FR 76128, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 302.10
Attorneys' and consultants' fees, employment of expediters, and post-employment restriction.
(a)
Employment of expediters.
Investment Assistance awarded under PWEDA shall not directly or indirectly reimburse any attorneys' or consultants' fees incurred in connection with obtaining Investment Assistance and contracts under PWEDA. Such Investment Assistance shall not be awarded to any Eligible Applicant, unless the owners, partners, or officers of the Eligible Applicant certify to EDA the names of any attorneys, agents, and other persons engaged by or on behalf of the Eligible Applicant for the purpose of expediting an application made to EDA in connection with obtaining Investment Assistance under PWEDA and the fees paid or to be paid to the person(s) for expediting the application.
(b)
Post-employment restriction.
(1) In general, any Eligible Applicant that is a non-profit organization, District Organization, or for-profit entity, for the two-year period beginning on the date on which the Investment Assistance under PWEDA is awarded to the Eligible Applicant, must refrain from employing, offering any office or employment to, or retaining for professional services any person who, on the date on which the Investment Assistance is awarded or within the one-year period ending on that date:
(i) Served as an officer, attorney, agent, or employee of the Department; and
(ii) Occupied a position or engaged in activities that the Assistant Secretary determines involved discretion with respect to the award of Investment Assistance under PWEDA.
(2) In addition to the types of Eligible Applicants noted in this paragraph (b), EDA may require another Eligible Applicant to execute an agreement to abide by the above-described post-employment restriction on a case-by-case basis; for example, when an institution of higher education implements activities under or related to the Investment Assistance through a separate non-profit organization or association.
[79 FR 76128, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 302.12
Project administration, operation and maintenance.
EDA shall approve Investment Assistance awards only if, as determined in its sole discretion, the Project for which such Investment Assistance is awarded will be properly and efficiently administered, operated and maintained.
§ 302.13
Maintenance of standards.
All laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors on Projects receiving Investment Assistance under PWEDA shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction in the locality, as determined by the U.S. Secretary of Labor in accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code. EDA shall not extend any
Investment Assistance under this chapter for a Project without first obtaining adequate assurance that these labor standards will be maintained upon the construction work. The U.S. Secretary of Labor shall have, with respect to the labor standards specified in this provision, the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan No. 14 of 1950 (15 FR 3176 (May 25, 1950); 64 Stat. 1267) and section 3145 of title 40, United States Code.
§ 302.15
Acceptance of certifications made by Eligible Applicants.
EDA will accept an Eligible Applicant's certifications, accompanied by evidence satisfactory to EDA, that the Eligible Applicant meets the requirements for receiving Investment Assistance.
§ 302.16
Accountability.
(a)
General.
Each Recipient must submit reports to EDA at intervals and in the manner that EDA shall require, except that EDA shall not require any report to be submitted more than ten years after the date of closeout of the Investment Assistance.
(b)
Data on Project effectiveness.
Each report must contain a data-specific evaluation of the effectiveness of the Investment Assistance provided in fulfilling the Project's purpose (including alleviation of economic distress and meeting Project goals) and in meeting the objectives of PWEDA. Data used by a Recipient in preparing reports shall be accurate and verifiable as determined by EDA, and from independent sources (whenever possible). EDA will use this data and report to fulfill its performance measurement reporting requirements under the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, as amended (Pub. L. 103-62) and to monitor internal, Investment, and Project performance through an internal performance measurement system.
(c)
Reporting Project service benefits.
To enable EDA to determine the economic development effect of a Project that provides service benefits, EDA may require the Recipient to submit a Project service map and information from which to determine whether services are provided to all segments of the Region being assisted.
(d)
Consequences for failure to undertake good faith efforts.
(1) The Recipient must undertake good faith efforts to fulfill the purpose of the Project as set out in the terms of the Investment Assistance and must report regularly on Project goals. In the event that EDA determines that the Recipient is failing to make good faith efforts to meet these goals, or otherwise is failing to meets its obligations under the Investment Assistance, EDA shall take necessary actions to protect EDA's interest in the Project, including the following:
(i) Discontinue disbursement of funds pending correction;
(ii) Suspend the Investment Assistance;
(iii) Terminate the Investment Assistance;
(iv) Require reimbursement of the EDA share of the Project; or
(v) Institute formal Government-wide debarment and suspension proceedings against the Recipient.
(2) Before making a determination under this subsection, EDA shall provide the Recipient with reasonable notice and opportunity to respond. A determination under this subsection is final and cannot be appealed.
[79 FR 76129, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 302.17
Conflicts of interest.
(a)
General.
It is EDA's and the Department's policy to maintain the highest standards of conduct to prevent conflicts of interest in connection with the award of Investment Assistance or its use for reimbursement or payment of costs (
e.g.,
procurement of goods or services) by or to the Recipient. A conflict of interest generally exists when an Interested Party participates in a matter that has a direct and predictable effect on the Interested Party's personal or financial interests. A conflict also may exist where there is an appearance that an Interested Party's objectivity in performing his or her responsibilities under the Project is impaired. For example, an appearance of impairment of objectivity may result from an organizational conflict where, because of other activities or relationships with other persons or entities, an Interested Party is unable to render impartial assistance, services or
advice to the Recipient, a participant in the Project or to the Federal government. Additionally, a conflict of interest may result from non-financial gain to an Interested Party, such as benefit to reputation or prestige in a professional field.
(b)
Prohibition on direct or indirect financial or personal benefits.
(1) An Interested Party shall not receive any direct or indirect financial or personal benefits in connection with the award of Investment Assistance or its use for payment or reimbursement of costs by or to the Recipient.
(2) An Interested Party also shall not, directly or indirectly, solicit or accept any gift, gratuity, favor, entertainment or other benefit having monetary value, for himself or herself or for another person or entity, from any person or organization which has obtained or seeks to obtain Investment Assistance from EDA.
(3) Costs incurred in violation of any conflicts of interest rules contained in this chapter or in violation of any assurances by the Recipient may be denied reimbursement.
(4)
See
§ 315.15 of this chapter for special conflicts of interest rules for Trade Adjustment Assistance Investments.
(c)
Special rules for Revolving Loan Fund (“RLF”) Grants.
In addition to the rules set forth in this section:
(1) An Interested Party of a Recipient of an RLF Grant shall not receive, directly or indirectly, any personal or financial benefits resulting from the disbursement of RLF loans;
(2) A Recipient of an RLF Grant shall not lend RLF funds to an Interested Party; and
(3) Former board members of a Recipient of an RLF Grant and members of his or her Immediate Family shall not receive a loan from such RLF for a period of two years from the date that the board member last served on the RLF's board of directors.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62866, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76129, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 302.18
Post-approval requirements.
A Recipient must comply with all financial, performance, progress report, and other requirements set forth in the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance, including any special award conditions and applicable Federal cost principles (collectively, “
Post-Approval Requirements”
). A Recipient's failure to comply with Post-Approval Requirements may result in the disallowance of costs, termination of the Investment Assistance award, or other adverse consequences to the Recipient.
[79 FR 76129, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 302.19
Indemnification.
To the maximum extent permitted by law, a Recipient shall indemnify and hold EDA harmless from any liability that EDA may incur due to the actions or omissions of the Recipient.
§ 302.20
Civil rights.
(a) Discrimination is prohibited by a Recipient or Other Party (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) with respect to a Project receiving Investment Assistance under PWEDA or Stevenson-Wydler or by an entity receiving Adjustment Assistance (as defined in § 315.2 of this chapter) under the Trade Act or any other type of assistance under Stevenson-Wydler, in accordance with the following authorities:
(1) Section 601 of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
) (proscribing discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin), and the Department's implementing regulations found at 15 CFR part 8;
(2) 42 U.S.C. 3123 (proscribing discrimination on the basis of sex in Investment Assistance provided under PWEDA), 42 U.S.C. 6709 (proscribing discrimination on the basis of sex under the Local Public Works Program), Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
) (proscribing discrimination on the basis of sex in any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, whether or not such program or activity is offered or sponsored by an educational institution), and the Department's implementing regulations found at 15 CFR part 8a;
(3) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794) (proscribing discrimination on the
basis of disabilities), and the Department's implementing regulations found at 15 CFR part 8b;
(4) The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6101
et seq.
) (proscribing discrimination on the basis of age), and the Department's implementing regulations found at 15 CFR part 20; and
(5) Other Federal statutes, regulations and Executive Orders, as applicable.
(b)
Definitions.
(1) For purposes of this section, an “
Other Party”
means an “other party subject to this part,” as defined in 15 CFR 8.3(l), and includes an entity which (or which is intended to) creates and/or saves 15 or more permanent jobs as a result of Investment Assistance; provided that such entity also is either specifically named in the application as benefiting from the Project, or is or will be located in an EDA building, port, facility, or industrial, commercial or business park constructed or improved in whole or in part with Investment Assistance prior to EDA's final disbursement of award funds.
(2) Additional applicable definitions are provided in 15 CFR part 8.
(c) No Recipient or Other Party shall intimidate, threaten, coerce or discriminate against any person for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by 42 U.S.C. 3123 or 42 U.S.C. 6709, or because the person has made a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under this section.
(d) All Recipients of Investment Assistance under PWEDA and Stevenson-Wydler, all Other Parties, and all entities receiving Adjustment Assistance under the Trade Act or any other type of assistance under Stevenson-Wydler must submit to EDA written assurances that they will comply with applicable laws, EDA regulations, Department regulations, and such other requirements as may be applicable, prohibiting discrimination.
(e) Reporting and other procedural matters are set forth in 15 CFR parts 8, 8a, 8b, 8c and 20.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 4263, Jan. 27, 2010; 79 FR 76129, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57053, Dec. 1, 2017]
Pt. 303

# PART 303—PLANNING INVESTMENTS AND COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
303.1
Overview of EDA's Planning Program.
303.2
Definitions.
303.3
Application requirements and evaluation criteria.
303.4
Award requirements.
303.5
Eligible administrative expenses.

# Subpart B—Partnership Planning Assistance
303.6
Partnership Planning and the EDA-funded CEDS process.
303.7
Requirements for Comprehensive Economic Development Strategies.

# Subpart C—State and Short-Term Planning Assistance
303.8
Requirements for State plans.
303.9
Requirements for short-term Planning Investments.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3143; 42 U.S.C. 3162; 42 U.S.C. 3174; 42 U.S.C. 3211; Department of Commerce Organization Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 303.1
Overview of EDA's Planning Program.
The purpose of EDA Planning Investments is to provide support to Planning Organizations for the development, implementation, revision, or replacement of Comprehensive Economic Development Strategies, and for related State plans and short-term Planning Investments designed to create and retain new and better jobs, particularly for the unemployed and underemployed in the nation's most economically distressed Regions. EDA's Planning Investments support partnerships with District Organizations, Indian Tribes, community development corporations, non-profit Regional planning organizations, and other Eligible Recipients. Planning activities supported by these Investments must be part of a continuous process involving the active participation of the private
sector, public officials, non-profit organizations, educational institutions, and private citizens, and include:
(a) Analyzing local economies;
(b) Defining economic development goals;
(c) Determining Project opportunities; and
(d) Formulating and implementing an economic development program that includes systematic efforts to reduce unemployment and increase incomes.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76129, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 303.2
Definitions.
In addition to the defined terms set forth in § 300.3 of this chapter, the following terms used in this part shall have the following meanings:
Planning Investment
means the award of EDA Investment Assistance under section 203 of PWEDA and this part.
Planning Organization
means a Recipient whose purpose is to develop and implement a CEDS for a specific EDA-approved Region under section 203 of PWEDA.
Strategy Committee
means the committee or other entity identified by the Planning Organization as responsible for the development, implementation, revision or replacement of the CEDS for the Planning Organization.
§ 303.3
Application requirements and evaluation criteria.
(a) For Planning Investment awards, EDA uses the general application evaluation criteria set forth in § 301.8 of this chapter. In addition, applications for Planning Investments must include information about the following:
(1) The proposed scope of work for the development, implementation, revision or replacement of the CEDS, or the relation of the CEDS to the proposed short-term planning activities or the State plan;
(2) Qualifications of the Eligible Applicant to implement the goals and objectives resulting from the CEDS, short-term planning activities or the State plan;
(3) The involvement of the Region's business leadership at each stage of the preparation of the CEDS, short-term planning activities or State plan;
(4) Extent of broad-based representation and involvement of the Region's civic, business, labor, minority and other interests in the Eligible Applicant's economic development activities; and
(5) Feasibility of the proposed scope of work to create and retain new and better jobs through implementation of the CEDS.
(b) In addition to the criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, funded Recipients are evaluated on the basis of the extent of continuing economic distress within the Region, their past performance, and the overall effectiveness of their CEDS.
(c) For Planning Investment awards to a State, the Assistant Secretary also shall consider the extent to which the State will integrate and coordinate its CEDS with local and Economic Development District plans.
(d) The Investment Rates for Planning Investments will be determined in accordance with § 301.4 of this chapter.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76129, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 303.4
Award requirements.
(a) Planning Investments shall be coordinated with and effectively leverage any other available Federal, State, or local planning assistance and private sector investments.
(b) Except in compelling circumstances as determined by the Assistant Secretary, EDA will not provide Planning Investments for multiple CEDS that address the needs of an identical or substantially similar Region.
(c) EDA will provide a Planning Investment for the period of time required to develop, revise or replace, and implement a CEDS, generally in 36-month renewable Investment project periods.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62866, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76130, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 303.5
Eligible administrative expenses.
In accordance with applicable Federal cost principles, Planning Investments may be used to pay the direct and indirect costs incurred by a Planning Organization in the development,
implementation, revision or replacement of a CEDS and for related short-term planning activities.

# Subpart B—Partnership Planning Assistance
§ 303.6
Partnership Planning and the EDA-funded CEDS process.
(a)
Partnership Planning Overview.
Partnership Planning Investments support a nationwide network of Planning Organizations to provide comprehensive economic development planning services to distressed Regions. EDA makes Partnership Planning Investments to enable Planning Organizations to manage and coordinate the development and implementation of CEDS to address the unique needs of their respective Regions.
(b)
CEDS Process.
If EDA awards Investment Assistance to a Planning Organization to develop, revise, or replace a CEDS, the Planning Organization must follow the procedures set forth in this section:
(1)
CEDS Strategy Committee.
The Planning Organization must appoint a Strategy Committee. The Strategy Committee must represent the main economic interests of the Region, which may include Indian tribes, the private sector, State and other public officials, community leaders, private individuals, representatives of workforce development boards, institutions of higher education, minority and labor groups, and others who can contribute to and benefit from improved economic development in the relevant Region. In addition, the Strategy Committee must demonstrate the capacity to undertake a collaborative and effective planning process.
(2)
Public notice and comment.
The Planning Organization must develop and submit to EDA a CEDS that complies with the requirements of § 303.7. Before submission to EDA, the Planning Organization must provide the public and appropriate governments and interest groups in the relevant Region with adequate notice of and opportunity to comment on the CEDS. The comment period shall be at least 30 days and the Planning Organization shall make the CEDS readily available through appropriate means of distribution, electronically and otherwise, throughout the comment period. The Planning Organization also shall make the CEDS available in hardcopy upon request. EDA may require the Planning Organization to provide any comments received and demonstrate how the comments were resolved.
(3)
Reports and updates.
(i) After obtaining EDA approval of the CEDS, the Planning Organization must submit annually an updated CEDS performance report to EDA.
(ii) The Planning Organization must submit a new or revised CEDS to EDA at least every five years, unless EDA or the Planning Organization determines that a new or revised CEDS is required earlier due to changed circumstances. In connection with the submission of a new or revised CEDS, the Planning Organization shall use its best efforts to obtain renewed commitments from participating counties or other areas within the District to support the economic development activities of the District. Provided the Planning Organization can document a good faith effort to obtain renewed commitments, the inability to secure renewed commitments shall not disqualify a CEDS update.
(iii) Any updated CEDS performance report that results in a change of the requirements set forth in § 303.7(b)(1)(iii) of the EDA-accepted CEDS or any new or revised CEDS, must be available for review and comment by the public in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Inadequate CEDS.
If EDA determines that implementation of the CEDS is inadequate, it will notify the Planning Organization in writing and the Planning Organization shall submit to EDA a new or revised CEDS.
(5)
Regional Commission notification.
If any part of a Region is covered by one or more of the Regional Commissions as set forth in section 404 of PWEDA, the Planning Organization shall ensure that a copy of the CEDS is provided to the Regional Commission(s).
[79 FR 76130, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 57054, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 303.7
Requirements for Comprehensive Economic Development Strategies.
(a)
General.
CEDS are designed to bring together the public and private sectors in the creation of an economic roadmap to diversify and strengthen Regional economies. The CEDS should analyze the Regional economy and serve as a guide for establishing Regional goals and objectives, developing and implementing a Regional plan of action, and identifying investment priorities and funding sources. Public and private sector partnerships are critical to the implementation of the integral elements of a CEDS set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. As a performance-based plan, the CEDS will serve a critical role in a Region's efforts to defend against economic dislocations due to global trade, competition and other events resulting in the loss of jobs and private investment.
(b)
Strategy requirements.
(1) A CEDS must be the result of a continuing economic development planning process, developed with broad-based and diverse public and private sector participation. Consistent with section 302 of PWEDA, each CEDS must promote Regional resiliency and be unique and responsive to the relevant Region. Each CEDS must include:
(i) A summary of economic development conditions of the Region;
(ii) An in-depth analysis of economic and community development strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats (commonly known as a “
SWOT”
analysis);
(iii) Strategies and an implementation plan to build upon the Region's strengths and opportunities and resolve the weaknesses and threats facing the Region, which should not be inconsistent with applicable State and local economic development or workforce development strategies; and
(iv) Performance measures used to evaluate the Planning Organization's successful development and implementation of the CEDS.
(2) EDA will publish and periodically update specific CEDS content guidelines.
(c)
Consideration of non-EDA funded CEDS.
(1) In determining the acceptability of a CEDS prepared independently of EDA Investment Assistance or oversight for Projects under parts 305 and 307 of this chapter, EDA may in its discretion determine that the CEDS is acceptable so long as it includes all of the elements listed in paragraph (b) of this section. In certain circumstances, EDA may accept a non-EDA funded CEDS that does not contain all the elements listed in paragraph (b) of this section. In doing so, EDA shall consider the circumstances surrounding the application for Investment Assistance, including emergencies or natural disasters and the fulfillment of the requirements of section 302 of PWEDA.
(2) If the CEDS for a Project under parts 305 and 307 of this chapter is developed under another federally-supported program, it must include acceptable performance measures similar to those set forth in paragraph (b) of this section and information on the state of the Regional economy. To the maximum extent practicable, the CEDS shall be consistent and coordinated with any existing economic development plan for the Region.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76130, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57054, Dec. 1, 2017]

# Subpart C—State and Short-Term Planning Assistance
§ 303.8
Requirements for State plans.
(a) As a condition of a State receiving a Planning Investment:
(1) The State must have or develop a CEDS that meets the requirements of § 303.7;
(2) Any State plan developed with Planning Investment Assistance must, to the maximum extent practicable, be developed cooperatively by the State, political subdivisions of the State, and the Economic Development Districts located wholly or partially in the State; and
(3) The State must submit to EDA an annual report on any State plan receiving Planning Investment Assistance.
(b) Before awarding a Planning Investment to a State, EDA shall consider the extent to which the State will take into account local and District economic development plans.
§ 303.9
Requirements for short-term Planning Investments.
(a) In addition to providing support for CEDS and State plans, EDA also may provide Investment Assistance to support short-term planning activities. EDA may provide such Investment Assistance to:
(1) Develop the economic development planning capacity of States, cities and other Eligible Applicants experiencing economic distress;
(2) Assist in institutional capacity building; or
(3) Undertake innovative approaches to economic development.
(b) Eligible activities may include updating a portion of a CEDS, economic analysis, development of economic development policies and procedures, and development of economic development goals.
(c) Applicants for short-term Planning Investments must provide performance measures acceptable to EDA that can be used to evaluate the success of the program and provide EDA with progress reports during the term of the Planning Investment, as set forth in the Investment agreement.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76130, Dec. 19, 2014]
Pt. 304

# PART 304—ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
Sec.
304.1
Designation of Economic Development Districts: Regional eligibility.
304.2
District Organizations: Formation, organizational requirements and operations.
304.3
District modification and termination.
304.4
Performance evaluations.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3122; 42 U.S.C. 3171; 42 U.S.C. 3172; 42 U.S.C. 3196; Department of Commerce Organization Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 304.1
Designation of Economic Development Districts: Regional eligibility.
Upon the request of a District Organization (as defined in § 304.2), EDA may designate a Region as an Economic Development District if such Region:
(a) Contains at least one geographic area that is subject to the economic distress criteria set forth in § 301.3(a)(1) of this chapter and is identified in an approved CEDS;
(b) Is of sufficient size or population and contains sufficient resources to foster economic development on a scale involving more than a single geographic area subject to the economic distress criteria set forth in § 301.3(a)(1) of this chapter;
(c) Has an EDA-approved CEDS that:
(1) Meets the requirements under § 303.7 of this chapter;
(2) Contains a specific program for intra-District cooperation, self-help, and public investment; and
(3) Is approved by each affected State and by the Assistant Secretary;
(d) Obtains commitments from at least a majority of the counties or other areas within the proposed District, as determined by EDA, to support the economic development activities of the District; and
(e) Obtains the concurrence with the designation request from the State (or States) in which the proposed District will be wholly or partially located.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76131, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 304.2
District Organizations: Formation, organizational requirements and operations.
(a)
General.
A “
District Organization
” is an entity that satisfies the formation and organizational requirements under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Formation.
A District Organization must be organized as one of the following:
(1) A public organization formed through an inter-governmental agreement providing for the joint exercise of local government powers; or
(2) A public organization established under State-enabling legislation for the creation of multi-jurisdictional area-wide planning organizations; or
(3) A non-profit organization incorporated under the applicable non-profit statutes of the State in which it is incorporated.
(c)
Organization and governance.
(1) Each District Organization must meet the requirements of this paragraph (c)
concerning membership composition, the maintenance of adequate staff support to perform its economic development functions, and its authorities and responsibilities for carrying out economic development functions. The District Organization's board of directors (or other governing body) also must meet these requirements.
(2) The District Organization must demonstrate that its governing body is broadly representative of the principal economic interests of the Region, which may include the private sector, public officials, community leaders, representatives of workforce development boards, institutions of higher education, minority and labor groups, and private individuals. In addition, the governing body must demonstrate the capacity to implement the EDA-approved CEDS.
(3) The District Organization must be assisted by a professional staff drawn from qualified persons in economic development, planning, business development or related disciplines.
(4) The governing bodies of District Organizations must provide access for persons who are not members to make their views known concerning ongoing and proposed District activities in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) The District Organization must hold meetings open to the public at least twice a year and also shall publish the date and agenda of such meetings sufficiently in advance to allow the public a reasonable time to prepare in order to participate effectively.
(ii) The District Organization shall adopt a system of parliamentary procedures to assure that board members and others have access to an effective opportunity to participate in the affairs of the District.
(iii) The District Organization shall provide information sufficiently in advance of decisions to give the public adequate opportunity to review and react to proposals. District Organizations should communicate technical data and other material to the public so they may understand the impact of public programs, available options and alternative decisions.
(iv) The District Organization must make available to the public such audited statements, annual budgets and minutes of public meetings, as may be reasonably requested.
(v) The District Organization and its board of directors must comply with all Federal and State financial assistance reporting requirements and the conflicts of interest provisions set forth in § 302.17 of this chapter.
(d)
Operations.
(1) The District Organization shall engage in the full range of economic development activities listed in its EDA-approved CEDS. These activities may include:
(i) Coordinating and implementing economic development activities in the District;
(ii) Carrying out economic development research, planning, implementation and advisory functions identified in the CEDS; and
(iii) Coordinating the development and implementation of the CEDS with other local, State, Federal and private organizations.
(2) The District Organization may at its option contract for services to accomplish the activities listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76131, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57054, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 304.3
District modification and termination.
(a)
Modification.
Upon the request of a District Organization and with the concurrence of the State or States affected (unless such concurrence is waived by the Assistant Secretary), EDA may modify the geographic boundaries of a District, if it determines that such modification will contribute to a more effective program for economic development.
(b)
Termination.
EDA may, upon 60 days prior written notice to the District Organization, member counties, and other areas determined by EDA and each affected State, terminate a Region's designation as an Economic Development District when:
(1) A District or District Organization no longer meets the requirements of §§ 304.1 or 304.2; or
(2) EDA determines that the District Organization fails to execute its CEDS
according to the development, implementation and other performance measures set forth therein; or
(3) A District Organization has requested termination.
(c) Prior to terminating a District Organization under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, EDA will consult with the District Organization and consider all facts and circumstances regarding the District Organization's operations. EDA will not terminate a District's designation based on circumstances beyond the control of the District Organization (e.g., natural disaster, plant closure, overall economic downturn, sudden and severe economic dislocation, or other situation).
(d) EDA may further modify or terminate a Region's designation as a District according to the standards set forth in an FFO.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76131, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 304.4
Performance evaluations.
(a) EDA shall evaluate the management standards, financial accountability and program performance of each District Organization within three years after the initial Investment award and at least once every three years thereafter, so long as the District Organization continues to receive Investment Assistance. EDA's evaluation shall assess:
(1) The continuing Regional eligibility of the District, as set forth in § 304.1;
(2) The management of the District Organization, as set forth in § 304.2; and
(3) The implementation of the CEDS, including the District Organization's performance and contribution towards the retention and creation of employment, as set forth in § 303.7 of this chapter.
(b) For peer review, EDA shall ensure the participation of at least one other District Organization in the performance evaluation on a cost-reimbursement basis.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76131, Dec. 19, 2014]
Pt. 305

# PART 305—PUBLIC WORKS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
305.1
Purpose and scope.
305.2
Award requirements.
305.3
Application requirements.
305.4
Projects for design and engineering work.

# Subpart B—Requirements for Approved Projects
305.5
Project administration by District Organization.
305.6
Allowable methods of procurement for construction services.
305.7
Services performed by the Recipient's own forces.
305.8
Recipient-furnished equipment and materials.
305.9
Project phasing and Investment disbursement.
305.10
Bid underrun and overrun.
305.11
Contract awards; early construction start.
305.12
Project sign.
305.13
Contract change orders.
305.14
Occupancy prior to completion.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3211; 42 U.S.C. 3141; Department of Commerce Organization Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 305.1
Purpose and scope.
Public Works and Economic Development Investments (“
Public Works Investments”
) intend to help the nation's most distressed communities revitalize, expand, and upgrade their physical infrastructure (as defined in § 301.11 of this chapter) to attract new industry, encourage business expansion, diversify local economies, and generate or retain long-term private sector jobs and investments. The primary goal of these Investments is to create new or retain existing, long-term private sector job opportunities in communities experiencing significant economic distress as evidenced by chronic high unemployment, underemployment, low per capita income, outmigration, or a Special Need. These Investments also intend to assist communities in attracting private capital investment
and new and better job opportunities and to promote the successful long-term economic recovery of a Region.
[79 FR 76131, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 305.2
Award requirements.
(a)
Project scope.
Public Works Investments may fund the following activities:
(1) Acquisition or development of land and improvements for use in a public works, public service or other type of development facility; or
(2) Acquisition, design and engineering, construction, rehabilitation, alteration, expansion, or improvement of such a facility, including related machinery and equipment.
(b)
Requirements.
A Public Works Investment may be made if EDA determines that:
(1) The Project will, directly or indirectly:
(i) Improve the opportunities for the successful establishment or expansion of industrial or commercial plants or facilities in the Region where the Project is located;
(ii) Assist in the creation of additional long-term employment opportunities in the Region; or
(iii) Primarily benefit the long-term unemployed and members of low-income families in the Region;
(2) The Project will fulfill a pressing need of the Region, or a part of the Region, in which the Project is located; and
(3) The Region in which the Project is located has a CEDS and the Project is consistent with the CEDS.
(c) Not more than 15 percent of the annual appropriations made available to EDA to fund Public Works Investments may be made in any one State.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76131, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 305.3
Application requirements.
(a) Each application for Public Works Investment Assistance must:
(1) Include evidence of eligibility, as provided in part 301 of this chapter;
(2) Include, or incorporate by reference, a CEDS (as provided in § 303.7 of this chapter);
(3) Demonstrate how the proposed Project meets the criteria of § 305.2; and
(4) Demonstrate how the proposed Project meets the application evaluation criteria set forth in § 301.8 of this chapter.
(b) The Investment Rate for Public Works Investments will be determined in accordance with § 301.4 of this chapter.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 4264, Jan. 27, 2010]
§ 305.4
Projects for design and engineering work.
In the case of Public Works Investment Assistance awarded solely for design and engineering work, the following additional application requirements and terms shall apply:
(a) EDA may determine that a separate Investment for design and engineering is warranted due to the technical complexity or environmental sensitivity of the construction Project;
(b) The purpose of the Investment may be limited to the development and production of all documents required for the construction of the proposed construction Project in a format and in sufficient quantity to permit advertisement and award of a construction contract soon after securing construction financing for the Project;
(c) EDA will not disburse any portion of the Investment Assistance until it receives and certifies compliance with the Investment award of all design and engineering contracts; and
(d) EDA's funding of the Project for design and engineering work does not in any way commit EDA to fund construction of the Project.

# Subpart B—Requirements for Approved Projects
§ 305.5
Project administration by District Organization.
(a) When a District Organization is not the Recipient or co-Recipient of Investment Assistance, the District Organization may administer the Project for the Recipient if EDA determines fulfillment of the following conditions:
(1) The Recipient has requested (either in the application or by separate written request) that the District Organization for the Region in which the Project is located administer the Project;
(2) The Recipient certifies and EDA finds that:
(i) Administration of the Project is beyond the capacity of the Recipient's current staff and would require hiring additional staff or contracting for such services;
(ii) No local organization or business exists that could administer the Project in a more efficient or cost-effective manner than the staff of the District Organization; and
(iii) The staff of the District Organization would administer the Project without sub-contracting the work; and
(3) The allowable costs for the administration of the Project by the District Organization's staff will not exceed the amount that would be allowable to the Recipient.
(b) EDA must approve the request either by approving the application in which the request is made or by separate specific written approval.
§ 305.6
Allowable methods of procurement for construction services.
(a) Recipients shall seek EDA's prior written approval to use alternate construction procurement methods to the traditional design/bid/build procedures (including lump sum or unit price-type construction contracts). These alternate methods may include design/build, construction management at risk, and force account. If an alternate method is used, the Recipient shall submit to EDA for approval a construction services procurement plan and the Recipient must use a design professional to oversee the process. The Recipient shall submit the plan to EDA prior to advertisement for bids and shall include the following, as applicable:
(1) Justification for the proposed method for procurement of construction services, including a brief analysis of the appropriateness and benefits of using the method to successfully execute the Project and the Recipient's experience in using the method;
(2) The scope of work with cost estimates and schedules;
(3) A copy of the proposed construction contract;
(4) The name and qualifications of the selected design professional; and
(5) Procedures to be used to ensure full and open competition, including the selection criteria.
(b) For all procurement methods, the Recipient must comply with the procedures and standards set forth in 2 CFR part 200.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62866, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76131, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57054, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 305.7
Services performed by the Recipient's own forces.
In certain circumstances, the Recipient may wish to consider having a portion or all of the design, construction, inspection, legal services or other work and/or services in connection with the Project performed by personnel who are employed by the Recipient either full-time or part-time. EDA may approve the use of such “in-house forces” if:
(a) The services are routinely performed by the Recipient for all construction Projects performed by the Recipient (for example, inspection or legal); or
(b) The Recipient has a special skill required for the construction of the Project (for example, construction of unique Indian structures); or
(c) The Recipient has made all reasonable efforts to obtain a contractor but has failed to do so because of uncontrollable factors such as the remoteness of the Project site or an overabundance of construction work in the Region; or
(d) The Recipient demonstrates substantial cost savings.
§ 305.8
Recipient-furnished equipment and materials.
The Recipient may wish to incorporate into the Project equipment or materials that it will secure through its own efforts, subject to the following requirements:
(a) EDA must approve any use of Recipient-furnished equipment and materials. EDA may require that major equipment items be subject to a lien in favor of EDA and also may require a statement from the Recipient regarding expected useful life and salvage value of such equipment;
(b) EDA may require the Recipient to establish that the expense claimed for
such equipment or materials is competitive with current local market costs; and
(c) Acquisition of Recipient-furnished equipment or materials under this section also is subject to the requirements of 2 CFR part 200.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76132, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57054, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 305.9
Project phasing and Investment disbursement.
(a) EDA may authorize in advance the award of construction contracts in phases, provided the Recipient submits a request that includes each of the following:
(1) Valid reasons justifying why the Project must be phased;
(2) Description of the specific elements to be completed in each phase;
(3) Detailed construction cost estimates for each phase;
(4) Time schedules for completing all phases of the Project;
(5) Certification that the Recipient can and will fund any overrun(s); and
(6) Certification that the Recipient is capable of paying incurred costs prior to the first disbursement of EDA funds.
(b) EDA will begin disbursement of funds after receipt of evidence sufficient to EDA of compliance with all Investment award conditions. EDA may approve the disbursement of funds prior to the tender of all construction contracts if the Recipient can demonstrate to EDA's satisfaction that a severe financial hardship will result without such approval.
§ 305.10
Bid underrun and overrun.
(a)
Underrun.
If at the construction contract bid opening, the lowest responsive bid is less than the total Project cost, the Recipient shall notify EDA immediately to determine relevant procedures.
(b)
Overrun.
(1) In the case of an overrun at the construction contract bid opening, the Recipient may:
(i) If provided for in the bid documents, take deductive alternatives to eliminate certain Project elements in case of insufficient funds in the exact order shown on the invitation for bid until at least one of the responsive bids, less deductive alternative(s), results in a price within the budget for that item of work;
(ii) Reject all bids and re-advertise if there is a rational basis to expect that re-advertising will result in a lower bid; or
(iii) Augment the Matching Share by an amount sufficient to cover the excess cost. The Recipient must furnish a letter to EDA identifying the source of the additional funds and confirming that the Matching Share meets the requirements of § 301.5 of this chapter.
(2) If the Recipient demonstrates to EDA's satisfaction that the options listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are not feasible and the Project cannot be completed otherwise, the Recipient may submit a written request to EDA for additional funding in accordance with applicable EDA guidance. The award of additional Investment Assistance is at EDA's sole discretion and will be considered in accord with EDA's competitive process requirements. EDA's consideration of a request for additional Investment Assistance does not indicate approval.
[79 FR 76132, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 305.11
Contract awards; early construction start.
EDA must determine that the award of all contracts necessary for design and construction of the Project facilities is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Investment award in order for the costs to be eligible for EDA reimbursement. Pending this determination, the Recipient may issue a notice permitting construction under the contract to commence. If construction commences prior to EDA's determination, the Recipient proceeds at its own risk until EDA review and concurrence. The EDA regional office will advise the Recipient of the requirements necessary to obtain EDA's determination.
§ 305.12
Project sign.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the construction, erection and maintenance in good condition throughout the construction period of a sign or signs at a conspicuous place at the Project site indicating that the Federal government is participating in the Project. The EDA regional office will
provide mandatory specifications for the signage.
§ 305.13
Contract change orders.
(a) If it becomes necessary to alter the construction contracts post-execution, the Recipient and contractor shall agree to a formal contract change order.
(b) All contract change orders must receive EDA review for compliance with the terms and conditions of the Investment award, even if the Recipient is to pay for all additional costs resulting from the change or the change order reduces the contract price.
(c) Work on the Project may continue pending EDA review of the contract change order, but all such work will be at the Recipient's risk until EDA completes its review.
§ 305.14
Occupancy prior to completion.
Occupancy of any part of the Project prior to final acceptance is entirely at the Recipient's risk and must follow the requirements of local and State law.
Pt. 306

# PART 306—TRAINING, RESEARCH AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE INVESTMENTS

# Subpart A—Local and National Technical Assistance
Sec.
306.1
Purpose and scope.
306.2
Award requirements.
306.3
Application requirements.

# Subpart B—University Center Economic Development Program
306.4
Purpose and scope.
306.5
Award requirements.
306.6
Application requirements.
306.7
Performance evaluations of University Centers.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3147; 42 U.S.C. 3196; 42 U.S.C. 3211; Department of Commerce Organization Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Local and National Technical Assistance
§ 306.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) Local and National Technical Assistance Investments may be awarded to:
(1) Determine the causes of excessive unemployment, underemployment, low per capita income, outmigration or other problems throughout the nation;
(2) Formulate and implement economic development tools, models, and innovative techniques that will alleviate or prevent conditions of excessive unemployment or underemployment;
(3) Formulate and implement economic development programs to increase local, regional and national capacity;
(4) Evaluate the effectiveness and economic impact of programs, projects and techniques to alleviate economic distress and promote economic development;
(5) Conduct project planning and feasibility studies;
(6) Provide management and operational assistance;
(7) Establish business outreach centers;
(8) Disseminate information about effective programs, projects and techniques that alleviate conditions of economic distress and promote economic development;
(9) Assess, market and establish business clusters and associations; or
(10) Perform other activities determined by EDA to be appropriate under the Local and National Technical Assistance program.
(b) Investment Assistance may not be used to start or expand a private business.
(c) EDA may identify specific training, research or technical assistance Projects it will fund, which will be subject to competition. Ordinarily, these Projects are specified in an FFO, which will provide the specific requirements, timelines and the appropriate points of contact and addresses.
(d) In providing Local and National Technical Assistance under this subpart, EDA, in addition to making Investments, may:
(1) Provide Local and National Technical Assistance through officers or employees of the Department;
(2) Pay funds made available to carry out this subpart to Federal Agencies; or
(3) Employ private individuals, partnerships, businesses, corporations, or appropriate institutions under contracts entered into for this purpose.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76132, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 306.2
Award requirements.
EDA selects Projects for Local and National Technical Assistance Investments in accordance with the general evaluation and selection criteria set forth in part 301 of this chapter and the extent to which the Project:
(a) Strengthens the capacity of local, State or national organizations and institutions to undertake and promote effective economic development programs targeted to Regions of distress;
(b) Benefits distressed Regions;
(c) Demonstrates innovative approaches to stimulate economic development in distressed Regions;
(d) Is consistent with an EDA-approved CEDS, as applicable, for the Region in which the Project is located; and
(e) Meets the criteria outlined in the applicable FFO.
§ 306.3
Application requirements.
(a) EDA will provide Investment Assistance under this subpart for the period of time required to complete the Project's scope of work, generally not to exceed 12 to 18 months.
(b) For a Project of significant Regional or national scope, EDA may waive the requirement set forth in § 301.2(b) of this chapter that the non-profit organization act in cooperation with officials of a political subdivision of a State.
(c) The Investment Rate for Investments under this subpart shall be determined in accordance with § 301.4(b)(4) of this chapter.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76132, Dec. 19, 2014]

# Subpart B—University Center Economic Development Program
§ 306.4
Purpose and scope.
The University Center Economic Development Program is intended to help improve the economies of distressed Regions. Institutions of higher education have many assets, such as faculty, staff, libraries, laboratories, and computer systems that can address local economic problems and opportunities. With Investment Assistance, institutions of higher education establish and operate research centers (“
University Centers”
) that provide technical assistance to public and private sector organizations with the goal of enhancing local economic development.
[79 FR 76132, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 306.5
Award requirements.
EDA provides Investment Assistance to University Center Projects in accordance with the general evaluation and selection criteria set forth in part 301 of this chapter, the competitive selection process outlined in the applicable FFO, and the extent to which the Project:
(a) Addresses the economic development needs, issues and opportunities of the Region and will benefit distressed areas in the Region;
(b) Provides service and value that are unique and will maximize coordination with other organizations in the Region;
(c) Has the commitment and support (both financial and non-financial) of the highest management levels of the sponsoring institution;
(d) Outlines activities consistent with the expertise of the proposed staff, academic programs and other resources available within the sponsoring institution; and
(e) Documents past experience of the sponsoring institution in operating technical assistance programs.
§ 306.6
Application requirements.
(a) EDA will provide Investment Assistance under this subpart for the period of time required to complete the Project's scope of work, as specifically outlined in the applicable FFO.
(b) For a Project of significant Regional or national scope, EDA may waive the requirement set forth in § 301.2(b) of this chapter that the non-profit organization act in cooperation with officials of a political subdivision of a State.
(c) The Investment Rate for Investments under this subpart shall be determined in accordance with § 301.4(b)(4) of this chapter.
(d) At least 80 percent of EDA funding must be allocated to direct costs of program delivery.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76132, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 306.7
Performance evaluations of University Centers.
(a) EDA will:
(1) Evaluate each University Center within three years after the initial Investment award and at least once every three years thereafter, so long as such University Center continues to receive Investment Assistance; and
(2) Assess the University Center's contribution to providing technical assistance, conducting applied research, meeting program performance objectives (as evidenced by retention and creation of employment opportunities) and disseminating Project results in accordance with the scope of work funded during the evaluation period.
(b) The performance evaluation will determine in part whether a University Center can compete to receive Investment Assistance under the University Center Economic Development Program for the following Investment Assistance cycle.
(c) For peer review, EDA shall ensure the participation of at least one other University Center in the performance evaluation on a cost-reimbursement basis.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76132, Dec. 19, 2014]
Pt. 307

# PART 307—ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE INVESTMENTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
307.1
Purpose.
307.2
Criteria for Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments.
307.3
Use of Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments.
307.4
Award requirements.
307.5
Application requirements.

# Subpart B—Revolving Loan Fund Program
307.6
Revolving Loan Funds established for lending.
307.7
Revolving Loan Fund award requirements.
307.8
Definitions.
307.9
Revolving Loan Fund Plan.
307.10
Pre-loan requirements.
307.11
Pre-disbursement requirements and disbursement of funds to Revolving Loan Funds.
307.12
Revolving Loan Fund Income requirements during the Revolving Phase; payments on defaulted and written off Revolving Loan Fund loans; Voluntarily Contributed Capital.
307.13
Records and retention.
307.14
Revolving Loan Fund report.
307.15
Prudent management of Revolving Loan Funds.
307.16
Risk Analysis System.
307.17
Requirements for Revolving Loan Fund Cash Available for Lending.
307.18
Addition of lending areas; consolidation and merger of RLFs.
307.19
RLF loan portfolio Sales and Securitizations.
307.20
Noncompliance.
307.21
Remedies for noncompliance.
307.22
Variances.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3211; 42 U.S.C. 3149; 42 U.S.C. 3161; 42 U.S.C. 3162; 42 U.S.C. 3233; Department of Commerce Organization Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 307.1
Purpose.
The purpose of Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments is to address the needs of communities experiencing adverse economic changes that may occur suddenly or over time, including those caused by:
(a) Military base closures or realignments, defense contractor reductions in force, or U.S. Department of Energy defense-related funding reductions;
(b) Federally Declared Disaster;
(c) International trade;
(d) Long-term economic deterioration;
(e) Loss of a major community employer; or
(f) Loss of manufacturing jobs.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76132, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 307.2
Criteria for Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments.
(a) Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments are intended to enhance a distressed community's ability to compete economically by stimulating private investment in targeted economic sectors through use of tools that:
(1) Help develop and implement a CEDS;
(2) Expand the capacity of public officials and economic development organizations to work effectively with businesses;
(3) Assist in overcoming major obstacles identified in the CEDS;
(4) Enable communities to plan and coordinate the use of Federal resources and other resources available to support economic recovery, development of Regional economies, or recovery from natural or other disasters; or
(5) Encourage the development of innovative public and private approaches to economic restructuring and revitalization.
(b) Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments may be made when the Project funded by the Investment will help the Region meet a Special Need. The Region in which a Project is located must have a CEDS with which the Project is consistent (except that this requirement shall not apply to Strategy Grants described in § 307.3).
§ 307.3
Use of Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments.
Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments may be used to develop a CEDS to alleviate long-term economic deterioration or a sudden and severe economic dislocation (a
“Strategy Grant”
), or to fund a Project implementing such a CEDS (an
“Implementation Grant”
).
(a) Strategy Grants support developing, updating or refining a CEDS.
(b) Implementation Grants support the execution of activities identified in a CEDS. Specific activities may be funded as separate Investments or as multiple elements of a single Investment. Examples of Implementation Grant activities include:
(1) Infrastructure (as defined in § 301.11 of this chapter) improvements, such as site acquisition, site preparation, construction, rehabilitation and equipping of facilities;
(2) Provision of business or infrastructure financing through the capitalization of Recipient-administered Revolving Loan Funds (“
RLFs”
), which may include loans and interest rate buy-downs to facilitate business lending activities;
(3) Market or industry research and analysis;
(4) Technical assistance, including organizational development such as business networking, restructuring or improving the delivery of business services, or feasibility studies;
(5) Public services;
(6) Training; and
(7) Other activities justified by the CEDS that satisfy applicable statutory and regulatory requirements.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76132, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 307.4
Award requirements.
(a)
General.
EDA will select Economic Adjustment Assistance Projects in accordance with part 301 of this chapter and the additional criteria provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, as applicable. Funding priority considerations for Economic Adjustment Assistance, including RLF Grants, may be set forth in an FFO.
(b)
Strategy Grants.
EDA will review Strategy Grant applications to ensure that the proposed activities conform to the CEDS requirements set forth in § 303.7 of this chapter. Strategy Grants shall comply with the applicable provisions of part 303 of this chapter.
(c)
Implementation Grants.
(1) EDA will review Implementation Grant applications for the extent to which the:
(i) Applicable CEDS meets the requirements in § 303.7 of this chapter; and
(ii) Proposed Project is identified as a necessary element of or consistent with the applicable CEDS.
(2) Implementation Grants involving construction shall comply with the provisions of subpart B of part 305 of this chapter.
(3) Implementation Grants that do not involve construction shall comply
with the applicable provisions of subpart A of part 306 of this chapter.
(d)
See
§ 307.7 for RLF award requirements.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 4264, Jan. 27, 2010; 79 FR 76132, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 307.5
Application requirements.
(a) Each application for Economic Adjustment Assistance must:
(1) Include or incorporate by reference (if so approved by EDA) a CEDS, except that a CEDS is not required when applying for a Strategy Grant; and
(2) Explain how the proposed Project meets the criteria set forth in § 307.2.
(b) For a technical assistance Project of significant Regional or national scope under this subpart, EDA may waive the requirement set forth in § 301.2(b) of this chapter that the non-profit organization act in cooperation with officials of a political subdivision of a State.

# Subpart B—Revolving Loan Fund Program
§ 307.6
Revolving Loan Funds established for lending.
Economic Adjustment Assistance Grants to capitalize or recapitalize RLFs most commonly fund business lending, but also may fund public infrastructure or other authorized lending activities. The requirements in this subpart apply to EDA-funded RLFs. Special award conditions may contain appropriate modifications of these requirements.
[82 FR 57054, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.7
Revolving Loan Fund award requirements.
(a) For Eligible Applicants seeking to capitalize or recapitalize an RLF, EDA will review applications for the following, as applicable:
(1) Need for a new or expanded public financing tool to:
(i) Enhance other business assistance programs and services targeting economic sectors and locations described in the CEDS; or
(ii) Provide appropriate support for post-disaster economic recovery efforts in Presidentially Declared Disaster areas;
(2) Types of financing activities anticipated; and
(3) Capacity of the RLF organization to manage lending activities, create networks between the business community and other financial providers, and implement the CEDS.
(b) RLF Grants shall comply with the requirements set forth in this part, as well as relevant provisions of parts 300 through 303, 305, and 314 of this chapter and in the following publications:
(1) EDA's RLF Standard Terms and Conditions; and
(2) The Compliance Supplement, which is appendix XI to 2 CFR part 200 and is available on the OMB Web site at
https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars_default.
[79 FR 76133, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 57055, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.8
Definitions.
In addition to the defined terms set forth in § 300.3 of this chapter, the following terms used in this part shall have the following meanings:
Allowable Cash Percentage
means the average percentage of the RLF Capital Base maintained as RLF Cash Available for Lending by RLF Recipients in each EDA regional office's portfolio of RLF Grants over the previous year.
Closed Loan
means any loan for which all required documentation has been received, reviewed and executed by an RLF Recipient.
Disbursement Phase
means the period of loan activity where Grant funds awarded have not been fully disbursed to the RLF Recipient.
Exempt Security
means a Security that is not subject to certain SEC or Federal Reserve Board rules.
Prudent Lending Practices
means generally accepted underwriting and lending practices for public loan programs, based on sound judgment to protect Federal and lender interests. Prudent Lending Practices include loan processing, documentation, loan approval, collections, servicing, administrative procedures, collateral protection and recovery actions. Prudent Lending Practices provide for compliance with local laws and filing requirements to
perfect and maintain a security interest in RLF collateral.
Recapitalization Grants
are Investments of additional Grant funds to increase the RLF Capital Base.
Reporting Period,
for purposes of this subpart only, is based on the RLF Recipient's fiscal year end and is on an annual or semi-annual basis as determined by EDA.
Revolving Phase
means that stage of the RLF's business lending activities that commences immediately after all Grant funds have been disbursed to the RLF Recipient.
Risk Analysis System
refers to a set of measures defined by EDA to evaluate a Recipient's administration of its RLF Grant and that may include but is not limited to capital, assets, management, earnings, liquidity, strategic results, and financial controls.
RLF Capital Base
means the total value of RLF Grant assets administered by the RLF Recipient. It is equal to the amount of Grant funds used to capitalize (and recapitalize, if applicable), the RLF, plus Local Share, plus RLF Income less any eligible and reasonable administrative expenses, plus Voluntarily Contributed Capital, less any loan losses and disallowances. Except as used to pay for eligible and reasonable administrative costs associated with the RLF's operations, the RLF Capital Base is maintained in two forms at all times: As RLF Cash Available for Lending and as outstanding loan principal.
RLF Cash Available for Lending
means the portion of the RLF Capital Base that is held as cash and available to make loans. This excludes loans that have been committed or approved but have not yet been funded.
RLF Income
means interest earned on outstanding loan principal and RLF accounts holding RLF funds, all fees and charges received by the RLF, and other income generated from RLF operations. An RLF Recipient may use RLF Income only to capitalize the RLF for financing activities and to cover eligible and reasonable costs necessary to administer the RLF, unless otherwise provided for in the Grant agreement or approved in writing by EDA. RLF Income excludes repayments of principal and any interest remitted to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and § 307.20(h).
RLF Recipient
means the Eligible Recipient that receives an RLF Grant to manage an RLF in accordance with an RLF Plan, Prudent Lending Practices, the terms and conditions of the RLF Grant, and all applicable policies, laws, and regulations.
RLF Third Party,
for purposes of this subpart B only, means an Eligible Recipient or for-profit entity selected by EDA through a request for applications or Cooperative Agreement to facilitate or manage the intended liquidation of an RLF.
Sale
means an EDA-approved sale by an RLF Recipient of its RLF loan portfolio (or a portion thereof) to a third party. A third party may participate in a subsequent Securitization offered in a secondary market transaction and collateralized by the underlying RLF loan portfolio (or a portion thereof).
SEC
or the
Commission
means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Securitization
refers to the financing technique of securing an investment of new capital with a stream of income generated by aggregating similar instruments such as loans or mortgages into a new transferable Security.
Security
means any investment instrument issued by a corporation, government or other organization which offers evidence of debt or equity.
Voluntary Contributed Capital
means an RLF Recipient's voluntary infusion of additional non-EDA funds into the RLF Capital Base that is separate from and exceeds any Local Share that is required as a condition of the RLF Grant. Voluntary Contributed Capital is an irrevocable addition to the RLF Capital Base and must be administered in accordance with EDA regulations and policies.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62867, Oct. 22, 2008; 75 FR 4264, Jan. 27, 2010; 82 FR 57055, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.9
Revolving Loan Fund Plan.
All RLF Recipients shall manage RLFs in accordance with an RLF plan (the “
RLF Plan
” or “
Plan
”) as described in this section. The Plan shall be submitted in electronic format to
EDA for approval, unless EDA approves a paper submission.
(a)
Format and content.
(1) Part I of the Plan titled “Revolving Loan Fund Strategy” shall summarize the Region's CEDS or EDA-approved economic development plan, if applicable, and business development objectives, and shall describe the RLF's financing strategy, policy and portfolio standards.
(2) Part II of the Plan titled “Operational Procedures” must serve as the RLF Recipient's internal operating manual and set out administrative procedures for operating the RLF consistent with “Prudent Lending Practices,” as defined in § 307.8, the RLF Recipient's environmental review and compliance procedures as set out in § 307.10, and EDA's conflicts of interest rules set out in § 302.17 of this chapter.
(b)
Evaluation of RLF Plans.
EDA will use the following criteria in evaluating Plans:
(1) The Plan must be consistent with the CEDS or EDA-approved economic development plan, if applicable, for the Region.
(2) The Plan must identify the strategic purpose of the RLF and must describe the selection of the financing strategy and lending criteria, including:
(i) An analysis of the local capital market and the financing needs of the targeted businesses; and
(ii) Financing policies and portfolio standards that are consistent with EDA's policies and requirements; and
(3) The Plan must demonstrate an adequate understanding of commercial loan portfolio management procedures, including loan processing, underwriting, closing, disbursements, collections, monitoring, and foreclosures. It also shall provide sufficient administrative procedures to prevent conflicts of interest and to ensure accountability, safeguarding of assets and compliance with Federal and local laws.
(c)
Revision and Modification of RLF Plans.
(1) An RLF Recipient must update its Plan as necessary in accordance with changing economic conditions in the Region; however, at a minimum, an RLF Recipient must submit an updated Plan to EDA every five years.
(2) An RLF Recipient must notify EDA of any change(s) to its Plan. Any material modification, such as a merger, consolidation, or change in the EDA-approved lending area under § 307.18, a change in critical management staff, or a change to the strategic purpose of the RLF, must be submitted to EDA for approval prior to any revision of the Plan. If EDA approves the modification, the RLF Recipient must submit an updated Plan to EDA in electronic format, unless EDA approves a paper submission.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62867, Oct. 22, 2008; 75 FR 4264, Jan. 27, 2010; 79 FR 76133, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 307.10
Pre-loan requirements.
(a) RLF Recipients must adopt procedures to review the impacts of prospective loan proposals on the physical environment. The Plan must provide for compliance with applicable environmental laws and other regulations, including parts 302 and 314 of this chapter. The RLF Recipient also must adopt procedures to comply, and ensure that potential borrowers comply, with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
(b) RLF Recipients must ensure that prospective borrowers, consultants, or contractors are aware of and comply with the Federal statutory and regulatory requirements that apply to activities carried out with RLF loans. Accordingly, RLF loan agreements shall include applicable Federal requirements to ensure compliance and RLF Recipients must adopt procedures to diligently correct instances of non-compliance, including loan call stipulations.
(c) All RLF loan documents and procedures must protect and hold the Federal government harmless from and against all liabilities that the Federal government may incur as a result of providing an RLF Grant to assist directly or indirectly in site preparation or construction, as well as the direct or indirect renovation or repair of any facility or site. These protections apply to the extent that the Federal government may become potentially liable as a result of ground water, surface, soil
or other natural or man-made conditions on the property caused by operations of the RLF Recipient or any of its borrowers, predecessors or successors.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76133, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 307.11
Pre-disbursement requirements and disbursement of funds to Revolving Loan Funds.
(a)
Pre-disbursement requirements.
(1) Within 60 calendar days before the initial disbursement of EDA funds, the RLF Recipient must provide the following in a form acceptable to EDA:
(i) Certification from the RLF Recipient that the Recipient's accounting system is adequate to identify, safeguard, and account for the entire RLF Capital Base, outstanding RLF loans, and other RLF operations.
(ii) The RLF Recipient's certification that standard RLF loan documents reasonably necessary or advisable for lending are in place and a certification from the RLF Recipient's legal counsel that the loan documents are adequate and comply with the terms and conditions of the RLF Grant, RLF Plan, and applicable State and local law. The standard loan documents must include, at a minimum, the following:
(A) Loan application;
(B) Loan agreement;
(C) Board of directors' meeting minutes approving the RLF loan;
(D) Promissory note;
(E) Security agreement(s);
(F) Deed of trust or mortgage (as applicable);
(G) Agreement of prior lien holder (as applicable); and
(H) Evidence demonstrating that credit is not otherwise available on terms and conditions that permit the completion or successful operation of the activity to be financed.
(iii) Evidence of fidelity bond coverage for persons authorized to handle funds under the RLF Grant award in an amount sufficient to protect the interests of EDA and the RLF. At a minimum, the amount of coverage shall be the maximum loan amount allowed for in the EDA-approved RLF Plan.
(2) The RLF Recipient is required to maintain the adequacy of the RLF's accounting system and maintain and update standard RLF loan documents at all times during the duration of the RLF's operation. In addition, the RLF recipient must maintain sufficient fidelity bond coverage as described in this subsection for the duration of the RLF's operation. The RLF Recipient shall maintain records and documentation to demonstrate the requirements set out in this paragraph (a) are maintained for the duration of the RLF's operation.
See also
§ 307.13(b)(3).
(b)
Timing of request for disbursements.
An RLF Recipient shall request disbursements of Grant funds only to close a loan or disburse RLF funds to a borrower. The RLF Recipient must disburse the RLF funds to a borrower within 30 days of receipt of the Grant funds. Any Grant funds not disbursed within the 30 day period shall be refunded to EDA pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Amount of disbursement.
The amount of a disbursement of Grant funds shall be the amount required to meet the Federal share requirement of a new RLF loan. RLF Income held during the disbursement phase may be used to reimburse eligible administrative costs. RLF Income earned and principal repaid during the Disbursement Phase must be placed in the RLF Capital Base and may be used to reimburse eligible and reasonable administrative costs, provide the requirements of § 307.12(a) and (b) are met, and increase the RLF Capital Base. RLF Income earned and principal repaid during the Disbursement Phase is not required to be used for new RLF loans, unless otherwise specified in the terms and conditions of an RLF Grant.
(d)
Interest-bearing account.
All Grant funds disbursed by EDA to the RLF Recipient for loan obligations incurred but not yet disbursed to an eligible RLF borrower must be deposited and held in an interest-bearing account by the Recipient until an RLF loan is made to a borrower.
(e)
Delays.
If the RLF Recipient receives Grant funds and the RLF loan disbursement is subsequently delayed beyond 30 days, the RLF Recipient must notify the applicable grants officer and return such non-disbursed funds to EDA. Grant funds returned to
EDA shall be available to the RLF Recipient for future draw-downs. When returning prematurely drawn Grant funds, the RLF Recipient must clearly identify on the face of the check or in the written notification to the applicable grants officer “EDA,” the Grant award number, the words “Premature Draw,” and a brief description of the reason for returning the Grant funds.
(f)
Local Share.
(1) Cash Local Share of the RLF may only be used for lending purposes. The cash Local Share must be used either in proportion to the Grant funds or at a faster rate than the Grant funds.
(2) When an RLF has a combination of In-Kind Contributions, which must be specifically authorized in the terms and conditions of the RLF Grant and may be used to provide technical assistance to borrowers or for eligible RLF administrative costs, and cash Local Share, the cash Local Share and the Grant funds will be disbursed proportionately as needed for lending activities, provided that the last 20 percent of the Grant funds may not be disbursed until all cash Local Share has been expended. The full amount of the cash Local Share shall remain for use in the RLF.
(g)
Loan closing and disbursement schedule.
(1) RLF loan activity must be sufficient to draw down Grant funds in accordance with the schedule prescribed in the award conditions for loan closings and disbursements to eligible RLF borrowers. The schedule usually requires that the RLF Recipient lend the entire amount of the RLF Grant within three years of the Grant award.
(2) If an RLF Recipient fails to meet the prescribed lending schedule, EDA may de-obligate the non-disbursed balance of the RLF Grant. EDA may allow exceptions where:
(i) Closed Loans approved prior to the schedule deadline will commence and complete disbursements within 45 days of the deadline;
(ii) Closed Loans have commenced (but not completed) disbursement obligations prior to the deadline; or
(iii) EDA has approved a time schedule extension pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section.
(h)
Time schedule extensions.
(1) RLF Recipients shall promptly inform EDA in writing of any condition that may adversely affect their ability to meet the prescribed schedule deadlines. RLF Recipients must submit a written request to EDA for continued use of Grant funds beyond a missed deadline for disbursement of RLF funds. RLF Recipients must provide good reason for the delay in their extension request by demonstrating that:
(i) The delay was unforeseen or beyond the control of the RLF Recipient;
(ii) The financial need for the RLF still exists;
(iii) The current and planned use and the anticipated benefits of the RLF will remain consistent with the current CEDS and the RLF Plan; and
(iv) The proposal of a revised time schedule is reasonable. An extension request must also provide an explanation as to why no further delays are anticipated.
(2) EDA is under no obligation to grant a time extension. In the event an extension is denied, EDA may de-obligate all or part of the unused Grant funds and terminate the Grant.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 4264, Jan. 27, 2010; 79 FR 76133, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57055, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.12
Revolving Loan Fund Income requirements during the Revolving Phase; payments on defaulted and written off Revolving Loan Fund loans; Voluntarily Contributed Capital.
(a)
Revolving Loan Fund Income requirements during the Revolving Phase.
During the Revolving Phase, RLF Income must be placed into the RLF Capital Base for the purpose of making loans or paying for eligible and reasonable administrative costs associated with the RLF's operations. RLF Income may fund administrative costs, provided:
(1) Such RLF Income is earned and the administrative costs are accrued in the same fiscal year of the RLF Recipient;
(2) RLF Income earned, but not used for administrative costs during the same fiscal year of the RLF Recipient is made available for lending activities;
(3) RLF Income shall not be withdrawn from the RLF Capital Base in a subsequent fiscal year for any purpose other than lending without the prior written consent of EDA; and
(4) An RLF Recipient shall not use funds in excess of RLF Income for administrative costs unless directed otherwise in writing by EDA. In accordance with EDA's RLF Risk Analysis System, RLF Recipients are expected to keep administrative costs to a minimum in order to maintain the RLF Capital Base. The percentage of RLF Income used for administrative expenses will be one of the measures used in EDA's RLF Risk Analysis System to evaluate RLF Recipients.
See also
§ 307.16.
(b)
Compliance guidance.
When charging costs against RLF Income, RLF Recipients must comply with applicable Federal uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements as detailed in this paragraph (b) and in the terms and conditions of the RLF Grant.
(1)
For RLF Grants made on or after December 26, 2014.
For RLFs awarded on or after December 26, 2014 or for RLFs that have received one or more Recapitalization Grants on or after December 26, 2014, the RLF Recipient must comply with the administrative and cost principles in 2 CFR part 200 (“Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards”).
(2)
For RLF Grants made before December 26, 2014.
For RLFs awarded before December 26, 2014, unless otherwise indicated in the terms of the Grant, the RLF Recipient must comply with the following cost principles:
(i) 2 CFR part 225 (OMB Circular A-87 for State, local, and Indian tribal governments),
(ii) 2 CFR part 230 (OMB Circular A-122 for non-profit organizations other than institutions of higher education, hospitals or organizations named in OMB Circular A-122 as not subject to such Circular), and
(iii) 2 CFR part 220 (OMB Circular A-21 for educational institutions).
(3)
For all RLF Grants.
For all RLF Grants, regardless of when they were awarded, the audit requirements set out as subpart F to 2 CFR part 200 apply to audits of the RLF Recipient's fiscal years beginning on or after December 26, 2014. In addition, the Compliance Supplement, which is appendix XI to 2 CFR part 200, applies as appropriate.
(c)
Priority of payments on defaulted and written off RLF loans.
When an RLF Recipient receives proceeds on a defaulted or written off RLF loan that is not subject to liquidation pursuant to § 307.21, such proceeds shall be applied in the following order of priority:
(1)
First,
towards any costs of collection;
(2)
Second,
towards outstanding penalties and fees;
(3)
Third
, towards any accrued interest to the extent due and payable; and
(4)
Fourth
, towards any outstanding principal balance.
(d)
Voluntarily Contributed Capital.
An RLF Recipient that wishes to inject additional capital into the RLF Capital Base to augment the amount of resources available to lend must submit a written request that specifies the source of the funds to be added. Once an RLF Recipient elects to commit Voluntarily Contributed Capital and upon approval by EDA, the Voluntarily Contributed Capital becomes an irrevocable part of the RLF Capital Base and may not be subsequently withdrawn or separated from the RLF.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62867, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76134, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57056, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.13
Records and retention.
(a)
Closed Loan files and related documents.
The RLF Recipient shall maintain Closed Loan files and all related documents, books of account, computer data files and other records over the term of the Closed Loan and for a three-year period from the date of final disposition of such Closed Loan. The date of final disposition of a Closed Loan is the date:
(1) Principal, interest, fees, penalties and all other costs associated with the Closed Loan have been paid in full; or
(2) Final settlement or discharge and cessation of collection efforts of any unpaid amounts associated with the Closed Loan have occurred.
(b)
Administrative records.
RLF Recipients must at all times:
(1) Maintain adequate accounting records and source documentation to substantiate the amount and percent of RLF Income expended for eligible RLF administrative costs.
(2) Retain records of administrative expenses incurred for activities and equipment relating to the operation of the RLF for three years from the actual submission date of the report that covers the fiscal year in which such costs were claimed.
(3) Consistent with § 307.11(a), for the duration of RLF operations, maintain records to demonstrate:
(i) The adequacy of the RLF's accounting system to identify, safeguard, and account for the entire RLF Capital Base, outstanding RLF loans, and other RLF operations;
(ii) That standard RLF loan documents reasonably necessary or advisable for lending are in place; and
(iii) Evidence of fidelity bond coverage for persons authorized to handle funds under the Grant award in an amount sufficient to protect the interests of EDA and the RLF.
(4) Make available for inspection retained records, including those retained for longer than the required period. The record retention periods described in this section are minimum periods and such prescription does not limit any other record retention requirement of law or agreement. In no event will EDA question claimed administrative costs that are more than three years old, unless fraud is at issue.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62867, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76134, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57057, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.14
Revolving Loan Fund report.
(a)
Frequency of reports.
All RLF Recipients, including those receiving Recapitalization Grants for existing RLFs, must complete and submit an RLF report, using Form ED-209, in a format and at a frequency as required by EDA.
(b)
Report contents.
RLF Recipients must certify as part of the RLF report to EDA that the RLF is operating in accordance with the applicable RLF Plan and that the information provided is complete and accurate.
[82 FR 57057, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.15
Prudent management of Revolving Loan Funds.
(a)
Accounting principles.
(1) RLFs shall operate in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) as in effect in the United States and the provisions outlined in the audit requirements set out as subpart F to 2 CFR part 200 and the Compliance Supplement, which is appendix XI to 2 CFR part 200, as applicable.
(2) In accordance with GAAP, a loan loss reserve may be recorded in the RLF Recipient's financial statements to show the adjusted current value of an RLF's loan portfolio, provided this loan loss reserve is non-funded and is represented by a non-cash entry. However, loan loss reserves shall not be used to reduce the value of the RLF in the Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards (“SEFA”) required as part of the RLF Recipient's audit requirements under 2 CFR part 200.
(b)
Interest rates
—(1)
General rule.
An RLF Recipient may make loans to eligible borrowers at interest rates and under conditions determined by the RLF Recipient to be appropriate in achieving the goals of the RLF. The minimum interest rate an RLF Recipient may charge is four percentage points below the lesser of the current money center prime interest rate quoted in the
Wall Street Journal,
or the maximum interest rate allowed under State law. In no event shall the interest rate be less than the lower of four percent or 75 percent of the prime interest rate listed in the
Wall Street Journal.
(2)
Exception.
Should the prime interest rate listed in the
Wall Street Journal
exceed 14 percent, the minimum RLF interest rate is not required to be raised above 10 percent if doing so compromises the ability of the RLF Recipient to implement its financing strategy.
(c)
RLF leveraging.
(1) RLF loans must leverage additional investment of at least two dollars for every one dollar of such RLF loans. This leveraging requirement applies to the RLF portfolio as a whole rather than to individual loans and is effective for the duration of the RLF's operation. To be classified as leveraged, additional investment
must be made within 12 months of approval of an RLF loan, as part of the same business development project, and may include:
(i) Capital invested by the borrower or others;
(ii) Financing from private entities;
(iii) The non-guaranteed portions and 90 percent of the guaranteed portions of any Federal loan; or
(iv) Loans from other State and local lending programs.
(2) Private investments shall not include accrued equity in a borrower's assets.
(d)
RLF certification course.
EDA may establish a mandatory RLF certification program to enhance RLF Recipients' ability to administer RLF Grants in a prudent manner. If so required by EDA, the RLF Recipient must satisfactorily complete this program, and may consider the cost of attending the certification courses as an administrative cost, provided the requirements set forth in § 307.12 are satisfied.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62868, Oct. 22, 2008; 75 FR 4264, Jan. 27, 2010; 79 FR 76134, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57057, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.16
Risk Analysis System.
(a) EDA shall evaluate and manage RLF recipients using a Risk Analysis System that will focus on such risk factors as: capital, assets, management, earnings, liquidity, strategic results, and financial controls. Risk analysis ratings of each RLF Recipient's RLF program shall be conducted at least annually and will be based on the most recently submitted Form ED-209 RLF report.
(b) An RLF Recipient generally will be allowed a reasonable period of time to achieve compliance with risk factors as defined by EDA. However, persistent noncompliance with these factors and their limits as identified through EDA's Risk Analysis System over multiple Reporting Periods may result in EDA taking appropriate remedies for noncompliance as detailed in § 307.21.
[82 FR 57057, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.17
Requirements for Revolving Loan Fund Cash Available for Lending.
(a)
General.
RLF Cash Available for Lending shall be deposited and held in an interest-bearing account by the Recipient and used for the purpose of making RLF loans that are consistent with an RLF Plan or such other purposes approved by EDA. To ensure that RLF funds are used as intended, each loan agreement must clearly state the purpose of each loan.
(b)
Allowable Cash Percentage.
EDA shall notify each RLF recipient by January 1 of each year of the Allowable Cash Percentage that is applicable to lending during the Recipient's ensuing fiscal year. During the Revolving Phase, RLF Recipients must manage their repayment and lending schedules so that at all times they do not exceed the Allowable Cash Percentage.
(c)
Restrictions on use of RLF Cash Available for Lending.
RLF Cash Available for Lending shall not be used to:
(1) Acquire an equity position in a private business;
(2) Subsidize interest payments on an existing RLF loan;
(3) Provide a loan to a borrower for the purpose of meeting the requirements of equity contributions under another Federal Agency's loan programs;
(4) Enable borrowers to acquire an interest in a business either through the purchase of stock or through the acquisition of assets, unless sufficient justification is provided in the loan documentation. Sufficient justification may include acquiring a business to save it from imminent closure or to acquire a business to facilitate a significant expansion or increase in investment with a significant increase in jobs. The potential economic benefits must be clearly consistent with the strategic objectives of the RLF;
(5) Provide RLF loans to a borrower for the purpose of investing in interest-bearing accounts, certificates of deposit, or any investment unrelated to the RLF; or
(6) Refinance existing debt, unless:
(i) The RLF Recipient sufficiently demonstrates in the loan documentation a “sound economic justification”
for the refinancing (
e.g.,
the refinancing will support additional capital investment intended to increase business activities). For this purpose, reducing the risk of loss to an existing lender(s) or lowering the cost of financing to a borrower shall not, without other indicia, constitute a sound economic justification; or
(ii) RLF Cash Available for Lending will finance the purchase of the rights of a prior lien holder during a foreclosure action which is necessary to preclude a significant loss on an RLF loan. RLF funds may be used for this purpose only if there is a high probability of receiving compensation from the sale of assets sufficient to cover an RLF's costs plus a reasonable portion of the outstanding RLF loan within a reasonable time frame approved by EDA following the date of refinancing.
(7) Serve as collateral to obtain credit or any other type of financing without EDA's prior written approval;
(8) Support operations or administration of the RLF Recipient; or
(9) Undertake any activity that would violate the requirements found in part 314 of this chapter, including § 314.3 (“Authorized Use of Property”) and § 314.4 (“Unauthorized Use of Property”).
[82 FR 57057, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.18
Addition of lending areas; consolidation and merger of RLFs.
(a)(1) An RLF Recipient shall make loans only within its EDA-approved lending area, as set forth and defined in the RLF Grant and the RLF Plan. An RLF Recipient may add a lending area (an “
Additional Lending Area”
) to its existing lending area to create a new lending area (the “
New Lending Area”
) only with EDA's prior written approval and subject to the following provisions and conditions:
(i) The Additional Lending Area must meet the economic distress criteria for Economic Adjustment Assistance Investments under this part and in accordance with § 301.3(a) of this chapter;
(ii) Prior to EDA's disbursement of additional funds to the RLF Recipient (for example, through a recapitalization), EDA shall determine a new Investment Rate for the New Lending Area based on the criteria set forth in § 301.4 of this chapter;
(iii) The RLF Recipient must demonstrate that the Additional Lending Area is consistent with its CEDS, or modify its CEDS for any such Additional Lending Area, in accordance with § 307.9(b)(1);
(iv) The RLF Recipient shall modify its Plan to incorporate the Additional Lending Area and revise its lending strategy, as necessary;
(v) The RLF Recipient shall execute an amended financial assistance award, as necessary; and
(vi) The RLF Recipient fulfills any other conditions reasonably requested by EDA.
(2) Following EDA approval, the New Lending Area designation shall remain in place until EDA approves a subsequent request for a New Lending Area.
(b)
Consolidation and merger of RLFs
—(1)
Single RLF Recipient.
An RLF Recipient with more than one EDA-funded RLF Grant may consolidate two or more EDA-funded RLFs into one combined RLF with EDA's prior written approval and provided:
(i) It is up-to-date with all reports in accordance with § 307.14;
(ii) It demonstrates a rational basis for undertaking the consolidation (for example, the lending area(s) and borrower criteria identified in different RLF Plans are compatible, or will be compatible, for all RLFs to be consolidated);
(iii) It amends and consolidates its Plan to account for the consolidation of RLFs, including items such as the New Lending Area (including any Additional Lending Area(s)), its lending strategy and borrower criteria;
(iv) Prior to EDA's disbursement of additional funds to the RLF Recipient (for example, through a recapitalization), EDA shall determine a new Investment Rate for the New Lending Area based on the criteria set forth in § 301.4 of this chapter; and
(v) The RLF Recipient fulfills any other conditions reasonably requested by EDA.
(2)
Multiple RLF Recipients.
Two or more RLF Recipients may merge their EDA-funded RLFs into one surviving RLF with EDA's prior written approval and provided:
(i) The replacement RLF Recipient is up-to-date with all reports in accordance with § 307.14;
(ii) The surviving RLF Recipient amends and consolidates its Plan to account for the merger of RLFs, including items such as the New Lending Area (including any Additional Lending Area(s)), its lending strategy and borrower criteria;
(iii) Prior to EDA's disbursement of additional funds to the surviving RLF Recipient (for example, through a recapitalization), EDA shall determine a new Investment Rate for the New Lending Area based on the criteria set forth in § 301.4 of this chapter;
(iv) EDA must provide written approval of the merger agreement(s), modifications and revisions to the Plans and any other related amendments thereto;
(v) All applicable RLF Grant assets of the discharging RLF Recipient(s) transfer to the surviving RLF Recipient as of the merger's effective date; and
(vi) The surviving RLF Recipient becomes fully responsible for administration of the RLF Grant assets transferred and fulfills all surviving RLF Grant requirements and any other conditions reasonably requested by EDA.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62869, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76135, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57058, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.19
RLF loan portfolio Sales and Securitizations.
EDA may take such actions as appropriate to enable an RLF Recipient to sell or securitize RLF loans, except that EDA may not issue a Federal guaranty covering any issued Security. With prior approval from EDA, an RLF Recipient may enter into a Sale or a Securitization of all or a portion of its RLF loan portfolio, provided:
(a) An RLF Recipient must use all proceeds from any Sale or Securitization (net of reasonable transaction costs) to make additional RLF loans;
(b) No Security collateralized by RLF loans and other RLF property and offered in a secondary market transaction pursuant to a Securitization shall be treated as an Exempt Security for purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
) (the “
Exchange Act
”), unless exempted by a rule or regulation issued by the Commission; and
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (b), no provision of this section supersedes or otherwise affects the application of the “securities laws” (as such term is defined in section 3(a)(47) of the Exchange Act) or the rules, regulations or orders issued by the Commission or a self-regulatory organization under the Commission.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76135, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 307.20
Noncompliance.
EDA will take appropriate compliance actions as detailed in § 307.21 for the RLF Recipient's failure to operate the RLF in accordance with the RLF Plan, the terms and conditions of the RLF Grant, or this subpart, including but not limited to:
(a) Failing to obtain prior EDA approval for material changes to the RLF Plan, including provisions for administering the RLF;
(b) Failing to submit an updated RLF Plan to EDA in accordance with § 307.9(c);
(c) Failing to submit timely progress, financial, and audit reports in the format required by the RLF Grant and § 307.14, including the Form ED-209 RLF report;
(d) Failing to manage the RLF Grant in accordance with Prudent Lending Practices, as defined in § 307.8;
(e) Holding RLF Cash Available for Lending so that it is 50 percent or more of the RLF Capital Base for 24 months without an EDA-approved extension request based on other EDA risk analysis factors or other extenuating circumstances;
(f) Making an ineligible loan;
(g) Failing to disburse the EDA funds in accordance with the time schedule prescribed in the RLF Grant;
(h) Failing to sequester funds or remit the interest on EDA's portion of the sequestered funds to the U.S. Treasury, as directed by EDA;
(i) Failing to comply with the audit requirements set forth in subpart F to
2 CFR part 200 and the related Compliance Supplement, including reference to the correctly valued EDA RLF Federal expenditures in the SEFA, timely submission of audit reports to the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, and the inclusion of the RLF program as an appropriately audited program;
(j) Failing to implement timely resolutions to audit findings or questioned costs contained in the annual audit, as applicable;
(k) Failing to comply with an EDA-approved corrective action plan to remedy persistent noncompliance with RLF-related findings;
(l) Failing to comply with the conflicts of interest provisions set forth in § 302.17; and
(m) Making unauthorized use of RLF Cash Available for Lending in violation of § 307.18(c).
[82 FR 57058, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.21
Remedies for noncompliance.
(a)
General.
If an RLF Recipient fails to operate the RLF in accordance with the RLF Plan, the terms and conditions of the RLF Grant, or this subpart, as detailed in § 307.20, EDA may require one or more of the following actions, as appropriate in the circumstances:
(1) Increased reporting requirements;
(2) Implementation of a corrective action plan;
(3) A special audit;
(4) Sequestration of RLF funds;
(5) Repayment of ineligible loans or other costs to the RLF;
(6) Transfer or merger of the RLF in accordance with § 307.18;
(7) Suspension of the RLF Grant; or
(8) Termination of the RLF Grant, in whole or in part.
(b)
Disallowance of a portion of an RLF Grant, liquidation.
If the RLF Recipient engages in certain problematic practices, EDA may disallow a corresponding proportion of the Grant or direct the RLF Recipient to transfer loans to an RLF Third Party for liquidation. Problematic practices for which EDA may disallow a portion of an RLF Grant and recover the pro-rata Federal Share (as defined in § 314.5 of this chapter) include the RLF Recipient:
(1) Holding RLF Cash Available for Lending so that it is 50 percent or more of the RLF Capital Base for 24 months without an EDA-approved extension request;
(2) Failing to disburse the EDA funds in accordance with the time schedule prescribed in the RLF Grant; or
(3) Determining that it does not wish to further invest in the RLF or cannot maintain operations at the degree originally contemplated upon receipt of the RLF Grant and requests that a portion of the RLF Grant be disallowed, and EDA agrees to the disallowance.
(c)
Termination or suspension.
To maintain effective control over and accountability of RLF Grant funds and assets, EDA shall determine the manner and timing of any suspension or termination action. EDA may require the RLF Recipient to repay the Federal Share in a lump-sum payment or enter into a Sale, or EDA may agree to enter into a repayment agreement with the RLF Recipient for repayment of the Federal Share.
(d)
Termination, liquidation upon termination.
When EDA approves the termination of an RLF Grant, EDA must make all efforts to recover the pro rata Federal Share (as defined in § 314.5 of this chapter). EDA may assign or transfer assets of the RLF to an RLF Third Party for liquidation. The following terms will govern any liquidation:
(1) EDA shall have sole discretion in choosing the RLF Third Party;
(2) The RLF Third Party may be an Eligible Applicant or a for-profit organization not otherwise eligible for Investment Assistance;
(3) EDA may enter into an agreement with the RLF Third Party to liquidate the assets of one or more RLFs or RLF Recipients;
(4) EDA may allow the RLF Third Party to retain a portion of the RLF assets, consistent with the agreement referenced in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, as reasonable compensation for services rendered in the liquidation; and
(5) EDA may require additional reasonable terms and conditions.
(e)
Distribution of proceeds.
The proceeds resulting from any liquidation
upon termination shall be distributed in the following order of priority:
(1)
First,
for any third party liquidation costs;
(2)
Second,
for the payment of EDA's Federal Share; and
(3)
Third,
if any proceeds remain, to the RLF Recipient.
(f)
RLF Recipient's request to terminate.
EDA may approve a request from an RLF Recipient to terminate an RLF Grant. The RLF Recipient must compensate the Federal Government for the pro rata Federal Share of the RLF Capital Base.
(g)
Distribution of proceeds upon termination.
Upon termination, distribution of proceeds shall occur in accordance with § 307.21(e).
[82 FR 57058, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 307.22
Variances.
EDA may approve variances to the requirements contained in this subpart, provided such variances:
(a) Are consistent with the goals of the Economic Adjustment Assistance program and with an RLF Plan;
(b) Are necessary and reasonable for the effective implementation of the RLF;
(c) Are economically and financially sound; and
(d) Do not conflict with any applicable legal requirements, including Federal, State and local law.
Pt. 308

# PART 308—PERFORMANCE INCENTIVES
Sec.
308.1
Use of funds in Projects constructed under projected cost.
308.2
Performance awards.
308.3
Planning performance awards.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3151; 42 U.S.C. 3154a; 42 U.S.C. 3154b; Department of Commerce Delegation Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 308.1
Use of funds in Projects constructed under projected cost.
(a) If the Assistant Secretary determines before closeout of a construction Project funded under parts 305 or 307 of this chapter that the cost of the Project, based on the designs and specifications that were the basis of the Investment Assistance, has decreased because of a decrease in costs, EDA may in its discretion approve the use of the excess funds (or a portion of the excess funds) by the Recipient to:
(1) Increase the Investment Rate of the Project to the maximum percentage allowable under § 301.4 of this chapter for which the Project was eligible at the time of the Investment award; or
(2) Further improve the Project consistent with its purpose.
(b) EDA, in its sole discretion, may use any amount of excess funds remaining after application of paragraph (a) of this section for other eligible Investments.
(c) In the case of Projects involving funds transferred from other Federal Agencies, EDA will consult with the transferring Agency regarding the use of any excess funds.
§ 308.2
Performance awards.
(a) A Recipient of Investment Assistance under parts 305 or 307 of this chapter may receive a performance award in connection with an Investment made on or after the date of enactment of section 215 of PWEDA in an amount not to exceed 10 percent of the amount of the Investment award.
(b) To receive a performance award, a Recipient must demonstrate Project performance in one or more of the areas listed in this paragraph, weighted at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary:
(1) Meet or exceed the Recipient's projection of jobs created;
(2) Meet or exceed the Recipient's projection of private sector capital invested;
(3) Meet or exceed target dates for Project start and completion stated at the time of Investment approval;
(4) Fulfill the application evaluation criteria set forth in § 301.8 of this chapter; or
(5) Demonstrate other unique Project performance characteristics as determined by the Assistant Secretary.
(c) A Recipient may receive a performance award no later than three years following the Project's closeout.
(d) A performance award may fund up to 100 percent of the cost of an eligible
Project or any other authorized activity under PWEDA. For the purpose of meeting the non-Federal share requirement of PWEDA or any other statute, the amount of a performance award shall be treated as non-Federal funds.
(e) The applicable FFO will set forth the requirements, qualifications, guidelines and procedures for performance awards to be made during the applicable fiscal year, with all performance awards being subject to the availability of funds.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 4265, Jan. 27, 2010; 79 FR 76136, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 308.3
Planning performance awards.
(a) A Recipient of Investment Assistance awarded on or after the date of enactment of section 216 of PWEDA for a Project located in an EDA-funded Economic Development District may, at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary, receive a planning performance award in an amount not to exceed five percent of the amount of the applicable Investment award if EDA determines before closeout of the Project that:
(1) The Recipient, through the Project, actively participated in the economic development activities of the District;
(2) The Project demonstrated exceptional fulfillment of one or more components of, and is otherwise in accordance with, the applicable CEDS, including any job creation or job retention requirements; and
(3) The Recipient demonstrated exceptional collaboration with Federal, State, and local economic development entities throughout the development of the Project.
(b) The Recipient shall use the planning performance award to increase, up to 100 percent, the Federal share of the cost of a Project under this chapter.
(c) The applicable FFO may set forth additional requirements, qualifications and guidelines for planning performance awards.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62869, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76136, Dec. 19, 2014]
Pt. 309

# PART 309—REDISTRIBUTIONS OF INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE
Sec.
309.1
Redistributions under parts 303, 305 and 306.
309.2
Redistributions under part 307.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3154c; 42 U.S.C. 3211; Department of Commerce Delegation Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 309.1
Redistributions under parts 303, 305 and 306.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a Recipient of Investment Assistance under parts 303, 305 or 306 of this chapter may directly expend such Investment Assistance or, with prior EDA approval, may redistribute such Investment Assistance in the form of a subgrant to another Eligible Recipient, generally referred to as a Subrecipient, that qualifies for Investment Assistance under the same part of this chapter as the Recipient, to fund required components of the scope of work approved for the Project. All subgrants made pursuant to this section shall be subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to the Recipient under the original Investment Assistance award and must satisfy the requirements of PWEDA and of this chapter. EDA may require the Eligible Recipient under the original Investment award to agree to special award conditions and the Subrecipient to provide appropriate certifications to ensure the Subrecipient's compliance with legal requirements.
(b)
Exception.
A Recipient may not make a subgrant of Investment Assistance received under parts 303 or 305 of this chapter to a for-profit entity.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 82 FR 57059, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 309.2
Redistributions under part 307.
(a) A Recipient of Investment Assistance under part 307 of this chapter may directly expend such Investment Assistance or, with prior EDA approval, may redistribute such Investment Assistance in the form of:
(1) A subgrant to another Eligible Recipient, generally referred to a Subrecipient, that qualifies for Investment Assistance under part 307 of this chapter; or
(2) Pursuant to part 307, subpart B, a loan or other appropriate assistance to non-profit and private for-profit entities.
(b) All redistributions of Investment Assistance made pursuant to this section shall be subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to the Recipient under the original Investment Assistance award and must satisfy the requirements of PWEDA and of this chapter. EDA may require the Eligible Recipient under the original Investment Award to agree to special award conditions and the Subrecipient to provide appropriate certifications to ensure the Subrecipient's compliance with legal requirements.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 82 FR 57059, Dec. 1, 2017]
Pt. 310

# PART 310—SPECIAL IMPACT AREAS
Sec.
310.1
Special Impact Area.
310.2
Pressing need; alleviation of unemployment or underemployment.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3154; Department of Commerce Organization Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 310.1
Special Impact Area.
Upon the application of an Eligible Applicant, and with respect to that Eligible Applicant's Project only, the Assistant Secretary may designate the Region which the Project will serve as a Special Impact Area if the Eligible Applicant demonstrates that its proposed Project will:
(a) Directly fulfill a pressing need; and
(b) Be useful in alleviating or preventing conditions of excessive unemployment or underemployment, or assist in providing useful employment opportunities for the unemployed or underemployed residents of the Region.
[73 FR 62869, Oct. 22, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 76136, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 310.2
Pressing need; alleviation of unemployment or underemployment.
(a) The Assistant Secretary may find a pressing need to exist if the Region which the Project will serve:
(1) Has a unique or urgent circumstance that would necessitate waiver of the CEDS requirements of § 303.7 of this chapter;
(2) Involves a Project undertaken by an Indian Tribe;
(3) Is rural and severely distressed;
(4) Is undergoing a transition in its economic base as a result of changing trade patterns (e.g., the Region is certified as eligible by the North American Development Bank Program or the Community Adjustment and Investment Program);
(5) Exhibits a substantial reliance on a natural resource for its economic well-being;
(6) Has been designated as a Federally Declared Disaster area; or
(7) Has a Special Need.
(b) For purposes of this part, excessive unemployment exists if the 24-month unemployment rate is at least 225 percent of the national average or the per capita income is not more than 50 percent of the national average. A Region demonstrates excessive underemployment if the employment of a substantial percentage of workers in the Region is less than full-time or at less skilled tasks than their training or abilities would otherwise permit. Eligible Applicants seeking a Special Impact Area designation under this criterion must present appropriate and compelling economic and demographic data.
(c) Eligible Applicants may demonstrate the provision of useful employment opportunities by quantifying and evidencing the Project's prospective:
(1) Creation of jobs;
(2) Commitment of financial investment by private entities; or
(3) Application of innovative technology that will lead to the creation of jobs or the commitment of financial investment by private entities.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76136, Dec. 19, 2014]
PART 311 [RESERVED]
Pt. 312

# PART 312—REGIONAL INNOVATION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
312.1
Purpose and scope of the Regional Innovation Program.
312.2
General definitions from Public Works and Economic Development Act regulations inapplicable to this part.
312.3
General definitions.

# Subpart B—Regional Innovation Strategies Program
312.4
Purpose and scope of the Regional Innovation Strategies Program.
312.5
Regional Innovation Strategies Program definitions.
312.6
Eligible recipients.
312.7
Eligible project activities.
312.8
Investment rates.
312.9
Matching share requirements.
312.10
Application components.
312.11
Application evaluation and selection criteria.
312.12
General terms and conditions for investment assistance.

# Subpart C—Regional Innovation Research and Information Program [Reserved]
312.13-312.17
[Reserved]

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.;
Department of Commerce Organization Order 10-4.

# Source:
82 FR 3134, Jan. 11, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 312.1
Purpose and scope of the Regional Innovation Program.
The purpose of the Regional Innovation Program is to encourage and support the development of regional innovation strategies. The Regional Innovation Program includes two sub-programs. One is focused on the formation and development of regional innovation clusters and implemented through the Regional Innovation Strategies Program. 15 U.S.C. 3722(b). The second program is focused on best practices, metrics and the collection and dissemination of information related to regional innovation strategies, achieved through the Regional Innovation Research and Information Program. 15 U.S.C. 3722(c). The Secretary has delegated to the Economic Development Administration the authority to implement and administer the Regional Innovation Program.
§ 312.2
General definitions from Public Works and Economic Development Act regulations inapplicable to this part.
The definitions contained in § 300.3 of this chapter do not apply to this part.
§ 312.3
General definitions.
As used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Act
or
Stevenson-Wydler
means the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, as amended (15 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.
).
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development within the Department.
Department of Commerce, Department,
or
DOC
means the U.S. Department of Commerce.
Economic Development Organization
means an organization whose primary purpose is to support the economic development of a community or region.
EDA
means the Economic Development Administration within the Department.
Eligible applicant
means an entity qualified to be an eligible recipient or its authorized representative.
Eligible recipient
means a recipient that meets the requirements of § 312.6.
Equipment
is defined at 2 CFR 200.33.
Federal agency
means any executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, and the military departments as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102, as well as any agency of the legislative branch of the Federal Government.
Federal funding opportunity
or
FFO
means an announcement that EDA publishes during the fiscal year on a Federal Government grants platform or on EDA's Internet Web site at
http://www.eda.gov, https://www.eda.gov/oie/,
or any successor Web site, that provides the funding amounts, application and programmatic requirements, funding priorities, special circumstances, and other information concerning a specific competitive solicitation under EDA's Regional Innovation Program.
Federal interest
is defined at 2 CFR 200.41, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.316.
Federal laboratory
means any laboratory, any federally funded research and development center, or any center established under section 7 or section 9 of the Act that is owned, leased, or otherwise used by a Federal agency and funded by the Federal Government, whether operated by the government or by a contractor.
Grant
means the financial assistance award of EDA funds to an eligible recipient, under which the Eligible Recipient bears responsibility for meeting a purpose or carrying out an activity authorized under Stevenson-Wydler.
See
31 U.S.C. 6304.
In-kind contribution(s)
means non-cash contributions, which may include contributions of space, Equipment, services, and assumptions of debt that are fairly evaluated by EDA and that satisfy applicable Federal Uniform Administrative Requirements and Cost Principles as set out in 2 CFR part 200.
Indian tribe
means an entity on the list of recognized tribes published pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, as amended (Pub. L. 103-454) (25 U.S.C. 479a
et seq.
), and any Alaska Native Village or Regional Corporation (as defined in or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
)). This term includes the governing body of an Indian tribe, nonprofit Indian corporation (restricted to Indians), Indian authority, or other nonprofit Indian tribal organization or entity; provided that the Indian tribal organization or entity is wholly owned by, and established for the benefit of, the Indian tribe or Alaska Native village.
Investment
or
Investment assistance
means a grant entered into by EDA and a recipient.
Investment rate
means, as set forth in § 312.8, the amount of the EDA investment in a particular project expressed as a percentage of the total project cost.
Matching share
or
Local share
means the non-EDA funds and any in-kind contribution(s) that are approved by EDA and provided by a recipient or third party as a condition of an investment. The matching share may include funds from another Federal agency only if authorized by a statute that allows such use, which may be determined by EDA's reasonable interpretation of such authority.
Nonprofit organization
is defined at 2 CFR 200.70.
Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship
or
OIE
means the office established by 15 U.S.C. 3720.
Project
means the proposed or authorized activity (or activities), the purpose of which fulfills EDA's mission and program requirements as set forth in the Act and this part, and which may be funded in whole or in part by EDA investment assistance.
Public-private partnership
means a relationship formalized by contractual agreement between a public agency and a private-sector entity that reasonably defines the terms of collaboration in the delivery and financing of a public project.
Real property
means any land, whether raw or improved, and includes structures, fixtures, appurtenances, and other permanent improvements, excluding moveable machinery and equipment.
Recipient
means an entity receiving EDA investment assistance, including any successor to the entity approved by EDA in writing. If investment assistance is awarded to more than one recipient under a single award, the recipients are referred to as “co-recipients” and, unless otherwise provided in the terms and conditions of the investment assistance, each co-recipient is jointly and severally liable for fulfilling the terms of the investment assistance.
Region
or
Regional
means an economic unit of human, natural, technological, capital, or other resources, defined geographically. Geographic areas comprising a region need not be contiguous or defined by political boundaries, but should constitute a cohesive area capable of undertaking self-sustained economic development.
Regional innovation clusters
or
RICs
means a geographically bounded network of similar, synergistic, or complementary entities that are engaged in or with a particular industry sector and its related sectors; have active channels for business transactions and
communication; share specialized infrastructure, labor markets, and services; and leverage the region's unique competitive strengths to stimulate innovation and create jobs.
Regional Innovation Program
means the program enacted by Stevenson-Wydler at 15 U.S.C. 3722.
Regional Innovation Research and Information Program
or
RIRI Program
means the program authorized by 15 U.S.C. 3722(c).
Regional Innovation Strategies Program
or
RIS Program
means the cluster grant program authorized by 15 U.S.C. 3722(b).
Science or research park
means a property-based venture that has: Master-planned property and buildings designed primarily for private-public research and development activities, high technology and science-based companies, and research and development support services; a contractual or operational relationship with one or more science- or research-related institutions of higher education or governmental or nonprofit research laboratories; a primary mission to promote research and development through industry partnerships, assisting in the growth of new ventures and promoting innovation-driven economic development; a role in facilitating the transfer of technology and business skills between researchers and industry teams; and a role in promoting technology-led economic development for the community or region in which the park is located.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce.
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
United States
means all of the States.

# Subpart B—Regional Innovation Strategies Program
§ 312.4
Purpose and scope of the Regional Innovation Strategies Program.
Under the RIS Program, EDA makes grants on a competitive basis to eligible applicants to foster connected, innovation-centric economic regions that support commercialization and entrepreneurship. The grants are intended to build public and private capacity to invent and improve products and services and to bring those products and services to market through a process often referred to as technology commercialization, as demonstrated by methodologically sound metrics for output and outcome.
§ 312.5
Regional Innovation Strategies Program definitions.
In addition to the defined terms set forth in subpart A of this part, the following term applies specifically to the RIS Program:
Institution of higher education
means:
(1) An educational institution in any State that—
(i) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate, or persons who meet the requirements of 20 U.S.C. 1091(d);
(ii) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education;
(iii) Provides an educational program for which the institution awards a bachelor's degree or provides not less than a 2-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward such a degree, or awards a degree that is acceptable for admission to a graduate or professional degree program, subject to review and approval by the Secretary of Education; and
(iv) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association, or if not so accredited, is an institution that has been granted preaccreditation status by such an agency or association that has been recognized by the Secretary of Education for the granting of
preaccreditation status, and the Secretary of Education has determined that there is satisfactory assurance that the institution will meet the accreditation standards of such an agency or association within a reasonable time.
(2)
Additional institutions included.
For purposes of this subpart, the term
Institution of higher education
also includes—
(i) Any school that provides not less than a 1-year program of training to prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation and that meets the provisions of paragraphs (1)(i), (ii), and (iv) of this definition; and
(ii) An educational institution in any State that, in lieu of the requirement in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition, admits as regular students individuals—
(A) Who are beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in the State in which the institution is located; or
(B) Who will be dually or concurrently enrolled in the institution and a secondary school.
§ 312.6
Eligible recipients.
A recipient eligible for investment assistance includes:
(a) A State;
(b) An Indian tribe;
(c) A city or other political subdivision of a State;
(d) An entity that is a nonprofit organization and whose application for funding under the RIS Program is supported by a State or a political subdivision of a State;
(e) An entity that is an institution of higher education, a public-private partnership, a science or research park, a Federal laboratory, or an economic development organization or similar entity, and whose application for funding under the RIS Program is supported by a State or a political subdivision of a State; or
(f) A consortium of any of the entities described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
§ 312.7
Eligible project activities.
(a) Activities eligible for a RIS Program grant include:
(1) Feasibility studies;
(2) Planning activities;
(3) Technical assistance;
(4) Developing or strengthening communication and collaboration between and among participants of a regional innovation cluster;
(5) Attracting additional participants to a regional innovation cluster;
(6) Facilitating market development of products and services of a regional innovation cluster, including through demonstration, deployment, technology transfer, and commercialization activities;
(7) Developing relationships between a regional innovation cluster and entities or clusters in other regions;
(8) Interacting with the public and State and local governments to meet the goals of the regional innovation cluster;
(9) Purchase of equipment and equipment-related modifications or renovations of a facility, but only to the extent that such equipment and any related modifications or renovations are used to support another eligible activity as described in this section (the recipient may be required to secure and record the Federal interest in the equipment); and
(10) Any other activity determined appropriate by the Assistant Secretary and consistent with section 27(b) of Stevenson-Wydler.
(b) An ineligible activity includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Use of Federal funds or matching share for equity investments;
(2) Acquisition or improvement of real property;
(3) Construction except to the extent provided in paragraph (a)(9) of this section; and
(4) Lending programs, such as a direct loan program or capitalizing a revolving loan fund.
§ 312.8
Investment rates.
(a)
Minimum investment rate.
There is no minimum investment rate for a project.
(b)
Maximum investment rate.
The maximum investment rate for a project shall not exceed 50 percent.
§ 312.9
Matching share requirements.
The required matching share of a project's eligible costs may consist of
cash or in-kind contribution(s) whose value can be readily determined, verified, and justified. Applicants must show at the time of application that the matching share is committed to the project, will be available as needed, and is not or will not be conditioned or encumbered in any way that would preclude its use consistent with the requirements of the investment assistance. EDA shall determine at its sole discretion whether the matching share documentation adequately addresses the requirements of this section.
§ 312.10
Application components.
In addition to the criteria set forth in the FFO, to be considered for a RIS Program grant, eligible applicants must provide the following information:
(a) A description of the regional innovation cluster supported by the proposed activity;
(b) The extent to which the regional innovation cluster is supported by the private sector, State and local units of government, and other relevant stakeholders;
(c) The methods that participants in the regional innovation cluster will use to encourage and solicit participation by all types of entities that might benefit from participation, including newly formed entities and rival existing participants;
(d) The extent to which the regional innovation cluster is likely to stimulate innovation and have a positive effect on regional economic growth and development;
(e) The capacity of participants in the regional innovation cluster to access, or contribute to, a well-trained workforce;
(f) The ability of participants in the regional innovation cluster to attract additional funds to support the cluster with non-Federal funds; and
(g) The likelihood that participants in the regional innovation cluster will be able to sustain activities after the grant expires.
§ 312.11
Application evaluation and selection criteria.
(a) EDA will evaluate and select complete applications in accordance with the evaluation criteria, funding priority considerations, availability of funding, competitiveness of the application, and requirements set forth in section 27(b) of Stevenson-Wydler, the FFO, and other applicable Federal statutes and regulations. All awards are subject to the availability of funds.
(b) EDA will endeavor to notify applicants as soon as practicable regarding whether their applications are selected for funding.
(c) Stevenson-Wydler does not require nor does EDA provide an appeal process for denial of applications for EDA investment assistance.
§ 312.12
General terms and conditions for investment assistance.
RIS Program grants are subject to all requirements contained in part 302 of this chapter, except §§ 302.2, 302.3, 302.9, 302.10, and 302.17.

# Subpart C—Regional Innovation Research and Information Program [Reserved]
§§ 312.13-312.17
[Reserved]
PART 313 [RESERVED]
Pt. 314

# PART 314—PROPERTY
Sec.
314.1
Definitions.
314.2
Federal Interest.
314.3
Authorized use of Project Property.
314.4
Unauthorized Use of Project Property.
314.5
Federal Share.
314.6
Encumbrances.
314.7
Title.
314.8
Recorded statement for Project Real Property.
314.9
Recorded statement for Project Personal Property.
314.10
Procedures for release of the Federal Interest.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3211; Department of Commerce Organization Order 10-4.

# Source:
71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 314.1
Definitions.
In addition to the defined terms set forth in § 300.3 of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Adequate Consideration
means the fair market value at the time of sale or lease of any Property, as adjusted, in
EDA's sole discretion, by any services, property exchanges, contractual commitments, acts of forbearance or other considerations that are in furtherance of the authorized purposes of the Investment Assistance, which are received by the Recipient or Owner in exchange for such Property.
Disposition
or
Dispose
means the sale, lease, abandonment or other disposition of any Property and also includes the Unauthorized Use of such Property.
Estimated Useful Life,
as used in this part, means the period of years that constitutes the expected useful lifespan of a Project, as determined by EDA, during which EDA anticipates obtaining the economic development benefits of its Investment.
Federal Interest
has the definition ascribed to it in § 314.2(a).
Federal Share
has the definition ascribed to it in § 314.5.
Owner
means a fee owner, transferee, lessee or optionee of any Property. The term Owner also includes the holder of other interests in a Property where the interests are such that the holder effectively controls the use of such Property.
Personal Property
means all tangible and intangible property other than Real Property, including the RLF Capital Base as defined at § 307.8.
Project Property
means all Property that is acquired or improved, in whole or in part, with Investment Assistance and is required, as determined by EDA, for the successful completion and operation of a Project and/or serves as the economic justification of a Project. As appropriate to specify the type of Property referenced, this part refers to Project Property as “Project Real Property” or “Project Personal Property”.
Property
means Real Property, Personal Property and mixed property.
Real Property
means any land, whether raw or improved, and includes structures, fixtures, appurtenances and other permanent improvements, excluding moveable machinery and equipment. Real Property includes land that is served by the construction of Project infrastructure (such as roads, sewers and water lines) where the infrastructure contributes to the value of such land as a specific purpose of the Project.
Successor Recipient
means an EDA-approved transferee of Property pursuant to § 314.3(d). A Successor Recipient must be an Eligible Recipient of Investment Assistance.
Unauthorized Use
means any use of Property acquired or improved in whole or in part for purposes not authorized by EDA Investment Assistance, PWEDA or this chapter, as set forth in § 314.4.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76136, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57059, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 314.2
Federal Interest.
(a) Subject to the obligations and conditions set forth in this part and in relevant provisions of 2 CFR part 200, Project Property vests upon acquisition in the Recipient (or, if approved by EDA, in a Co-recipient or Subrecipient). Project Property shall be held in trust by the Recipient for the benefit of the Project for the Estimated Useful Life of the Project, during which period EDA retains an undivided equitable reversionary interest in the Property (the “Federal Interest”). The Federal Interest ensures compliance with EDA Project requirements, including those related to the purpose, scope, and use of a Project. The Recipient typically must secure the Federal Interest through a recorded lien, statement, or other recordable instrument setting forth EDA's Property interest in a Project (
e.g.,
a mortgage, covenant, or other statement of EDA's Real Property interest in the case of a Project involving the acquisition, construction, or improvement of a building. See § 314.8.).
(b) When the Federal Government is fully compensated for the Federal Share of Project Property, the Federal Interest is extinguished and the Federal Government has no further interest in the Property, except as provided in § 314.10(e)(3) regarding nondiscrimination requirements.
[82 FR 57059, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 314.3
Authorized use of Project Property.
(a)
General.
During the Estimated Useful Life of the Project, the Recipient or Owner must use any Project Property only for authorized Project purposes as set out in the terms of the Investment Assistance. Such Property must not be Disposed of or encumbered without EDA's prior written authorization.
(b)
Project Property that is no longer needed for Project purposes.
Where EDA and the Recipient determine during the Estimated Useful Life of the Project that Project Property is longer needed for the original purpose of the Investment Assistance, EDA, in its sole discretion, may approve the use of such Property in other Federal grant programs or in programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized by PWEDA and by this chapter.
(c)
Real Property for sale or lease.
Where EDA determines that the authorized purpose of the Investment Assistance is to develop Real Property to be leased or sold, such sale or lease is permitted provided it is for Adequate Consideration and the sale is consistent with the authorized purpose of the Investment Assistance and with all applicable Investment Assistance requirements, including nondiscrimination and environmental compliance.
(d)
Property transfers and Successor Recipients.
EDA, in its sole discretion, may approve the transfer of any Project Property from a Recipient to a Successor Recipient (or from one Successor Recipient to another Successor Recipient). The Recipient will remain responsible for complying with the rules of this part and the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance for the period in which it is the Recipient. Thereafter, the Successor Recipient must comply with the rules of this part and with the same terms and conditions as were applicable to the Recipient (unless such terms and conditions are otherwise amended by EDA). The same rules apply to EDA-approved transfers of Property between Successor Recipients.
(e)
Replacement Personal Property.
When acquiring replacement Personal Property of equal or greater value than Personal Property originally acquired with Investment Assistance, the Recipient may, with EDA's approval, trade in such Personal Property originally acquired or sell the original Personal Property and use the proceeds for the acquisition of the replacement Personal Property, provided that the replacement Personal Property is for use in the Project. The replacement Personal Property is subject to the same requirements as the original Personal Property.
(f)
Replacement Real Property.
In extraordinary and compelling circumstances, the Assistant Secretary may approve the replacement of Real Property used in a Project.
(g)
Incidental use of Project Property.
With EDA's prior written approval, a Recipient may undertake an incidental use of Project Property that does not interfere with the scope of the Project or the economic purpose for which the Investment was made, provided that the Recipient is in compliance with applicable law and the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance, and the incidental use of the Property will not violate the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance or otherwise undermine the economic purpose for which the Investment was made or adversely affect the economic useful life of the Property. Eligible Applicants and Recipients should contact the appropriate regional office (whose contact information is available via the Internet at
http://www.eda.gov
) for guidelines on obtaining approval for incidental use of Property under this section.
[82 FR 57059, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 314.4
Unauthorized Use of Project Property.
(a)
Compensation of Federal Share upon an Unauthorized Use of Project Property.
Except as provided in §§ 314.3 (regarding the authorized use of Property) or 314.10 (regarding the release of the Federal Interest in certain Property), or as otherwise authorized by EDA, the Federal Government must be compensated by the Recipient for the Federal Share whenever, during the Estimated Useful Life of the Project, any Project Property is Disposed of, encumbered, or no longer used for the purpose of the Project; provided that
for equipment and supplies, the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, including any supplements, shall apply.
(b)
Additional Unauthorized Uses of Project Property.
Additionally, prior to the release of the Federal Interest, Project Real Property or tangible Project Personal Property may not be used:
(1) In violation of the nondiscrimination requirements of § 302.20 of this chapter or in violation of the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance; or
(2) For any purpose prohibited by applicable law.
(c)
Recovery of the Federal Share.
Where the Disposition, encumbrance, or use of any Project Property violates paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, EDA may assert the Federal Interest in the Project Property to recover the Federal Share for the Federal Government and may take such actions as authorized by PWEDA and this chapter, including the actions provided in §§ 302.3, 302.16, and 307.21 of this chapter. EDA may pursue its rights under paragraph (a) of this section and this paragraph (c) to recover the Federal Share, plus costs and interest. When the Federal Government is fully compensated for the Federal Share, the Federal Interest is extinguished as provided in § 314.2(b), and EDA will have no further interest in the ownership, use, or Disposition of the Property, except for the nondiscrimination requirements set forth in § 314.10(d)(3).
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76137, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57059, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 314.5
Federal Share.
(a) For purposes of this part, “Federal Share” means that portion of the current fair market value of any Project Property attributable to EDA's participation in the Project. EDA may rely on a current certified appraisal of the Project Property prepared by an appraiser licensed in the State where the Project Property is located to determine the fair market value. In extraordinary circumstances and at EDA's sole discretion, where EDA is unable to determine the current fair market value, EDA may use other methods of determining the value of Project Property, including the amount of the award of Investment Assistance or the amount paid by a transferee. The Federal Share shall be the current fair market value or other valuation as determined by EDA of the Property after deducting:
(1) Reasonable repair expenses, if any, incurred to put the Property into marketable condition; and
(2) Sales, commission and marketing costs.
(b) The Federal Share excludes that portion of the current fair market value of the Property attributable to acquisition or improvements before or after EDA's participation in the Project, which are not included in the total Project costs. For example, if the total Project costs are $100, consisting of $50 of Investment Assistance and $50 of Matching Share, the Federal Share is 50 percent. If the Property is disposed of when its current fair market is $250, the Federal Share is $125 (
i.e.,
50 percent of $250). If $10 is spent to put the Property into salable condition, the Federal Share is $120 (
i.e.,
50 percent of ($250-$10)).
[73 FR 62870, Oct. 22, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 76137, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57060, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 314.6
Encumbrances.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section or as otherwise authorized by EDA, Project Property must not be used to secure a mortgage or deed of trust or in any way otherwise encumbered, except to secure a grant or loan made by a Federal Agency or State agency or other public body participating in the same Project, so long as the Recipient discloses such an encumbrance in writing as part of its application for Investment Assistance or as soon as practicable after learning of the encumbrance.
(b)
Exceptions.
Subject to EDA's approval, which will not be unreasonably withheld or unduly delayed, paragraph (a) of this section does not apply in the following circumstances:
(1)
Shared first lien position.
EDA, at its discretion, may approve an encumbrance on Project Property where a lien holder and EDA enter into an inter-creditor agreement pursuant to
which EDA and the other lien holder share a first lien position on terms satisfactory to EDA.
(2)
Utility encumbrances.
Encumbrances arising solely from the requirements of a pre-existing water or sewer facility or other utility encumbrances, which by their terms extend to additional Property connected to such facilities.
(3)
Pre-existing encumbrances.
Encumbrances already in place and disclosed to EDA at the time EDA approves the Project where EDA, in its sole discretion, determines that:
(i) The requirements of § 314.7(b) are met;
(ii) Consistent with paragraphs (b)(4)(iv) and (b)(5)(iv) of this section, the terms and conditions of the encumbrance are satisfactory; and
(iii) Consistent with paragraphs (b)(4)(v) and (b)(5)(v) of this section, there is a reasonable expectation that the Recipient will not default on its obligations.
(4)
Encumbrances proposed proximate to Project approval.
Encumbrances required to secure debt, including time and maturity-limited debt, that finances the Project Property at the same proximate time that EDA approves the Project when all of the following are met:
(i) EDA, in its sole discretion, determines that there is good cause and legal authority to waive paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) All proceeds secured by the encumbrance on the Property shall be available only to the Recipient and shall be used only for the Project for which the Investment Assistance applies, for related activities of which the Project is an essential part, or other activities that EDA determines are authorized under PWEDA;
(iii) A grantor or lender will not provide funds without the security of a lien on the Property;
(iv) The terms and conditions of the encumbrance are satisfactory to EDA; and
(v) There is a reasonable expectation, as determined by EDA, that the Recipient will not default on its obligations. In determining whether an expectation is reasonable for purposes of this paragraph, EDA shall take into account whether:
(A) A Recipient that is a non-profit organization is joined in the Project with a co-Recipient that is a public body and all co-Recipients are jointly and severally responsible;
(B) A Recipient that is a non-profit organization is financially strong and is an established organization with sufficient organizational life to demonstrate stability over time;
(C) The approximate value of the Project Property so that the total amount of all debt plus the Federal share of cost as reflected on the EDA Investment award, and any amendments as applicable, does not exceed the value of the Project Property as improved; and
(D) Such other factors as EDA deems appropriate.
(5)
Encumbrances proposed after Project approval.
Encumbrances proposed to be incurred after Project approval where all of the following are met:
(i) EDA, in its sole discretion, determines that there is good cause and legal authority to waive paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) All proceeds secured by the encumbrance on the Property shall be available only to the Recipient and shall be used only for the Project for which the Investment Assistance applies, for related activities of which the Project is an essential part, or other activities that EDA determines are authorized under PWEDA;
(iii) A grantor or lender will not provide funds without the security of a lien on the Property;
(iv) The terms and conditions of the encumbrance are satisfactory to EDA; and
(v) There is a reasonable expectation, as determined by EDA, that the Recipient will not default on its obligations. In determining whether an expectation is reasonable for purposes of this paragraph, EDA shall take into account whether:
(A) A Recipient that is a non-profit organization is joined in the Project with a co-Recipient that is a public body and all co-Recipients are jointly and severally responsible;
(B) A Recipient that is a non-profit organization is financially strong and
is an established organization with sufficient organizational life to demonstrate stability over time;
(C) The Recipient's equity in the Project Property based on the appraised value of the Project Property at the time the encumbrance is requested so that the total amount of all debt plus the Federal share of cost as reflected on the EDA Investment award, and any amendments as applicable, does not exceed the value of the Project Property as improved; and
(D) Such other factors as EDA deems appropriate.
(c)
Unauthorized encumbrances.
Encumbering Project Property, other than as permitted in this section, is an Unauthorized Use of the Property under § 314.4.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62870, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76137, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57060, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 314.7
Title.
(a)
General title requirement.
Except in those limited circumstances identified in paragraph (c) of this section, at the time Investment Assistance is awarded, the Recipient must hold title to Project Real Property, which, as noted in § 314.1 in the definition of “Real Property” includes land that is served by the construction of Project infrastructure (such as roads, sewers, and water lines) and where the infrastructure contributes to the value of such land as a specific purpose of the Project. The Recipient must maintain title to Project Real Property at all times during the Estimated Useful Life of the Project, except in those limited circumstances as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The Recipient also must furnish evidence, satisfactory in form and substance to EDA, that title to Project Real Property (other than property of the United States) is vested in the Recipient and that any easements, rights-of-way, State or local government permits, long-term leases, or other items required for the Project have been or will be obtained by the Recipient within an acceptable time, as determined by EDA.
(b)
Disclosure of encumbrances.
(1) The Recipient must disclose to EDA all encumbrances, including the following:
(i) Liens;
(ii) Mortgages;
(iii) Reservations;
(iv) Reversionary interests; and
(v) Other restrictions on title or on the Recipient's interest in the Property.
(2) No encumbrance will be acceptable if, as determined by EDA, the encumbrance interferes with the construction, use, operation or maintenance of the Project during its Estimated Useful Life.
(c)
Exceptions.
The following are exceptions to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section that the Recipient hold title to Project Real Property at the time Investment Assistance is awarded and at all times during the Estimated Useful Life of the Project.
(1)
Project Real Property acquisition.
Where the acquisition of Project Real Property is contemplated as part of an Investment Assistance award, EDA may determine that an agreement for the Recipient to purchase the Project Real Property will be acceptable for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section if:
(i) The Recipient provides EDA with reasonable assurances that it will obtain fee title to the Real Property prior to or concurrent with the initial disbursement of the Investment Assistance; and
(ii) EDA, in its sole discretion, determines that the terms and conditions of the purchase agreement adequately safeguard the Federal Government's interest in the Project Real Property.
(2)
Leasehold interests.
EDA may determine that a long-term leasehold interest for a period not less than the Estimated Useful Life of Project Real Property will be acceptable for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section if:
(i) Fee title to the Real Property is not otherwise obtainable; and
(ii) EDA, in its sole discretion, determines that the terms and conditions of the lease adequately safeguard the Federal government's interest in the Real Property and demonstrate the economic development and public benefits of the leasehold transaction.
(3)
Railroad right-of-way construction.
When a Project includes construction within a railroad's right-of-way or over a railroad crossing, EDA may find it
acceptable for the work to be completed by the railroad and for the railroad to continue to own, operate, and maintain that portion of the Project, if required by the railroad; and provided that, the construction is a minor but essential component of the Project.
(4)
State or local government owned roadway or highway construction.
When the Project includes construction on a State or local government owned roadway or highway the owner of which is not the Recipient, EDA may allow the Project to be constructed in whole or in part in the right-of-way of such public roadway or highway, provided that:
(i) All EDA-funded construction is completed in accordance with EDA requirements;
(ii) The Recipient confirms in writing to EDA, satisfactory to EDA, that:
(A) The Recipient is committed during the Estimated Useful Life of the Project to operate, maintain and repair all improvements for the Project consistent with the Investment Assistance; and
(B) If at any time during the Estimated Useful Life of the Project any or all of the improvements in the Project within the State or local government owned roadway or highway are relocated for any reason pursuant to requirements of the owner of the public roadway or highway, the Recipient shall be responsible for accomplishing such relocation, including expending the Recipient's own funds as necessary, so that the Project continues as authorized by the Investment Assistance; and
(iii) The Recipient obtains all written authorizations (
i.e.,
State or county permit(s)) necessary for the Project to be constructed within the public roadway or highway, copies of which shall be submitted to EDA. Such authorizations shall contain no time limits that EDA determines substantially restrict the use of the public roadway or highway for the Project during the Estimated Useful Life of the Project.
(5)
Construction of Recipient-owned facilities to serve Recipient or privately owned Real Property
—(i)
General.
At EDA's discretion, when an authorized purpose of the Project is to construct Recipient-owned facilities to serve Recipient or privately owned Project Real Property, including industrial or commercial parks, so that the Recipient or Owner may sell or lease parcels of the Project Real Property to private parties, such ownership, sale, or lease, as applicable, is permitted so long as:
(A) In cases where an authorized purpose of the Project is to sell Project Real Property, the Recipient or Owner, as applicable, provides evidence sufficient to EDA that it holds title to the Project Real Property intended for sale or lease prior to the disbursement of any portion of the Investment Assistance and will retain title until the sale of the Property in accordance with paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(C) through (E) of this section;
(B) In cases where an authorized purpose of the Project is to lease Project Real Property, the Recipient or Owner, as applicable, provides evidence sufficient to EDA that it holds title to the Project Real Property intended for lease prior to the disbursement of any portion of the Investment Assistance and will retain title for the entire Estimated Useful Life of the Project;
(C) The Recipient provides adequate assurances that the Project and the development of land and improvements on the Recipient or privately owned Project Real Property to be served by or that provides the economic justification for the Project will be completed according to the terms of the Investment Assistance;
(D) The sale or lease of any portion of the Project or of Project Real Property served by the Project or that provides the economic justification for the Project during the Project's Estimated Useful Life must be for Adequate Consideration and the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance and the purpose(s) of the Project must continue to be fulfilled after such sale or lease; and
(ii)
Additional conditions on sale or lease.
EDA also may condition the sale or lease on the satisfaction by the Recipient, Owner, purchaser, or lessee (as the case may be) of any additional requirements that EDA may impose, including EDA's pre-approval of the sale or lease.
(iii)
Agreement between Recipient and Owner.
In addition to paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section, when an
authorized purpose of the Project is to construct facilities to serve privately owned Real Property, the Recipient and the Owner must agree to use the Real Property improved or benefitted by the EDA Investment Assistance only for the authorized purposes of the Project and in a manner consistent with the terms and conditions of the EDA Investment Assistance for the Estimated Useful Life of the Project.
(iv)
Unauthorized Use and compensation of Federal Share.
EDA may deem that a violation of this paragraph (c)(5) by the Recipient, Owner, purchaser, or lessee (as the case may be) constitutes an Unauthorized Use of the Real Property and the Recipient must agree to compensate EDA for the Federal government's Federal Share of the Project in the case of such Unauthorized Use.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62870, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76137, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57061, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 314.8
Recorded statement for Project Real Property.
(a) For all Projects involving the acquisition, construction, or improvement of a building, as determined by EDA, the Recipient shall execute a lien, covenant, or other statement of the Federal Interest in such Project Real Property. The statement shall specify the Estimated Useful Life of the Project and shall include, but not be limited to, the Disposition, encumbrance and Federal Share requirements. The statement shall be satisfactory in form and substance to EDA.
(b) The statement of the Federal Interest must be perfected and placed of record in the Real Property records of the jurisdiction in which the Project Real Property is located, all in accordance with applicable law.
(c) Facilities in which the EDA Investment is only a small part of a large project, as determined by EDA, may be exempted from the requirements of this section.
(d) In extraordinary circumstances and at EDA's sole discretion, EDA may choose to accept another instrument to protect the Federal Interest in Project Real Property, such as an escrow agreement or letter of credit, provided that EDA determines such instrument is adequate and a recorded statement in accord with paragraph (a) of this section is not reasonably available. The terms and provisions of the relevant instrument shall be satisfactory to EDA in EDA's sole judgment. The costs and fees for escrow services and letters of credit shall be paid by the Recipient.
[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76138, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57061, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 314.9
Recorded statement for Project Personal Property.
For all Projects which EDA determines involve the acquisition or improvement of significant items of Personal Property, including ships, machinery, equipment, removable fixtures, or structural components of buildings, the Recipient shall provide notice of the Federal Interest in all Project Personal Property by executing a Uniform Commercial Code Financing Statement (Form UCC-1, as provided by State law) or other statement of the Federal Interest in the Project Personal Property, acceptable in form and substance to EDA, which statement must be perfected and placed of record in accordance with applicable law, with continuances re-filed as appropriate. Whether or not a statement is required by EDA to be recorded, the Recipient must hold title to all Project Personal Property, except as otherwise provided in this part.
[82 FR 57062, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 314.10
Procedures for release of the Federal Interest.
(a)
General.
As provided in § 314.2, the Federal Interest in Project Property extends for the duration of the Estimated Useful Life of the Project, which is determined by EDA at the time of Investment award. Upon request of the Recipient, EDA will release the Federal Interest in Project Property upon expiration of the Estimated Useful Life as established in the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance and in accord with the requirements of this section and part. This section provides procedures to obtain a release of the Federal Interest in Project Property.
(b)
Release of the Federal Interest after the expiration of the Estimated Useful Life.
At the expiration of a Project's
Estimated Useful Life and upon the written request of a recipient, the Assistant Secretary may release the Federal Interest in Project Property if EDA determines that the Recipient has made a good faith effort to fulfill all terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance. The determination provided for in this paragraph (b) shall be established at the time of Recipient's written request and shall be based, at least in part, on the facts and circumstances provided in writing by the Recipient. For a Project in which a Recorded Statement as provided for in §§ 314.8 and 314.9 has been recorded, EDA will provide for the release by executing an instrument in recordable form. The release will terminate the Investment as of the date of its execution and satisfy the Recorded Statement. See paragraph (e) of this section for limitations and covenants of use that are applicable to any release of the Federal Interest.
(c)
Release prior to the expiration of the Estimated Useful Life.
If the Recipient will no longer use the Project Property in accord with the requirements of the terms and conditions of the Investment within the time period of the Estimated Useful Life, EDA will determine if such use by the Recipient constitutes an Unauthorized Use of Property and require compensation for the Federal Interest as provided in § 314.4 and this section. EDA may release the Federal Interest in connection with such Property only upon receipt of full payment in compensation of the Federal Interest and thereafter will have no further interest in the ownership, use, or Disposition of the Property, except for the nondiscrimination requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(d)
Release of the Federal Interest before the expiration of the Estimated Useful Life, but 20 years after the award of Investment Assistance.
In accord with section 601(d)(2) of PWEDA, upon the request of a Recipient and before the expiration of the Estimated Useful Life of a Project, but where 20 years have elapsed since the award of Investment Assistance, EDA may release any Real Property or tangible Personal Property interest held by EDA, if EDA determines:
(1) The Recipient has made a good faith effort to fulfill all terms and conditions of the award of Investment Assistance; and
(2) The economic development benefits as set out in the award of Investment Assistance have been achieved.
(3) See paragraph (e) of this section for limitations and covenants of use that are applicable to any release of the Federal Interest.
(e)
Limitations and Covenant of Use.
(1) EDA's release of the Federal Interest pursuant to this section is not automatic; it requires EDA's approval, which will not be withheld except for good cause or as otherwise required by law, as determined in EDA's sole discretion. As deemed appropriate, EDA may require the Recipient to take some action as a condition of the release.
(2) In determining whether to release the Federal Interest, EDA will review EDA's legal authority to release its interest, including the Recipient's performance under and conformance with the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance; any use of Project Property in violation of § 314.3 or § 314.4; and other such factors as EDA deems appropriate. When requesting a release of the Federal Interest pursuant to this section, the Recipient will be required to disclose to EDA the intended future use of the Real Property or the tangible Personal Property for which the release is requested.
(i) A Recipient not intending to use the Real Property or tangible Personal Property for explicitly religious activities following EDA's release will be required to execute a covenant of use. A covenant of use with respect to Real Property shall be recorded in the jurisdiction where the Real Property is located in accordance with § 314.8. A covenant of use with respect to items of tangible Personal Property shall be perfected and recorded in accordance with applicable law, with continuances re-filed as appropriate.
See
§ 314.9. A covenant of use shall (at a minimum) prohibit the use of the Real Property or the tangible Personal Property for explicitly religious activities in violation of applicable Federal law.
(ii) EDA may require a Recipient (or its successors in interest) that intends
or foresees the use of Real Property or tangible Personal Property for explicitly religious activities following the release of the Federal Interest to compensate EDA for the Federal Share of such Property. If such compensation is made, no covenant with respect to explicitly religious activities will be required as a condition of the release. EDA recommends that any Recipient who intends or foresees the use of Real Property or tangible Personal Property (including by successors of the Recipient) for explicitly religious activities to contact EDA well in advance of requesting a release pursuant to this section.
(3) Notwithstanding any release of the Federal Interest under this section, including a release upon a Recipient's compensation for the Federal Share, a Recipient must ensure that Project Property is not used in violation of nondiscrimination requirements set forth in § 302.20 of this chapter. Accordingly, upon the release of the Federal Interest, the Recipient must execute a covenant of use that prohibits use of Real Property or tangible Personal Property for any purpose that would violate the nondiscrimination requirements set forth in § 302.20 of this chapter.
(i) With respect to Real Property, the Recipient must record a covenant under this subsection in the jurisdiction where the Real Property is located in accordance with § 314.8.
(ii) With respect to items of tangible Personal Property, the Recipient must perfect and record a covenant under this subsection in accordance with applicable law, with continuances re-filed as appropriate, in accordance with § 314.9.
[79 FR 76139, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 57062, Dec. 1, 2017]
Pt. 315

# PART 315—TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR FIRMS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
315.1
Purpose and scope.
315.2
Definitions.
315.3
Confidential Business Information.

# Subpart B—TAAC Provisions
315.4
TAAC selection and operation.
315.5
The role and geographic coverage of the TAACs.

# Subpart C—Certification of Firms
315.6
Certification requirements.
315.7
Processing petitions for certification.
315.8
Hearings.
315.9
Loss of certification benefits.
315.10
Appeals, final determinations, and termination of certification.

# Subpart D—Adjustment Proposals
315.11
Adjustment Proposal process.
315.12
Adjustment Proposal requirements.

# Subpart E—Protective Provisions
315.13
Persons engaged by Firms to expedite petitions and Adjustment Proposals.
315.14
Conflicts of interest.

# Subpart F—International Trade Commission Investigations
315.15
Affirmative findings.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 2341-2356; 42 U.S.C. 3211; Title IV of Pub. L. 114-27, 129 Stat. 373; Department of Commerce Delegation Order 10-4.

# Source:
74 FR 41598, Aug. 18, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 315.1
Purpose and scope.
Chapter 3 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2341-2355) establishes the responsibilities of the Secretary of Commerce concerning the Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms (TAAF) program. The regulations in this part lay out those responsibilities as delegated to EDA by the Secretary. EDA executes these responsibilities through cooperative agreements that support a network of Trade Adjustment Assistance Centers (TAACs). The TAACs assist Firms in petitioning EDA for certification of eligibility to receive Adjustment Assistance. EDA certifies the eligibility of Firms. The TAACs then provide Adjustment Assistance to Firms through the development and implementation of Adjustment Proposals.
[85 FR 8379, Feb. 14, 2020]
§ 315.2
Definitions.
In addition to the defined terms set forth in § 300.3 of this chapter, the following terms used in this part shall have the meanings set forth below:
Adjustment Assistance
means technical assistance provided to Firms by TAACs under chapter 3 of title II of the Trade Act. The type of assistance provided is determined by EDA and may include one or more of the following:
(1) Assistance in preparing a Firm's petition for certification of eligibility;
(2) Assistance to a Certified Firm in developing an Adjustment Proposal for the Firm; and
(3) Assistance to a Certified Firm in implementing an Adjustment Proposal.
Adjustment Proposal
means a Certified Firm's plan for improving the Firm's competitiveness in the marketplace.
Certified Firm
means a Firm which has been determined by EDA to be eligible to apply for Adjustment Assistance.
Confidential Business Information
means any information submitted to EDA or a TAAC by a Firm that concerns or relates to trade secrets for commercial or financial purposes, which is exempt from public disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(4) and 15 CFR part 4.
Contributed Importantly,
with respect to an Increase in Imports, refers to a cause which is important but not necessarily more important than any other cause. Imports will not be considered to have Contributed Importantly if other factors were so dominant, acting singly or in combination, that the worker separation or threat thereof or decline in sales or production would have been essentially the same, irrespective of the influence of imports.
Decreased Absolutely
means a Firm's sales or production has declined by a minimum of five percent relative to its sales or production during the applicable prior time period, and this decline is:
(1) Independent of industry or market fluctuations; and
(2) Relative only to the previous performance of the Firm, unless EDA determines that these limitations in a given case would not be consistent with the purposes of the Trade Act.
Directly Competitive or Like
means imported articles or services that compete with and are substantially equivalent for commercial purposes (
i.e.,
are adapted for the same function or use and are essentially interchangeable) as the Firm's articles or services. For the purposes of this term, any Firm that engages in exploring or drilling for oil or natural gas, or otherwise produces oil or natural gas, shall be considered to be producing articles directly competitive with imports of oil and with imports of natural gas.
Firm
means an individual proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation (includes a development corporation), business trust, cooperative, trustee in bankruptcy or receiver under court decree, and includes fishing, agricultural or service sector entities and those which explore, drill or otherwise produce oil or natural gas.
See also
the definition of Service Sector Firm. Pursuant to section 259 of chapter 3 of title II of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2351), a Firm, together with any predecessor or successor firm, or any affiliated firm controlled or substantially beneficially owned by substantially the same person, may be considered a single Firm where necessary to prevent Unjustifiable Benefits. For purposes of receiving benefits under this part, when a Firm owns or controls other Firms, the Firm and such other Firms may be considered a single Firm when they produce or supply like or Directly Competitive articles or services or are exerting essential economic control over one or more production facilities. Accordingly, such other Firms may include a(n):
(1)
Predecessor
—see the following definition for Successor;
(2)
Successor
—a newly established Firm (that has been in business less than two years) which has purchased substantially all of the assets of a previously operating company (or in some cases a whole distinct division) (such prior company, unit or division, a ‘Predecessor’) and is able to demonstrate that it continued the operations of the Predecessor which has operated as an autonomous unit, provided that there were no significant transactions between the Predecessor unit
and any related parent, subsidiary, or affiliate that would have affected its past performance, and that separate records are available for the Predecessor's operations for at least two years before the petition is submitted. The Successor Firm must have continued virtually all of the Predecessor Firm's operations by producing the same type of products or services, in the same plant, utilizing most of the same machinery and equipment and most of its former workers, and the Predecessor Firm must no longer be in existence;
(3)
Affiliate
—a company (either foreign or domestic) controlled or substantially beneficially owned by substantially the same person or persons that own or control the Firm filing the petition; or
(4)
Subsidiary
—a company (either foreign or domestic) that is wholly owned or effectively controlled by another company. A Firm that has been acquired by another Firm but which maintains operations independent of the acquiring Firm is considered an
Independent Subsidiary
and may be considered separately from the acquiring Firm as eligible for TAAF assistance.
Increase in Imports
means an increase in imports of Directly Competitive or Like Articles or Services with articles produced or services supplied by a Firm.
Like Articles or Services
means any articles or services, as applicable, which are substantially identical in their intrinsic characteristics.
Partial Separation
occurs when there has been no increase in overall employment at the Firm and either of the following applies:
(1) A reduction in an employee's work hours to 80 percent or less of the employee's average weekly hours during the year of such reductions as compared to the preceding year; or
(2) A reduction in the employee's weekly wage to 80 percent or less of his/her average weekly wage during the year of such reduction as compared to the preceding year.
Person
means an individual, organization or group.
Record
means any of the following:
(1) A petition for certification of eligibility to qualify for Adjustment Assistance;
(2) Any supporting information submitted by a petitioner;
(3) The report of an EDA investigation with respect to petition; and
(4) Any information developed during an investigation or in connection with any public hearing held on a petition.
Service Sector Firm
means a Firm engaged in the business of supplying services.
Significant Number or Proportion of Workers
means five percent of a Firm's work force or 50 workers, whichever is less, unless EDA determines that these limitations in a given case would not be consistent with the purposes of the Trade Act. An individual farmer or fisherman is considered a Significant Number or Proportion of Workers.
Substantial Interest
means a direct material economic interest in the certification or non-certification of the petitioner.
TAAC
means a Trade Adjustment Assistance Center, as more fully described in § 315.5.
Threat of Total or Partial Separation
means, with respect to any group of workers, one or more events or circumstances clearly demonstrating that a Total or Partial Separation is imminent.
Total Separation
means the laying off or termination of employment of an employee in a Firm for lack of work.
Unjustifiable Benefits
means Adjustment Assistance inappropriately accruing to the benefit of:
(1) Other Firms that would not otherwise be eligible when provided to a Firm; or
(2) Any predecessor or successor Firm, or any affiliated Firm controlled or substantially beneficially owned by substantially the same person, rather than treating these entities as a single Firm.
[74 FR 41598, Aug. 18, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 8379, Feb. 14, 2020]
§ 315.3
Confidential Business Information.
EDA will follow the procedures set forth in 15 CFR 4.9 for the submission of Confidential Business Information. Submitters should clearly mark and
designate as confidential any Confidential Business Information.

# Subpart B—TAAC Provisions

# Source:
85 FR 8380, Feb. 14, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 315.4
TAAC selection and operation.
(a) EDA solicits applications from organizations interested in operating a TAAC through Notice of Funding Opportunity announcements laying out selection and award criteria. The following entities are eligible to apply:
(1) Universities or affiliated organizations;
(2) States or local governments; or
(3) Non-profit organizations.
(b) Entities selected to operate the TAACs are awarded cooperative agreements and work closely with EDA and import-impacted firms. TAAC cooperative agreements are subject to all Federal laws and to Federal, Department, and EDA policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards, including 2 CFR part 200.
§ 315.5
The role and geographic coverage of the TAACs.
(a) TAACs are available to assist Firms in obtaining Adjustment Assistance in all 50 U.S. States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. TAACs provide Adjustment Assistance in accordance with this part either through their own staffs or by arrangements with outside consultants. Information concerning TAACs and their coverage areas may be obtained from the TAAC website at
http://www.taacenters.org
or from EDA at
http://www.eda.gov.
(b) Prior to submitting a petition for Adjustment Assistance to EDA, a Firm should determine the extent to which a TAAC can provide the required Adjustment Assistance. EDA will provide Adjustment Assistance through TAACs whenever EDA determines that such assistance can be provided most effectively in this manner. Requests for Adjustment Assistance will be made through TAACs.
(c) A TAAC generally provides Adjustment Assistance by:
(1) Helping a Firm to prepare its petition for eligibility certification; and
(2) Assisting Certified Firms with diagnosing their strengths and weaknesses, and with developing and implementing an Adjustment Proposal.

# Subpart C—Certification of Firms

# Source:
85 FR 8380, Feb. 14, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 315.6
Certification requirements.
(a)
General.
Firms apply for certification through a TAAC by completing a petition for certification. The TAAC will assist Firms in completing such petitions at no cost to the Firms. EDA evaluates Firms' petitions based on the requirements set forth in § 315.7. EDA may certify a Firm as eligible to apply for Adjustment Assistance under section 251(c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2341) if it determines that the petition for certification meets one of the minimum certification thresholds set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. In order to be certified, a Firm must meet the criteria listed under any one of the five circumstances described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Minimum certification thresholds
—(1)
Twelve-month decline.
Based upon a comparison of the most recent 12-month period for which data are available and the immediately preceding 12-month period:
(i) A Significant Number or Proportion of Workers in the Firm has undergone Total or Partial Separation or a Threat of Total or Partial Separation;
(ii) Either sales or production, or both, of the Firm has Decreased Absolutely; or sales or production, or both, of any article or service that accounted for not less than 25 percent of the total production or sales of the Firm during the 12-month period preceding the most recent 12-month period for which data are available have Decreased Absolutely; and
(iii) An Increase in Imports has Contributed Importantly to the applicable Total or Partial Separation or Threat of Total or Partial Separation, and to the applicable decline in sales or production or supply of services.
(2)
Twelve-month versus twenty-four month decline.
Based upon a comparison
of the most recent 12-month period for which data are available and the immediately preceding 24-month period:
(i) A Significant Number or Proportion of Workers in the Firm has undergone Total or Partial Separation or a Threat of Total or Partial Separation;
(ii) Either average annual sales or production, or both, of the Firm has Decreased Absolutely; or average annual sales or production, or both, of any article or service that accounted for not less than 25 percent of the total production or sales of the Firm during the 24-month period preceding the most recent 12-month period for which data are available have Decreased Absolutely; and
(iii) An Increase in Imports has Contributed Importantly to the applicable Total or Partial Separation or Threat of Total or Partial Separation, and to the applicable decline in sales or production or supply of services.
(3)
Twelve-month versus thirty-six month decline.
Based upon a comparison of the most recent 12-month period for which data are available and the immediately preceding 36-month period:
(i) A Significant Number or Proportion of Workers in the Firm has undergone Total or Partial Separation or a Threat of Total or Partial Separation;
(ii) Either average annual sales or production, or both, of the Firm has Decreased Absolutely; or average annual sales or production, or both, of any article or service that accounted for not less than 25 percent of the total production or sales of the Firm during the 36-month period preceding the most recent 12-month period for which data are available have Decreased Absolutely; and
(iii) An Increase in Imports has Contributed Importantly to the applicable Total or Partial Separation or Threat of Total or Partial Separation, and to the applicable decline in sales or production or supply of services.
(4)
Interim sales or production decline.
Based upon an interim sales or production decline:
(i) Sales or production has Decreased Absolutely for, at minimum, the most recent six-month period during the most recent 12-month period for which data are available as compared to the same six-month period during the immediately preceding 12-month period;
(ii) During the same base and comparative period of time as sales or production has Decreased Absolutely, a Significant Number or Proportion of Workers in such Firm has undergone Total or Partial Separation or a Threat of Total or Partial Separation; and
(iii) During the same base and comparative period of time as sales or production has Decreased Absolutely, an Increase in Imports has Contributed Importantly to the applicable Total or Partial Separation or Threat of Total or Partial Separation, and to the applicable decline in sales or production or supply of services.
(5)
Interim employment decline.
Based upon an interim employment decline:
(i) A Significant Number or Proportion of Workers in such Firm has undergone Total or Partial Separation or a Threat of Total or Partial Separation during, at a minimum, the most recent six-month period during the most recent 12-month period for which data are available as compared to the same six-month period during the immediately preceding 12-month period; and
(ii) Either sales or production of the Firm has Decreased Absolutely during the 12-month period preceding the most recent 12-month period for which data are available; and
(iii) An Increase in Imports has Contributed Importantly to the applicable Total or Partial Separation or Threat of Total or Partial Separation, and to the applicable decline in sales or production or supply of services.
(c)
Evidence of an increase in imports.
EDA may consider as evidence of an Increase in Imports a certification from the Firm's customers that account for a significant percentage of the Firm's decrease in sales or production, that they have increased their purchase of imports of Directly Competitive or Like Articles or Services from a foreign country, either absolutely or relative to their acquisition of such Like Articles or Services from suppliers located in the United States. Such certification from a Firm's customer must be submitted directly to a TAAC or to EDA.
§ 315.7
Processing petitions for certification.
(a) Firms shall consult with a TAAC for guidance and assistance in the preparation of their petitions for certification.
(b) A Firm seeking certification shall complete a
Petition by a Firm for Certification of Eligibility to Apply for Trade Adjustment Assistance
(Form ED-840P or any successor form) with the following information about such Firm:
(1) Identification and description of the Firm, including legal form of organization, economic history, major ownership interests, officers, directors, management, parent company, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, and production and sales facilities;
(2) Description of goods or services supplied or sold;
(3) Description of imported Directly Competitive or Like Articles or Services with those produced or supplied;
(4) Data on its sales, production and employment for the applicable 24-month, 36-month, or 48-month period, as required under § 315.6(b);
(5) One copy of a complete auditor's certified financial report for the entire period covering the petition, or if not available, one copy of the complete profit and loss statements, balance sheets and supporting statements prepared by the Firm's accountants for the entire period covered by the petition. In addition, publicly-owned corporations should also submit copies of the most recent Form 10-K annual reports (or Form 10-Q quarterly reports, as appropriate) filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for the entire period covered by the petition;
(6) Information concerning customers accounting for a significant percent of the Firm's decline and the customers' purchases (or the Firm's unsuccessful bids, if there are no customers fitting this description); and
(7) Such other information as EDA considers material.
(c) EDA shall determine whether the petition has been properly prepared and can be accepted. Promptly thereafter, EDA shall notify the petitioner that the petition has been accepted or advise the TAAC that the petition has not been accepted, but may be resubmitted at any time without prejudice when the specified deficiencies have been corrected. Any resubmission will be treated as a new petition.
(d) EDA will publish a notice of acceptance of a petition in the
Federal Register
.
(e) EDA will initiate an investigation to determine whether the petitioner meets the requirements set forth in section 251(c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2341) and § 315.6.
(f) A petition for certification may be withdrawn if EDA receives a request for withdrawal submitted by the petitioner before EDA makes a certification determination or denial. A Firm may submit a new petition at any time thereafter in accordance with the requirements of this section and § 315.6.
(g) Following acceptance of a petition, EDA will:
(1) Make a determination based on the Record as soon as possible after the petitioning Firm or TAAC has submitted all requested material. In no event may the determination period exceed 40 calendar days from the date on which EDA accepted the petition; and
(2) Either certify the petitioner as eligible to apply for Adjustment Assistance or deny the petition. In either event, EDA shall promptly give written notice of action to the petitioner. Any written notice to the petitioner of a denial of a petition shall specify the reason(s) for the denial. A petitioner shall not be entitled to resubmit a petition within one year from the date of denial unless EDA waives the one-year limitation for good cause.
§ 315.8
Hearings.
EDA will hold a public hearing on an accepted petition if the petitioner or any interested Person found by EDA to have a Substantial Interest in the proceedings submits a request for a hearing no later than 10 calendar days after the date of publication of the notice of acceptance in the
Federal Register,
under the following procedures:
(a) The petitioner or any interested Person(s) shall have an opportunity to be present, to produce evidence and to be heard.
(b) A request for public hearing must be delivered by hand or by registered
mail to EDA. A request by a Person other than the petitioner shall contain:
(1) The name, address and telephone number of the Person requesting the hearing; and
(2) A complete statement of the relationship of the Person requesting the hearing to the petitioner and the subject matter of the petition, and a statement of the nature of the requesting party's interest in the proceedings.
(c) If EDA determines that the requesting party does not have a Substantial Interest in the proceedings, a written notice of denial shall be sent to the requesting party. The notice shall specify the reasons for the denial.
(d) If EDA determines that the requesting party does have a Substantial Interest in the proceedings, EDA shall publish a notice of a public hearing in the
Federal Register,
containing the subject matter, name of petitioner, and date, time and place of the hearing.
(e) EDA shall appoint a presiding officer for the hearing who shall respond to all procedural questions.
§ 315.9
Loss of certification benefits.
EDA may terminate a Firm's certification or refuse to extend Adjustment Assistance to a Firm for any of the following reasons:
(a) The Firm failed to submit an acceptable Adjustment Proposal within two years after date of certification. While approval of an Adjustment Proposal may occur after the expiration of such two-year period, a Firm must submit an acceptable Adjustment Proposal before such expiration.
(b) The Firm failed to submit documentation necessary to start implementation or modify its request for Adjustment Assistance consistent with its Adjustment Proposal within six months after approval of the Adjustment Proposal, where two years have elapsed since the date of certification. If the Firm anticipates needing a longer period to submit documentation, it should indicate the longer period in its Adjustment Proposal. If the Firm is unable to submit its documentation within the allowed time, it should notify EDA in writing of the reasons for the delay and submit a new schedule. EDA has the discretion to accept or refuse a new schedule.
(c) EDA has denied the Firm's request for Adjustment Assistance, the time period allowed for the submission of any documentation in support of such request has expired, and two years have elapsed since the date of certification.
(d) The Firm failed to diligently pursue an approved Adjustment Proposal, and five years have elapsed since the date of certification.
§ 315.10
Appeals, final determinations, and termination of certification.
(a) Any petitioner may appeal in writing to EDA from a denial of certification, provided that EDA receives the appeal by personal delivery or by registered mail within 60 calendar days from the date of notice of denial under § 315.7(g). The appeal must state the grounds on which the appeal is based, including a concise statement of the supporting facts and applicable law. The decision of EDA on the appeal shall be the final determination within the Department. In the absence of an appeal by the petitioner under this paragraph (a), the determination under § 315.7(g) shall be final.
(b) A Firm, its representative, or any other interested domestic party aggrieved by a final determination under paragraph (a) of this section may, within 60 calendar days after notice of such determination, begin a civil action in the United States Court of International Trade for review of such determination, in accordance with section 284 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2395).
(c) Whenever EDA determines that a Certified Firm no longer requires Adjustment Assistance or for other good cause, EDA will terminate the certification and promptly publish notice of such termination in the
Federal Register.
The termination will take effect on the date specified in the published notice. EDA shall immediately notify the petitioner and shall state the reasons for any termination.

# Subpart D—Adjustment Proposals

# Source:
85 FR 8380, Feb. 14, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 315.11
Adjustment Proposal process.
(a) Firms certified in accordance with the procedures described in §§ 315.6 and 315.7 must prepare an Adjustment Proposal and submit it to EDA for approval within two years after the date of certification.
(b) EDA determines whether to approve the Adjustment Assistance requested in the Adjustment Proposal based upon the evaluation criteria set forth in § 315.12. Upon approval, a Certified Firm may submit a request to the TAAC for Adjustment Assistance to implement an approved Adjustment Proposal. Firms must begin implementation within six months after approval. Firms that do not begin implementation within six months after approval must update, re-submit their Adjustment Proposal, and request re-approval before any Adjustment Assistance may be provided.
(c) EDA will make a determination regarding the Adjustment Proposal no later than 60 calendar days upon receipt of the Adjustment Proposal.
(d) Adjustment Assistance is subject to matching share requirements. Each Certified Firm must pay at least 25 percent of the cost of preparing its Adjustment Proposal. Each Certified Firm requesting $30,000 or less in total Adjustment Assistance in its approved Adjustment Proposal must pay at least 25 percent of the cost of that Adjustment Assistance. Each Certified Firm requesting more than $30,000 in total Adjustment Assistance in its approved Adjustment Proposal must pay at least 50 percent of the cost of that Adjustment Assistance. Certified Firms may request no more than the amount as established by EDA for total Adjustment Assistance over the entire lifetime of the firm.
(e) Firms may request EDA approval to amend their Adjustment Proposals within two years from the date of EDA approval of their initial Adjustment Proposal.
(f) Firms must complete implementation of their Adjustment Proposals within five years of EDA approval of their initial Adjustment Proposal.
(g) If a Certified Firm is transferred, sold, or otherwise acquired by another Firm during the five-year period of Adjustment Assistance, the Firm must notify EDA no later than 30 calendar days following the transfer, sale, or acquisition. EDA will then make a determination as to whether the Firm remains eligible for Adjustment Assistance. EDA will make this determination no later than 60 calendar days following notification by the Firm.
(h) In accordance with Section 255A of chapter 3 of title II of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2345a), Firms that receive Adjustment Assistance must provide data regarding the Firms' sales, employment, and productivity upon completion of the program and each year for the two-year period following completion.
§ 315.12
Adjustment Proposal requirements.
EDA evaluates Adjustment Proposals based on the following:
(a) The Adjustment Proposal must include a description of any Adjustment Assistance requested to implement such proposal, including financial and other supporting documentation as EDA determines is necessary, based upon either:
(1) An analysis of the Firm's problems, strengths, and weaknesses and an assessment of its prospects for recovery; or
(2) If EDA so determines, other available information;
(b) The Adjustment Proposal must:
(1) Be reasonably calculated to contribute materially to the economic adjustment of the Firm (
i.e.,
that such proposal will constructively assist the Firm to establish a competitive position in the same or a different industry);
(2) Give adequate consideration to the interests of a sufficient number of separated workers of the Firm, by providing, for example, that the Firm will:
(i) Give a rehiring preference to such workers;
(ii) Make efforts to find new work for a number of such workers; and
(iii) Assist such workers in obtaining benefits under available programs; and
(3) Demonstrate that the Firm will make all reasonable efforts to use its own resources for its recovery, though under certain circumstances, resources of related Firms or major stockholders will also be considered; and
(c) The Adjustment Assistance identified in the Adjustment Proposal must consist of specialized consulting services designed to assist the Firm in becoming more competitive in the global marketplace. For purposes of this paragraph (c), Adjustment Assistance generally consists of knowledge-based services such as market penetration studies, customized business improvements, and designs for new products. Adjustment Assistance does not include expenditures for capital improvements or for the purchase of business machinery or supplies.

# Subpart E—Protective Provisions

# Source:
85 FR 8380, Feb. 14, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 315.13
Persons engaged by Firms to expedite petitions and Adjustment Proposals.
EDA will provide no Adjustment Assistance to any Firm unless the owners, partners, members, directors, or officers thereof certify in writing to EDA:
(a) The names of any attorneys, agents, and other Persons engaged by or on behalf of the Firm for the purpose of expediting petitions for such Adjustment Assistance or Adjustment Proposals; and
(b) The fees paid or to be paid to any such Person.
§ 315.14
Conflicts of interest.
EDA will provide no Adjustment Assistance to any Firm under this part unless the owners, partners, members, directors, or officers thereof execute an agreement binding them and the Firm for a period of two years after such Adjustment Assistance is provided, to refrain from employing, tendering any office or employment to, or retaining for professional services any Person who, on the date such assistance or any part thereof was provided, or within one year prior thereto, shall have served as an officer, attorney, agent, or employee occupying a position or engaging in activities which involved discretion with respect to the provision of such Adjustment Assistance.

# Subpart F—International Trade Commission Investigations

# Source:
85 FR 8380, Feb. 14, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 315.15
Affirmative findings.
Whenever the International Trade Commission makes an affirmative finding under section 202(b) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2252) that increased imports are a substantial cause of serious injury or threat thereof with respect to an industry, EDA will notify the TAACs and provide expedited review of petitions and Adjustment Proposals from Firms within the specified industry.
PARTS 316-399 [RESERVED]
13 CFR Ch. IV (1-1-25 Edition)
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board

# CHAPTER IV—EMERGENCY STEEL GUARANTEE LOAN BOARD
Part
Page
400
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Program
883
401-499
[Reserved]
Pt. 400

# PART 400—EMERGENCY STEEL GUARANTEE LOAN PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
400.1
Purpose.
400.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Board Procedures
400.100
Purpose and scope.
400.101
Composition of the Board.
400.102
Authority of the Board.
400.103
Offices.
400.104
Meetings and actions of the Board.
400.105
Staff.
400.106
Ex parte
communications.
400.107
Freedom of Information Act.
400.108
Restrictions on lobbying.
400.109
Government-wide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement).
400.110
Amendments.

# Subpart C—Steel Guarantee Loans
400.200
Eligible Borrower.
400.201
Eligible Lender.
400.202
Loan amount.
400.203
Guarantee percentage.
400.204
Loan terms.
400.205
Application process.
400.206
Environmental requirements.
400.207
Application evaluation.
400.208
Issuance of the Guarantee.
400.209
Funding for the Program.
400.210
Assignment or transfer of loans.
400.211
Lender responsibilities.
400.212
Guarantee.
400.213
Termination of obligations.
400.214
Participations in guaranteed loans.
400.215
Supplemental Guarantees.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 106-51, 113 Stat. 252 (15 U.S.C. 1841 note); Pub. L. 106-102, 113 Stat. 1338.

# Source:
64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 400.1
Purpose.
This part is issued by the Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board pursuant to section 552 of title 5 of the United States Code and the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Act of 1999, Chapter 1 of Public Law 106-51, 113 Stat. 252, as amended by section 734 of Public Law 106-102, 113 Stat. 1338, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act (1999).
[65 FR 70293, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 400.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Act of 1999, Chapter 1 of Public Law 106-51 (113 Stat. 252), as amended.
(b)
Administer, administering and administration,
mean the Lender's actions in making, disbursing, servicing (including, but not limited to care, preservation and maintenance of collateral), collecting and liquidating a loan and security.
(c)
Agent
means that Lender authorized to take such actions, exercise such powers, and perform such duties on behalf and in representation of all Lenders party to a Guarantee of a single loan, as is required by, or necessarily incidental to, the terms and conditions of the Guarantee.
(d)
Applicant
means the private banking or investment institution applying for a loan guarantee under this part.
(e)
Board
means the Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board.
(f)
Borrower
means a Qualified Steel Company which could receive a loan guaranteed by the Board under this Program.
(g)
Guarantee
means the written agreement between the Board and one or more Lenders, and approved by the Borrower, pursuant to which the Board guarantees repayment of a specified percentage of the principal of the loan, including the Special Terms and Conditions, the General Terms and Conditions, and all exhibits thereto.
(h)
Guaranteed Portion
means the portion of the principal of a loan that is subject to the Guarantee.
(i)
Lender
means a private banking or investment institution, eligible under § 400.201, that is a party to a Guarantee issued by the Board. With respect to a Guarantee of a single loan to which more than one Lender is a party, the term Lender means Agent.
(j)
Loan Documents
mean the loan agreement and all other instruments, and all documentation between the Lender and the Borrower evidencing the making, disbursing, securing, collecting, or otherwise administering of the loan. It includes any agreement and other documents relating to a Supplemental Guarantee. Loan Documents may not be modified without the prior written approval of the Board.
(k)
Program
means the Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Program established by the Act.
(l)
Security
means all property, real or personal, required by the provisions of the Guarantee or by the Loan Documents to secure repayment of any indebtedness of the Borrower under the Loan Documents or Guarantee. It does not include a Supplemental Guarantee.
(m)
Qualified Steel Company
means a company that is incorporated under the laws of any State; is engaged in the production and manufacture of a product defined by the American Iron and Steel Institute as a basic steel mill product, including ingots, slab and billets, plates, flat-rolled steel, sections and structural products, bars, rail type products, pipe and tube, and wire rod; and has experienced layoffs, production losses, or financial losses since January 1, 1998. An iron ore company incorporated under the law of any state is considered a Qualified Steel Company for purposes of the Program.
(n)
Supplemental Guarantee
means a guarantee provided by one or more third parties, public or private, of part of the Unguaranteed Portion of a guaranteed loan.
(o)
Unguaranteed Portion
means the portion of the principal of a loan that is not covered by the Guarantee.
[64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 24104, Apr. 25, 2000; 66 FR 53079, Oct. 19, 2001]

# Subpart B—Board Procedures
§ 400.100
Purpose and scope.
This subpart describes the Board's authorities and organizational structure, the means and rules by which the Board takes actions, and procedures for public access to Board records.
§ 400.101
Composition of the Board.
The Board consists of the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, who acts as Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Secretary of Commerce.
§ 400.102
Authority of the Board.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Board is authorized to guarantee loans provided to Qualified Steel Companies by private banking and investment institutions in accordance with the procedures, rules, and regulations established by the Board, to make the determinations authorized by the Act, and to take such other actions as necessary to carry out its functions in accordance with the Act.
§ 400.103
Offices.
The principal offices of the Board are in the U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230.
[72 FR 63976, Nov. 14, 2007]
§ 400.104
Meetings and actions of the Board.
(a)
Place and frequency.
The Board meets, on the call of the Chairman, in order to consider matters requiring action by the Board. Time and place for any such meeting shall be determined by the members of the Board.
(b)
Quorum and voting.
Two voting members of the Board constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. All decisions and determinations of the Board shall be made by a majority vote of the voting members. All votes on determinations of the Board required by the Act shall be recorded in the minutes. A Board member may request that any vote be recorded according to individual Board members.
(c)
Agenda of meetings.
To the extent practicable, an agenda for each meeting shall be distributed to members of the Board at least two days in advance of the date of the meeting, together with copies of materials relevant to the agenda items.
(d)
Minutes.
The Secretary of the Board shall keep minutes of each Board meeting and of action taken without a meeting, a draft of which is to be distributed to each member of the Board as soon as practicable after each meeting or action. To the extent practicable, the minutes of a Board meeting shall be corrected and approved at the next meeting of the Board.
(e)
Use of conference call communications equipment.
Any member may participate in a meeting of the Board
through the use of conference call, telephone or similar communications equipment, by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can simultaneously speak to and hear each other. Any member so participating in a meeting shall be deemed present for all purposes. Actions taken by the Board at meetings conducted through the use of such equipment, including the votes of each member, shall be recorded in the usual manner in the minutes of the meetings of the Board.
(f)
Actions between meetings.
When, in the judgment of the Chairman, circumstances occur making it desirable for the Board to consider action when it is not feasible to call a meeting, the relevant information and recommendations for action may be transmitted to the members by the Secretary of the Board and the voting members may communicate their votes to the Chairman in writing (including an action signed in counterpart by each Board member), electronically, or orally (including telephone communication). Any action taken under this paragraph has the same effect as an action taken at a meeting. Any such action shall be recorded in the minutes.
(g)
Delegations of authority.
The Board may delegate authority, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board deems appropriate, to the Executive Director, the General Counsel, or the Secretary of the Board, to take certain actions not required by the Act to be taken by the Board. All delegations shall be made pursuant to resolutions of the Board and recorded in writing, whether in the minutes of a meeting or otherwise. Any action taken pursuant to delegated authority has the effect of an action taken by the Board.
§ 400.105
Staff.
(a)
Executive Director.
The Executive Director of the Board advises and assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities under the Act, provides general direction with respect to the administration of the Board's actions, directs the activities of the staff, and performs such other duties as the Board may require.
(b)
General Counsel.
The General Counsel of the Board provides legal advice relating to the responsibilities of the Board and performs such other duties as the Board may require.
(c)
Secretary of the Board.
The Secretary of the Board sends notice of all meetings, prepares minutes of all meetings, maintains a complete record of all votes and actions taken by the Board, has custody of all records of the Board and performs such other duties as the Board may require.
(d) An individual may hold more than one staff position.
[64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 70293, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 400.106
Ex parte
communications.
Oral or written communication, not on the public record, between any member of the Board and any party or parties interested in any matter pending before the Board concerning the substance of that matter is prohibited.
[66 FR 53079, Oct. 19, 2001]
§ 400.107
Freedom of Information Act.
(a)
Definitions.
All terms used in this section which are defined in 5 U.S.C. 551 or 5 U.S.C. 552 shall have the same meaning in this section. In addition the following definitions apply to this section:
(1)
FOIA,
as used in this section, means the “Freedom of Information Act,” as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552.
(2)
Commercial use request
means a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made.
(3)
Direct costs
mean those expenditures that the Board actually incurs in searching for, reviewing, and duplicating documents in response to a request made under paragraph (c) of this section. Direct costs include, for example, the labor costs of the employee performing the work (the basic rate of pay for the employee, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits). Not included in direct costs are overhead expenses such as the costs of space and heating or lighting of the facility in which the records are kept.
(4)
Duplication
means the process of making a copy of a document in response to a request for disclosure of
records or for inspection of original records that contain exempt material or that otherwise cannot be inspected directly. Among others, such copies may take the form of paper, microfilm, audiovisual materials, or machine-readable documentation (e.g., magnetic tape or disk).
(5)
Educational institution
means a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, or an institution of undergraduate higher education, graduate higher education, professional education, or an institution of vocational education that operates a program of scholarly research.
(6)
Noncommercial scientific institution
refers to an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis (as that term is used in this section) and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
(7)
News
means information about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include, but are not limited to, television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of newspapers and other periodicals (but only in those instances when they can qualify as disseminators of “news”) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. “Freelance” journalists may be regarded as working for a news organization if they can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization, even though not actually employed by it.
(8)
Representative of the news media
means any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the general public.
(9)
Review
means the process of examining documents, located in response to a request for access, to determine whether any portion of a document is exempt information. It includes doing all that is necessary to excise the documents and otherwise to prepare them for release. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(10)
Search
means the process of looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification within documents. Searches may be done manually or by computer.
(b)
Records available for public inspection and copying
—(1)
Types of records made available.
The information in this section is furnished for the guidance of the public and in compliance with the requirements of the Freedom of Information FOIA, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552)(FOIA). This section sets forth the procedures the Board follows to make publicly available the materials specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2). These materials shall be made available for inspection and copying at the Board's Freedom of Information Office pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2). Information routinely provided to the public as part of a regular Board activity (for example, press releases) may be provided to the public without following this section.
(2)
Reading room procedures.
Information available under this section is available for inspection and copying, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. weekdays, at the Freedom of Information Office of the Board, Steel Guarantee Loan Board, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230.
(3)
Electronic records.
Information available under this section that was created on or after November 1, 1996, shall also be available on the Board's website found at
http://elb.osec.doc.gov
and at
http://elb.commerce.gov.
(c)
Records available to the public on request
—(1)
Types of records made available.
All records of the Board that are not available under paragraph (b) of this section shall be made available upon request, pursuant to the procedures in this section and the exceptions set forth in the FOIA. The Board's policy is to make discretionary disclosures of records or information exempt from disclosure under the FOIA whenever disclosure would not foreseeably harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption, but this policy does not create any right enforceable in court.
(2)
Procedures for requesting records.
A request for records shall reasonably describe the records in a way that enables the Board's staff to identify and
produce the records with reasonable effort and without unduly burdening or significantly interfering with any of the Board's operations. The request shall be submitted in writing to the Secretary of the Board, Steel Guarantee Loan Board, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230; or sent by facsimile to the Secretary of the Board. The request shall be clearly marked
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUEST.
(3)
Contents of request.
The request shall contain the following information:
(i) The name and address of the requester, and the telephone number at which the requester can be reached during normal business hours;
(ii) Whether the requested information is intended for commercial use, or whether the requester represents an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, or news media;
(iii) A statement agreeing to pay the applicable fees, or a statement identifying any fee limitation desired, or a request for a waiver or reduction of fees that satisfies paragraph (f) of this section.
(d)
Processing requests
—(1)
Priority of responses.
The date of receipt for any request, including one that is addressed incorrectly or that is referred to the Board by another agency, is the date the Secretary of the Board actually receives the request. The Secretary of the Board shall normally process requests in the order they are received. However, in the Secretary of the Board's discretion, the Board may use two or more processing tracks by distinguishing between simple and more complex requests based on the number of pages involved, or some other measure of the amount of work and/or time needed to process the request, and whether the request qualifies for expedited processing as described in paragraph (d)(2), of this section. When using multitrack processing, the Secretary of the Board may provide requesters in the slower track(s) with an opportunity to limit the scope of their requests in order to qualify for faster processing. The Secretary of the Board shall contact the requester by telephone or by letter, whichever is most efficient in each case.
(2)
Expedited processing.
(i) A person may request expedited access to records by submitting a statement, certified to be true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief, that demonstrates a compelling need for the records, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(E)(v).
(ii) The Secretary of the Board shall notify a requester of the determination whether to grant or deny a request for expedited processing within ten working days of receipt of the request. If the Secretary of the Board grants the request for expedited processing, the Board shall process the request for access to information as soon as practicable. If the Secretary of the Board denies a request for expedited processing, the requester may file an appeal pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, and the Board shall respond to the appeal within twenty days after the appeal was received by the Board.
(3)
Time limits.
The time for response to requests shall be 20 working days, except:
(i) In the case of expedited treatment under paragraph (d)(2) of this section;
(ii) Where the running of such time is suspended for payment of fees pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section;
(iii) Where the estimated charge is less than $250, and the requester does not guarantee payment pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section; or
(iv) In unusual circumstances, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(iii), the time limit may be extended for a period of time not to exceed 10 working days as provided by written notice to the requester, setting forth the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched; or such alternative time period as mutually agreed to by the Secretary of the Board and the requester when the Secretary of the Board notifies the requester that the request cannot be processed in the specified time limit.
(4)
Response to request.
In response to a request that satisfies paragraph (c) of this section, an appropriate search shall be conducted of records in the custody and control of the Board on the date of receipt of the request, and
a review made of any responsive information located. The Secretary of the Board shall notify the requester of:
(i) The Secretary of the Board's determination of the request and the reasons therefor;
(ii) The information withheld, and the basis for withholding; and
(iii) The right to appeal any denial or partial denial, pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(5)
Referral to another agency.
To the extent a request covers documents that were created by, obtained from, classified by, or is in the primary interest of another agency, the Secretary of the Board may refer the request to that agency for a direct response by that agency and inform the requester promptly of the referral. The Secretary of the Board shall consult with another Federal agency before responding to a requester if the Board receives a request for a record in which:
(i) Another Federal agency subject to the FOIA has a significant interest, but not the primary interest; or
(ii) Another Federal agency not subject to the FOIA has the primary interest or a significant interest. Ordinarily, the agency that originated a record will be presumed to have the primary interest in it.
(6)
Providing responsive records.
(i) A copy of records or portions of records responsive to the request shall be sent to the requester by regular U.S. mail to the address indicated in the request, unless the requester elects to take delivery of the documents at the Board's Freedom of Information Office or makes other acceptable arrangements, or the Secretary of the Board deems it appropriate to send the documents by another means. The Secretary of the Board shall provide a copy of the record in any form or format requested if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format, but the Secretary of the Board need not provide more than one copy of any record to a requester.
(ii) The Secretary of the Board shall provide any reasonably segregable portion of a record that is responsive to the request after deleting those portions that are exempt under the FOIA or this section.
(iii) Except where disclosure is expressly prohibited by statute, regulation, or order, the Secretary of the Board may authorize the release of records that are exempt from mandatory disclosure whenever the Board or designated Board members determine that there would be no foreseeable harm in such disclosure.
(iv) The Board is not required in response to the request to create records or otherwise to prepare new records.
(7)
Prohibition against disclosure.
Except as provided in this part, no officer, employee, or agent of the Board shall disclose or permit the disclosure of any unpublished information of the Board to any person (other than Board officers, employees, or agents properly entitled to such information for the performance of official duties), unless required by law.
(e)
Appeals.
(1) Any person denied access to Board records requested under paragraph (c) of this section, denied expedited processing under paragraph (d) of this section, or denied a waiver of fees under paragraph (f) of this section may file a written appeal within 30 calendar days after the date of such denial with the Board. The written appeal shall prominently display the phrase
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT APPEAL
on the first page, and shall be addressed to the General Counsel of the Board, Steel Guarantee Loan Board, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230; or sent by facsimile to the General Counsel of the Board. The appeal shall include a copy of the original request, the initial denial, if any, and a statement of the reasons why the requested records should be made available and why the initial denial was in error.
(2) The General Counsel of the Board shall make a determination regarding any appeal within 20 working days of actual receipt of the appeal, and the determination letter shall notify the appealing party of the right to seek judicial review in event of denial.
(f)
Fee schedules; waiver of fees
—
(1)
Fee schedule.
The fees applicable to a request for records pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section are set forth in the uniform fee schedule at the end of this paragraph (f).
(i)
Search.
(A) Search fees shall be charged for all requests—other than requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media—subject to the limitations of paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section. The Secretary of the Board shall charge for time spent searching even if no responsive record is located or if the Secretary of the Board withholds the record(s) located as entirely exempt from disclosure.
Search fees shall be the direct costs of conducting the search by the involved employees.
(B) For computer searches of records, requesters will be charged the direct costs of conducting the search, although certain requesters (as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section will be charged no search fee and certain other requesters (as provided in paragraph (f)(3)) are entitled to the cost equivalent of two hours of manual search time without charge. These direct costs include the costs, attributable to the search, of operating a central processing unit and operator/programmer salary.
(ii)
Duplication.
Duplication fees will be charged to all requesters, subject to the limitations of paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section. For a paper photocopy of a record (no more than one copy of which need be supplied), the fee shall be 15 cents per page. For copies produced by computer, such as tapes or printouts, the Secretary of the Board shall charge the direct costs, including operator time, of producing the copy. For other forms of duplication, the Secretary of the Board will charge the direct costs of that duplication.
(iii)
Review.
Review fees shall be charged to requesters who make a commercial use request. Review fees shall be charged only for the initial record review—the review done when the Secretary of the Board determines whether an exemption applies to a particular record at the initial request level. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal level for an exemption already applied. However, records withheld under an exemption that is subsequently determined not to apply may be reviewed again to determine whether any other exemption not previously considered applies, and the costs of that review are chargeable. Review fees shall be the direct costs of conducting the review by the involved employees.
(iv)
Limitations on charging fees.
(A) No search fee will be charged for requests by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media.
(B) No search fee or review fee will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(C) Whenever a total fee calculated under this paragraph is $25 or less for any request, no fee will be charged.
(D) For requesters other than those seeking records for a commercial use, no fee will be charged unless the cost of search in excess of two hours plus the cost of duplication in excess of 100 pages totals more than $25.
(2)
Payment procedures.
All persons requesting records pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall pay the applicable fees before the Secretary of the Board sends copies of the requested records, unless a fee waiver has been granted pursuant to paragraph (f)(6) of this section. Requesters must pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States.
(i)
Advance notification of fees.
If the estimated charges are likely to exceed $25, the Secretary of the Board shall notify the requester of the estimated amount, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. Upon receipt of such notice, the requester may confer with the Secretary of the Board to reformulate the request to lower the costs. The processing of the request shall be suspended until the requester provides the Secretary of the Board with a written guarantee that payment will be made upon completion of the processing.
(ii)
Advance payment.
The Secretary of the Board shall require advance payment of any fee estimated to exceed $250. The Secretary of the Board shall also require full payment in advance where a requester has previously failed to pay a fee in a timely fashion. If an advance payment of an estimated fee exceeds the actual total fee by $1 or more, the difference shall be refunded
to the requester. The time period for responding to requests under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, and the processing of the request shall be suspended until the Secretary of the Board receives the required payment.
(iii)
Late charges.
The Secretary of the Board may assess interest charges when fee payment is not made within 30 days of the date on which the billing was sent. Assessment of such interest will commence on the 31st day following the day on which the billing was sent. Interest is at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(3)
Categories of uses.
The fees assessed depend upon the fee category. In determining which category is appropriate, the Secretary of the Board shall look to the identity of the requester and the intended use set forth in the request for records. Where a requester's description of the use is insufficient to make a determination, the Secretary of the Board may seek additional clarification before categorizing the request.
(i)
Commercial use requester.
The fees for search, duplication, and review apply when records are requested for commercial use.
(ii)
Educational, non-commercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media requesters.
The fees for duplication apply when records are not sought for commercial use, and the requester is a representative of the news media or an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, whose purpose is scholarly or scientific research. The first 100 pages of duplication, however, will be provided free.
(iii)
All other requesters.
For all other requests, the fees for search and duplication apply. The first two hours of search time and the first 100 pages of duplication, however, will be provided free.
(4)
Nonproductive search.
Fees for search may be charged even if no responsive documents are found. Fees for search and review may be charged even if the request is denied.
(5)
Aggregated requests.
A requester may not file multiple requests at the same time, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. If the Secretary of the Board reasonably believes that a requester is separating a request into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees or that several requesters appear to be acting together to submit multiple requests solely in order to avoid payment of fees, the Secretary of the Board may aggregate such requests and charge accordingly. It is considered reasonable for the Secretary of the Board to presume that multiple requests by one requester on the same topic made within a 30-day period have been made to avoid fees.
(6)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
A request for a waiver or reduction of the fees, and the justification for the waiver, shall be included with the request for records to which it pertains. If a waiver is requested and the requester has not indicated in writing an agreement to pay the applicable fees if the waiver request is denied, the time for response to the request for documents, as set forth in under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, shall not begin until a determination has been made on the request for a waiver or reduction of fees.
(i)
Standards for determining waiver or reduction.
The Secretary of the Board may grant a waiver or reduction of fees where it is determined both that disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operation or activities of the government, and that the disclosure of information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. In making this determination, the following factors shall be considered:
(A) Whether the subject of the records concerns the operations or activities of the government;
(B) Whether disclosure of the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of government operations or activities;
(C) Whether the requester has the intention and ability to disseminate the information to the public;
(D) Whether the information is already in the public domain;
(E) Whether the requester has a commercial interest that would be furthered by the disclosure; and, if so,
(F) Whether the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the
requester is sufficiently large, in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(ii)
Contents of request for waiver.
A request for a waiver or reduction of fees shall include a clear statement of how the request satisfies the criteria set forth in paragraph (f)(6)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Burden of proof.
The burden shall be on the requester to present evidence or information in support of a request for a waiver or reduction of fees.
(iv)
Determination by Secretary of the Board.
The Secretary of the Board shall make a determination on the request for a waiver or reduction of fees and shall notify the requester accordingly. A denial may be appealed to the Board in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(7)
Uniform fee schedule.
Service
Rate
(i) Manual search
Actual salary rate of employee involved, plus 16 percent of salary rate.
(ii) Computerized search
Actual direct cost, including operator time.
(iii) Duplication of records:
(A) Paper copy reproduction
$.15 per page
(B) Other reproduction (e.g., computer disk or printout, microfilm, microfiche, or microform)
Actual direct cost, including operator time.
(iv) Review of records (includes preparation for release,
i.e.
excising)
Actual salary rate of employee conducting review, plus 16 percent of salary rate.
(g)
Reuest for confidential treatment of business information
—(1)
Submission of request.
Any submitter of information to the Board who desires confidential treatment of business information pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) shall file a request for confidential treatment with the Board at the time the information is submitted or a reasonable time after submission.
(2)
Form of request.
Each request for confidential treatment of business information shall state in reasonable detail the facts supporting the commercial or financial nature of the business information and the legal justification under which the business information should be protected. Conclusory statements that release of the information would cause competitive harm generally will not be considered sufficient to justify confidential treatment.
(3)
Designation and separation of confidential material.
All information considered confidential by a submitter shall be clearly designated
“PROPRIETARY”
or
“BUSINESS CONFIDENTIAL”
in the submission and separated from information for which confidential treatment is not requested. Failure to segregate confidential commercial or financial information from other material may result in release of the nonsegregated material to the public without notice to the submitter.
(h)
Request for access to confidential commercial or financial information
—(1)
Request for confidential commercial or financial information.
A request by a submitter for confidential treatment of any business information shall be considered in connection with a request for access to that information.
(2)
Notice to the submitter.
(i) The Secretary of the Board shall notify a submitter who requested confidential treatment of information pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), of the request for access.
(ii) Absent a request for confidential treatment, the Secretary of the Board may notify a submitter of a request for access to submitter's business information if the Secretary of the Board reasonably believes that disclosure of the information may cause substantial competitive harm to the submitter.
(iii) The notice given to the submitter by mail, return receipt requested, shall be given as soon as practicable after receipt of the request for access, and shall describe the request and provide the submitter seven working days from the date of notice, to submit written objections to disclosure of the information. Such statement shall specify all grounds for withholding any of the information and shall demonstrate why the information which is considered to be commercial or financial information, and that the information is a trade secret, is privileged or confidential, or that its disclosure is likely to cause substantial competitive harm to the submitter. If the submitter fails to respond to the notice within the time specified, the submitter will be considered to have no
objection to the release of the information. Information a submitter provides under this paragraph may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(3)
Exceptions to notice to submitter.
Notice to the submitter need not be given if:
(i) The Secretary of the Board determines that the request for access should be denied;
(ii) The requested information lawfully has been made available to the public;
(iii) Disclosure of the information is required by law (other than 5 U.S.C. 552); or
(iv) The submitter's claim of confidentiality under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) appears obviously frivolous or has already been denied by the Secretary of the Board, except that in this last instance the Secretary of the Board shall give the submitter written notice of the determination to disclose the information at least seven working days prior to disclosure.
(4)
Notice to requester.
At the same time the Secretary of the Board notifies the submitter, the Secretary of the Board also shall notify the requester that the request is subject to the provisions of this section.
(5)
Determination by Secretary of the Board.
The Secretary of the Board's determination whether or not to disclose any information for which confidential treatment has been requested pursuant to this section shall be communicated to the submitter and the requester immediately. If the Secretary of the Board determines to disclose the business information over the objection of a submitter, the Secretary of the Board shall give the submitter written notice via mail, return receipt requested, or similar means, which shall include:
(i) A statement of reason(s) why the submitter's objections to disclosure were not sustained;
(ii) A description of the business information to be disclosed; and
(iii) A statement that the component intends to disclose the information seven working days from the date the submitter receives the notice.
(6)
Notice of lawsuit.
The Secretary of the Board shall promptly notify any submitter of information covered by this section of the filing of any suit against the Board to compel disclosure of such information, and shall promptly notify a requester of any suit filed against the Board to enjoin the disclosure of requested documents.
[64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 70293, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 400.108
Restrictions on lobbying.
(a) No funds received through a loan guaranteed under this Program may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, loan Guarantee, or cooperative agreement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan or loan Guarantee, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, loan Guarantee, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in the application form, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or Guarantee.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a Standard Form-LLL if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or Guarantee.
(d) Each person shall file a certification, contained in the application
form, and a disclosure form (Standard Form-LLL), if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(e) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or Guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000, unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (c) of this section.
(f) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
§ 400.109
Government-wide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement).
(a) Executive Order (E.O.) 12549 provides that, to the extent permitted by law, Executive departments and agencies shall participate in a governmentwide system for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. A person who is debarred or suspended shall be excluded from Federal financial and nonfinancial assistance and benefits under Federal programs and activities. Debarment or suspension of a participant in a program by one agency shall have governmentwide effect. The Board shall review the List of Debarred entities prior to making final loan Guarantee decisions. Suspension or debarment may be a basis for denying a loan Guarantee.
(b) This section applies to all persons who have participated, are currently participating or may reasonably be expected to participate in transactions under Federal nonprocurement programs. For purposes of this section such transactions will be referred to as “covered transactions”.
(1)
Covered transaction.
For purposes of this section, a covered transaction is a primary covered transaction or a lower tier covered transaction. Covered transactions at any tier need not involve the transfer of Federal funds.
(i) Primary covered transaction. Except as noted in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a primary covered transaction is any nonprocurement transaction between an agency and a person, regardless of type, including: grants, cooperative agreements, scholarships, fellowships, contracts of assistance, loans, loan Guarantees, subsidies, insurance, payments for specified use, donation agreements and any other nonprocurement transactions between a Federal agency and a person.
(ii) Lower tier covered transaction. A lower tier covered transaction is:
(A) Any transaction between a participant and a person other than a procurement contract for goods or services, regardless of type, under a primary covered transaction;
(B) Any procurement contract for goods or services between a participant and a person, regardless of type, expected to equal or exceed the Federal procurement small purchase threshold fixed at 10 U.S.C. 2304(g) and 41 U.S.C. 253(g) (currently $100,000) under a primary covered transaction;
(C) Any procurement contract for goods or services between a participant and a person under a covered transaction, regardless of amount, under which that person will have a critical influence on or substantive control over that covered transaction. Such persons may include loan officers or
chief executive officers acting as principal investigators and providers of federally-required audit services.
(2)
Exceptions.
The following transactions are not covered:
(i) Statutory entitlements or mandatory awards (but not subtier awards thereunder which are not themselves mandatory), including deposited funds insured by the Federal Government;
(ii) Direct awards to foreign governments or public international organizations, or transactions with foreign governments or foreign governmental entities, public international organizations, foreign government owned (in whole or in part) or controlled entities, entities consisting wholly or partially of foreign governments or foreign governmental entities;
(iii) Benefits to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted);
(iv) Federal employment;
(v) Transactions pursuant to national or agency-recognized emergencies or disasters;
(vi) Incidental benefits derived from ordinary governmental operations; and
(vii) Other transactions where the application of this section would be prohibited by law.
(3)
Board covered transactions.
This section applies to the Board's loan Guarantees, subcontracts and transactions at any tier that are charges as direct or indirect costs, regardless of type.
(c)
Primary covered transactions.
Except to the extent prohibited by law, persons who are debarred or suspended shall be excluded from primary covered transactions as either participants or principals throughout the Executive Branch of the Federal Government for the period of their debarment, suspension, or the period they are proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4. Accordingly, no agency shall enter into primary covered transactions with such excluded persons during such period, except as permitted pursuant to paragraph (l) of this section.
(d)
Lower tier covered transactions.
Except to the extent prohibited by law, persons who have been proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred or suspended shall be excluded from participating as either participants or principals in all lower tier covered transactions (see paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section for the period of their exclusion.
(e)
Exceptions.
Debarment or suspension does not affect a person's eligibility for—
(1) Statutory entitlements or mandatory awards (but not subtier awards thereunder which are not themselves mandatory), including deposited funds insured by the Federal Government;
(2) Direct awards to foreign governments or public international organizations, or transactions with foreign governments or foreign governmental entities, public international organizations, foreign government owned (in whole or in part) or controlled entities, and entities consisting wholly or partially of foreign governments or foreign governmental entities;
(3) Benefits to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted);
(4) Federal employment;
(5) Transactions pursuant to national or agency-recognized emergencies or disasters;
(6) Incidental benefits derived from ordinary governmental operations; and
(7) Other transactions where the application of this section would be prohibited by law.
(f) Persons who are ineligible are excluded in accordance with the applicable statutory, executive order, or regulatory authority.
(g) Persons who accept voluntary exclusions are excluded in accordance with the terms of their settlements. The Board shall, and participants may, contact the original action agency to ascertain the extent of the exclusion.
(h) The Board may grant an exception permitting a debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded person, or a person proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, to participate in a particular covered transaction upon a written determination by the agency head or an authorized designee stating the reason(s) for deviating from the Presidential policy established by
Executive Order 12549. However, in accordance with the President's stated intention in the Executive Order, exceptions shall be granted only infrequently. Exceptions shall be reported in accordance with the Executive Order.
(i) Notwithstanding the debarment, suspension, proposed debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, determination of ineligibility, or voluntary exclusion of any person by an agency, agencies and participants may continue covered transactions in existence at the time the person was debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded. A decision as to the type of termination action, if any, to be taken should be made only after thorough review to ensure the propriety of the proposed action.
(j) Agencies and participants shall not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any person who is debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, ineligible or voluntary excluded, except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
(k) Except as permitted under paragraphs (h) or (i) of this section, a participant shall not knowingly do business under a covered transaction with a person who is—
(1) Debarred or suspended;
(2) Proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; or
(3) Ineligible for or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction.
(l) Violation of the restriction under paragraph (k) of this section may result in disallowance of costs, annulment or termination of award, issuance of a stop work order, debarment or suspension, or other remedies as appropriate.
(m) A participant may rely upon the certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it and its principals are not debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. An agency has the burden of proof that a participant did knowingly do business with a person that filed an erroneous certification.
§ 400.110
Amendments.
The Board's rules in this chapter may be adopted or amended, or new rules may be adopted, only by majority vote of the Board.
[65 FR 70293, Nov. 22, 2000]

# Subpart C—Steel Guarantee Loans
§ 400.200
Eligible Borrower.
(a) An eligible Borrower must be a Qualified Steel Company that can demonstrate:
(1) Credit is not otherwise available to it under reasonable terms or conditions sufficient to meet its financing needs, as reflected in the financial and business plans of the company;
(2) The prospective earning power of that company, together with the character and value of the security pledged, furnish reasonable assurance of repayment of the loan to be guaranteed in accordance with its terms;
(3) The company has agreed to permit audits by the General Accounting Office and an independent auditor acceptable to the Board prior to the issuance of the guarantee and while any such guaranteed loan is outstanding;
(4) It has experienced layoffs, production losses, or financial losses between January 1, 1998, and the date of application for the Guarantee, demonstrated as a comparison between employment, production, or net income existing on January 1, 1998 and on the date of application; and
(5) In the case of a purchaser of substantial assets of a Qualified Steel Company; the Qualified Steel Company is unable to re-organize itself.
(b) For purposes of this section, a company will be considered a purchaser of substantial assets of a Qualified Steel Company if the company's identifiable assets purchased from a Qualified Steel Company are 50 percent or more of the consolidated assets of that Qualified Steel Company and its subsidiaries.
(c) The Lender must provide with its application a letter from at least one
lending institution other than the Lender to which the Borrower has applied for financial assistance dated within six months of submission of the application, indicating that the Borrower was denied for substantially the same loan it is now applying for, and the reasons the Borrower was unable to obtain the financing for which it applied. In addition, the Lender applying for a guarantee under this Program must certify that it would not make the loan without the Board's guarantee.
[64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 70293, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 400.201
Eligible Lender.
(a) A lender eligible to apply to the Board for a Guarantee of a loan must be:
(1) A banking institution, such as a commercial bank or trust company, subject to regulation by the Federal banking agencies enumerated in 12 U.S.C. 1813; or
(2) An investment institution, such as an investment bank, commercial finance company, or insurance company, that is currently engaged in commercial lending in the normal course of its business.
(b)(1) If more than one banking or investment institution is applying to the Board for a Guarantee of a single loan, each one of the banking or investment institutions on the application must meet the requirements to be an eligible lender set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) An application for a Guarantee of a single loan submitted by a group of banking or investment institutions, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, must identify one of the banking or investment institutions applying for such loan to act as agent for all. This agent is responsible for administering the loan and shall have those duties and responsibilities required of an agent, as set forth in the Guarantee.
(3) Each Lender, irrespective of any indemnities or other agreements between the Lenders and the Agent, shall be bound by all actions, and/or failures to act, of the Agent. The Board shall be entitled to rely upon such actions and/or failures to act of the Agent as binding the Lenders.
(c) Status as a Lender under paragraph (a) of this section does not assure that the Board will issue the Guarantee sought, or otherwise preclude the Board from declining to issue a Guarantee. In addition to evaluating an application pursuant to § 400.207, in making a determination to issue a Guarantee to a Lender, the Board will assess:
(1) The Agent Lender's level of regulatory capital, in the case of banking institutions, or net worth, in the case of investment institutions;
(2) Whether the Agent Lender possesses the ability to administer the loan, as required by § 400.211(b), including its experience with loans to steel companies;
(3) The scope, volume and duration of the Agent Lender's activity in administering loans;
(4) The performance of the Agent Lender's loan portfolio, including its current delinquency rate;
(5) The Agent Lender's loss rate as a percentage of loan amounts for its current fiscal year; and
(6) Any other matter the Board deems material to its assessment of the Agent Lender.
(d) A proposed loan for the purpose, in whole or in part, of refinancing existing credit provided by the Agent will not be approved unless the Board is satisfied that the Agent retains at least a substantially equivalent level of risk as a result of the refinancing.
[64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 24104, Apr. 25, 2000; 66 FR 53079, Oct. 19, 2001]
§ 400.202
Loan amount.
(a) The aggregate amount of loan principal guaranteed under this Program to a single Qualified Steel Company may not exceed $ 250 million.
(b) Of the aggregate amount of loans authorized to be guaranteed and outstanding at any one time, not more than $30 million shall be loans to iron ore companies.
§ 400.203
Guarantee percentage.
A guarantee issued by the Board may not exceed 85 percent of the amount of the principal of a loan to a Qualified Steel Company. Subject to the provisions of this part, one or more third
parties, public or private, may guarantee repayment of part of the Unguaranteed Portion of a loan guaranteed by the Board.
[66 FR 53080, Oct. 19, 2001]
§ 400.204
Loan terms.
(a) All loans guaranteed under the Program shall be due and payable in full no later than December 31, 2005.
(b) Loans guaranteed under the Program must bear a rate of interest determined by the Board to be reasonable. The reasonableness of an interest rate will be determined with respect to current average yields on outstanding obligations of the United States with remaining periods of maturity comparable to the term of the loan sought to be guaranteed. The Board may reject an application to guarantee a loan if it determines the interest rate of such loan to be unreasonable.
(c)(1) The performance of all of the Borrower's obligations under the Loan Documents shall be secured by, and shall have the priority in, such Security as provided for within the terms and conditions of the Guarantee.
(2) Without limiting the Lender's or Borrower's obligations under paragraph (c) of this section, at a minimum, the loan shall be secured by:
(i) A fully perfected and enforceable security interest and/or lien, with first priority over conflicting security interests or other liens in all property acquired, improved or derived from the loan funds;
(ii) A fully perfected and enforceable security interest and/or lien in any other property of the Borrower's pledged to secure the loan, including accessions, replacements, proceeds, or property given by a third party as Security for the loan.
(3) The entire loan will be secured by the same Security with equal lien priority for the Guaranteed Portion and the Unguaranteed Portion of the loan. The Unguaranteed Portion of the loan will neither be paid first nor given any preference over the Guaranteed Portion. A Supplemental Guarantor shall not have a security interest, direct or indirect, in any asset of the Borrower or any affiliate thereof other than the Security.
(4) An Applicant's compliance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section does not assure a finding of reasonable assurance of repayment, or assure the Board's Guarantee of the loan.
(d) An eligible Lender may assess and collect from the Borrower such other fees and costs associated with the application and origination of the loan as are reasonable and customary, taking into consideration the amount and complexity of the credit. The Board may take such other fees and costs into consideration when determining whether to offer a Guarantee to the Lender.
[64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 72020, Dec. 23, 1999; 65 FR 70293, Nov. 22, 2000; 66 FR 53080, Oct. 19, 2001]
§ 400.205
Application process.
(a)
Application process.
An original application and three copies must be received by the Board no later than 5 p.m. EST, August 31, 2001 in the Board's offices at 1099—14th Street, NW, Suite 2600 East, Washington, DC 20005. Applications which have been provided to a delivery service with “delivery guaranteed” before 5 p.m. on August 31, 2001 will be accepted for review if the Applicant can document that the application was provided to the delivery service with delivery to the address listed in this section guaranteed prior to the closing date and time. A postmark is not sufficient to meet this deadline as the application must be received by the required date and time. Applications will not be accepted via facsimile machine transmission or electronic mail.
(b) Applications shall contain the following:
(1) A completed Form “Application for Steel Guarantee Loan”;
(2) The information required for the completion of Form “Environmental Assessment and Compliance Findings for Related Environmental Laws” and attachments, as required by § 400.206(a)(2)(i)(D);
(3) All Loan Documents that will be signed by the Lender and the Borrower, if the application is approved, including all terms and conditions of, and Security or additional Security to assure the Borrower's performance under, the loan;
(4) Certification by the chairman of the board and the chief executive officer of the Borrower acknowledging that the Borrower is aware that the Lender is applying to the Board for a Guarantee of a loan under the Program, as described in the Loan Documents; and agreeing to permit audits by the General Accounting Office, its designee, and an independent auditor acceptable to the Board prior to the issuance of the Guarantee and annually thereafter while such guarantee is outstanding;
(5) The Lender's full written underwriting analysis of the loan to be guaranteed by the Board;
(6) A certification by the Lender that the Lender meets each of the requirements of the Program as set forth in the Act and the Board's rules in this part;
(7) A description of all Security for the loan, including, as applicable, current appraisal of real and personal property, copies of any appropriate environmental site assessments, and current personal and corporate financial statements of any guarantors for the same period as required for the Borrower. Appraisals of real property shall be prepared by State licensed or certified appraisers, and be consistent with the “Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice,” promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation. Financial statements of guarantors shall be prepared by independent Certified Public Accountants;
(8) Consolidated financial statements of the Borrower for the previous three years that have been audited by an independent certified public accountant, including any associated notes, as well as any interim financial statements and associated notes for the current fiscal year;
(9) A five year history and five year projection for revenue, cash flow, average realized prices and average realized production costs. If the loan funds are to be used to purchase substantial assets of an existing firm, a pro forma balance sheet at startup, and five years projected year end balance sheets and income statement at start-up;
(10) Documentation that credit is not otherwise available to the borrower under reasonable terms or conditions sufficient to meet its financial needs, as reflected in the financial or business plan of that company. The Lender must provide with its application those items required by § 400.200(c);
(11) Documentation sufficient to demonstrate that the Lender is eligible under § 400.201(a) and to allow the Board to make a determination to issue a Guarantee to such Lender as set forth in § 400.201(c); and
(12) A description of any Supplemental Guarantee(s) that will apply to the Unguaranteed Portion of the loan.
(c) No Guarantee will be made if either the Borrower or Lender has an outstanding, delinquent Federal debt until:
(1) The delinquent account has been paid in full;
(2) A negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment has been received; or
(3) Other arrangements, satisfactory to the agency responsible for collecting the debt, are made.
[64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 72021, Dec. 23, 1999; 65 FR 24104, Apr. 25, 2000; 65 FR 70293, Nov. 22, 2000; 66 FR 53080, Oct. 19, 2001]
§ 400.206
Environmental requirements.
(a)(1)
In general.
Environmental assessments of the Board's actions will be conducted in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and Executive Orders. Therefore, each application for a Guarantee under the Program must be accompanied by information necessary for the Board to meet the requirements of applicable law.
(2)
Actions requiring compliance with NEPA.
(i) The types of actions classified as “major Federal actions” subject to NEPA procedures are discussed generally in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508.
(ii) With respect to this Program, these actions typically include:
(A) Any project, permanent or temporary, that will involve construction and/or installations;
(B) Any project, permanent or temporary, that will involve ground disturbing activities; and
(C) Any project supporting renovation, other than interior remodeling.
(3)
Environmental information required from the Lender.
(i) Environmental data or documentation concerning the use of the proceeds of any loan guaranteed under this Program must be provided by the Lender to the Board to assist the Board in meeting its legal responsibilities. The Lender may obtain this information from the Borrower. (ii) Such information includes:
(A) Documentation for an environmental threshold review from qualified data sources, such as a Federal, State or local agency with expertise and experience in environmental protection, or other sources, qualified to provide reliable environmental information;
(B) Any previously prepared environmental reports or data relevant to the loan at issue;
(C) Any environmental review prepared by Federal, State, or local agencies relevant to the loan at issue;
(D) The information required for the completion of Form XYZ, “Environmental Assessment and Compliance Findings for Related Environmental Laws;” and
(E) Any other information that can be used by the Board to ensure compliance with environmental laws.
(ii) All information supplied by the Lender is subject to verification by the Board.
(b) The regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality implementing NEPA require the Board to provide public notice of the availability of project specific environmental documents such as environmental impact statements, environmental assessments, findings of no significant impact, records of decision etc., to the affected public. See 40 CFR 1506.6(b). Environmental information concerning specific projects can be obtained from the Board by contacting: Executive Director, Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230.
(c)
National Environmental Policy Act
—(1)
Purpose.
The purpose of this paragraph (c) is to adopt procedures for compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.,
by the Board. This paragraph supplements regulations at 40 CFR Chapter V.
(2)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
Categorical exclusion
means a category of actions which do not individually or cumulatively have a significant effect on the human environment and for which neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact statement is required.
Environmental assessment
means a document that briefly discusses the environmental consequences of a proposed action and alternatives prepared for the purposes set forth in 40 CFR 1508.9.
EIS
means an environmental impact statement prepared pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of NEPA.
FONSI
means a finding of no significant impact on the quality of the human environment after the completion of an environmental assessment.
NEPA
means the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321,
et seq.
Working capital loan
means money used by an ongoing business concern to fund its existing operations.
(3)
Delegations to Executive Director.
(i) All incoming correspondence from Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) and other agencies concerning matters related to NEPA, including draft and final EIS, shall be brought to the attention of the Executive Director. The Executive Director will prepare or, at his or her discretion, coordinate replies to such correspondence.
(ii) With respect to actions of the Board, the Executive Director will:
(A) Ensure preparation of all necessary environmental assessments and EISs;
(B) Maintain a list of actions for which environmental assessments are being prepared;
(C) Revise this list at regular intervals, and send the revisions to the Environmental Protection Agency;
(D) Make the list available for public inspection;
(E) Maintain a list of EISs; and
(F) Maintain a file of draft and final EISs.
(4)
Categorical exclusions.
(1) This paragraph describes various classes of Board actions that normally do not have a significant impact on the
human environment and are categorically excluded. The word “normally” is stressed; there may be individual cases in which specific factors require contrary action.
(ii) Subject to the limitations in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, the actions described in this paragraph have been determined not to have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment. They are categorically excluded from the need to prepare an environmental assessment or an EIS under NEPA.
(A) Guarantees of working capital loans; and
(B) Guarantees of loans for the refinancing of outstanding indebtedness of the Borrower, regardless of the purpose for which the original indebtedness was incurred.
(iii) Actions listed in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section that otherwise are categorically excluded from NEPA review are not necessarily excluded from review if they would be located within, or in other cases, potentially affect:
(A) A floodplain;
(B) A wetland;
(C) Important farmlands, or prime forestlands or rangelands;
(D) A listed species or critical habitat for an endangered species;
(E) A property that is listed on or may be eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places;
(F) An area within an approved State Coastal Zone Management Program;
(G) A coastal barrier or a portion of a barrier within the Coastal Barrier Resources System;
(H) A river or portion of a river included in, or designated for, potential addition to the Wild and Scenic Rivers System;
(I) A sole source aquifer recharge area;
(J) A State water quality standard (including designated and/or existing beneficial uses and anti-degradation requirements); or
(K) The release or disposal of regulated substances above the levels set forth in a permit or license issued by an appropriate regulatory authority.
(5)
Responsibilities and procedures for preparation of an environmental assessment.
(i) the Executive Director will request that the Lender and Borrower provide information concerning all potentially significant environmental impacts of the Borrower's proposed project pursuant to 13 CFR 400.206. The Executive Director, consulting at his discretion with CEQ, will review the information provided by the Lender and Borrower. Though no specific format for an environmental assessment is prescribed, it shall be a separate document, suitable for public review and should include the following in conformance with 40 CFR 1508.9:
(A)
Description of the environment.
The existing environmental conditions relevant to the Board's analysis determining the environmental impacts of the proposed project, should be described. The no action alternative also should be discussed;
(B)
Documentation.
Citations to information used to describe the existing environment and to assess environmental impacts should be clearly referenced and documented. These sources should include, as appropriate, but not be limited to, local, tribal, regional, State, and Federal agencies, as well as, public and private organizations and institutions;
(C)
Evaluating environmental consequences of proposed actions.
A brief discussion should be included of the need for the proposal, of alternatives as required by 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(E) and their environmental impacts. The discussion of the environmental impacts should include measures to mitigate adverse impacts and any irreversible or irretrievable commitments of resources to the proposed project.
(ii) The Executive Director, in preparing an environmental assessment, may:
(A) Tier upon the information contained in a previous EIS, as described in 40 CFR 1502.20;
(B) Incorporate by reference reasonably available material, as described in 40 CFR 1502.21; and/or
(C) Adopt a previously completed EIS reasonably related to the project for which the proceeds of the loan sought to be guaranteed under the Program will be used, as described in 40 CFR 1506.3.
(iii) Because of the statute's admonition to the Board to make its decisions
as soon as possible after receiving applications, the Board will not:
(A) Publish notice of intent to prepare an environmental assessment, as describe in 40 CFR 1501.7;
(B) Conduct scoping, as described in 40 CFR 1501.7; and
(C) Seek comments on the environmental assessment, as described in 40 CFR 1503.1.
(iv) If, on the basis of an environmental assessment, it is determined that an EIS is not required, a FONSI, as described in 40 CFR 1508.13 will be prepared. The FONSI will include the environmental assessment or a summary of it and be available to the public from the Board. The Executive Director shall maintain a record of these decisions, making them available to interested parties upon request. Requests should be directed to the Executive Director, Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Program, 1099—14th Street, NW, Suite 2600 East, Washington, DC 20005. Prior to a final loan guarantee decision, a copy of the NEPA documentation shall be sent to the Board for consideration.
(6)
Responsibilities and procedures for preparation of an environmental impact statement.
(i) If after an environmental assessment has been completed, it is determined that an EIS is necessary, it and other related documentation will be prepared by the Executive Director in accordance with section 102(2)(c) of NEPA, this section, and 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508. The Executive Director may seek additional information from the applicant in preparing the EIS. Once the document is prepared, it shall be submitted to the Board. If the Board considers a document unsatisfactory, it shall be returned to the Executive Director for revision or supplementation prior to a loan guarantee decision; otherwise the Board will transmit the document to the Environmental Protection Agency.
(ii)(A) The following procedures, as discussed in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508, will be followed in preparing an EIS:
(
1
) The format and contents of the draft and final EIS shall be as discussed in 40 CFR 1502.
(
2
) The requirements of 40 CFR 1506.9 for filing of documents with the Environmental Protection Agency shall be followed.
(
3
) The Executive Director, consulting at his discretion with CEQ, shall examine carefully the basis on which supportive studies have been conducted to assure that such studies are objective and comprehensive in scope and in depth.
(
4
) NEPA requires that the decision making “utilize a systematic, interdisciplinary approach that will ensure the integrated use of the natural and social sciences and the environmental design arts.” 42 U.S.C. 4332(A). If such disciplines are not present on the Board staff, appropriate use should be made of personnel of Federal, State, and local agencies, universities, non-profit organizations, or private industry.
(B) Until the Board issues a record of decision as provided in 40 CFR 1502.2 no action concerning the proposal shall be taken which would:
(
1
) Have an adverse environmental impact; or
(
2
) Limit the choice of reasonable alternatives.
(
3
) 40 CFR 1506.10 places certain limitations on the timing of Board decisions on taking “major Federal actions.” A loan guarantee shall not be made before the times set forth in 40 CFR 1506.10.
(iii) A public record of decision stating what the decision was; identifying alternatives that were considered, including the environmentally preferable one(s); discussing any national considerations that entered into the decision; and summarizing a monitoring and enforcement program if applicable for mitigating the environmental effects of a proposal; will be prepared. This record of decision will be prepared at the time the decision is made.
[64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 72021, Dec. 23, 1999; 65 FR 70294, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 400.207
Application evaluation.
(a)
Eligibility screening.
Applications will be reviewed to determine whether the Lender and Borrower are eligible, the information required under § 400.205(b) is complete, and the proposed loan complies with applicable statutes and regulations. The Board
can at any time reject an application that does not meet these requirements.
(b)
Evaluation criteria.
Applications that are determined to be eligible pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to a substantive review by the Board based upon the following evaluation factors, in order of importance:
(1) The ability of the Borrower to repay the loan by the date specified in the Loan Document, which shall be no later than December 31, 2005. Evaluation of this factor will consider the prospective earning power of the Borrower. An essential and necessary element of the Board's evaluation of whether this criterion is satisfied is whether the applicant has committed to undertake significant efforts to eliminate or reduce economically unviable capacity;
(2) The adequacy of the proposed provisions to protect the Government, including sufficiency of Security, the priority of the lien position in the Security, and the percentage of Guarantee requested; and
(3) Adequacy of the underwriting analysis performed by the Lender in preparing the application and the ability of the Lender to administer the loan in full compliance with the requisite standard of care set forth in § 400.211(b).
(c)
Decisions by the Board.
Upon completion of the evaluation of an application and as soon as possible after its receipt, the Board will approve or deny an eligible application that is timely received under this Program. The Board shall notify the Applicants and the Borrower in writing of the approval or denial of an application as soon as possible. Approvals for loan Guarantees shall be conditioned upon compliance with § 400.208.
[64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 70294, Nov. 22, 2000; 66 FR 53080, Oct. 19, 2001]
§ 400.208
Issuance of the Guarantee.
(a) The Board's decisions to approve any application for, and extend an offer of, guarantee under § 400.207 is conditioned upon:
(1) The Lender and Borrower obtaining any required regulatory or judicial approvals;
(2) The Lender and Borrower being legally authorized to enter into the loan under the terms and conditions submitted to the Board in the application;
(3) The Board's receipt of the Loan Documents and any related instruments, in form and substance satisfactory to the Board, and the Guarantee, all properly executed by the Lender, Borrower, and any other required party other than the Board; and
(4) No material adverse change in the Borrower's ability to repay the loan between the date of the Board's approval and the date the Guarantee is to be issued.
(b) The Board may withdraw its approval of an application and rescind its offer of Guarantee if the Board determines that the Lender or the Borrower cannot, or is unwilling to, provide adequate documentation and proof of compliance with paragraph (a) of this section within the time provided for in the offer.
(c) Only after receipt of all the documentation, required by this section, will the Board sign and deliver the Guarantee.
(d) A Borrower receiving a loan guaranteed by the Board under this Program shall pay a one-time guarantee fee of 0.5 percent of the amount of the principal of the loan. This fee must be paid no later than one year from the issuance of the Guarantee.
[64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 70294, Nov. 22, 2000; 66 FR 53080, Oct. 19, 2001]
§ 400.209
Funding for the Program.
The Act provides funding for the costs incurred by the Government as a result of granting Guarantees under the Program. While pursuing the goals of the Act, it is the intent of the Board to minimize the cost of the Program to the Government. The Board will estimate the risk posed by the guaranteed loans to the funds appropriated for the costs of the Guarantees under the Program and operate the Program accordingly.
§ 400.210
Assignment or transfer of loans.
(a) Neither the Loan Documents nor the Guarantee of the Board may be modified, in whole or in part, without
the prior written approval of the Board.
(b) Upon notice to the Board and a certification by the assignor that the assignee is an Eligible Lender, and subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and other provisions of this part, a Lender may assign or transfer its interest in the loan including the Loan documents and the Guarantee to a party that qualifies as an Eligible Lender pursuant to § 400.201. Any other assignment or transfer will require the prior written approval of the Board.
(c) The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to transfers which occur by operation of law.
(d) The Agent must hold and may not assign or transfer an interest in a loan guaranteed under the Program equal to at least the lesser of $25 million or fifteen percent of the aggregate amount of the loan. In addition, the Agent must hold and may not assign or transfer an interest the Unguaranteed Portion of the loan equal to at least the minimum amount of the loan required to be held by the Agent under the preceding sentence multiplied by the percentage of the loan represented by the Unguaranteed Portion. A non-Agent Lender must hold and may not assign or transfer an interest in the Unguaranteed Portion of the loan representing no less than five percent of such Lender's total interest in the loan; provided, that a non-Agent Lender may transfer its interest in the Unguaranteed Portion after payment of the Guaranteed Portion has been made under the Guarantee.
[66 FR 53080, Oct. 19, 2001]
§ 400.211
Lender responsibilities.
The Lender shall have such obligations and duties to the Board as are set forth in the Guarantee.
[65 FR 70294, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 400.212
Guarantee.
The Board shall adopt a form of Guarantee to be used by the Board under the Program, and shall publish the Guarantee on its website. Modifications to the provisions of the form of Guarantee must be approved and adopted by the Board.
[65 FR 70294, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 400.213
Termination of obligations.
The Board shall have such rights to terminate the Guarantee as are set forth in the Guarantee.
[65 FR 70294, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 400.214
Participations in guaranteed loans.
(a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section, a Lender may distribute the risk of a portion of a loan guaranteed under the Program by sale of participations therein if:
(1) Neither the loan note nor the Guarantee is assigned, conveyed, sold, or transferred in whole or in part;
(2) The Lender remains solely responsible for the administration of the loan; and
(3) The Board's ability to assert any and all defenses available to it under the Guarantee and the law is not adversely affected.
(b) The following categories of entities may purchase participations in loans guaranteed under the Program:
(1) Eligible Lenders;
(2) Private investment funds and insurance companies that do not usually invest in commercial loans;
(3) Steel company suppliers or customers, who are interested in participating as a means of commencing or solidifying the supplier or customer relationship with the borrower; or
(4) Any other entity approved by the Board on a case-by-case basis.
(c) The Agent may not grant participations in that portion of its interest in a loan that may not be assigned or transferred under § 400.210(d). A Lender, other than the Agent, may not grant participations in that portion of its interest in a loan that may not be assigned or transferred under § 400.210(d).
(d) At least 5 percent of any participation interest in a loan must be unguaranteed.
[65 FR 70294, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 400.215
Supplemental Guarantees.
The Board will allow the structure of a guaranteed loan to include one or more Supplemental Guarantees that
cover the Unguaranteed Portion of the loan; provided that:
(a) There shall be no Supplemental Guarantee with respect to the Unguaranteed Portion required to be held by the Agent pursuant to § 400.210(c);
(b) The Loan Documents relating to any Supplemental Guarantee shall be acceptable in form and substance to the Board; and
(c) In approving the issuance of a Guarantee, the Board may impose any conditions with respect to Supplemental Guarantee(s) relating to the loan that it considers appropriate.
[66 FR 53080, Oct. 19, 2001]
PARTS 401-499 [RESERVED]
13 CFR Ch. V (1-1-25 Edition)
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board

# CHAPTER V—EMERGENCY OIL AND GAS GUARANTEED LOAN BOARD
Part
Page
500
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Program
907
501-599
[Reserved]
Pt. 500

# PART 500—EMERGENCY OIL AND GAS GUARANTEED LOAN PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
500.1
Purpose.
500.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Board Procedures
500.100
Purpose and scope.
500.101
Composition of the Board.
500.102
Authority of the Board.
500.103
Offices.
500.104
Meetings and actions of the Board.
500.105
Staff.
500.106
Ex parte
communications.
500.107
Freedom of Information Act.
500.108
Restrictions on lobbying.
500.109
Government-wide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement).
500.110
Amendments.

# Subpart C—Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loans
500.200
Eligible Borrower.
500.201
Eligible Lender.
500.202
Loan amount.
500.203
Guarantee percentage.
500.204
Loan terms.
500.205
Application process.
500.206
Environmental requirements.
500.207
Application evaluation.
500.208
Issuance of the Guarantee.
500.209
Funding for the Program.
500.210
Assignment or transfer of loans.
500.211
Lender responsibilities.
500.212
Liquidation.
500.213
Termination of obligations.
500.214
OMB control number. [Reserved]

# Authority:
Pub. L. 106-51, 113 Stat. 255 (15 U.S.C. 1841 note).

# Source:
64 FR 57947, Oct. 27, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 500.1
Purpose.
This part is issued by the Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board pursuant to section 552 of title 5 of the United States Code and the Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Act, Chapter 2 of Public Law 106-51. This part contains rules for making and servicing loans to qualified oil and gas guaranteed by the Board.
§ 500.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Program Act, Chapter 2 of Public Law 106-51.
(b)
Administer, administering and administration,
mean the Lender's actions in making, disbursing, servicing (including, but not limited to care, preservation and maintenance of collateral), collecting and liquidating a loan and security.
(c)
Agent
means that Lender authorized to take such actions, exercise such powers, and perform such duties on behalf and in representation of all Lenders party to a Guarantee of a single loan, as is required by, or necessarily incidental to, the terms and conditions of the Guarantee.
(d)
Applicant
means the private banking or investment institution applying for a loan guarantee under this part.
(e)
Board
means the Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board.
(f)
Borrower
means a Qualified Oil and Gas Company which could receive a loan guaranteed by the Board under this Program.
(g)
Guarantee
means the written agreement between the Board and one or more Lenders, and approved by the Borrower, pursuant to which the Board guarantees repayment of a specified percentage of the principal of the loan, including the Special Terms and Conditions, the General Terms and Conditions, and all exhibits thereto.
(h)
Lender
means a private banking or investment institution, eligible under § 500.201, that is a party to a Guarantee issued by the Board. With respect to a Guarantee of a single loan to which more than one Lender is a party, the term Lender means Agent.
(i)
Loan Documents
mean the loan agreement and all other instruments, and all documentation between the Lender and the Borrower evidencing the making, disbursing, securing, collecting, or otherwise administering of the loan.
(j)
Program
means the Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Program established by the Act.
(k)
Security
means all property, real or personal, required by the provisions
of the Guarantee or by the Loan Documents to secure repayment of any indebtedness of the Borrower under the Loan Documents or Guarantee.
(l)
Qualified Oil and Gas Company
means any company that: (A) is (i) an independent oil and gas company (within the meaning of section 57(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) or; (ii) a small business concern under section 3 of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 632, (or a company based in Alaska, including an Alaska Native Corporation created pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) that is an oil field service company whose main business is providing tools, products, personnel, and technical solutions on a contractual basis to exploration and production operators that drill, complete wells, and produce, transport, refine, and sell hydrocarbons and their byproducts as the main commercial business of the concern or company; and (B) has experienced layoffs, production losses, or financial losses since January 1997.
[64 FR 57947, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 24106, Apr. 25, 2000]

# Subpart B—Board Procedures
§ 500.100
Purpose and scope.
This subpart describes the Board's authorities and organizational structure, the means and rules by which the Board takes actions, and procedures for public access to Board records.
§ 500.101
Composition of the Board.
The Board consists of the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, who acts as Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Secretary of Commerce.
§ 500.102
Authority of the Board.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Board is authorized to guarantee loans provided to Qualified Oil and Gas companies by private banking and investment institutions in accordance with the procedures, rules, and regulations established by the Board, to make the determinations authorized by the Act, and to take such other actions as necessary to carry out its functions in accordance with the Act.
§ 500.103
Offices.
The principal offices of the Board are in the U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C. 20230.
§ 500.104
Meetings and actions of the Board.
(a)
Place and frequency.
The Board meets, on the call of the Chairman, in order to consider matters requiring action by the Board. Time and place for any such meeting shall be determined by the members of the Board.
(b)
Quorum and voting.
Two voting members of the Board constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. All decisions and determinations of the Board shall be made by a majority vote of the voting members. All votes on determinations of the Board required by the Act shall be recorded in the minutes. A Board member may request that any vote be recorded according to individual Board members.
(c)
Agenda of meetings.
To the extent practicable, an agenda for each meeting shall be distributed to members of the Board at least two days in advance of the date of the meeting, together with copies of materials relevant to the agenda items.
(d)
Minutes.
The Secretary of the Board shall keep minutes of each Board meeting and of action taken without a meeting, a draft of which is to be distributed to each member of the Board as soon as practicable after each meeting or action. To the extent practicable, the minutes of a Board meeting shall be corrected and approved at the next meeting of the Board.
(e)
Use of conference call communications equipment.
Any member may participate in a meeting of the Board through the use of conference call, telephone or similar communications equipment, by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can simultaneously speak to and hear each other. Any member so participating in a meeting shall be deemed present for all purposes. Actions taken by the Board at meetings conducted through the use of such equipment, including
the votes of each member, shall be recorded in the usual manner in the minutes of the meetings of the Board.
(f)
Actions between meetings.
When, in the judgment of the Chairman, circumstances occur making it desirable for the Board to consider action when it is not feasible to call a meeting, the relevant information and recommendations for action may be transmitted to the members by the Secretary of the Board and the voting members may communicate their votes to the Chairman in writing (including an action signed in counterpart by each Board member), electronically, or orally (including telephone communication). Any action taken under this paragraph has the same effect as an action taken at a meeting. Any such action shall be recorded in the minutes.
(g)
Delegations of authority.
The Board may delegate authority, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board deems appropriate, to the Executive Director, the General Counsel, or the Secretary of the Board, to take certain actions not required by the Act to be taken by the Board. All delegations shall be made pursuant to resolutions of the Board and recorded in writing, whether in the minutes of a meeting or otherwise. Any action taken pursuant to delegated authority has the effect of an action taken by the Board.
§ 500.105
Staff.
(a)
Executive Director.
The Executive Director of the Board advises and assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities under the Act, provides general direction with respect to the administration of the Board's actions, directs the activities of the staff, and performs such other duties as the Board may require.
(b)
General Counsel.
The General Counsel of the Board provides legal advice relating to the responsibilities of the Board and performs such other duties as the Board may require.
(c)
Secretary of the Board.
The Secretary of the Board sends notice of all meetings, prepares minutes of all meetings, maintains a complete record of all votes and actions taken by the Board, has custody of all records of the Board and performs such other duties as the Board may require.
§ 500.106
Ex parte
communications.
Oral or written communication, not on the public record, between the Board, or any member of the Board, and any party or parties interested in any matter pending before the Board concerning the substance of that matter is prohibited. This section also applies to the Board's staff and employees of the constituent agencies who are or reasonably may be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the matter pending before the Board.
§ 500.107
Freedom of Information Act.
(a)
Definitions.
All terms used in this section which are defined in 5 U.S.C. 551 or 5 U.S.C. 552 shall have the same meaning in this section. In addition the following definitions apply to this section:
(1)
FOIA,
as used in this section, means the “Freedom of Information Act,” as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552.
(2)
Commercial use request
means a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made.
(3)
Direct costs
mean those expenditures that the Board actually incurs in searching for, reviewing, and duplicating documents in response to a request made under paragraph (c) of this section. Direct costs include, for example, the labor costs of the employee performing the work (the basic rate of pay for the employee, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits). Not included in direct costs are overhead expenses such as the costs of space and heating or lighting of the facility in which the records are kept.
(4)
Duplication
means the process of making a copy of a document in response to a request for disclosure of records or for inspection of original records that contain exempt material or that otherwise cannot be inspected directly. Among others, such copies may take the form of paper, microfilm, audiovisual materials, or machine-readable documentation (e.g., magnetic tape or disk).
(5)
Educational institution
means a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, or an institution of undergraduate higher education, graduate higher education, professional education, or an institution of vocational education that operates a program of scholarly research.
(6)
Noncommercial scientific institution
refers to an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis (as that term is used in this section) and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
(7)
News
means information about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include, but are not limited to, television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of newspapers and other periodicals (but only in those instances when they can qualify as disseminators of “news”) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. “Freelance” journalists may be regarded as working for a news organization if they can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization, even though not actually employed by it.
(8)
Representative of the news media
means any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the general public.
(9)
Review
means the process of examining documents, located in response to a request for access, to determine whether any portion of a document is exempt information. It includes doing all that is necessary to excise the documents and otherwise to prepare them for release. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(10)
Search
means the process of looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification within documents. Searches may be done manually or by computer.
(b)
Records available for public inspection and copying
—(1)
Types of records made available.
The information in this section is furnished for the guidance of the public and in compliance with the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552) (FOIA). This section sets forth the procedures the Board follows to make publicly available the materials specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2). These materials shall be made available for inspection and copying at the Board's Freedom of Information Office pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2). Information routinely provided to the public as part of a regular Board activity (for example, press releases) may be provided to the public without following this section.
(2)
Reading room procedures.
Information available under this section is available for inspection and copying, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. weekdays, at the Freedom of Information Office of the Board, Oil and Gas Guarantee Loan Board, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C. 20230.
(3)
Electronic records.
Information available under this section that was created on or after November 1, 1996, shall also be available on the Board's website, found at
www.doc.gov.
(c)
Records available to the public on request
—(1)
Types of records made available.
All records of the Board that are not available under paragraph (b) of this section shall be made available upon request, pursuant to the procedures in this section and the exceptions set forth in the FOIA. The Board's policy is to make discretionary disclosures of records or information exempt from disclosure under the FOIA whenever disclosure would not foreseeably harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption, but this policy does not create any right enforceable in court.
(2)
Procedures for requesting records.
A request for records shall reasonably describe the records in a way that enables the Board's staff to identify and produce the records with reasonable effort and without unduly burdening or significantly interfering with any of the Board's operations. The request shall be submitted in writing to the Secretary of the Board, Oil and Gas Guarantee Loan Board, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C. 20230; or sent by facsimile to the Secretary of the Board. The request shall
be clearly marked
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUEST.
(3)
Contents of request.
The request shall contain the following information:
(i) The name and address of the requester, and the telephone number at which the requester can be reached during normal business hours;
(ii) Whether the requested information is intended for commercial use, or whether the requester represents an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, or news media;
(iii) A statement agreeing to pay the applicable fees, or a statement identifying any fee limitation desired, or a request for a waiver or reduction of fees that satisfies paragraph (f) of this section.
(d)
Processing requests
—(1)
Priority of responses.
The date of receipt for any request, including one that is addressed incorrectly or that is referred to the Board by another agency, is the date the Secretary of the Board actually receives the request. The Secretary of the Board shall normally process requests in the order they are received. However, in the Secretary of the Board's discretion, the Board may use two or more processing tracks by distinguishing between simple and more complex requests based on the number of pages involved, or some other measure of the amount of work and/or time needed to process the request, and whether the request qualifies for expedited processing as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. When using multitrack processing, the Secretary of the Board may provide requesters in the slower track(s) with an opportunity to limit the scope of their requests in order to qualify for faster processing. The Secretary of the Board shall contact the requester by telephone or by letter, whichever is most efficient in each case.
(2)
Expedited processing.
(i) A person may request expedited access to records by submitting a statement, certified to be true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief, that demonstrates a compelling need for the records, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(E)(v).
(ii) The Secretary of the Board shall notify a requester of the determination whether to grant or deny a request for expedited processing within ten working days of receipt of the request. If the Secretary of the Board grants the request for expedited processing, the Board shall process the request for access to information as soon as practicable. If the Secretary of the Board denies a request for expedited processing, the requester may file an appeal pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, and the Board shall respond to the appeal within twenty days after the appeal was received by the Board.
(3)
Time limits.
The time for response to requests shall be 20 working days, except:
(i) In the case of expedited treatment under paragraph (d)(2) of this section;
(ii) Where the running of such time is suspended for payment of fees pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section;
(iii) Where the estimated charge is less than $250, and the requester does not guarantee payment pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section; or
(iv) In unusual circumstances, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(iii), the time limit may be extended for a period of time not to exceed 10 working days as provided by written notice to the requester, setting forth the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched; or such alternative time period as mutually agreed to by the Secretary of the Board and the requester when the Secretary of the Board notifies the requester that the request cannot be processed in the specified time limit.
(4)
Response to request.
In response to a request that satisfies paragraph (c) of this paragraph, an appropriate search shall be conducted of records in the custody and control of the Board on the date of receipt of the request, and a review made of any responsive information located. The Secretary of the Board shall notify the requester of:
(i) The Secretary of the Board's determination of the request and the reasons therefor;
(ii) The information withheld, and the basis for withholding; and
(iii) The right to appeal any denial or partial denial, pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(5)
Referral to another agency.
To the extent a request covers documents that were created by, obtained from, classified by, or is in the primary interest of another agency, the Secretary of the Board may refer the request to that agency for a direct response by that agency and inform the requester promptly of the referral. The Secretary of the Board shall consult with another Federal agency before responding to a requester if the Board receives a request for a record in which:
(i) Another Federal agency subject to the FOIA has a significant interest, but not the primary interest; or
(ii) Another Federal agency not subject to the FOIA has the primary interest or a significant interest. Ordinarily, the agency that originated a record will be presumed to have the primary interest in it.
(6)
Providing responsive records.
(i) A copy of records or portions of records responsive to the request shall be sent to the requester by regular U.S. mail to the address indicated in the request, unless the requester elects to take delivery of the documents at the Board's Freedom of Information Office or makes other acceptable arrangements, or the Secretary of the Board deems it appropriate to send the documents by another means. The Secretary of the Board shall provide a copy of the record in any form or format requested if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format, but the Secretary of the Board need not provide more than one copy of any record to a requester.
(ii) The Secretary of the Board shall provide any reasonably segregable portion of a record that is responsive to the request after deleting those portions that are exempt under the FOIA or this section.
(iii) Except where disclosure is expressly prohibited by statute, regulation, or order, the Secretary of the Board may authorize the release of records that are exempt from mandatory disclosure whenever the Board or designated Board members determine that there would be no foreseeable harm in such disclosure.
(iv) The Board is not required in response to the request to create records or otherwise to prepare new records.
(7)
Prohibition against disclosure.
Except as provided in this part, no officer, employee, or agent of the Board shall disclose or permit the disclosure of any unpublished information of the Board to any person (other than Board officers, employees, or agents properly entitled to such information for the performance of official duties), unless required by law.
(e)
Appeals.
(1) Any person denied access to Board records requested under paragraph (c) of this section, denied expedited processing under paragraph (d) of this section, or denied a waiver of fees under paragraph (f) of this section may file a written appeal within 30 calendar days after the date of such denial with the Board. The written appeal shall prominently display the phrase
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT APPEAL
on the first page, and shall be addressed to the General Counsel of the Board, Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C. 20230; or sent by facsimile to the General Counsel of the Board. The appeal shall include a copy of the original request, the initial denial, if any, and a statement of the reasons why the requested records should be made available and why the initial denial was in error.
(2) The General Counsel of the Board shall make a determination regarding any appeal within 20 working days of actual receipt of the appeal, and the determination letter shall notify the appealing party of the right to seek judicial review in event of denial.
(f)
Fee schedules; waiver of fees
—(1)
Fee schedule.
The fees applicable to a request for records pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section are set forth in the uniform fee schedule at the end of this paragraph (b).
(i)
Search.
(A) Search fees shall be charged for all requests—other than requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media—subject to the limitations of paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section. The Secretary of the Board shall charge for time spent searching even if no responsive record is located or if the Secretary of the Board withholds the record(s) located as entirely exempt from disclosure. Search fees shall be
the direct costs of conducting the search by the involved employees.
(B) For computer searches of records, requesters will be charged the direct costs of conducting the search, although certain requesters (as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section) will be charged no search fee and certain other requesters (as provided in paragraph (f)(3)) are entitled to the cost equivalent of two hours of manual search time without charge. These direct costs include the costs, attributable to the search, of operating a central processing unit and operator/programmer salary.
(ii)
Duplication.
Duplication fees will be charged to all requesters, subject to the limitations of paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section. For a paper photocopy of a record (no more than one copy of which need be supplied), the fee shall be 15 cents per page. For copies produced by computer, such as tapes or printouts, the Secretary of the Board shall charge the direct costs, including operator time, of producing the copy. For other forms of duplication, the Secretary of the Board will charge the direct costs of that duplication.
(iii)
Review.
Review fees shall be charged to requesters who make a commercial use request. Review fees shall be charged only for the initial record review—the review done when the Secretary of the Board determines whether an exemption applies to a particular record at the initial request level. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal level for an exemption already applied. However, records withheld under an exemption that is subsequently determined not to apply may be reviewed again to determine whether any other exemption not previously considered applies, and the costs of that review are chargeable. Review fees shall be the direct costs of conducting the review by the involved employees.
(iv)
Limitations on charging fees.
(A) No search fee will be charged for requests by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media.
(B) No search fee or review fee will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(C) Whenever a total fee calculated under this paragraph is $25 or less for any request, no fee will be charged.
(D) For requesters other than those seeking records for a commercial use, no fee will be charged unless the cost of search in excess of two hours plus the cost of duplication in excess of 100 pages totals more than $25.
(2)
Payment procedures.
All persons requesting records pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall pay the applicable fees before the Secretary of the Board sends copies of the requested records, unless a fee waiver has been granted pursuant to paragraph (f)(6) of this section. Requesters must pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States.
(i)
Advance notification of fees.
If the estimated charges are likely to exceed $25, the Secretary of the Board shall notify the requester of the estimated amount, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. Upon receipt of such notice, the requester may confer with the Secretary of the Board to reformulate the request to lower the costs. The processing of the request shall be suspended until the requester provides the Secretary of the Board with a written guarantee that payment will be made upon completion of the processing.
(ii)
Advance payment.
The Secretary of the Board shall require advance payment of any fee estimated to exceed $250. The Secretary of the Board shall also require full payment in advance where a requester has previously failed to pay a fee in a timely fashion. If an advance payment of an estimated fee exceeds the actual total fee by $1 or more, the difference shall be refunded to the requester. The time period for responding to requests under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, and the processing of the request shall be suspended until the Secretary of the Board receives the required payment.
(iii)
Late charges.
The Secretary of the Board may assess interest charges when fee payment is not made within 30 days of the date on which the billing was sent. Assessment of such interest will commence on the 31st day following the day on which the billing
was sent. Interest is at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(3)
Categories of uses.
The fees assessed depend upon the fee category. In determining which category is appropriate, the Secretary of the Board shall look to the identity of the requester and the intended use set forth in the request for records. Where a requester's description of the use is insufficient to make a determination, the Secretary of the Board may seek additional clarification before categorizing the request.
(i)
Commercial use requester.
The fees for search, duplication, and review apply when records are requested for commercial use.
(ii)
Educational, non-commercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media requesters.
The fees for duplication apply when records are not sought for commercial use, and the requester is a representative of the news media or an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, whose purpose is scholarly or scientific research. The first 100 pages of duplication, however, will be provided free.
(iii)
All other requesters.
For all other requests, the fees for search and duplication apply. The first two hours of search time and the first 100 pages of duplication, however, will be provided free.
(4)
Nonproductive search.
Fees for search may be charged even if no responsive documents are found. Fees for search and review may be charged even if the request is denied.
(5)
Aggregated requests.
A requester may not file multiple requests at the same time, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. If the Secretary of the Board reasonably believes that a requester is separating a request into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees or that several requesters appear to be acting together to submit multiple requests solely in order to avoid payment of fees, the Secretary of the Board may aggregate such requests and charge accordingly. It is considered reasonable for the Secretary of the Board to presume that multiple requests by one requester on the same topic made within a 30-day period have been made to avoid fees.
(6)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
A request for a waiver or reduction of the fees, and the justification for the waiver, shall be included with the request for records to which it pertains. If a waiver is requested and the requester has not indicated in writing an agreement to pay the applicable fees if the waiver request is denied, the time for response to the request for documents, as set forth in paragraph (4)(d) of this section, shall not begin until a determination has been made on the request for a waiver or reduction of fees.
(i)
Standards for determining waiver or reduction.
The Secretary of the Board may grant a waiver or reduction of fees where it is determined both that disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operation or activities of the government, and that the disclosure of information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. In making this determination, the following factors shall be considered:
(A) Whether the subject of the records concerns the operations or activities of the government;
(B) Whether disclosure of the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of government operations or activities;
(C) Whether the requester has the intention and ability to disseminate the information to the public;
(D) Whether the information is already in the public domain;
(E) Whether the requester has a commercial interest that would be furthered by the disclosure; and, if so,
(F) Whether the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the requester is sufficiently large, in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(ii)
Contents of request for waiver.
A request for a waiver or reduction of fees shall include a clear statement of how the request satisfies the criteria set forth in paragraph (f)(6)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Burden of proof.
The burden shall be on the requester to present evidence
or information in support of a request for a waiver or reduction of fees.
(iv)
Determination by Secretary of the Board.
The Secretary of the Board shall make a determination on the request for a waiver or reduction of fees and shall notify the requester accordingly. A denial may be appealed to the Board in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(7)
Uniform fee schedule.
Service
Rate
(i) Manual search
Actual salary rate of employee involved, plus 16 percent of salary rate.
(ii) Computerized search
Actual direct cost, including operator time.
(iii) Duplication of records:
(A) Paper copy reproduction
$.15 per page.
(B) Other reproduction (e.g., computer disk or printout, microfilm, microfiche, or microform)
Actual direct cost, including operator time.
(iv) Review of records (includes preparation for release,
i.e.
excising)
Actual salary rate of employee conducting review, plus 16 percent of salary rate.
(g)
Request for confidential treatment of business information
—(1)
Submission of request.
Any submitter of information to the Board who desires confidential treatment of business information pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) shall file a request for confidential treatment with the Board at the time the information is submitted or a reasonable time after submission.
(2)
Form of request.
Each request for confidential treatment of business information shall state in reasonable detail the facts supporting the commercial or financial nature of the business information and the legal justification under which the business information should be protected. Conclusory statements that release of the information would cause competitive harm generally will not be considered sufficient to justify confidential treatment.
(3)
Designation and separation of confidential material.
All information considered confidential by a submitter shall be clearly designated “
PROPRIETARY
” or “
BUSINESS CONFIDENTIAL
” in the submission and separated from information for which confidential treatment is not requested. Failure to segregate confidential commercial or financial information from other material may result in release of the nonsegregated material to the public without notice to the submitter.
(h)
Request for access to confidential commercial or financial information
—(1)
Request for confidential commercial or financial information.
A request by a submitter for confidential treatment of any business information shall be considered in connection with a request for access to that information.
(2)
Notice to the submitter.
(i) The Secretary of the Board shall notify a submitter who requested confidential treatment of information pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), of the request for access.
(ii) Absent a request for confidential treatment, the Secretary of the Board may notify a submitter of a request for access to submitter's business information if the Secretary of the Board reasonably believes that disclosure of the information may cause substantial competitive harm to the submitter.
(iii) The notice given to the submitter by mail, return receipt requested, shall be given as soon as practicable after receipt of the request for access, and shall describe the request and provide the submitter seven working days from the date of notice, to submit written objections to disclosure of the information. Such statement shall specify all grounds for withholding any of the information and shall demonstrate why the information which is considered to be commercial or financial information, and that the information is a trade secret, is privileged or confidential, or that its disclosure is likely to cause substantial competitive harm to the submitter. If the submitter fails to respond to the notice within the time specified, the submitter will be considered to have no objection to the release of the information. Information a submitter provides under this paragraph may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(3)
Exceptions to notice to submitter.
Notice to the submitter need not be given if:
(i) The Secretary of the Board determines that the request for access should be denied;
(ii) The requested information lawfully has been made available to the public;
(iii) Disclosure of the information is required by law (other than 5 U.S.C. 552); or
(iv) The submitter's claim of confidentiality under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) appears obviously frivolous or has already been denied by the Secretary of the Board, except that in this last instance the Secretary of the Board shall give the submitter written notice of the determination to disclose the information at least seven working days prior to disclosure.
(4)
Notice to requester.
At the same time the Secretary of the Board notifies the submitter, the Secretary of the Board also shall notify the requester that the request is subject to the provisions of this section.
(5)
Determination by Secretary of the Board.
The Secretary of the Board's determination whether or not to disclose any information for which confidential treatment has been requested pursuant to this section shall be communicated to the submitter and the requester immediately. If the Secretary of the Board determines to disclose the business information over the objection of a submitter, the Secretary of the Board shall give the submitter written notice via mail, return receipt requested, or similar means, which shall include:
(i) A statement of reason(s) why the submitter's objections to disclosure were not sustained;
(ii) A description of the business information to be disclosed; and
(iii) A statement that the component intends to disclose the information seven working days from the date the submitter receives the notice.
(6)
Notice of lawsuit.
The Secretary of the Board shall promptly notify any submitter of information covered by this section of the filing of any suit against the Board to compel disclosure of such information, and shall promptly notify a requester of any suit filed against the Board to enjoin the disclosure of requested documents.
§ 500.108
Restrictions on lobbying.
(a) No funds received through a loan guaranteed under this Program may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, loan Guarantee, or cooperative agreement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan or loan Guarantee, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, loan Guarantee, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in the application form, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or Guarantee.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a Standard Form-LLL if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or Guarantee.
(d) Each person shall file a certification, contained in the application form, and a disclosure form (Standard Form-LLL), if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(e) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or Guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000, unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (c) of this section.
(f) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
§ 500.109
Government-wide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement).
(a) Executive Order (E.O.) 12549 provides that, to the extent permitted by law, Executive departments and agencies shall participate in a governmentwide system for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. A person who is debarred or suspended shall be excluded from Federal financial and nonfinancial assistance and benefits under Federal programs and activities. Debarment or suspension of a participant in a program by one agency shall have governmentwide effect. The Board shall review the List of Debarred entities prior to making final loan Guarantee decisions. Suspension or debarment may be a basis for denying a loan Guarantee.
(b) This section applies to all persons who have participated, are currently participating or may reasonably be expected to participate in transactions under Federal nonprocurement programs. For purposes of this section such transactions will be referred to as “covered transactions”.
(1)
Covered transaction.
For purposes of this section, a covered transaction is a primary covered transaction or a lower tier covered transaction. Covered transactions at any tier need not involve the transfer of Federal funds.
(i) Primary covered transaction. Except as noted in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a primary covered transaction is any nonprocurement transaction between an agency and a person, regardless of type, including: grants, cooperative agreements, scholarships, fellowships, contracts of assistance, loans, loan Guarantees, subsidies, insurance, payments for specified use, donation agreements and any other nonprocurement transactions between a Federal agency and a person.
(ii) Lower tier covered transaction. A lower tier covered transaction is:
(A) Any transaction between a participant and a person other than a procurement contract for goods or services, regardless of type, under a primary covered transaction;
(B) Any procurement contract for goods or services between a participant and a person, regardless of type, expected to equal or exceed the Federal procurement small purchase threshold fixed at 10 U.S.C. 2304(g) and 41 U.S.C. 253(g) (currently $100,000) under a primary covered transaction;
(C) Any procurement contract for goods or services between a participant and a person under a covered transaction, regardless of amount, under which that person will have a critical influence on or substantive control over that covered transaction. Such persons may include loan officers or chief executive officers acting as principal investigators and providers of federally-required audit services.
(2)
Exceptions.
The following transactions are not covered:
(i) Statutory entitlements or mandatory awards (but not subtier awards thereunder which are not themselves mandatory), including deposited funds insured by the Federal Government;
(ii) Direct awards to foreign governments or public international organizations, or transactions with foreign governments or foreign governmental entities, public international organizations, foreign government owned (in whole or in part) or controlled entities, entities consisting wholly or partially of foreign governments or foreign governmental entities;
(iii) Benefits to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted);
(iv) Federal employment;
(v) Transactions pursuant to national or agency-recognized emergencies or disasters;
(vi) Incidental benefits derived from ordinary governmental operations; and
(vii) Other transactions where the application of this section would be prohibited by law.
(3)
Board covered transactions.
This section applies to the Board's loan Guarantees, subcontracts and transactions at any tier that are charges as direct or indirect costs, regardless of type.
(c)
Primary covered transactions.
Except to the extent prohibited by law, persons who are debarred or suspended shall be excluded from primary covered transactions as either participants or principals throughout the Executive Branch of the Federal Government for the period of their debarment, suspension, or the period they are proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4. Accordingly, no agency shall enter into primary covered transactions with such excluded persons during such period, except as permitted pursuant to paragraph (l) of this section.
(d)
Lower tier covered transactions.
Except to the extent prohibited by law, persons who have been proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred or suspended shall be excluded from participating as either participants or principals in all lower tier covered transactions (see paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section) for the period of their exclusion.
(e)
Exceptions.
Debarment or suspension does not affect a person's eligibility for—
(1) Statutory entitlements or mandatory awards (but not subtier awards thereunder which are not themselves mandatory), including deposited funds insured by the Federal Government;
(2) Direct awards to foreign governments or public international organizations, or transactions with foreign governments or foreign governmental entities, public international organizations, foreign government owned (in whole or in part) or controlled entities, and entities consisting wholly or partially of foreign governments or foreign governmental entities;
(3) Benefits to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted);
(4) Federal employment;
(5) Transactions pursuant to national or agency-recognized emergencies or disasters;
(6) Incidental benefits derived from ordinary governmental operations; and
(7) Other transactions where the application of this section would be prohibited by law.
(f) Persons who are ineligible are excluded in accordance with the applicable statutory, executive order, or regulatory authority.
(g) Persons who accept voluntary exclusions are excluded in accordance with the terms of their settlements. The Board shall, and participants may, contact the original action agency to ascertain the extent of the exclusion.
(h) The Board may grant an exception permitting a debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded person, or a person proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, to participate in a particular covered transaction upon a written determination by the agency head or an authorized designee stating the reason(s) for deviating from the Presidential policy established by Executive Order 12549. However, in accordance with the President's stated intention in the Executive Order, exceptions shall be granted only infrequently. Exceptions shall be reported in accordance with the Executive Order.
(i) Notwithstanding the debarment, suspension, proposed debarment under
48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, determination of ineligibility, or voluntary exclusion of any person by an agency, agencies and participants may continue covered transactions in existence at the time the person was debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded. A decision as to the type of termination action, if any, to be taken should be made only after thorough review to ensure the propriety of the proposed action.
(j) Agencies and participants shall not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any person who is debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, ineligible or voluntary excluded, except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
(k) Except as permitted paragraphs (h) or (i) of this section, a participant shall not knowingly do business under a covered transaction with a person who is—
(1) Debarred or suspended;
(2) Proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; or
(3) Ineligible for or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction.
(l) Violation of the restriction under paragraph (k) of this section may result in disallowance of costs, annulment or termination of award, issuance of a stop work order, debarment or suspension, or other remedies as appropriate.
(m) A participant may rely upon the certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it and its principals are not debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. An agency has the burden of proof that a participant did knowingly do business with a person that filed an erroneous certification.
§ 500.110
Amendments.
The Board's rules in this chapter may be adopted or amended, or new rules may be adopted, only by majority vote of the Board. Authority to adopt or amend these rules may not be delegated.

# Subpart C—Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loans
§ 500.200
Eligible Borrower.
(a) An eligible Borrower must be a Qualified Oil and Gas Company that can demonstrate:
(1) Credit is not otherwise available to it under reasonable terms or conditions sufficient to meet its financing needs, as reflected in the financial and business plans of the company;
(2) The prospective earning power of that company, together with the character and value of the security pledged, furnish reasonable assurance of repayment of the loan to be guaranteed in accordance with its terms;
(3) The company has agreed to permit audits by the General Accounting Office and an independent auditor acceptable to the Board prior to the issuance of the guarantee and while any such guaranteed loan is outstanding; and
(4) It has experienced layoffs, production losses, or financial losses between January 1, 1997, and the date of application for the Guarantee, demonstrated as a comparison between employment, production, or net income existing on January 1, 1997 and on the date of application.
(b) The Lender must provide with its application a letter from at least one lending institution other than the Lender to which the Borrower has applied for financial assistance, since January 1, 1997, indicating that the Borrower was denied for substantially the same loan they are now applying for, and the reasons the Borrower was unable to obtain the financing for which it applied. In addition, the Lender applying for a guarantee under this Program must certify that it would not make the loan without the Board's guarantee.
§ 500.201
Eligible Lender.
(a) A lender eligible to apply to the Board for a Guarantee of a loan must be:
(1) A banking institution, such as a commercial bank or trust company, subject to regulation by the Federal
banking agencies enumerated in 12 U.S.C. § 1813; or
(2) An investment institution, such as an investment bank, commercial finance company, or insurance company, that is currently engaged in commercial lending in the normal course of its business.
(b)(1) If more than one banking or investment institution is applying to the Board for a Guarantee of a single loan, each one of the banking or investment institutions on the application must meet the requirements to be an eligible lender set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) An application for a Guarantee of a single loan submitted by a group of banking or investment institutions, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, must identify one of the banking or investment institutions applying for such loan to act as agent for all. This agent is responsible for administering the loan and shall have those duties and responsibilities required of an agent, as set forth in the Guarantee.
(3) Each Lender, irrespective of any indemnities or other agreements between the Lenders and the Agent, shall be bound by all actions, and/or failures to act, of the Agent. The Board shall be entitled to rely upon such actions and/or failures to act of the Agent as binding the Lenders.
(c) Status as a Lender under paragraph (a) of this section does not assure that the Board will issue the Guarantee sought, or otherwise preclude the Board from declining to issue a Guarantee. In addition to evaluating an application pursuant to § 500.207, in making a determination to issue a Guarantee to a Lender, the Board will assess:
(1) The Lender's level of regulatory capital, in the case of banking institutions, or net worth, in the case of investment institutions;
(2) Whether the Lender possesses the ability to administer the loan, as required by § 500.211(b), including its experience with loans to oil and gas companies;
(3) The scope, volume and duration of the Lender's activity in administering loans;
(4) The performance of the Lender's loan portfolio, including its current delinquency rate;
(5) The Lender's loss rate as a percentage of loan amounts for its current fiscal year; and
(6) Any other matter the Board deems material to its assessment of the Lender.
(d) In the case of the refinancing of an existing credit, the applicant must be a different lender than the holder of the existing credit.
[64 FR 57947, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 24107, Apr. 25, 2000]
§ 500.202
Loan amount.
The aggregate amount of loan principal guaranteed under this Program to a single Qualified Oil and Gas Company may not exceed $10 million.
§ 500.203
Guarantee percentage.
A guarantee issued by the Board may not exceed 85 percent of the amount of the principal of a loan to a Qualified Oil and Gas Company.
§ 500.204
Loan terms.
(a) All loans guaranteed under the Program shall be due and payable in full no later than December 31, 2010.
(b) Loans guaranteed under the Program must bear a rate of interest determined by the Board to be reasonable. The reasonableness of an interest rate will be determined with respect to current average yields on outstanding obligations of the United States with remaining periods of maturity comparable to the term of the loan sought to be guaranteed. The Board may reject an application to guarantee a loan if it determines the interest rate of such loan to be unreasonable.
(c)(1) The performance of all of the Borrower's obligations under the Loan Documents shall be secured by, and shall have the priority in, such Security as provided for within the terms and conditions of the Guarantee.
(2) Without limiting the Lender's or Borrower's obligations under paragraph (c) of this section, at a minimum, the loan shall be secured by:
(i) A fully perfected and enforceable security interest and or lien, with first
priority over conflicting security interests or other liens in all property acquired, improved, or derived from the loan funds; and
(ii) A fully perfected and enforceable security interest and or lien in any other property of the Borrower's pledged to secure the loan, including accessions, replacements, proceeds, or property given by a third party as Security for the loan, the priority of which shall be, at a minimum, equal in status with the existing highest voluntarily granted or acquired interest or lien;
(3) The entire loan will be secured by the same Security with equal lien priority for the guaranteed and the unguaranteed portions of the loan. The unguaranteed portion of the loan will neither be paid first nor given any preference over the guaranteed portion.
(4) An Applicant's compliance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section does not assure a finding of reasonable assurance of repayment, or assure the Board's Guarantee of the loan.
(d) An eligible Lender may assess and collect from the Borrower such other fees and costs associated with the application and origination of the loan as are reasonable and customary, taking into consideration the amount and complexity of the credit. The Board may take such other fees and costs into consideration when determining whether to offer a Guarantee to the Lender.
[64 FR 57947, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 72024, Dec. 23, 1999]
§ 500.205
Application process.
(a)
Application process.
An original application and three copies must be received by the Board no later than 5 P.M. EST, February 28, 2000, in the U.S. Department of Commerce, 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW., room H-2500, Washington, DC 20230. Applications which have been provided to a delivery service on or before February 27, 2000, with “delivery guaranteed” before 5 P.M. on February 28, 2000, will be acceptabled for review if the Applicant can document that the application was provided to the delivery service with delivery to the address listed in this section guaranteed prior to the closing date and time. A postmark of February 27, 2000, is not sufficient to meet this deadline as the application must be received by the required date and time. Applications will not be accepted via facsimile machine transmission or electronic mail.
(b) Applications shall contain the following:
(1) A completed Form, “Application for Oil and Gas Guarantee Loan”;
(2) The information required for the completion of Form “Environmental Assessment and Compliance Findings for Related Environmental Laws” and attachments, as required by § 500.206(a)(2)(i)(D), unless the project is categorically excluded under § 500.206(b);
(3) All Loan Documents that will be signed by the Lender and the Borrower, if the application is approved, including all terms and conditions of, and Security or additional Security to assure the Borrower's performance under, the loan;
(4) Certification by the chairman of the board and the chief executive officer of the Borrower acknowledging that the Borrower is aware that the Lender is applying to the Board for a Guarantee of a loan under the Program, as described in the Loan Documents, and agreeing to permit audits by the General Accounting Office, its designee, an independent auditor acceptable to the Board prior to the issuance of the Guarantee and annually thereafter while such guarantee is outstanding;
(5) The Lender's full written underwriting analysis of the loan to be guaranteed by the Board;
(6) A certification that the Lender has followed the same loan underwriting analysis with the loan to be guaranteed as it would follow for a loan not guaranteed by the Government; and a certification by the Lender, that the loan, Lender, and Borrower meet each of the requirements of the Program as set forth in the Act and the Board's rules in this part;
(7) A description of all Security for the loan, including, as applicable, current appraisal of real and personal property, copies of any appropriate environmental site assessments, and current personal and corporate financial statements of any guarantors for the
same periods as required for the Borrower. Appraisals of real property shall be prepared by State licensed or certified appraisers, and be consistent with the “Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice,” promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation. Financial statements of guarantors shall be prepared by independent Certified Public Accountants;
(8)(i) An independent oil and gas company, as defined in section 201(c)(3)(A)(i) of the Act, is required to submit:
(A) For loans less than $5 million, three years of financial statements reviewed by a certified public accountant following generally accepted accounting principles, as well as any interim financial statements; or
(B) For loans of $5 million or greater, three years of financial statements must be submitted. The most recent year's statement must be audited by an independent certified public accountant. Statements from the prior two years must be reviewed by a certified public accountant following generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, any interim financial statements and associated notes must be submitted as well.
(ii) A service company, as defined in section 201(c)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act, is required to submit consolidated financial statements of the Borrower for the previous three years that have been audited by an independent certified public accountant, including any associated notes, as well as any interim financial statements and associated notes.
(9) A five year history and five year projection for revenue, cash flow, average realized prices and average realized production costs. If the loan funds are to be used to purchase substantial assets of an existing firm, a pro forma balance sheet at startup, and five years projected year end balance sheets and income statement at start-up;
(10) Documentation that credit is not otherwise available to the borrower under reasonable terms or conditions sufficient to meet its financial needs, as reflected in the financial or business plan of that company. The Lender must provide with its application those items required by § 500.200(b);
(11) Documentation sufficient to demonstrate that the Lender is eligible under § 500.201(a) and to allow the Board to make a determination to issue a Guarantee to such Lender as set forth in § 500.201(c).
(12) A report as to the Borrower's designation of the nature and value of project reserves from an independent petroleum engineer acceptable to the Board.
(c) No Guarantee will be made if either the Borrower or Lender has an outstanding, delinquent Federal debt until:
(1) The delinquent account has been paid in full;
(2) A negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment has been received; or
(3) Other arrangements, satisfactory to the agency responsible for collecting the debt, are made.
[64 FR 57947, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 72024, Dec. 23, 1999; 65 FR 6889, Feb. 11, 2000; 65 FR 24107, Apr. 25, 2000]
§ 500.206
Environmental requirements.
(a)(1)
In General.
Environmental assessments of the Board's actions will be conducted in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and Executive Orders. Therefore, each application for a Guarantee under the Program must be accompanied by information necessary for the Board to meet the requirements of applicable law.
(2)
Actions requiring compliance with NEPA.
(i) The types of actions classified as “major Federal actions” subject to NEPA procedures are discussed generally in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508.
(ii) With respect to this Program, these actions typically include:
(A) Any project, permanent or temporary, that will involve construction and/or installations;
(B) Any project, permanent or temporary, that will involve ground disturbing activities; and
(C) Any project supporting renovation, other than interior remodeling.
(3)
Environmental information required from the Lender.
(i) Environmental data or documentation concerning the use of the proceeds of any loan guaranteed
under this Program must be provided by the Lender to the Board to assist the Board in meeting its legal responsibilities. The Lender may obtain this information from the Borrower. Such information includes:
(A) Documentation for an environmental threshold review from qualified data sources, such as a Federal, State or local agency with expertise and experience in environmental protection, or other sources, qualified to provide reliable environmental information;
(B) Any previously prepared environmental reports or data relevant to the loan at issue;
(C) Any environmental review prepared by Federal, State, or local agencies relevant to the loan at issue;
(D) The information required for the completion of Form XYZ, “Environmental Assessment and Compliance Findings for Related Environmental Laws;” and
(E) Any other information that can be used by the Board to ensure compliance with environmental laws.
(ii) All information supplied by the Lender is subject to verification by the Board.
(b) The regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality implementing NEPA require the Board to provide public notice of the availability of project specific environmental documents such as environmental impact statements, environmental assessments, findings of no significant impact, records of decision etc., to the affected public. See 40 CFR 1506.6(b). Environmental information concerning specific projects can be obtained from the Board by contacting: Executive Director, Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230.
(c)
National Environmental Policy Act
—(1)
Purpose.
The purpose of this paragraph (c) is to adopt procedures for compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.,
by the Board. This paragraph supplements regulations at 40 CFR Chapter V.
(2)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
Categorical exclusion
means a category of actions which do not individually or cumulatively have a significant effect on the human environment and for which neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact statement is required.
Environmental assessment
means a document that briefly discusses the environmental consequences of a proposed action and alternatives prepared for the purposes set forth in 40 CFR 1508.9.
EIS
means an environmental impact statement prepared pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of NEPA.
FONSI
means a finding of no significant impact on the quality of the human environment after the completion of an environmental assessment.
NEPA
means the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321,
et seq.
Working Capital Loan
means money used by an ongoing business concern to fund its existing operations.
(3)
Delegations to Executive Director.
(i) All incoming correspondence from Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) and other agencies concerning matters related to NEPA, including draft and final EIS, shall be brought to the attention of the Executive Director. The Executive Director will prepare or, at his or her discretion, coordinate replies to such correspondence.
(ii) With respect to actions of the Board, the Executive Director will:
(A) Ensure preparation of all necessary environmental assessments and EISs;
(B) Maintain a list of actions for which environmental assessments are being prepared;
(C) Revise this list at regular intervals, and send the revisions to the Environmental Protection Agency;
(D) Make the list available for public inspection;
(E) Maintain a list of EISs; and
(F) Maintain a file of draft and final EISs.
(4)
Categorical exclusions.
(i) This paragraph describes various classes of Board actions that normally do not have a significant impact on the human environment and are categorically excluded. The word “normally” is stressed; there may be individual cases in which specific factors require contrary action.
(ii) Subject to the limitations in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, the actions described in this paragraph have been determined not to have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment. They are categorically excluded from the need to prepare an environmental assessment or an EIS under NEPA.
(A) Guarantees of working capital loans; and
(B) Guarantees of loans for the refinancing of outstanding indebtedness of the Borrower, regardless of the purpose for which the original indebtedness was incurred.
(iii) Actions listed in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section that otherwise are categorically excluded from NEPA review are not necessarily excluded from review if they would be located within, or in other cases, potentially affect:
(A) A floodplain;
(B) A wetland;
(C) Important farmlands, or prime forestlands or rangelands;
(D) A listed species or critical habitat for an endangered species;
(E) A property that is listed on or may be eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places;
(F) An area within an approved State Coastal Zone Management Program;
(G) A coastal barrier or a portion of a barrier within the Coastal Barrier Resources System;
(H) A river or portion of a river included in, or designated for, potential addition to the Wild and Scenic Rivers System;
(I) A sole source aquifer recharge area;
(J) A State water quality standard (including designated and/or existing beneficial uses and anti-degradation requirements); or
(K) The release or disposal of regulated substances above the levels set forth in a permit or license issued by an appropriate regulatory authority.
(5)
Responsibilities and procedures for preparation of an environmental assessment.
(i) The Executive Director will request that the Lender and Borrower provide information concerning all potentially significant environmental impacts of the Borrower's proposed project pursuant to 13 CFR 500.206. The Executive Director, consulting at his discretion with CEQ, will review the information provided by the Lender and Borrower. Though no specific format for an environmental assessment is prescribed, it shall be a separate document and should include the following in conformance with 40 CFR 1508.9:
(A)
Description of the environment.
The existing environmental conditions relevant to the Board's analysis determining the environmental impacts of the proposed project, should be described. The no action alternative also should be discussed;
(B)
Documentation.
Citations to information used to describe the existing environment and to assess environmental impacts should be clearly referenced and documented. Such references should include, as appropriate, but not be limited to, local, tribal, regional, State, and Federal agencies, as well as, public and private organizations and institutions;
(C)
Evaluating environmental consequences of proposed actions.
A brief discussion should be included of the need for the proposal, of alternatives as required by 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(E) and their environmental impacts. The discussion of the environmental impacts should include measures to mitigate adverse impacts and any irreversible or irretrievable commitments of resources to the proposed project.
(ii) The Executive Director, in preparing an environmental assessment, may:
(A) Tier upon the information contained in a previous EIS, as described in 40 CFR 1502.20;
(B) Incorporate by reference reasonably available material, as described in 40 CFR 1502.21; and/or
(C) Adopt a previously completed EIS reasonably related to the project for which the proceeds of the loan sought to be guaranteed under the Program will be used, as described in 40 CFR 1506.3.
(iii) Because of the statute's admonition to the Board to make its decisions as soon as possible after receiving applications, the Board will not:
(A) Publish notice of intent to prepare an environmental assessment, as described in 40 CFR 1501.7;
(B) Conduct scoping, as described in 40 CFR 1501.7; and
(C) Seek comments on the environmental assessment, as described in 40 CFR 1503.1.
(iv) If, on the basis of an environmental assessment, it is determined that an EIS is not required, a FONSI, as described in 40 CFR 1508.13 will be prepared. The FONSI will include the environmental assessment or a summary of it and be available to the public from the Board. The Executive Director shall maintain a record of these decisions, making them available to interested parties upon request. Requests should be directed to the Executive Director Emergency Oil and Gas Guarantee Loan Program, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington DC 20230. Prior to a final loan guarantee decision, a copy of the NEPA documentation shall be sent to their Board for consideration.
(6)
Responsibilities and procedures for preparation of an environmental impact statement.
(i) If after an environmental assessment has been completed, it is determined that an EIS is necessary, it and other related documentation will be prepared by the Executive Director in accordance with section 102(
2
)(c) of NEPA, this section, and 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508. The Executive Director may seek additional information from the applicant in preparing the EIS. Once the document is prepared, it shall be submitted to the Board. If the Board considers a document unsatisfactory, it shall be returned to the Executive Director for revision or supplementation prior to a loan guarantee decision; otherwise the Board will transmit the document to the Environmental Protection Agency.
(ii)(A) The following procedures, as discussed in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508, will be followed in preparing an EIS:
(
1
) The format and contents of the draft and final EIS shall be as discussed in 40 CFR 1502.
(
2
) The requirements of 40 CFR 1506.9 for filing of documents with the Environmental Protection Agency shall be followed.
(
3
) The Executive Director, consulting at his discretion with CEQ, shall examine carefully the basis on which supportive studies have been conducted to assure that such studies are objective and comprehensive in scope and depth.
(
4
) NEPA requires that the decision making “utilize a systematic, interdisciplinary approach that will ensure the integrated use of the natural and social sciences and the environmental design arts.” 42 U.S.C. 4332(A). If such disciplines are not present on the Board staff, appropriate use should be made of personnel of Federal, State, and local agencies, universities, non-profit organizations, or private industry.
(B) Until the Board issues a record of decision as provided in 40 CFR 1502.2 no action concerning the proposal shall be taken which would:
(
1
) Have an adverse environmental impact; or
(
2
) Limit the choice of reasonable alternatives.
(
3
) 40 CFR 1506.10 places certain limitations on the timing of Board decisions on taking “major Federal actions.” A loan guarantee shall not be make before the times set forth in 40 CFR 1506.10.
(iii) A public record of decision stating what the decision was; identifying alternatives that were considered, including the environmentally preferable one(s); discussing any national considerations that entered into the decision; and summarizing a monitoring and enforcement program if applicable for mitigating the environmental effects of a proposal; will be prepared. This record of decision will be prepared at the time the decision is made.
[64 FR 57947, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 72024, Dec. 23, 1999]
§ 500.207
Application evaluation.
(a)
Eligibility screening.
Applications will be reviewed to determine whether the Lender and Borrower are eligible, the information required under § 500.205(b) is complete, and the proposed loan complies with applicable statutes and regulations. The Board can at any time reject an application that does not meet these requirements.
(b)
Evaluation criteria.
Applications that are determined to be eligible pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section
shall be subject to a substantive review, on a competitive basis, by the Board based upon the following evaluation factors, in order of importance:
(1) The ability of the Borrower to repay the loan by the date specified in the Loan Document, which shall be no later than December 31, 2010;
(2) The adequacy of the proposed provisions to protect the Government, including sufficiency of Security, the priority of the lien position in the Security, and the percentage of Guarantee requested; and
(3) Adequacy of the underwriting analysis performed by the Lender in preparing the application and the ability of the Lender to administer the loan in full compliance with the requisite standard of care set forth in § 500.211(b).
(c)
Decisions by the Board.
Upon completion of the evaluation of the application and as soon as possible after the due date, the Board will approve or deny all eligible applications timely received under this Program. The Board shall notify all Applicants in writing of the approval or denial of the Guarantee applications as soon as possible. Approvals for loan Guarantees shall be conditioned upon compliance with § 500.208.
§ 500.208
Issuance of the Guarantee.
(a) The Board's decisions to approve any application for, and extend an offer of, guarantee under § 500.207 is conditioned upon:
(1) The Lender and Borrower obtaining any required regulatory or judicial approvals;
(2) The Lender and Borrower being legally authorized to enter into the loan under the terms and conditions submitted to the Board in the application;
(3) The Board's receipt of the Loan Documents, Guarantee, and any related instruments, properly executed by the Lender, Borrower, and any other required party other than the Board; and
(4) No material adverse change in the Borrower's ability to repay the loan between the date of the Board's approval and the date the Guarantee is to be issued.
(b) The Board may withdraw its approval of an application and rescind its offer of Guarantee if the Board determines that the Lender or the Borrower cannot, or is unwilling to, provide adequate documentation and proof of compliance with paragraph (a) of this section within the time provided for in the offer.
(c) Only after receipt of all the documentation, required by this section, will the Board sign and deliver the Guarantee.
(d) A Borrower receiving a loan guaranteed by the Board under this Program shall pay a one-time guarantee fee of 0.5 percent of the amount of the principal of the loan. This fee must be paid no later than one year from the issuance of the Guarantee.
§ 500.209
Funding for the Program.
The Act provides funding for the costs incurred by the Government as a result of granting Guarantees under the Program. While pursuing the goals of the Act, it is the intent of the Board to minimize the cost of the Program to the Government. The Board will estimate the risk posed by the guaranteed loans to the funds appropriated for the costs of the Guarantees under the Program and operate the Program accordingly.
§ 500.210
Assignment or transfer of loans.
(a) Neither the Loan Documents nor the Guarantee of the Board, or any interest therein, may be modified, assigned, conveyed, sold or otherwise transferred by the Lender, in whole or in part, without the prior written approval of the Board.
(b) Under no circumstances will the Board permit an assignment or transfer of less than 100 percent of a Lender's interest in the Loan Documents and Guarantee, nor will it permit an assignment or transfer to be made to a party which the Board determines not to be an Eligible Lender pursuant to § 500.201.
(c) The proscription under paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to:
(1) Transfers which occur by operation of law, unless a primary purpose of the transaction leading to such a transfer was to assign, convey or sell the loan note or Guarantee without the
necessity of securing the Board's prior written approval; or
(2) An action or agreement by the Lender which has the effect of distributing the risks of the credit among other Lenders if:
(i) Neither the loan note nor the Guarantee is assigned, conveyed, sold, or transferred in whole or in part;
(ii) Both the unguaranteed and guaranteed portions of the loan are treated in the same manner;
(iii) The Lender remains solely responsible for the administration of the loan; and
(iv) The Board's ability to assert any and all defenses available to it under the Guarantee and the law is not adversely affected; or
(3) Transfer by a non-Agent Lender of the non-guaranteed portion of the loan after payment under the Guarantee has been made.
[64 FR 57947, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 24107, Apr. 25, 2000]
§ 500.211
Lender responsibilities.
(a)
General.
Lender shall comply with all provisions of the Guarantee.
(b)
Standard of care.
The Lender shall exercise due care and diligence in administering the loan as would be exercised by a reasonable and prudent banking institution when administering a secured loan of such banking institution's own funds without a Federal guaranty. Such standard shall also apply to any and all approvals, determinations, permissions, acceptances, requirements, or opinion made, given, imposed or reached by Lender.
(c)
Representation to the Board.
In addition to any other representations required by the Guarantee, the Applicant shall represent to the Board that it has the ability to, and will, administer the loan, as well as to exercise the Applicant's rights and pursue its remedies, including conducting any liquidation of the Security or additional Security in full compliance with the standard of care, without the need for any advice, opinion, determination, recommendation, approval, disapproval, assistance (financial or other) or participation by the Board, except where the Board's consent is expressly required by the Guarantee, or where the Board, in its sole discretion and pursuant to the Guarantee, elects to provide same.
(d)
Covenants.
With respect to any loan guaranteed by the Board pursuant to the Act and this part, the Lender shall require the Loan Documents to contain such affirmative and negative covenants by the Borrower as are required by the terms and conditions of the Guarantee, such as the prohibition on the payment of dividends.
(e)
Monitoring.
In accordance with the Guarantee the Lender shall monitor Borrower's performance under the Loan Documents to detect any noncompliance by the Borrower with any provision thereof.
(f)
Reporting.
With respect to any loan guaranteed by the Board pursuant to the Act and this part the Lender shall provide the Board with the following information, in accordance with the Guarantee:
(1) Financial statements for the borrower, as provided in the Guarantee;
(2) Projected balance sheet, income statement, and cash flows for the Borrower for each year remaining on the term of the loan; and
(3) A completed signed copy of Form “Quarterly Compliance Statement” that includes information on the recent performance of the loan, within 15 days of the end of each calendar quarter.
(g)
Notices.
All written notices, requests, or demands made to the Board shall be mailed to the Board at the U.S. Department of Commerce, H2500, Washington, DC 20230, except as otherwise specified by the Guarantee or as directed by the Board. Lender shall notify the Board in writing without delay of:
(1) Deterioration in the internal risk rating of a loan guaranteed under this Program within 5 business days of such action by the Lender;
(2) The occurrence of each event of default under the Loan Documents or Guarantee promptly, but not later than 5 business days, of the Lender's learning of such occurrence; and
(3) Any other notification requirements as provided by law, or by the
terms of the Guarantee or Loan Documents.
[64 FR 57947, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 24107, Apr. 25, 2000; 65 FR 51522, Aug. 24, 2000]
§ 500.212
Liquidation.
(a) The Board may take, or direct to be taken, any action in liquidating the Security which the Board determines to be necessary or proper, consistent with Federal law and regulations.
(b) Pursuant to the Guarantee, upon written demand by the Lender and whether or not the Board has made any payment under the Guarantee, the Board, at the Board's sole option shall have the right to require that the Lender, solely or jointly with the Board, conduct to completion the liquidation of any or all of the Security. The Board may choose to conduct the liquidation itself.
§ 500.213
Termination of obligations.
(a) The Board, in its discretion, shall be entitled to terminate all, or a portion, of the Board's obligations under the Guarantee, without further cause, in the event that:
(1) The Guarantee fee required by § 500.208(d) shall not have been paid;
(2) A Lender shall have released or covenanted not to sue the Borrower or any other guarantor, or agreed to the modification of any obligation of any party to any agreement related to the loan, without the prior written consent of the Board;
(3) A Lender has released the Board from its liability and obligations under the Guarantee;
(4) A Lender shall have made any incorrect or incomplete representation to the Board in any material respect in connection with the Application, the Guarantee or the Loan Documents;
(5) A Lender fails to make a demand for payment within 30 days of payment default; or
(6) A Lender fails to comply with any material provision of the Loan Documents or the Guarantee.
(b) Upon receipt of a written demand for payment made pursuant to the Guarantee, the Board shall be entitled to seek such certifications from the Lender, undertake such audits or investigations, or take such other action as is provided for by law or the Guarantee so as to determine whether the Lender has complied with all of the Lender's obligations under the Guarantee.
[64 FR 57947, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 24107, Apr. 25, 2000]
§ 500.214
OMB control number. [Reserved]
PARTS 501-599 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
13 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
13 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
103 Authority citation revised
7647
103.1 (a) revised; (d) through (f) removed; (g) redesignated as new (d); interim
7647
(a) revised; (d) redesignated as (g); new (d) through (f) added; eff. 3-27-21
80587
103.4 (g) revised; interim
7647
(g) revised; eff. 3-27-21
80587
103.5 (b) revised; (c) amended
7647
(b) revised; (c) amended; eff. 3-27-21
80587
107.665 Amended
13727
109.20 Amended
75834
109.200 Removed
75834
109.210 Removed
75834
109.220 Removed
75834
109.440 Amended
75834
113 Policy statement
27287
119 Authority citation revised
62951
119.1 Revised
62951
119.2 Removed
62951
119.3 Removed
62951
119.4 Removed
62951
119.5 Removed
62951
119.6 Removed
62951
119.7 Removed
62951
119.8 Removed
62951
119.9 Removed
62951
119.10 Removed
62951
119.11 Removed
62951
119.12 Removed
62951
119.13 Removed
62951
119.14 Removed
62951
119.15 Removed
62951
119.16 Removed
62951
119.17 Removed
62951
119.18 Removed
62951
119.19 Removed
62951
119.20 Removed
62951
120 Authority citation revised
7647
120 Notification
18107, 36308, 39066
120 Policy statement
20811, 23450, 23917, 26321, 26324, 27287, 29842, 29845, 29847, 30835, 31357, 33004, 33010, 35550, 36717, 36997, 38301, 38304, 52881, 66214
120.10 Amended; interim
7647, 14780
Amended; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.101 Amended
14780
120.102 Added; interim
7647
Removed; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.130 (c) revised; interim
7648
(c) revised; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.180 Revised
14781
120.221 Heading and (a) revised; (b) amended; interim
7648
Heading and (a) revised; (b) amended; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.222 Amended; interim
7648
Amended; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.344 (b) amended; interim
7648
(b) revised; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.350 Revised; interim
7648
Revised; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.352 Revised; interim
7648
Revised; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.410 (a)(1) amended; eff. 1-4-21
78213
120.432 (a) amended; interim
7648
(a) amended; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.435 Revised; interim
21752
120.440 (c) revised; interim
7648
(c) revised; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.441—120.447 Undesignated center heading added; interim
7648
Undesignated center heading removed; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.441 Added; interim
7648
Removed; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.442 Added; interim
7648
Removed; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.443 Added; interim
7648
Removed; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.444 Added; interim
7648
Removed; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.445 Added; interim
7648
Removed; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.446 Added; interim
7648
Removed; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.447 Added; interim
7648
Removed; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.460 (c) and (d) added; eff. 1-4-21
78213
120.462 (a) through (e) redesignated as (b) through (f); new (a) added; nomenclature change; eff. 1-4-21
78213
120.465 (b) amended
13727
120.466 Added; eff. 1-4-21
78213
120.467 Added; eff. 1-4-21
78214
120.468 Added; eff. 1-4-21
78214
120.470 (g) removed; (h) redesignated as new (g); eff. 1-4-21
78215
120.471 (a) revised; (b)(3) through (5) redesignated as (b)(4) through (6); new (b)(3) added; eff. 1-4-21
78215
120.475 Removed; eff. 1-4-21
78215
120.707 (b) amended; interim
7651
(b) amended; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.712 (b)(1) revised; (d) amended; interim
7651
(b)(1) revised; (d) amended; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.840 (b) revised; interim
7651
(b) revised; eff. 3-27-21
80588
120.1000 Revised
14781
120.1010 Amended
14781
120.1015 (a) amended
14781
120.1025 Revised
14781
120.1050 (c) amended
14781
120.1051 Introductory text and (a) amended
14781
120.1055 (a) and (b) revised; (d) amended
14781
120.1060 Amended
14781
120.1300 Added
14781
120.1400 (b), (c)(6), (9), and (10) amended; (c)(11), (12), (d)(1)(iii), (iv), (3)(i), and (ii) revised
14782
120.1425 Heading, (a), (b), (c)(1), (2)(vii), and (viii) revised; (c) introductory text and (2)(i) amended; (c)(2)(ix), (x), and (3) through (7) added; (d) and (e) removed
14782
120.1500 Heading, introductory text, (a) heading, (b), (c) introductory text heading, (4), (d) introductory text heading, and (e) introductory text heading revised
14783
120.1540 Revised
14783
120.1600 Nomenclature change; heading, (a) introductory text, (3) heading, (4) heading, and (5) heading revised; (a)(1) through (4), (a)(1)(ii), (3)(iii), (b) heading, and (c) heading amended
14784
121 Authority citation revised
20821
121 Policy statement
23450, 29847, 30835, 35550
121.103 (b)(10) added; interim
20821
121.103 (h)(1) and (2) removed; (h)(3) through (5) redesignated as (h)(1) through (3); (b)(6), (9), (g), and new (h)(1)(ii) amended; (f)(2)(i) and (f)
Example 2
, (h) introductory text,
Examples 1, 2
, new (1) heading, and new (3) revised; new (h)(1)(iii) removed; new (h)(2)heading and (4) added
66178
(h)(1)(ii) correctly amended
72916
121.301 (f)(5) through (7) redesignated as (f)(7) through (9); new (f)(5) and new (6) added; (f)(4) and new (7) revised; interim
7651
(f)(5) and (6) removed; (f)(7) through (9) redesignated as (f)(5) through (7); (f)(4) and new (5) revised; eff. 3-27-21
80588
121.302 (a) and (b) revised; interim
7652
(a) and (b) revised; eff. 3-27-21
80589
121.402 (b)(2) amended; (c)(1)(i), (2)(i), and (e) revised
66180
121.404 (a)(2) heading, (c) heading, (e) heading, (f) heading, (g)(2)(iv), and (h) heading added; (e) and (g)(3) introductory text amended; (g)(2)(ii)(D) redesignated as (g)(2)(iii); (a) introductory text, (1), (b), (d), (g) introductory text, (2)(ii)(C), and new (iii) revised
66180
(a) heading added; (a)(2) heading added; (1), (d) correctly revised
72916
121.406 (a) introductory text amended
66182
121.603 (c)(3) added
66182
121.702 (c)(6) revised
66182
121.1001 (a)(1)(iii), (2)(iii), (3)(iv), (4)(iii), (6)(iv), (7)(iii), (8)(iv), (9)(iv), (b)(7), and (12) revised
66182
121.1004 (a)(2)(ii) revised; (a)(2)(iii) added
66182
121.1103 (c)(1)(i) revised
66183
121 Appendix A added
20821
123 Authority citation revised
12864
123.21 Amended
12864
123.400—123.412 (Subpart E) Removed
12864
123.600—123.606 (Subpart G) Removed
12864
124.3 Amended
66183
124.104 (c)(2) introductory text, (ii), (3)(i), and (4) amended
27660
124.105 (g), (i)(2), and (4) revised
66183
124.109 Heading, (c)(3)(ii), (6)(iii), and (7)(ii) revised; (a)(7), (c)(3)(iv), and (4)(iii)(C) added
66184
124.110 Heading and (e) revised
66184
124.111 Heading and (d) revised; (c)(3) added
66184
124.112 (d)(5) revised; (e)(2)(iv) redesignated as (e)(2)(v); new (e)(2)(iv) added
66185
124.203 Amended
66185
124.204 (a) amended
66185
124.205 Revised
66185
124.206 (b) removed; (c) and (d) redesignated as new (b) and (c)
66185
124.207 Revised
66185
124.300 Redesignated from 124.301
66186
124.301 Redesignated as 124.300; new section added
66186
124.304 (d) heading revised; (d) amended
66186
124.305 (a), (d) introductory text, (3), (h)(1) introductory text, (ii), and (iv) revised; (h)(6) redesignated as (h)(7); (h)(1)(v) and new (h)(6) added
66186
124.402 (b) revised
66186
124.405 (a)(1) amended; (a)(2), (b)(3), (c) heading, (1) introductory text, (d) heading, (1), and (f) revised; (b)(6) added
69124
124.501 (g) through (i) redesignated as (h) through (j); new (g) and (k) added; new (h) revised
66186
124.503 (e) through (j) redesignated as (f) through (k); new (e) added; new (g), (h) introductory text, new (i)(1)(iii), new (2)(ii), and new (iv) revised; (a)(1), new (h)(1) through (4), and new (i)(1)(iv) amended
66187
124.504 Heading, (b), (d) heading, (1) introductory text, and (4) revised; (c) introductory text and (1)(ii)(C) amended; (c)(4) added
66188
124.505 (a)(2) amended; (a)(3) redesignated as (a)(4); new (a)(3) added
66189
124.507 (b)(3) and (c)(1) removed; (b)(4) through (6), (c)(2), and (3) redesignated as (b)(3) through (5), (c)(1), and (2); (b)(2) and new (c)(1) revised; (d)(3) added
66189
124.509 (a)(1) and (2) amended; (b)(2) table, (d), and (e) revised
66189
124.513 (c)(2), (4), and (e) revised; (c)(5) amended
66190
124.514 (b) revised
66191
124.515 (d) revised
66191
124.516 Removed
27292
124.518 (c) revised
66191
124.519 (a) revised; (c) removed; (b) redesignated as new (c); new (b) added
66191
124.520 Revised
66191
124.521 (e)(1) amended
66191
124.1001 Revised
27292
124.1002—124.1016 Removed
27293
124.1015 (f)(2) amended
27660
125 Authority citation revised
69124, 70051
125.2 (e)(6)(i) revised; (g) added
66191
125.3 (b)(2) and (c)(1)(viii) amended; (c)(1)(ix) revised
66192
125.5 (a)(1), (g), (h), and (i) amended; (f)(2) and (3) redesignated as (f)(3) and (4); new (f)(2) added
66192
125.6 (a) introductory text, (2)(ii)(B), (2)
Examples 2
,
3
, and
4
, and (b) introductory text revised; (b)
Example 3
added
66192
125.8 (b)(2)(ii), (iv), (xi), (xii), (e), and (h)(2) revised; (b)(2)(v) and (c)(1) amended; (c)(4) added
66193
125.9 (b), (c)(1)(ii), (2) introductory text, (d)(1) introductory text, (iii) introductory text, (B), (e)(1)(i), (5), (f), (g) introductory text, (4), and (h)(1) introductory text revised; (c)(4) removed; (e)(1) introductory text amended; (e)(6) through (8) redesignated as (e)(7) through (9); (d)(6), new (e)(6), and (g)(5) added
66194
125.15 Removed
70051
125.16 Removed
70051
125.18 (e)(2) amended
27660
125.18 (a), (b)(2)(ii), and (iv) revised; (b)(1)(ii), (2) introductory text, (v), and (3)(i) amended; (d)(1) through (4) redesignated as (d)(2) through (5); new (d)(1) added
66196
125.19 Removed
70051
125.20 Removed
70051
125.28 Heading revised; (d)(1) amended
66196
125.100 (Subpart F) Added
69124
126.500 (b) introductory text amended
66197
126.601 (h)(1)(i) and (ii) correctly amended
5304
(i) correctly redesignated as (d); new (d) heading and (e) through (h) correctly removed
5304
126.602 (c) amended
66197
126.606 Revised
66197
126.616 (a) and (c)(5) amended; (c)(2) and (4) revised
66197
126.618 (a) amended
66197
126.619 (a)(3) and (4) correctly amended
5304
(b) introductory text amended
27660
126.801 (d)(1) amended
66197
127.200 (c) and (d) added
27660
127.203 (b)(3) amended
27660
127.300—127.356 (Subpart C) Undesignated center heading added
27660
127.300 Revised
27660
127.301 Revised
27661
127.302 Revised
27661
127.303 Revised
27661
127.304 Revised
27661
127.305 Revised
27661
127.350 Undesignated center heading and section added
27662
127.351 Added
27662
127.352 Added
27662
127.353 Added
27662
127.354 Added
27662
127.355 Added; eff. date delayed indefinitely
27662
127.356 Added
27662
127.400 Revised
27663
127.401 Revised
27663
127.402 Revised
27664
127.403 Revised
27664
127.404 Revised
27664
127.405 Revised
27664
127.503 (h)(2) amended
27664
(h) removed
66197
127.504 (a) revised; (b) and (c) redesignated as (c) and (d); new (b) added
27664
Revised
66197
127.505 Removed
27665
127.506 (c)(2) and (4) revised; (c)(5) amended
66199
127.603 (d) amended
27665
Heading revised; (c)(1) amended
66199
127.604 (f)(4) revised
27665
129 Authority citation revised
69125
129 Heading revised
69125
129.100—129.104 (Subpart A) Designated as Subpart A
69125
129.101 Redesignated from 129.200
69125
129.102 Redesignated from 129.300
69125
129.103 Redesignated from 129.400
69125
129.104 Redesignated from 129.500
69125
129.200—129.201 (Subpart B) Added
69125
129.200 Redesignated as 129.101
69125
129.300—129.301 (Subpart C) Added
69125
129.300 Redesignated as 129.102
69125
129.400 Redesignated as 129.103
69125
129.500 Redesignated as 129.104
69125
134 Authority citation revised
14784, 52887
134.102 (d) added
14784
(u) and (v) amended; (w) added; interim
52887
134.205 (c) revised
14784
134.317 Removed
63193
134.318 (a) heading added; (b) revised
66199
134.714 Amended
63193
134.1201—134.1217 (Subpart L) Added; interim
52887
142.1 (b) amended
13727
146.400 Amended
13727
Chapter III
302.4 Removed
8379
302.5 Removed
8379
302.11 Removed
8379
302.14 Removed
8379
315 Authority citation revised
8379
315.1 Revised
8379
315.2 Introductory text revised; section amended
8379
315.4 Removed
8380
315.4—315.5 (Subpart B) Revised
8380
315.5 Removed
8380
315.4—315.5 (Subpart B) Revised
8380
315.6 Removed
8380
315.6—315.10 (Subpart C) Revised
8380
315.11—315.12 (Subpart D) Revised
8380
315.13—315.14 (Subpart E) Revised
8380
315.15 (Subpart F) Added
8380
2021
13 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
107.665 Amended
52957
113 Policy statement
3692
120 Policy statement
3692, 3712, 8283, 13149, 15083, 40921
120 Authority citation revised
40778
120.465 (b) amended
52957
120.882 (g)(15) redesignated as (g)(16); new (g)(15) added; (g)(3), (11) revised; new (g)(16) heading removed; (e) introductory text, new (g)(16) amended; interim
40779
120.1500 (b)(2) amended
52957
121 Policy statement
3692, 3712, 15083
121.103 (h)(1)(i) correctly amended
2958
(h) introductory text correctly amended
10732
121.301 (g) added; interim
50218
121.404 (a) introductory text correctly added
2959
(d) correctly revised
10732
(a)(1)(iv) correctly added; (g) introductory text, and (4) correctly amended
38538
123 Authority citation revised
50219
123.13 (e) amended; (f) revised; interim
50219
123.300 (e) added; interim
50219
123.303 (a) amended; (b)(2) revised; interim
50219
123.304 Added; interim
50219
124 Authority citation revised
2532
Authority citation revised; eff. 2-7-22
61672
124.2 Revised; interim
2532
124.404 (a) amended; interim
2533
124.501 (k) introductory text correctly revised
2959
124.502 (c)(17) revised; eff. 2-7-22
61672
124.506 (a)(2)(ii) amended; (b)(5) revised; eff. 2-7-22
61672
124.509 (b)(2) revised; (d)(4) amended; interim
2533
(b)(3) correctly amended
38538
124.513 (a)(1), (f) through (h), and (j) correctly revised; (a)(2) amended
2959
125 Authority citation revised; eff. 2-7-22
61672
125.3 (c)(1) introductory text and (1)(x) amended; eff. 2-7-22
61672
125.11 Correction: Amended
10733
125.12 (i)(1)(ii) and (2)(iii) revised; (i)(2)(iv) added; eff. 2-7-22
61672
125.18 (b)(5) correctly revised
2959
125.23 (b)(1) amended; eff. 2-7-22
61672
126 Authority citation revised; eff. 2-7-22
61672
126.103 Amended
23864
126.200 (f) amended; eff. 2-7-22
61673
126.612 (b)(2) amended; eff. 2-7-22
61673
126.616 (f) correctly revised
2959
126.700 (b)(1) amended; eff. 2-7-22
61673
127.400 (b)(1) correctly revised
2960
127.503 (c)(2) and (d)(2) amended; eff. 2-7-22
61673
127.504 (g)(1) correctly amended
10732
127.506 (f) correctly revised
2960
134 Authority citation revised
51595
134.1201—134.1214 (Subpart L) Revised
51595
142.1 (b) amended
52957
146 Authority citation revised
52957
146.400 Amended
52957
Chapter III
300.3 Amended
52959
2022
13 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
107.665 Amended
28758
115 Authority citation revised
48083
115.10 Amended
48083
115.12 (e)(3) revised
48083
115.14 (a)(3) amended
48084
115.19 (f)(2)(i) revised
48084
115.30 (d)(2)(i), (ii)(D), and (E) amended
48084
115.32 (d)(2) and (3) amended
48084
115.33 (d)(1) and (2) amended
48084
115.64 Amended
48084
115.67 Amended
48084
120 Notification
25398, 46883
120 Authority citation revised
37982
120.10 Amended
38908
120.103 Removed
38908
120.110 (h) and (n) revised; (k) removed
38908
120.111 Introductory text amended
38908
120.173 Removed
38908
120.212 (b) revised
38908
120.214 Introductory text, (c), and (d) revised; (e) removed; (f) redesignated as new (e)
38908
120.215 Removed
38908
120.220 (a)(3) amended
38908
120.222 Amended
38908
120.350 Revised
38908
120.352 Revised
38908
120.370 Removed
38909
120.380 Removed
38909
120.381 Removed
38909
120.382 Removed
38909
120.383 Removed
38909
120.420 (b) removed; (c) through (k) redesignated as new (b) through (j)
38909
120.432 (a) amended
38909
120.453 Removed
38909
120.465 (b) amended
28758
120.470 (d)(1) amended
38909
120.532 Removed
38909
120.540 (g) amended
38909
120.542 (d) and (e) amended
38909
120.701 (g) removed; (h) redesignated as new (g)
38909
120.706 (a) amended
38909
120.707 (b) amended
38909
120.712 (b)(1) revised; (d) amended
38909
120.714 Removed
38909
120.715 Removed
38909
120.800 Removed
38909
120.812 (a)(2) revised; (d) amended
38909
120.840 (b) revised
38909
120.842 Added; interim
37982
120.845 (c)(1) amended
38909
120.850 Undesignated center heading and section removed
38909
120.862 (b)(9) and (10) amended; (b)(11) through (13) added
38909
120.1400 (a)(1) and (2) amended
38909
120.1500 (c)(3) and (e)(3) amended; (c)(3)(i), (ii) added
38910
120.1500 (b)(2) amended
28758
121 Notification
25398
121 Authority citation revised
35882, 59285, 73412
121.103 (h) heading revised and introductory text correctly amended
381
121.103 (h)(1)(ii) amended
73412
121.104 (c) revised
34120
121.106 (b)(1) and (3) revised
34120
121.201 Table amended; footnote 17, 20, and 19 redesignated as footnote 1, 15, and 17; new footnote 1 and 2 revised
18624
121.201 Table amended; footnote 10 revised
18643
121.201 Table amended
18661, 18692, 35882, 59286
121.201 Table amended; footnotes 8 and 15 revised
59286
121.201 Table amended; footnote 9 revised
69142
121.301 (c)(2) amended
69154
121.404 (d) amended
73412
121.502 (a)(2) amended
69154
121.512 (b) amended
69154
121.903 (a)(1)(i) revised
34120
123.17 Amended
38910
124.104 (c)(2) introductory text, (3)(i), and (4) amended
69154
124.519 (a) amended
69154
125 Authority citation revised
73412
125.1 Amended
50927, 73412
125.3 (c)(1)(ix), (x), and (xi) amended; (c)(1)(xii) added
43739
125.6 (a) introductory text and (f)(1)(v) amended
73412
125.9 (b)(3)(ii) amended; (d)(6) introductory text revised
50927
125.11 Redesignated as 125.12; new section added
43739
125.12 Redesignated as 125.13; new section redesignated from 125.11
43739
125.12 (Subpart A) Removed
73412
125.13—125.15 (Subpart B) Removed
73412
125.13 Redesignated as 125.14; new section redesignated from 125.12
43739
125.14 Redesignated as 125.15; new section redesignated from 125.13
43739
125.15 Redesignated from 125.14
43739
125.17—125.26 (Subpart C) Removed
73412
125.27—125.31 (Subpart D) Removed
73412
125.28 (a) amended
43740
125.29 (a) amended
43740
125.30 (g)(4) amended
43740
125.32—125.33 (Subpart E) Removed
73412
125.100 (Subpart F) Removed
73412
127.203 (b)(1), (c)(3)(i), and (4) amended
69154
127.355 Regulation at 85 FR 27662 eff. date 1-20-22
3421
128 Added
73412
129 Heading revised
50927
129.300—129.301 (Subpart C) Heading revised
50927
129.300 Amended
50927
129.301 Heading, (a), (b)(1), and (c)(1) introductory text revised; (f) redesignated as (e)
50927
134 Authority citation revised
73425
134.102 (q) removed; (u) and (v) revised
73425
134.201 (b)(3) removed; (b)(8) and (9) revised
73425
134.501—134.515 (Subpart E) Removed
73425
134.1001—134.1013 (Subpart J) Revised
73425
134.1101—134.1112 (Subpart K) Revised
73425
142.1 (b) amended
28758
146 Authority citation revised
28758
146.400 Nomenclature change
28758
2023
13 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
107 Notification
55913
107 Authority citation revised
46005
107.25 Added
46005
107.50 Amended
46005
107.150 Heading, (b)(1), (2), and (c)(2) revised; (a) heading, introductory text, and (c)(1) amended
46007
107.210 (a) introductory text amended; (a)(1) introductory text revised; (a)(2) removed; (a)(3) redesignated as new (a)(2)
46007
107.300 Revised
46007
107.305 (a) through (c) revised; (d) heading and (e) added
46008
107.320 Revised
46009
107.501 Revised
46009
107.503 (a) and (b)(2) amended; (d)(1) and (4) revised
46009
107.504 Revised
46009
107.550 Revised
46009
107.570 Removed
46009
107.585 Undesignated center heading and section revised
46009
107.590 (c) introductory text amended
46010
107.620 (b)(2) through (4) redesignated as (b)(3) through (5); new (b)(2) added
46010
107.630 (a) introductory text and (d) amended; (e) added
46011
107.640 Revised
46011
107.650 Revised
46011
107.660 (a) revised
46011
107.665 Amended
50004
107.720 (a)(2) and (i)(1) revised
46011
107.730 (a)(1) and (d)(3)(iii) revised; (d)(3)(iv) removed
46011
107.810 Revised
46011
107.830 (c)(2) revised
46012
107.1000 Heading and introductory text revised
46012
107.1120 (c)(1) revised
46012
107.1130 Heading and (d)(1) revised
46012
107.1150 Heading, (a), and (b) revised; introductory text amended
46012
107.1220 Revised
46012
107.1540 (a) and (b) removed
46012
107.1800—107.1850 (Subpart J) Heading revised
46012
107.1830 (e) revised
46012
107.1840 (a), (b) introductory text, (c) heading, (1), and (d)(6) revised
46013
107.1845 (a) introductory text revised
46013
107.1850 Revised
46013
115.10 Amended
24473
115.30 (d) revised
24473
115.32 (b) and (d)(1) revised
24473
120 Authority citation revised
70585
120 Notification
32623, 69003, 69529
120.10 Amended
21899
120.120 Introductory text amended
21899
120.130 (a) and (g) revised
21085
120.150 Revised
21085
120.160 (c) amended
21085
120.192 Amended
21899
120.193 Amended
21085
120.193 Correction: Amended
24474
120.202 Revised
21086
120.220 Introductory text and (e) amended
21899
120.465 (b) amended
50005
120.466 (a)(6) revised
21899
120.470 Introductory text, (a) introductory text, (b), and (e) revised
21899
120.471 (a)(4) and (5) added
21899
120.801 (a) amended
21899
120.820 (g) added
21900
120.842 (b)(4) and (5) amended
21900
120.882 (g)(3) and (15) revised; (g)(16) amended
70585
120.883 (e) revised
70586
120.921 (a) amended
21900
120.960 (c)(1) revised
21900
120.971 (a)(1) revised
21900
120.1500 (b)(2) amended
50005
121 Notification
55913
121 Authority citation revised
21086, 26199, 46014
121.103
Example 2
to (h) introductory text amended; (h)(1) through (4) redesignated as (h)(2) through (h)(5); new (h)(1) and (i) added;(h) introductory text, new (h)(3) and new (4) revised
26199
121.103 (b)(5)(vi) revised
46014
121.201 Table amended
10001
121.201 Regulation at 87 FR 69142 confirmed
46055
121.301 Introductory text added; (f) revised
21086
121.301 Regulation at 87 FR 69154 confirmed
46055
121.401 Amended
26200
121.404 (a)(1)(i)(B), (ii)(B), and (1)(iv) revised; (d), (g)(2)(i), (iii), and (5) amended; (g)(6) added
26200
121.406 (c) revised
26201
121.411 (c) revised
26201
121.413 Removed
26201
121.502 Regulation at 87 FR 69154 confirmed
46055
121.506 (a) through (e) redesignated as (b) and (d) through (g); new (a) and new (c) added
26201
121.507 (d) and (e) added
26201
121.512 Regulation at 87 FR 69154 confirmed
46055
121.702 (c)(7) amended; (c)(11) added
26201
121.1001 (a)(6)(i), (8)(i), (9)(i), (b)(2)(ii) introductory text, (A), and (C) revised
26202
121.1004 (a)(1) revised; (a)(2)(iii) amended; (f) and (g) added
26202
121.1009 (a)(2) and (3) redesignated as (a)(3) and (4); new (a)(2) added; (a)(1), new (4), and new (g)(5) revised
26202
121.1203 (d) redesignated as (g); new (d), (e), and (f) added
26203
121.1204 (b)(1)(iii) amended; (b)(2) and (3) redesignated as (b)(3) and (4); (b)(1)(i), (ii), and new (b)(4) revised; new (b)(2) and (5) added
26203
121.1205 Amended
26204
123 Authority citation revised
24109
123.3 (a) introductory text revised; (a)(6) and (7) added
24109
123.4 Revised
24109
123.7 Amended
39340
123.11 (b) revised
39340
123.13 (d) amended
39340
123.105 (a) and (c) revised; (d) added
39340
123.106 (b) revised
39341
123.107 Amended
39341
123.202 (c) introductory text revised; (d) removed; (e) redesignated as new (d)
39341
123.203 (b) revised
39341
123.301 (c) removed
39341
123.500 (b) and (c) revised
24109
123.501 (a) and (c) revised
24109
123.502 (j) removed
39341
123.503 Amended
24110
123.504 (a) and (f) amended
24110
123.505 Heading and section amended
24110
123.506 Amended
24110
123.507 (b) revised
24109
123.511 Amended
24110
124.3 Amended
26204
124.102 (c) revised
26204
124.103 (c)(2)(i) amended
26204
124.104 (c)(2)(ii) amended; (c)(2)(iii) removed; (c)(2)(iv) redesignated as new (c)(2)(iii)
26204
124.104 Regulation at 87 FR 69154 confirmed
46055
124.105 (h)(2) and (i)(1) revised; (i)(2) amended
26204
124.107 Introductory text revised
26204
124.108 (e) amended
26204
124.109 (c)(6)(i) revised; (c)(1) amended
26204
124.110 (e) through (h) redesignated as (f) through (i); (d)(3) and new (e) added
26205
124.111 (d) amended
26205
124.204 (a) revised
26205
124.302 (b) removed; (c) and (d) redesignated as new (b) and (c)
26205
124.303 (a)(15) amended
26205
124.304 (b) revised; (f)(3) amended
26205
124.402 (b) amended
26205
124.403 (a) and (c)(1) amended
26205
124.501 (b), (g) introductory text, and (k) introductory text revised; (h) amended; (k)(4) and (5) redesignated as (k)(7) and (8); new (k)(4), new (5), (6), and (9) added
26206
124.502 (a) revised
26206
124.503 (a) introductory text, (4)(ii), (5), (i)(1)(iv), and (2)(ii) revised; (i)(1)(ii) amended
26206
124.504 (d)(1) introductory text amended; (d)(3) revised
26207
124.506 (b)(3) revised; (d) amended
26208
124.509 (c)(1) revised; (d)(1)(i) and (ii) added
26208
124.509 Correction: (c)(1) revised
28985
124.513 (a)(3) and (4) added
26208
124.515 (a)(1) and (c) revised; (d) amended
26208
124.519 Regulation at 87 FR 69154 confirmed
46055
124.521 (e)(2) revised
26209
124.603 Amended
26209
124.1002 Added
26209
125 Authority citation revised
26209, 70343
125.1 Amended
26209
125.2 (d)(2)(ii) amended; (d)(3)(i) revised
26210
125.3 (a)(1)(i)(B), (c)(1)(iv), and (2) revised; (a)(1)(iii), (c)(1)(i), (viii), and (x) amended
26210
125.3 (a) introductory text and (c)(1)(xi) amended; (a)(1)(i)(C) revised; (c)(1)(xii) redesignated as (c)(1)(xiii); new (c)(1)(xii) added
70343
125.4 (c)(5) revised
70343
125.6 (c) and (d) introductory text amended; (e), (f), and (g) redesignated as (f), (g), and (h); new (e) added
26210
125.8 (a), (b)(2)(ii)(A), and (vii) amended; (b)(2) introductory text and (h)(2) revised
26211
125.8 (b)(2)(iv) revised
70343
125.9 (b)(3)(ii) revised; (e)(1)(ii) and (iii) redesignated as (e)(1)(iii) and (iv); new (e)(1)(ii) and (e)(6)(iv) added
26211
126 Authority citation revised
21088
126.103 Amended
21088
126.200 (b) revised
26212
126.203 Removed
26212
126.306 (b)(1) and (2) added
26212
126.309 Amended
21088
126.503 (a)(2) revised; (c) and (d) added
26212
126.601 (d) revised; (e) added
26212
126.609 Added
26212
126.616 (a) revised
26212
126.618 (c)(2) amended
26213
126.801 (b), (d) introductory text, (1), (2), and (e) revised
26213
126.803 (e) introductory text revised; (e)(1)(ii)(B), (iii), (2)(ii), and (3) amended
21088
126.805 Revised
21089
127.102 Amended
26214
127.200 (a)(1) and (b)(1) revised
26214
127.201 (b) amended
26214
127.202 (c) revised
26214
127.203 Regulation at 87 FR 69154 confirmed
46055
127.304 (c)(1), (2), (g)(1), and (2) added
26214
127.400 Revised
26214
127.405 (c) redesignated as (f); new (c), (d), and (e) added
26215
127.503 (e) through (g) redesignated as (f) through (h); new (e) added
26215
127.504 (g)(1) amended; (g)(2) revised; (g)(3) added
26215
127.506 (a)(3) added
26215
127.603 (c)(2) amended; (d) revised
26215
128.102 Correction: Amended
42592
128.201 (b) removed; (c) redesignated as new (b)
26216
128.203 (i) amended
26216
128.302 (d)(1), (2), (f)(1), and (2) added
26216
128.302 Correction: (c) amended
42592
128.310 (d) and (e) redesignated as (e) and (f); new (d) added
26216
128.401 (g)(2) revised; (g)(3) added
26216
128.401 Correction: (a) revised
42593
128.402 (a)(3) revised
26216
128.402 Correction: (c)(7) amended; (d)(2) introductory text, (e)(2)(i)(B), (i)(2), and (j)(1) through (3) revised
42593
128.404 (d) revised
26216
128.500 (d) added
26216
130 Authority citation revised
76639
130.100 Revised
76639
130.110 Amended
76639
130.200 (a) designation, introductory text heading, and (b) removed; (1) through (6) redesignated as (a) through (d), (h), and (g); (e) and (f) added; new (g) amended; new (h) revised
76642
130.300 Revised
76642
130.310 Revised
76642
130.320 Removed; redesignated from 130.330; (b) amended; (d) and (e) redesignated as (g) and (h); new (d), new (e), and (f) added; (a), (c), new (g), and new (h) revised;
76642
130.330 Redesignated as 130.320; new section redesignated from 130.340
76642
130.330 (a), (b)(2) through (5), and (c) revised; (b)(1) amended; (d) added
76643
130.340 Revised
76643
130.340 Redesignated as 130.330; new section redesignated from 130.350 and revised
76643
130.350 Redesignated as 130.340; new section redesignated from 130.360
76642
130.350 Redesignated from 130.360; (a)(1) and (3) amended; (a)(2), (4), (6), and (b)(1) revised; (b)(3) through (5) added
76643
130.360 Redesignated as 130.350
76642
130.360 Added
76644
130.370 Added
76644
130.380 Added
76644
130.400 Revised
76645
130.410 Revised
76645
130.420 Revised
76645
130.430 Revised
76645
130.440 Revised
76645
130.450 (a) and (b) amended; (c) through (e) revised; (f) through (h) added
76645
130.460 Revised
76646
130.465 Added
76647
130.470 Revised
76647
130.480 Revised
76647
130.490 Added
76647
130.500 Revised
76647
130.600 Revised
76647
130.610 Amended
76647
130.620 Revised
76647
130.630 Revised
76648
130.700 Revised
76648
130.800 Revised
76650
130.810 Revised
76650
130.820 Revised
76651
130.825 Added
76651
130.830 Revised
76652
130.840 Added
76652
134 Authority citation revised
21089, 42593
134.102 (v) and (w) amended; (x) added
21089
134.201 (b)(9) amended; (b)(10) redesignated as (b)(11); new (b)(10) added
21089
134.1005 Correction: (a)(2) amended
42593
134.1007 Correction: (j)(1) and (2) revised
42593
134.1301—134.1316 (Subpart M) Added
21089
142.1 (b) amended
50005
146 Authority citation revised
50005
146.400 Amended
50005
2024
13 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
107 Notification
18341
107.50 Amended
3547
107.150 (b)(2) revised
3547
107.150 Correction: (b)(2) introductory text revised
5421
107.230 (e) heading and (f) added
3547
107.305 (b) amended; (e)(1)(iii) revised
3547
107.503 (d)(4) revised
3547
107.585 (b) and (c)(4) amended; (c) introductory text, (1), (2) introductory text, and (i) revised
3548
107.630 (a) introductory text and (b) amended
3548
107.650 Revised
3548
107.665 Amended
48134
107.720 (a)(2)(i), (b)(2) introductory text, and (3) introductory text amended; (b)(4)(iii) revised
3548
107.740 Revised
3548
107.855 (h)(2) revised
3548
107.1120 (d) revised
3548
107.1130 (d)(1) introductory text revised
3549
107.1850 (a)(6) revised
3549
109.15 Added
34101
109.400 (b)(15) revised
34101
115.3 Added
34101
115.10 Amended
11712
115.12 (e)(3) revised
11712
115.13 (a)(2)(i) revised
34101
120 Notification
57353, 65174, 68090
120.4 Added
34101
120.110 (n) revised
34101
120.465 (b) amended
48134
120.701 Revised
35689
120.706 (a) revised
35690
120.707 (a) revised
34101
120.712 (a) and (c) revised
35690
120.802 Amended; eff. 1-17-25
102701
120.842 (a) revised; (d) removed; eff. 1-17-25
102701
120.882 (e)(1), (5), (g)(3)(iii), and (6) revised; (g)(10) removed; (g)(16) amended
79740
120.953 (c) revised; eff. 1-17-25
102701
120.1500 (b)(2) amended
48134
121 Notification
18341, 74109
121.103 (b)(1) revised
3549
121.103 (a)(3), (h)(3) introductory text, and (i) revised; (h)(3)(v) added; eff. 1-16-25
102485
121.104 (a)(1) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102485
121.301 (a) introductory text, (b) introductory text, (2) introductory text, and (e) introductory text revised
11712
121.404 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102485
121.702 (c)(7) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102486
121.1001 (a)(10) through (12) and (b)(2)(iii) added; eff. 1-16-25
102486
121.1010 (b) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102487
123.2 Revised; eff. 1-21-25
91538
123.3 Revised; eff. 1-21-25
91538
123.4 Revised; eff. 1-21-25
91538
123.11 (a)(1), (2), and (c) revised
59831
123.22 Added
34102
123.101 (i) revised
34102
123.104 Revised
59831
123.502 (c) revised
34102
123.503 Revised; eff. 1-21-25
91539
123.507 (c) revised
59831
123.702 (c)(1) revised; (c)(2) removed; (c)(3) through (5) redesignated as new (c)(2) through (4)
34102
124.3 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102487
124.4 Removed; eff. 1-16-25
102487
124.102 (a)(1) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102487
124.105 (b), (f)(1), (h)(2), (i)(2), and (k) revised; (h)(1) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102487
124.106 (a)(3) and (4) revised; (a)(5) redesignated as (a)(6); new (a)(5) added; eff. 1-3-25
96092
124.106 (d)(3) removed; (d)(4), (5), and (h) redesignated as new (d)(3), (4), and (i); (e)(3) revised; (f) amended; new (h) added; eff. 1-16-25
102488
124.107 Introductory text amended; (a) revised; (e) removed; (f) redesignated as new (e); eff. 1-16-25
102488
124.108 (a)(1) removed; (a)(2) through (5) redesignated as new (a)(1) through (4); new (a)(3) and (e) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102489
124.203 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102489
124.204 (d) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102489
124.207 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102489
124.303 (c) added; eff. 1-16-25
102489
124.503 (g)(1)(iii) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102489
124.504 (a) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102489
124.509 (d)(1)(ii) redesignated as (d)(1)(iii); new (d)(1)(ii) added; eff. 1-16-25
102489
124.514 (a)(1) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102490
124.518 Heading and (c) revised; (d) added; eff. 1-16-25
102490
124.602 (a)(1), (2), (b)(1), and (c) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102490
124.603 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102490
124.604 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102491
125 Policy statement
62653
125.1 Correction: Amended
21432
125.1 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102491
125.2 (c)(6) and (e)(7) redesignated as (c)(7) and (e)(8); new (c)(6) and new (e)(7) added; eff. 1-16-25
102491
125.3 (a)(4) and (b)(4) added; (d)(1) and (2) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102491
125.6 (d) introductory text and (3) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102491
125.8 (e) and (f) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102491
125.9 (b)(3) introductory text amended; (e)(6) through (9) redesignated as (c)(4) and (e)(6) through (8); (b) introductory text, (2), (c)(2), new (4)(iii), and new (iv) revised; (b)(4), (c)(5), and (d)(1)(iv) added; eff. 1-16-25
102492
125.12 Added; eff. 1-16-25
102493
125.13 Added; eff. 1-16-25
102495
126.100 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102495
126.102 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102495
126.103 Amended; eff. 1-3-25
96093
126.103 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102495
126.104 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102497
126.105 Added; eff. 1-16-25
102498
126.200 (b)(1), (c)(1), (d)(1), (3), and (e) through (g) revised; (c)(2) heading and (d)(2) heading added; eff. 1-16-25
102498
126.201 Heading revised; introductory text amended; eff. 1-16-25
102499
126.202 Heading and section amended; eff. 1-16-25
102499
126.204 (a) and (c)(3) revised; (c) introductory text amended; (c)(4) added; eff. 1-16-25
102499
126.302 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102500
126.303 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102500
126.304 (e) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102500
126.306 (d) revised; (g) amended; (h) added; eff. 1-16-25
102500
126.308 (b) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102500
126.309 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102500
126.401 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102500
126.403 (a) and (b) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102500
126.404 (b) and (c) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102500
126.500 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102501
126.501 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102501
126.502 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102501
126.503 (a) and (c) revised; (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) added; new (e) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102501
126.504 (a)(3) redesignated as (a)(4); new (a)(3) added; (a)(2) and new (4) amended; (c) removed; eff. 1-16-25
102502
126.600 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102502
126.601 (a), (b)(1), and (e) revised; (f) added; eff. 1-16-25
102502
126.602 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102502
126.603 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102503
126.604 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102503
126.605 Introductory text amended; eff. 1-16-25
102503
126.607 Heading, (b)(1), (2), and (c)(1) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102503
126.612 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102503
126.613 (a) revised; (b) heading, (c) heading, (d) heading, and (e) added; eff. 1-16-25
102503
126.615 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102504
126.616 (a)(1) and (e)(1)(i) revised; (l) added; eff. 1-16-25
102504
126.619 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102504
126.700—126.702 (Subpart G) Heading revised; eff. 1-16-25
102504
126.701 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102504
126.800 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102504
126.801 (b), (c), and (d) introductory text revised; eff. 1-16-25
102504
126.803 (c) through (e) redesignated as (d) through (f); new (c) added; (a) and new (f)(3) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102505
126.900 (a), (b) introductory text, (1) through (3), (c), (d), and (e)(1) amended; (e)(4) added; eff. 1-16-25
102505
127.102 Amended; eff. 1-3-25
96093
127.200 (a)(2) and (b)(2) revised; (d) redesignated as (f); new (d) and (e) added; eff. 1-16-25
102505
127.201 (b) revised; (g) added; eff. 1-16-25
102506
127.202 (c) revised; eff. 1-3-25
96093
127.202 (d) and (g) revised; (h) added; eff. 1-16-25
102506
127.300 Heading, (a)(2), (b)(3), and (c) revised; eff. 1-3-25
96093
127.301 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102507
127.302 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102507
127.303 (a)(2) removed; (a)(1)(iii) and (3) redesignated as (a)(1)(iv) and new (2); new (a)(1)(iii) added; eff. 1-3-25
96093
127.304 (a) revised; eff. 1-3-25
96093
127.304 (d) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102507
127.305 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102507
127.356 (c) revised; eff. 1-3-25
96094
127.400 (c) added
16446
127.400 (b) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102507
127.405 (d) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102507
127.504 (a) introductory text amended; eff. 1-3-25
96094
127.504 (a) and (h) revised; (d)(1) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102507
127.604 (f)(5) added; eff. 1-3-25
96094
127.701 Removed; eff. 1-3-25
96094
128 Policy statement
62653
128.100 Amended; eff. 1-16-25
102508
128.200 (a)(2) and (b)(2) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102508
128.201 (b) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102508
128.202 (c) revised; (g)(1) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102508
128.203 (i) revised; eff. 1-3-25
96094
128.203 (f), (j)(4), and (5) amended; (g), (h), and (j)(1) revised; (j)(6) and (7) added; eff. 1-16-25
102508
128.204 (a) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102509
128.301 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102509
128.302 (a) amended; (d) introductory text removed; eff. 1-16-25
102509
128.305 Revised; eff. 1-16-25
102509
128.306 (a) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102509
128.309 (a) through (c) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102509
128.310 (d) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102509
128.401 (a) and (e) revised; (d)(1)(i) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102509
128.402 (a) introductory text amended; (k) added; eff. 1-16-25
102510
128.500 (d)(3) and (e) added; eff. 1-3-25
96094
128.500 (c) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102510
130.110 Correction: Amended
17717
130.380 Correction: (a)(2) revised
17717
130.450 Correction: (g)(3) amended
17717
134.1002 (b) revised; eff. 1-3-25
96094
134.1003 (e)(1) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102510
134.1104 (a) amended; eff. 1-16-25
102510
142.1 (b) amended
48134
146.400 Amended
48134
○
