(C) Specify the process for how the swing factor(s) shall be determined, which must include: The establishment of an upper limit on the swing factor(s) used, which may not exceed two percent of net asset value per share; and the determination that the factor(s) used are reasonable in relationship to the costs discussed in this paragraph. In determining the swing factor(s) and the upper limit, the person(s) responsible for administering swing pricing may take into account only the near-term costs expected to be incurred by the fund as a result of net purchases or net redemptions that occur on the day the swing factor(s) is used, including spread costs, transaction fees and charges arising from asset purchases or asset sales resulting from those purchases or redemptions, and borrowing-related costs associated with satisfying redemptions.
(ii) The fund's board of directors, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the fund must:
(A) Approve the fund's swing pricing policies and procedures;
(B) Approve the fund's swing threshold(s) and the upper limit on the swing factor(s) used, and any changes to the swing threshold(s) or the upper limit on the swing factor(s) used;
(C) Designate the fund's investment adviser, officer, or officers responsible for administering the swing pricing policies and procedures (“person(s) responsible for administering swing pricing”). The administration of swing pricing must be reasonably segregated from portfolio management of the fund and may not include portfolio managers; and
(D) Review, no less frequently than annually, a written report prepared by the person(s) responsible for administering swing pricing that describes:
(
1
) Its review of the adequacy of the fund's swing pricing policies and procedures and the effectiveness of their implementation, including the impact on mitigating dilution;
(2)
Any material changes to the fund's swing pricing policies and procedures since the date of the last report; and
(
3
) Its review and assessment of the fund's swing threshold(s), swing factor(s), and swing factor upper limit considering the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B) and (C) of this section, including the information and data supporting the determination of the swing threshold(s), swing factor(s), and swing factor upper limit.
(iii) The fund shall maintain the policies and procedures adopted by the fund under this paragraph (a)(3) that are in effect, or at any time within the past six years were in effect, in an easily accessible place, and shall maintain a written copy of the report provided to the board under paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(C) of this section for six years, the first two in an easily accessible place.
(iv) Any fund (a “feeder fund”) that invests, pursuant to section 12(d)(1)(E) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(E)), in another fund (a “master fund”) may not use swing pricing to adjust the feeder fund's net asset value per share; however, a master fund may use swing pricing to adjust the master fund's net asset value per share, pursuant to the requirements set forth in this paragraph (a)(3).
(v) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(3):
(A)
Exchange-traded fund
means an open-end management investment company (or series or class thereof), the shares of which are listed and traded on a national securities exchange, and that has formed and operates under an exemptive order under the Act granted by the Commission or in reliance on an exemptive rule adopted by the Commission.
(B)
Swing factor
means the amount, expressed as a percentage of the fund's net asset value and determined pursuant to the fund's swing pricing policies and procedures, by which a fund adjusts its net asset value per share once a fund's applicable swing threshold has been exceeded.
(C)
Swing pricing
means the process of adjusting a fund's current net asset value per share to mitigate dilution of the value of its outstanding redeemable securities as a result of shareholder purchase and redemption activity, pursuant to the requirements set forth in this paragraph (a)(3).
(D)
Swing threshold
means an amount of net purchases or net redemptions, expressed as a percentage of the fund's net asset value, that triggers the application of swing pricing.
(E)
Transaction fees and charges
means brokerage commissions, custody fees, and any other charges, fees, and taxes associated with portfolio asset purchases and sales.
(b) For the purposes of this section,
(1) The current net asset value of any such security shall be computed no less frequently than once daily, Monday through Friday, at the specific time or times during the day that the board of directors of the investment company sets, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, except on:
(i) Days on which changes in the value of the investment company's portfolio securities will not materially affect the current net asset value of the investment company's redeemable securities;
(ii) Days during which no security is tendered for redemption and no order to purchase or sell such security is received by the investment company; or
(iii) Customary national business holidays described or listed in the prospectus and local and regional business holidays listed in the prospectus; and
(2) A “qualified evaluator” shall mean any evaluator which represents it is in a position to determine, on the basis of an informal evaluation of the eligible trust securities held in the Trust's portfolio, whether—
(i) The current bid price is higher than the offering side evaluation, computed on the last business day of the previous week, and
(ii) The offering side evaluation, computed as of the last business day of the previous week, is more than one-half of one percent ($5.00 on a unit representing $1,000 principal amount of eligible trust securities) greater than the current offering price.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions above, any registered separate account offering variable annuity contracts, any person designated in such account's prospectus as authorized to
consummate transactions in such contracts, and any principal underwriter of or dealer in such contracts shall be permitted to apply the initial purchase payment for any such contract at a price based on the current net asset value of such contract which is next computed:
(1) Not later than two business days after receipt of the order to purchase by the insurance company sponsoring the separate account (“insurer”), if the contract application and other information necessary for processing the order to purchase (collectively, “application”) are complete upon receipt; or
(2) Not later than two business days after an application which is incomplete upon receipt by the insurer is made complete,
Provided,
That, if an incomplete application is not made complete within five business days after receipt,
(i) The prospective purchaser shall be informed of the reasons for the delay, and
(ii) The initial purchase payment shall be returned immediately and in full, unless the prospective purchaser specifically consents to the insurer retaining the purchase payment until the application is made complete.
(3) As used in this section:
(i)
Prospective Purchaser
shall mean either an individual contractowner or an individual participant in a group contract.
(ii)
Initial Purchase Payment
shall refer to the first purchase payment submitted to the insurer by, or on behalf of, a prospective purchaser.
(d) The board of directors shall initially set the time or times during the day that the current net asset value shall be computed, and shall make and approve such changes as the board deems necessary.
(Secs. 6(c), 22(c) and 38(a), 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c), 80a-22(c) and 80a-37(a))
[44 FR 29647, May 22, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 48660, Aug. 20, 1979; 45 FR 12409, Feb. 26, 1980; 50 FR 7911, Feb. 27, 1985; 50 FR 24763, June 13, 1985; 50 FR 42682, Oct. 22, 1985; 58 FR 49922, Sept. 24, 1993; 81 FR 82137, Nov. 18, 2016; 87 FR 22446, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 270.22c-2
Redemption fees for redeemable securities.
(a)
Redemption fee.
It is unlawful for any fund issuing redeemable securities, its principal underwriter, or any dealer in such securities, to redeem a redeemable security issued by the fund within seven calendar days after the security was purchased, unless it complies with the following requirements:
(1)
Board determination.
The fund's board of directors, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the fund, must either:
(i) Approve a redemption fee, in an amount (but no more than two percent of the value of shares redeemed) and on shares redeemed within a time period (but no less than seven calendar days), that in its judgment is necessary or appropriate to recoup for the fund the costs it may incur as a result of those redemptions or to otherwise eliminate or reduce so far as practicable any dilution of the value of the outstanding securities issued by the fund, the proceeds of which fee will be retained by the fund; or
(ii) Determine that imposition of a redemption fee is either not necessary or not appropriate.
(2)
Shareholder information.
With respect to each financial intermediary that submits orders, itself or through its agent, to purchase or redeem shares directly to the fund, its principal underwriter or transfer agent, or to a registered clearing agency, the fund (or on the fund's behalf, the principal underwriter or transfer agent) must either:
(i) Enter into a shareholder information agreement with the financial intermediary (or its agent); or
(ii) Prohibit the financial intermediary from purchasing in nominee name on behalf of other persons, securities issued by the fund. For purposes of this paragraph, “purchasing” does not include the automatic reinvestment of dividends.
(3)
Recordkeeping.
The fund must maintain a copy of the written agreement under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section that is in effect, or at any time within the past six years was in effect, in an easily accessible place.
(b)
Excepted funds.
The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to the following funds, unless
they elect to impose a redemption fee pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
(1) Money market funds;
(2) Any fund that issues securities that are listed on a national securities exchange; and
(3) Any fund that affirmatively permits short-term trading of its securities, if its prospectus clearly and prominently discloses that the fund permits short-term trading of its securities and that such trading may result in additional costs for the fund.
(c)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1)
Financial intermediary
means:
(i) Any broker, dealer, bank, or other person that holds securities issued by the fund, in nominee name;
(ii) A unit investment trust or fund that invests in the fund in reliance on section 12(d)(1)(E) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(E)); and
(iii) In the case of a participant-directed employee benefit plan that owns the securities issued by the fund, a retirement plan's administrator under section 3(16)(A) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(16)(A)) or any person that maintains the plan's participant records.
(iv)
Financial intermediary
does not include any person that the fund treats as an individual investor with respect to the fund's policies established for the purpose of eliminating or reducing any dilution of the value of the outstanding securities issued by the fund.
(2)
Fund
means an open-end management investment company that is registered or required to register under section 8 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), and includes a separate series of such an investment company.
(3)
Money market fund
means an open-end management investment company that is registered under the Act and is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7.
(4)
Shareholder
includes a beneficial owner of securities held in nominee name, a participant in a participant-directed employee benefit plan, and a holder of interests in a fund or unit investment trust that has invested in the fund in reliance on section 12(d)(1)(E) of the Act. A shareholder does not include a fund investing pursuant to section 12(d)(1)(G) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(G)), a trust established pursuant to section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 529), or a holder of an interest in such a trust.
(5)
Shareholder information agreement
means a written agreement under which a financial intermediary agrees to:
(i) Provide, promptly upon request by a fund, the Taxpayer Identification Number (or in the case of non U.S. shareholders, if the Taxpayer Identification Number is unavailable, the International Taxpayer Identification Number or other government issued identifier) of all shareholders who have purchased, redeemed, transferred, or exchanged fund shares held through an account with the financial intermediary, and the amount and dates of such shareholder purchases, redemptions, transfers, and exchanges;
(ii) Execute any instructions from the fund to restrict or prohibit further purchases or exchanges of fund shares by a shareholder who has been identified by the fund as having engaged in transactions of fund shares (directly or indirectly through the intermediary's account) that violate policies established by the fund for the purpose of eliminating or reducing any dilution of the value of the outstanding securities issued by the fund; and
(iii) Use best efforts to determine, promptly upon request of the fund, whether any specific person about whom it has received the identification and transaction information set forth in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, is itself a financial intermediary (“indirect intermediary”) and, upon further request by the fund:
(A) Provide (or arrange to have provided) the identification and transaction information set forth in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section regarding shareholders who hold an account with an indirect intermediary; or
(B) Restrict or prohibit the indirect intermediary from purchasing, in nominee name on behalf of other persons, securities issued by the fund.
[71 FR 58272, Oct. 3, 2006]
§ 270.22d-1
Exemption from section 22(d) to permit sales of redeemable securities at prices which reflect sales loads set pursuant to a schedule.
A registered investment company that is the issuer of redeemable securities, a principal underwriter of such securities or a dealer therein shall be exempt from the provisions of section 22(d) to the extent necessary to permit the sale of such securities at prices that reflect scheduled variations in, or elimination of, the sales load. These price schedules may offer such variations in or elimination of the sales load to particular classes of investors or transactions,
Provided,
That:
(a) The company, the principal underwriter and dealers in the company's shares apply any scheduled variation uniformly to all offerees in the class specified;
(b) The company furnishes to existing shareholders and prospective investors adequate information concerning any scheduled variation, as prescribed in applicable registration statement form requirements;
(c) Before making any new sales load variation available to purchasers of the company's shares, the company revises its prospectus and statement of additional information to describe that new variation; and
(d) The company advises existing shareholders of any new sales load variation within one year of the date when that variation is first made available to purchasers of the company's shares.
(Secs. 6(c) (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c)) and 38(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-37(a)))
[50 FR 7911, Feb. 27, 1985]
§ 270.22d-2
Exemption from section 22(d) for certain registered separate accounts.
A registered separate account, any principal underwriter for such account, any dealer in contracts or units of interest or participations in such contracts issued by such account and any insurance company maintaining such account shall, with respect to any variable annuity contracts, units, or participations therein issued by such account, be exempted from section 22(d) to the extent necessary to permit the sale of such contracts, units or participations by such persons at prices which reflect variations in the sales load or in any administrative charge or other deductions from the purchase payments;
Provided, however,
That (a) the prospectus discloses as precisely as possible the amount of the variations and the circumstances, if any, in which such variations shall be available or describes the basis for such variations and the manner in which entitlement shall be determined, and (b) any such variations reflect differences in costs or services and are not unfairly discriminatory against any person.
(Secs. 6(c) (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c)) and 38(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-37(a)))
[40 FR 33970, Aug. 13, 1975. Redesignated at 50 FR 7911, Feb. 27, 1985]
§ 270.22e-1
Exemption from section 22(e) of the Act during annuity payment period of variable annuity contracts participating in certain registered separate accounts.
(a) A registered separate account, shall during the annuity payment period of variable annuity contracts participating in such account, be exempt from the provisions of section 22(e) of the Act prohibiting the suspension of the right of redemption or postponement of the date of payment or satisfaction upon redemption of any redeemable security, with respect to such contracts under which payments are being made based upon life contingencies.
(Sec. 6, 54 Stat. 800; 15 U.S.C. 80a-6)
[34 FR 12696, Aug. 5, 1969]
§ 270.22e-2
Pricing of redemption requests in accordance with Rule 22c-1.
An investment company shall not be deemed to have suspended the right of redemption if it prices a redemption request by computing the net asset value of the investment company's redeemable securities in accordance with the provisions of Rule 22c-1.
[50 FR 24764, June 13, 1985]
§ 270.22e-3
Exemption for liquidation of money market funds.
(a)
Exemption.
A registered open-end management investment company or
series thereof (“fund”) that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7 is exempt from the requirements of section 22(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(e)) if:
(1) The fund, at the end of a business day, has invested less than ten percent of its total assets in weekly liquid assets or, in the case of a fund that is a government money market fund, as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(14) or a retail money market fund, as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(21), the fund's price per share as computed for the purpose of distribution, redemption and repurchase, rounded to the nearest one percent, has deviated from the stable price established by the board of directors or the fund's board of directors, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the fund, determines that such a deviation is likely to occur;
(2) The fund's board of directors, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the fund, irrevocably has approved the liquidation of the fund; and
(3) The fund, prior to suspending redemptions, notifies the Commission of its decision to liquidate and suspend redemptions by electronic mail directed to the attention of the Director of the Division of Investment Management or the Director's designee.
(b)
Conduits.
Any registered investment company, or series thereof, that owns, pursuant to section 12(d)(1)(E) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(E)), shares of a money market fund that has suspended redemptions of shares pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section also is exempt from the requirements of section 22(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(e)). A registered investment company relying on the exemption provided in this paragraph must promptly notify the Commission that it has suspended redemptions in reliance on this section. Notification under this paragraph shall be made by electronic mail directed to the attention of the Director of the Division of Investment Management or the Director's designee.
(c)
Commission Orders.
For the protection of shareholders, the Commission may issue an order to rescind or modify the exemption provided by this section, after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing in accordance with section 40 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-39).
(d)
Definitions.
Each of the terms
business day, total assets,
and
weekly liquid assets
has the same meaning as defined in § 270.2a-7.
[75 FR 10117, Mar. 4, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 47967, Aug. 14, 2014; 87 FR 22446, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 270.22e-4
Liquidity risk management programs.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Acquisition (or acquire)
means any purchase or subsequent rollover.
(2)
Business day
means any day, other than Saturday, Sunday, or any customary business holiday.
(3)
Convertible to cash
means the ability to be sold, with the sale settled.
(4)
Exchange-traded fund
or
ETF
means an open-end management investment company (or series or class thereof), the shares of which are listed and traded on a national securities exchange, and that has formed and operates under an exemptive order under the Act granted by the Commission or in reliance on an exemptive rule adopted by the Commission.
(5)
Fund
means an open-end management investment company that is registered or required to register under section 8 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8) and includes a separate series of such an investment company, but does not include a registered open-end management investment company that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7 or an In-Kind ETF.
(6)
Highly liquid investment
means any cash held by a fund and any investment that the fund reasonably expects to be convertible into cash in current market conditions in three business days or less without the conversion to cash significantly changing the market value of the investment, as determined pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(7)
Highly liquid investment minimum
means the percentage of the fund's net assets that the fund invests in highly liquid investments that are assets pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(8)
Illiquid investment
means any investment that the fund reasonably expects cannot be sold or disposed of in current market conditions in seven calendar days or less without the sale or disposition significantly changing the market value of the investment, as determined pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(9)
In-Kind Exchange Traded Fund
or
In-Kind ETF
means an ETF that meets redemptions through in-kind transfers of securities, positions, and assets other than a
de minimis
amount of cash and that publishes its portfolio holdings daily.
(10)
Less liquid investment
means any investment that the fund reasonably expects to be able to sell or dispose of in current market conditions in seven calendar days or less without the sale or disposition significantly changing the market value of the investment, as determined pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, but where the sale or disposition is reasonably expected to settle in more than seven calendar days.
(11)
Liquidity risk
means the risk that the fund could not meet requests to redeem shares issued by the fund without significant dilution of remaining investors' interests in the fund.
(12)
Moderately liquid investment
means any investment that the fund reasonably expects to be convertible into cash in current market conditions in more than three calendar days but in seven calendar days or less, without the conversion to cash significantly changing the market value of the investment, as determined pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(13)
Person(s) designated to administer the program
means the fund or In-Kind ETF's investment adviser, officer, or officers (which may not be solely portfolio managers of the fund or In-Kind ETF) responsible for administering the program and its policies and procedures pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(14)
Unit Investment Trust
or
UIT
means a unit investment trust as defined in section 4(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-4).
(b)
Liquidity Risk Management Program.
Each fund and In-Kind ETF must adopt and implement a written liquidity risk management program (“program”) that is reasonably designed to assess and manage its liquidity risk.
(1)
Required program elements.
The program must include policies and procedures reasonably designed to incorporate the following elements:
(i)
Assessment, management, and periodic review of liquidity risk.
Each fund and In-Kind ETF must assess, manage, and periodically review (with such review occurring no less frequently than annually) its liquidity risk, which must include consideration of the following factors, as applicable:
(A) The fund or In-Kind ETF's investment strategy and liquidity of portfolio investments during both normal and reasonably foreseeable stressed conditions, including whether the investment strategy is appropriate for an open-end fund, the extent to which the strategy involves a relatively concentrated portfolio or large positions in particular issuers, and the use of borrowings for investment purposes and derivatives;
(B) Short-term and long-term cash flow projections during both normal and reasonably foreseeable stressed conditions;
(C) Holdings of cash and cash equivalents, as well as borrowing arrangements and other funding sources; and
(D) For an ETF:
(
1
) The relationship between the ETF's portfolio liquidity and the way in which, and the prices and spreads at which, ETF shares trade, including, the efficiency of the arbitrage function and the level of active participation by market participants (including authorized participants); and
(
2
) The effect of the composition of baskets on the overall liquidity of the ETF's portfolio.
(ii)
Classification.
Each fund must, using information obtained after reasonable inquiry and taking into account relevant market, trading, and investment-specific considerations, classify each of the fund's portfolio investments (including each of the fund's derivatives transactions) as a highly liquid investment, moderately liquid investment, less liquid investment, or illiquid investment. A fund must review
its portfolio investments' classifications, at least monthly in connection with reporting the liquidity classification for each portfolio investment on Form N-PORT in accordance with § 270.30b1-9, and more frequently if changes in relevant market, trading, and investment-specific considerations are reasonably expected to materially affect one or more of its investments' classifications.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(1)(
ii

# )introductory text:
If an investment could be viewed as either a highly liquid investment or a moderately liquid investment, because the period to convert the investment to cash depends on the calendar or business day convention used, a fund should classify the investment as a highly liquid investment. For a discussion of considerations that may be relevant in classifying the liquidity of the fund's portfolio investments, see Investment Company Act Release No. IC-32315 (Oct. 13, 2016).
(A) The fund may generally classify and review its portfolio investments (including the fund's derivatives transactions) according to their asset class, provided, however, that the fund must separately classify and review any investment within an asset class if the fund or its adviser has information about any market, trading, or investment-specific considerations that are reasonably expected to significantly affect the liquidity characteristics of that investment as compared to the fund's other portfolio holdings within that asset class.
(B) In classifying and reviewing its portfolio investments or asset classes (as applicable), the fund must determine whether trading varying portions of a position in a particular portfolio investment or asset class, in sizes that the fund would reasonably anticipate trading, is reasonably expected to significantly affect its liquidity, and if so, the fund must take this determination into account when classifying the liquidity of that investment or asset class.
(C) For derivatives transactions that the fund has classified as moderately liquid investments, less liquid investments, and illiquid investments, identify the percentage of the fund's highly liquid investments that it has pledged as margin or collateral in connection with derivatives transactions in each of these classification categories.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(1)(
ii

# )(C):
For purposes of calculating these percentages, a fund that has pledged highly liquid investments and non-highly liquid investments as margin or collateral in connection with derivatives transactions classified as moderately liquid, less liquid, or illiquid investments first should apply pledged assets that are highly liquid investments in connection with these transactions, unless it has specifically identified non-highly liquid investments as margin or collateral in connection with such derivatives transactions.
(iii)
Highly liquid investment minimum.
(A) Any fund that does not primarily hold assets that are highly liquid investments must:
(
1
) Determine a highly liquid investment minimum, considering the factors specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, as applicable (but considering those factors specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) and (B) only as they apply during normal conditions, and during stressed conditions only to the extent they are reasonably foreseeable during the period until the next review of the highly liquid investment minimum). The highly liquid investment minimum determined pursuant to this paragraph may not be changed during any period of time that a fund's assets that are highly liquid investments are below the determined minimum without approval from the fund's board of directors, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the fund;
(
2
) Periodically review, no less frequently than annually, the highly liquid investment minimum; and
(
3
) Adopt and implement policies and procedures for responding to a shortfall of the fund's highly liquid investments below its highly liquid investment minimum, which must include requiring the person(s) designated to administer the program to report to the fund's board of directors no later than its next regularly scheduled meeting with a brief explanation of the causes of the shortfall, the extent of the shortfall, and any actions taken in response, and if the shortfall lasts more than 7 consecutive calendar days, must include requiring the person(s) designated to administer the program to report to the board within one business day thereafter with an explanation of
how the fund plans to restore its minimum within a reasonable period of time.
(B) For purposes of determining whether a fund primarily holds assets that are highly liquid investments, a fund must exclude from its calculations the percentage of the fund's assets that are highly liquid investments that it has pledged as margin or collateral in connection with derivatives transactions that the fund has classified as moderately liquid investments, less liquid investments, and illiquid investments, as determined pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section.
(iv)
Illiquid investments.
No fund or In-Kind ETF may acquire any illiquid investment if, immediately after the acquisition, the fund or In-Kind ETF would have invested more than 15% of its net assets in illiquid investments that are assets. If a fund or In-Kind ETF holds more than 15% of its net assets in illiquid investments that are assets:
(A) It must cause the person(s) designated to administer the program to report such an occurrence to the fund's or In-Kind ETF's board of directors within one business day of the occurrence, with an explanation of the extent and causes of the occurrence, and how the fund or In-Kind ETF plans to bring its illiquid investments that are assets to or below 15% of its net assets within a reasonable period of time; and
(B) If the amount of the fund's or In-Kind ETF's illiquid investments that are assets is still above 15% of its net assets 30 days from the occurrence (and at each consecutive 30 day period thereafter), the fund or In-Kind ETF's board of directors, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the fund or In-Kind ETF, must assess whether the plan presented to it pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(A) continues to be in the best interest of the fund or In-Kind ETF.
(v)
Redemptions in Kind.
A fund that engages in, or reserves the right to engage in, redemptions in kind and any In-Kind ETF must establish policies and procedures regarding how and when it will engage in such redemptions in kind.
(2)
Board oversight.
A fund or In-Kind ETF's board of directors, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the fund or In-Kind ETF, must:
(i) Initially approve the liquidity risk management program;
(ii) Approve the designation of the person(s) designated to administer the program; and
(iii) Review, no less frequently than annually, a written report prepared by the person(s) designated to administer the program that addresses the operation of the program and assesses its adequacy and effectiveness of implementation, including, if applicable, the operation of the highly liquid investment minimum, and any material changes to the program.
(3)
Recordkeeping.
The fund or In-Kind ETF must maintain:
(i) A written copy of the program and any associated policies and procedures adopted pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(2) of this section that are in effect, or at any time within the past five years were in effect, in an easily accessible place;
(ii) Copies of any materials provided to the board of directors in connection with its approval under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, and materials provided to the board of directors under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, for at least five years after the end of the fiscal year in which the documents were provided, the first two years in an easily accessible place; and
(iii) If applicable, a written record of the policies and procedures related to how the highly liquid investment minimum, and any adjustments thereto, were determined, including assessment of the factors incorporated in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) through (B) of this section and any materials provided to the board pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A)(
3
) of this section, for a period of not less than five years (the first two years in an easily accessible place) following the determination of, and each change to, the highly liquid investment minimum.
(c)
UIT liquidity.
On or before the date of initial deposit of portfolio securities into a registered UIT, the UIT's principal underwriter or depositor must determine that the portion of the illiquid investments that the UIT holds or will hold at the date of deposit that
are assets is consistent with the redeemable nature of the securities it issues, and must maintain a record of that determination for the life of the UIT and for five years thereafter.
[81 FR 82264, Nov. 18, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 83295, Dec. 21, 2020]
§ 270.23c-1
Repurchase of securities by closed-end companies.
(a) A registered closed-end company may purchase for cash a security of which it is the issuer, subject to the following conditions:
(1) If the security is a stock entitled to cumulative dividends, such dividends are not in arrears.
(2) If the security is a stock not entitled to cumulative dividends, at least 90 percent of the net income of the issuer for the last preceding fiscal year, determined in accordance with good accounting practice and not including profits or losses realized from the sale of securities or other properties, was distributed to its shareholders during such fiscal year or within 60 days after the close of such fiscal year.
(3) If the security to be purchased is junior to any class of outstanding security of the issuer representing indebtedness (except notes or other evidences of indebtedness held by a bank or other person, the issuance of which did not involve a public offering) all securities of such class shall have an asset coverage of at least 300 percent immediately after such purchase; and if the security to be purchased is junior to any class of outstanding senior security of the issuer which is a stock, all securities of such class shall have an asset coverage of at least 200 percent immediately after such purchase, and shall not be in arrears as to dividends.
(4) The seller of the security is not to the knowledge of the issuer an affiliated person of the issuer.
(5) Payment of the purchase price is accompanied or preceded by a written confirmation of the purchase.
(6) The purchase is made at a price not above the market value, if any, or the asset value of such security, whichever is lower, at the time of such purchase.
(7) The issuer discloses to the seller or, if the seller is acting through a broker, to the seller's broker, either prior to or at the time of purchase the approximate or estimated asset coverage per unit of the security to be purchased.
(8) No brokerage commission is paid by the issuer to any affiliated person of the issuer in connection with the purchase.
(9) The purchase is not made in a manner or on a basis which discriminates unfairly against any holders of the class of securities purchased.
(10) If the security is a stock, the issuer has, within the preceding six months, informed stockholders of its intention to purchase stock of such class by letter or report addressed to all the stockholders of such class.
(11) The issuer files with the Commission, as an exhibit to Form N-CSR (§ 249.331 and § 274.128), a copy of any written solicitation to purchase securities under this section sent or given during the period covered by the report by or on behalf of the issuer to 10 or more persons.
(b) Notwithstanding the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section, a closed-end company may purchase fractional interests in, or fractional rights to receive, any security of which it is the issuer.
(c) This rule does not apply to purchase of securities made pursuant to section 23(c)(1) or (2) of the Act (54 Stat. 825; 15 U.S.C. 80a-23). A registered closed-end company may file an application with the Commission for an order under section 23(c)(3) of the Act permitting the purchase of any security of which it is the issuer which does not meet the conditions of this rule and which is not to be made pursuant to section 23(c)(1) or (2) of the Act.
(d) This rule relates exclusively to the requirements of section 23(c) of the Act, and the provisions hereof shall not be construed to authorize any action which contravenes any other applicable law, statutory or otherwise, or the provision of any indenture or other instrument pursuant to which securities of the issuer were issued.
[Rule N-23C-1, 7 FR 10424, Dec. 15, 1942, as amended at 68 FR 64975, Nov. 17, 2003]

# Cross Reference:
For interpretative release applicable to § 270.23c-1, see No. 78 in tabulation, part 271 of this chapter.
§ 270.23c-2
Call and redemption of securities issued by registered closed-end companies.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 270.23c-1 (Rule N-23c-1), a registered closed-end investment company may call or redeem any securities of which it is the issuer, in accordance with the terms of such securities or the charter, indenture or other instrument pursuant to which such securities were issued:
Provided,
That, if less than all the outstanding securities of a class or series are to be called or redeemed the call or redemption shall be made by lot, on a pro rata basis, or in such other manner as will not discriminate unfairly against any holder of the securities of such class or series.
(b) A registered closed-end investment company which proposes to call or redeem any securities of which it is the issuer shall file with the Commission notice of its intention to call or redeem such securities at least 30 days prior to the date set for the call or redemption;
Provided, however,
That if notice of the call or the redemption is required to be published in a newspaper or otherwise, notice shall be given to the Commission at least 10 days in advance of the date of publication. Such notice shall be filed in triplicate and shall include (1) the title of the class of securities to be called or redeemed, (2) the date on which the securities are to be called or redeemed, (3) the applicable provisions of the governing instrument pursuant to which the securities are to be called or redeemed and, (4) if less than all the outstanding securities of a class or series are to be called or redeemed, the principal amount or number of shares and the basis upon which the securities to be called or redeemed are to be selected.
[Rule N-23C-2, 7 FR 6669, Aug. 25, 1942]
§ 270.23c-3
Repurchase offers by closed-end companies.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Periodic interval
shall mean an interval of three, six, or twelve months.
(2)
Repurchase offer
shall mean an offer pursuant to this section by an investment company to repurchase common stock of which it is the issuer.
(3)
Repurchase offer amount
shall mean the amount of common stock that is the subject of a repurchase offer, expressed as a percentage of such stock outstanding on the repurchase request deadline, that an investment company offers to repurchase in a repurchase offer. The repurchase offer amount shall not be less than five percent nor more than twenty-five percent of the common stock outstanding on a repurchase request deadline. Before each repurchase offer, the repurchase offer amount for that repurchase offer shall be determined by the directors of the company.
(4)
Repurchase payment deadline
with respect to a tender of common stock shall mean the date by which an investment company must pay securities holders for any stock repurchased. A repurchase payment deadline shall occur seven days after the repurchase pricing date applicable to such tender.
(5)
Repurchase pricing date
with respect to a tender of common stock shall mean the date on which an investment company determines the net asset value applicable to the repurchase of the securities. A repurchase pricing date shall occur no later than the fourteenth day after a repurchase request deadline, or the next business day if the fourteenth day is not a business day. In no event shall an investment company determine the net asset value applicable to the repurchase of the stock before the close of business on the repurchase request deadline.
(i) For an investment company making a repurchase offer pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the number of days between the repurchase request deadline and the repurchase pricing date for a repurchase offer shall be the maximum number specified by the company pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section.
(ii) For an investment company making a repurchase offer pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the repurchase pricing date shall be such date as the company shall disclose to security holders in the notification pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section with respect to such offer.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a repurchase pricing date may be a date earlier than the
date determined pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) (i) or (ii) of this section if, on or immediately following the repurchase request deadline, it appears that the use of an earlier repurchase pricing date is not likely to result in significant dilution of the net asset value of either stock that is tendered for repurchase or stock that is not tendered.
(6)
Repurchase request
shall mean the tender of common stock in response to a repurchase offer.
(7)
Repurchase request deadline
with respect to a repurchase offer shall mean the date by which an investment company must receive repurchase requests submitted by security holders in response to that offer or withdrawals or modifications of previously submitted repurchase requests. The first repurchase request deadline after the effective date of the registration statement for the common stock that is the subject of a repurchase offer, or after a shareholder vote adopting the fundamental policy specifying a company's periodic interval, whichever is later, shall occur no later than two periodic intervals thereafter.
(b)
Periodic repurchase offers.
A registered closed-end company or a business development company may repurchase common stock of which it is the issuer from the holders of the stock at periodic intervals, pursuant to repurchase offers made to all holders of the stock,
Provided
that:
(1) The company shall repurchase the stock for cash at the net asset value determined on the repurchase pricing date and shall pay the holders of the stock by the repurchase payment deadline except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The company may deduct from the repurchase proceeds only a repurchase fee, not to exceed two percent of the proceeds, that is paid to the company and is reasonably intended to compensate the company for expenses directly related to the repurchase. A company may not condition a repurchase offer upon the tender of any minimum amount of shares.
(2)(i) The company shall repurchase the security pursuant to a fundamental policy, changeable only by a majority vote of the outstanding voting securities of the company, stating:
(A) That the company will make repurchase offers at periodic intervals pursuant to this section, as this section may be amended from time to time;
(B) The periodic intervals between repurchase request deadlines;
(C) The dates of repurchase request deadlines or the means of determining the repurchase request deadlines; and
(D) The maximum number of days between each repurchase request deadline and the next repurchase pricing date.
(ii) The company shall include a statement in its annual report to shareholders of the following:
(A) Its policy under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; and
(B) With respect to repurchase offers by the company during the period covered by the annual report, the number of repurchase offers, the repurchase offer amount and the amount tendered in each repurchase offer, and the extent to which in any repurchase offer the company repurchased stock pursuant to the procedures in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(iii) A company shall be deemed to be making repurchase offers pursuant to a policy within paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section if:
(A) The company makes repurchase offers to its security holders at periodic intervals and, before May 14, 1993, has disclosed in its registration statement its intention to make or consider making such repurchase offers; and
(B) The company's board of directors adopts a policy specifying the matters required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, and the periodic interval specified therein conforms generally to the frequency of the company's prior repurchase offers.
(3)(i) The company shall not suspend or postpone a repurchase offer except pursuant to a vote of a majority of the directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the company, and only:
(A) If the repurchase would cause the company to lose its status as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code [26 U.S.C. 851-860];
(B) If the repurchase would cause the stock that is the subject of the offer
that is either listed on a national securities exchange or quoted in an inter-dealer quotation system of a national securities association to be neither listed on any national securities exchange nor quoted on any inter-dealer quotation system of a national securities association;
(C) For any period during which the New York Stock Exchange or any other market in which the securities owned by the company are principally traded is closed, other than customary week-end and holiday closings, or during which trading in such market is restricted;
(D) For any period during which an emergency exists as a result of which disposal by the company of securities owned by it is not reasonably practicable, or during which it is not reasonably practicable for the company fairly to determine the value of its net assets; or
(E) For such other periods as the Commission may by order permit for the protection of security holders of the company.
(ii) If a repurchase offer is suspended or postponed, the company shall provide notice to security holders of such suspension or postponement. If the company renews the repurchase offer, the company shall send a new notification to security holders satisfying the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(4)(i) No less than twenty-one and no more than forty-two days before each repurchase request deadline, the company shall send to each holder of record and to each beneficial owner of the stock that is the subject of the repurchase offer a notification providing the following information:
(A) A statement that the company is offering to repurchase its securities from security holders at net asset value;
(B) Any fees applicable to such repurchase;
(C) The repurchase offer amount;
(D) The dates of the repurchase request deadline, repurchase pricing date, and repurchase payment deadline, the risk of fluctuation in net asset value between the repurchase request deadline and the repurchase pricing date, and the possibility that the company may use an earlier repurchase pricing date pursuant to paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section;
(E) The procedures for security holders to tender their shares and the right of the security holders to withdraw or modify their tenders until the repurchase request deadline;
(F) The procedures under which the company may repurchase such shares on a pro rata basis pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section;
(G) The circumstances in which the company may suspend or postpone a repurchase offer pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section;
(H) The net asset value of the common stock computed no more than seven days before the date of the notification and the means by which security holders may ascertain the net asset value thereafter; and
(I) The market price, if any, of the common stock on the date on which such net asset value was computed, and the means by which security holders may ascertain the market price thereafter.
(ii) The company shall file three copies of the notification with the Commission within three business days after sending the notification to security holders. Those copies shall be accompanied by copies of Form N-23c-3 (§ 274.221 of this chapter) (“Notification of Repurchase Offer”). The format of the copies shall comply with the requirements for registration statements and reports under § 270.8b-12 of this chapter.
(iii) For purposes of sending a notification to a beneficial owner pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, where the company knows that shares of common stock that is the subject of a repurchase offer are held of record by a broker, dealer, voting trustee, bank, association or other entity that exercises fiduciary powers in nominee name or otherwise, the company shall follow the procedures for transmitting materials to beneficial owners of securities that are set forth in § 240.14a-13 of this chapter.
(5) If security holders tender more than the repurchase offer amount, the company may repurchase an additional amount of stock not to exceed two percent of the common stock outstanding
on the repurchase request deadline. If the company determines not to repurchase more than the repurchase offer amount, or if security holders tender stock in an amount exceeding the repurchase offer amount plus two percent of the common stock outstanding on the repurchase request deadline, the company shall repurchase the shares tendered on a pro rata basis;
Provided, however,
That this provision shall not prohibit the company from:
(i) Accepting all stock tendered by persons who own, beneficially or of record, an aggregate of not more than a specified number which is less than one hundred shares and who tender all of their stock, before prorating stock tendered by others; or
(ii) Accepting by lot stock tendered by security holders who tender all stock held by them and who, when tendering their stock, elect to have either all or none or at least a minimum amount or none accepted, if the company first accepts all stock tendered by security holders who do not so elect.
(6) The company shall permit tenders of stock for repurchase to be withdrawn or modified at any time until the repurchase request deadline but shall not permit tenders to be withdrawn or modified thereafter.
(7)(i) The current net asset value of the company's common stock shall be computed no less frequently than weekly on such day and at such specific time or times during the day that the board of directors of the company shall set.
(ii) The current net asset value of the company's common stock shall be computed daily on the five business days preceding a repurchase request deadline at such specific time or times during the day that the board of directors of the company shall set.
(iii) For purposes of section 23(b) [15 U.S.C. 80a-23(b)], the current net asset value applicable to a sale of common stock by the company shall be the net asset value next determined after receipt of an order to purchase such stock. During any period when the company is offering its common stock, the current net asset value of the common stock shall be computed no less frequently than once daily, Monday through Friday, at the specific time or times during the day that the board of directors of the company shall set, except on:
(A) Days on which changes in the value of the company's portfolio securities will not materially affect the current net asset value of the common stock;
(B) Days during which no order to purchase its common stock is received, other than days when the net asset value would otherwise be computed pursuant to paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section; or
(C) Customary national, local, and regional business holidays described or listed in the prospectus.
(8) The board of directors of the investment company satisfies the fund governance standards defined in § 270.0-1(a)(7).
(9) Any senior security issued by the company or other indebtedness contracted by the company either shall mature by the next repurchase pricing date or shall provide for the redemption or call of such security or the repayment of such indebtedness by the company by the next repurchase pricing date, either in whole or in part, without penalty or premium, as necessary to permit the company to repurchase securities in such repurchase offer amount as the directors of the company shall determine in compliance with the asset coverage requirements of section 18 [15 U.S.C. 80a-18] or 61 [15 U.S.C. 80a-60], as applicable.
(10)(i) From the time a company sends a notification to shareholders pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section until the repurchase pricing date, a percentage of the company's assets equal to at least 100 percent of the repurchase offer amount shall consist of assets that can be sold or disposed of in the ordinary course of business, at approximately the price at which the company has valued the investment, within a period equal to the period between a repurchase request deadline and the repurchase payment deadline, or of assets that mature by the next repurchase payment deadline.
(ii) In the event that the company's assets fail to comply with the requirements in paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section, the board of directors shall cause the company to take such action
as it deems appropriate to ensure compliance.
(iii) In supervising the company's operations and portfolio management by the investment adviser, the company's board of directors shall adopt written procedures reasonably designed, taking into account current market conditions and the company's investment objectives, to ensure that the company's portfolio assets are sufficiently liquid so that the company can comply with its fundamental policy on repurchases, and comply with the liquidity requirements of paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section. The board of directors shall review the overall composition of the portfolio and make and approve such changes to the procedures as the board deems necessary.
(11) The company, or any underwriter for the company, shall comply, as if the company were an open-end company, with the provisions of section 24(b) [15 U.S.C. 80a-24(b)] and rules issued thereunder with respect to any advertisement, pamphlet, circular, form letter, or other sales literature addressed to or intended for distribution to prospective investors.
(c)
Discretionary repurchase offers.
A registered closed-end company or a business development company may repurchase common stock of which it is the issuer from the holders of the stock pursuant to a repurchase offer that is not made pursuant to a fundamental policy and that is made to all holders of the stock not earlier than two years after another offer pursuant to this paragraph (c) if the company complies with the requirements of paragraphs (b) (1), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7)(ii), (8), (10)(i), and (10)(ii) of this section.
(d)
Exemption from the definition of redeemable security.
A company that makes repurchase offers pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall not be deemed thereby to be an issuer of redeemable securities within section 2(a)(32) [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(32)].
(e)
Registration of an indefinite amount of securities.
A company that makes repurchase offers pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be deemed to have registered an indefinite amount of securities pursuant to Section 24(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(f)) upon the effective date of its registration statement.
[58 FR 19343, Apr. 14, 1993; 58 FR 29695, May 21, 1993, as amended at 66 FR 3759, Jan. 16, 2001; 69 FR 46390, Aug. 2, 2004; 85 FR 33360, June 1, 2020]
§ 270.24b-1
Definitions.
(a) The term
form letter
as used in section 24(b) of the Act includes (1) one of a series of identical sales letters, and (2) any sales letter a substantial portion of which consists of a statement which is in essence identical with similar statements in sales letters sent to 25 or more persons within any period of 90 consecutive days.
(b) The term
distribution
as used in section 24(b) of the Act includes the distribution or redistribution to prospective investors of the content of any written sales literature, whether such distribution or redistribution is effected by means of written or oral representations or statements.
(c) The terms
rules and regulations
as used in section 24 (a) and (c) of the Act shall include the forms for registration of securities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the related instructions thereto.
(Sec. 19, 48 Stat. 85, as amended, sec. 319, 53 Stat. 1173; 15 U.S.C. 77s, 77sss)
[Rule N-24B-1, 6 FR 3020, June 21, 1941, as amended by 21 FR 1046, Feb. 15, 1956]
§ 270.24b-2
Filing copies of sales literature.
Copies of material filed with the Commission for the sole purpose of complying with section 24(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(b)) either shall be accompanied by a letter of transmittal which makes appropriate references to said section or shall make such appropriate reference on the face of the material.
[70 FR 43570, July 27, 2005]
§ 270.24b-3
Sales literature deemed filed.
Any advertisement, pamphlet, circular, form letter or other sales literature addressed to or intended for distribution to prospective investors shall be deemed filed with the Commission for purposes of section 24(b) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-24(b)] upon filing
with a national securities association registered under section 15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78
o
] that has adopted rules providing standards for the investment company advertising practices of its members and has established and implemented procedures to review that advertising.
[53 FR 3880, Feb. 10, 1988]
§ 270.24b-4
Filing copies of covered investment fund research reports.
A covered investment fund research report, as defined in paragraph (c)(3) of § 230.139b of this chapter under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), of a covered investment fund registered as an investment company under the Act, shall not be subject to section 24(b) of the Act or the rules and regulations thereunder, except that such report shall be subject to such section and the rules and regulations thereunder to the extent that it is otherwise not subject to the content standards in the rules of any self-regulatory organization related to research reports, including those contained in the rules governing communications with the public regarding investment companies or substantially similar standards.
[83 FR 64222, Dec. 13, 2018]
§ 270.24e-1
Filing of certain prospectuses as post-effective amendments to registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933.
Section 24(e) of the Act requires that when a prospectus is revised so that it may be available for use in compliance with section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 for a period extending beyond the time when the previous prospectus would have ceased to be available for such use, such revised prospectus, in order to meet the requirements of section 10 of said Act, must be filed as an amendment to the registration statement under said Act and such amendment must have become effective prior to the use of the revised prospectus. Except as hereinabove provided, section 24(e) of the Act shall not be deemed to govern the times and conditions under which post-effective amendments shall be filed to registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933.
(Sec. 24, 54 Stat. 825, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 80a-24)
[20 FR 2856, Apr. 28, 1955, as amended at 62 FR 47938, Sept. 12, 1997]
§ 270.24f-2
Registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of certain investment company securities.
(a)
General.
Any face-amount certificate company, open-end management company, closed-end management company that makes periodic repurchase offers pursuant to § 270.23c-3(b), or unit investment trust (“issuer”) that is deemed to have registered an indefinite amount of securities pursuant to Section 24(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(f)) must not later than 90 days after the end of any fiscal year during which it has publicly offered such securities, file Form 24F-2 (17 CFR 274.24) with the Commission. Form 24F-2 must be prepared in accordance with the requirements of that form, and must be accompanied by the payment of a registration fee with respect to the securities sold during the fiscal year in reliance upon registration pursuant to section 24(f) of the Act calculated in the manner specified in section 24(f) of the Act and in the Form. An issuer that pays the registration fee more than 90 days after the end of its fiscal year must pay interest in the manner specified in section 24(f) of the Act and in Form 24F-2.
(b)
Issuer ceasing operations; mergers and other transactions.
For purposes of this section, if an issuer ceases operations, the date the issuer ceases operations will be deemed to be the end of its fiscal year. In the case of a liquidation, merger, or sale of all or substantially all of the assets (“merger”) of the issuer, the issuer will be deemed to have ceased operations for the purposes of this section on the date the merger is consummated;
provided, however,
that in the case of a merger of an issuer or a series of an issuer (“Predecessor Issuer”) with another issuer or a series of an issuer (“Successor Issuer”), the Predecessor Issuer will not be deemed to have ceased operations and the Successor issuer will assume the obligations, fees, and redemption credits of the Predecessor Issuer incurred
pursuant to section 24(f) of the Act and § 270.24e-2 (as in effect prior to October 11, 1997; see 17 CFR part 240 to end, revised as of April 1, 1997) if the Successor Issuer:
(1) had no assets or liabilities, other than nominal assets or liabilities, and no operating history immediately prior to the merger;
(2) Acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed substantially all of the liabilities and obligations of the Predecessor Issuer; and
(3) The merger is not designed to result in the Predecessor Issuer merging with, or substantially all of its assets being acquired by, an issuer (or a series of an issuer) that would not meet the conditions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Counting days.
To determine the date on which Form 24F-2 must be filed with the Commission under paragraph (a) of this section, the first day of the 90-day period is the first calendar day of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the Form is to be filed. If the last day of the 90-day period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, the period ends on the first business day thereafter.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# ):
For example, a Form 24F-2 for a fiscal year ending on June 30 must be filed no later than September 28. If September 28 falls on a Saturday, Sunday, the Form must be filed on the following Monday.
[62 FR 47938, Sept. 12, 1997, as amended at 85 FR 33360, June 1, 2020]
§ 270.26a-1
Payment of administrative fees to the depositor or principal underwriter of a unit investment trust; exemptive relief for separate accounts.
For purposes of section 26(a)(2)(C) of the Act, payment of a fee to the depositor of or a principal underwriter for a registered unit investment trust, or to any affiliated person or agent of such depositor or underwriter (collectively, “depositor”), for bookkeeping or other administrative services provided to the trust shall be allowed the custodian or trustee (“trustee”) as an expense, provided that such fee is an amount not greater than the expenses, without profit:
(a) Actually paid by such depositor directly attributable to the services provided; and
(b) Increased by the services provided directly by such depositor, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
[85 FR 26110, May 1, 2020]
§ 270.27c-1
[Reserved]
§ 270.27d-1
Reserve requirements for principal underwriters and depositors to carry out the obligations to refund charges required by section 27(d) and section 27(f) of the Act.
(a)(1) Every depositor of or principal underwriter for the issuer of a periodic payment plan certificate sold subject to section 27(d) or section 27(f) of the Act or both, shall deposit and maintain funds in a segregated trust account as a reserve and as security for the purpose of assuring the refund of charges required by sections 27(d) and 27(f) of the Act.
(2) The assets of such trust account may be held as cash or invested only in one or more of (i) government securities as defined in section 2(a)(16) of the Act (except equity securities) or (ii) negotiable certificates of deposit issued by a bank, as defined in section 2(a)(5) of the Act and having capital and surplus of at least $10 million:
Provided,
That no such investment may have a maturity of more than 5 years, no more than 50 percent of the assets may be invested in obligations having a maturity of more than 1 year, and certificates of deposit of a single issuer may not constitute more than 10 percent of the value of the assets in the account.
(3) Any income, gains, or losses from assets allocated to such account, whether or not realized, shall be credited to or charged against such account without regard to other income, gains, or losses of the depositor or principal underwriter.
(4) The assets of such trust account may be withdrawn only as permitted by paragraph (f) of this section and shall in no event be chargeable with liabilities arising out of any aspect of the business of the depositor or principal underwriter other than assuring the ability of the depositor or principal
underwriter to refund the amounts required by such sections.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Excess sales load” on any payment is that portion of the sales load in excess of 15 percent of that payment.
(2) “Monthly payment” shall be the amount of the smallest monthly installment scheduled to be paid during the life of the plan. If payments are required or permitted to be made on a basis less frequently than monthly, an equivalent monthly payment shall be the amount determined by dividing the smallest minimum payment required or permitted in a payment period by the number of months included in such period.
(3) The assets in the segregated trust account shall be valued as follows: (i) With respect to securities for which market quotations are readily available, the market value of such securities; and (ii) with respect to other securities, fair value as determined in good faith by the depositor or principal underwriter.
(c) For every periodic payment plan certificate governed by section 27(d), the depositor or principal underwriter shall deposit into the segregated trust account not less than 45 percent of the excess sales load on each of the first six monthly payments or their equivalent.
(d) For all periodic payment plan certificates governed by section 27(d) which have not been surrendered in accordance with their terms, and for which the depositor or principal underwriter may be liable for the refund of any sales load, the depositor or principal underwriter shall maintain in the segregated trust account an amount equal to not less than 15% of the total refundable sales load on the payments made on those certificates. The depositor or principal underwriter shall also maintain in the segregated trust account such additional amounts as the Commission by order may require for the depositor or principal underwriter to carry out refund obligations pursuant to sections 27(d) and 27(f) of the Act.
(e) For every periodic payment plan certificate governed by section 27(f) of the Act, and for which the depositor or principal underwriter has no obligation to refund any excess sales load pursuant to section 27(d) of the Act, the depositor or principal underwriter shall deposit and maintain during the refund period, at least the following amounts in the segregated trust account:
(1) For certificates that require monthly payments of $100 or less, 20 percent of the difference between the gross payments made and the net amount invested;
(2) For certificates that require monthly payments in excess of $100 and for single payment plan certificates, 30 percent of the difference between the gross payments made and the net amount invested;
(3) For certificates with respect to which the holder is entitled to receive the greater of the refund provided by section 27(f) (of the Act) or a refund of total payments and upon which a total of at least $1,000 has been paid, 100 percent of the difference between the gross payments made and net amount invested; and
(4) Such additional amounts as the Commission by order may require to carry out the obligation to refund charges pursuant to section 27(f) of the Act.
(f) Assets may be withdrawn from the segregated trust account by each depositor or principal underwriter:
(1) To refund excess sales load to a certificate holder exercising the right of surrender specified in section 27(d) of the Act; or
(2) To refund to a certificate holder exercising the right of withdrawal specified in section 27(f) of the Act the difference between the amount of his gross payments and the net amount invested; or
(3) For any other purpose:
Provided, however,
That such withdrawal shall not reduce the segregated trust account to an amount less than the sum of (i) 130 percent of the amount required to be maintained by paragraph (d) of this section, if any, and (ii) 100 percent of that amount required to be maintained by paragraph (e) of this section, if any.
(g) The minimum amounts required to be maintained by paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be computed at least monthly. Any additional deposits required by paragraph (d) or (e) of this section shall be made immediately
after such computation, and any withdrawals permitted by paragraph (f)(3) of this section may be made only at such time.
(h) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a depositor or principal underwriter, acting as such for two or more registered investment companies issuing periodic payment plan certificates, from combining in a single segregated trust account the reserves for such companies required by this section.
(i) The refunds required to be made to certificate holders pursuant to sections 27(d) and 27(f) (of the Act) shall be paid in cash not more than 7 days from the date the certificate is received in proper form by the custodian bank or such other paying agent as may be designated under the periodic payment plan.
(j) Each depositor or principal underwriter shall file with the Commission, within the appropriate period of time specified, an Accounting of Segregated Trust Account. Form N-27D-1 (§ 274.127d-1 of this chapter) is hereby prescribed as such accounting form.
[36 FR 13136, July 15, 1971, as amended at 40 FR 50712, Oct. 31, 1975]
§ 270.27d-2
[Reserved]
§ 270.27e-1
[Reserved]
§ 270.27f-1
[Reserved]
§ 270.27g-1
[Reserved]
§ 270.27h-1
[Reserved]
§ 270.27i-1
Exemption from Section 27(i)(2)(A) of the Act during annuity payment period of variable annuity contracts participating in certain registered separate accounts.
A registered separate account, and any depositor of or underwriter for such account, shall, during the annuity payment period of variable annuity contracts participating in such account, be exempt from the requirement of paragraph (1) of section 27(i)(2)(A) of the Act that a periodic payment plan certificate be a redeemable security with respect to such contracts under which payments are being made based upon life contingencies.
[85 FR 26110, May 1, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 37987, June 12, 2023]
§ 270.28b-1
Investment in loans partially or wholly guaranteed under the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended.
(a) The term
qualified investments
as used in section 28(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 shall include:
(1) Any loan, any portion of which is guaranteed under Title III of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended, and which is secured by a first lien on real estate:
Provided,
The amount of the loan not so guaranteed does not exceed 66
2/3
percent of the reasonable value of such real estate as determined by proper appraisal made by an appraiser designated by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs;
(2) Any secondary loan the full amount of which is guaranteed under section 505(a) of Title III of the above mentioned act and which is secured by a second lien on real estate:
Provided, however,
That any such loan shall be deemed a qualified investment only so long as (i) insurance policies are required to be procured and maintained in an amount sufficient to protect the security against the risks or hazards to which it may be subjected to the extent customary in the locality, and (ii) the loan shall remain guaranteed under Title III of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended, to the extent specified in paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section, as the case may be.
(b) Loans made pursuant to this section shall be valued at the original principal amount of the loan less all payments made thereon which have been applied to the reduction of such principal amount.
(Secs. 28(b), 38, 54 Stat. 832, 841; 15 U.S.C. 80a-28(b), 80a-38)
[Rule N-28B-1, 11 FR 6483, June 13, 1946]
§ 270.30a-1
Annual report for registered investment companies.
Every management investment company must file an annual report on Form N-CEN (§ 274.101 of this chapter) at least every twelve months and not
more than seventy-five calendar days after the close of each fiscal year. Every unit investment trust must file an annual report on Form N-CEN (§ 274.101 of this chapter) at least every twelve months and not more than seventy-five calendar days after the close of each calendar year. A registered investment company that has filed a registration statement with the Commission registering its securities for the first time under the Securities Act of 1933 is relieved of this reporting obligation with respect to any reporting period or portion thereof prior to the date on which that registration statement becomes effective or is withdrawn.
[81 FR 82020, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 270.30a-2
Certification of Form N-CSR.
(a) Each report filed on Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter) by a registered management investment company must include certifications in the form specified in Item 19(a)(3) of Form N-CSR, and such certifications must be filed as an exhibit to such report. Each principal executive and principal financial officer of the investment company, or persons performing similar functions, at the time of filing of the report must sign a certification.
(b) Each report on Form N-CSR filed by a registered management investment company under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) and that contains financial statements must be accompanied by the certifications required by Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code (18 U.S.C. 1350) and such certifications must be furnished as an exhibit to such report as specified in Item 19(b) of Form N-CSR. Each principal executive and principal financial officer of the investment company (or equivalent thereof) must sign a certification. This requirement may be satisfied by a single certification signed by an investment company's principal executive and principal financial officers.
[87 FR 73141, Nov. 27, 2022]
§ 270.30a-3
Controls and procedures.
(a) Every registered management investment company, other than a small business investment company registered on Form N-5 (§§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter), must maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section).
(b) Each such registered management investment company's management must evaluate, with the participation of the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, the effectiveness of the company's disclosure controls and procedures, within the 90-day period prior to the filing date of each report on Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter).
(c) For purposes of this section, the term disclosure controls and procedures means controls and other procedures of a registered management investment company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the investment company on Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter) is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an investment company in the reports that it files or submits on Form N-CSR is accumulated and communicated to the investment company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
(d) The term
internal control over financial reporting
is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the registered management investment company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:
(1) Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the investment company;
(2) Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the investment company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the investment company; and
(3) Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the investment company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
[68 FR 36671, June 18, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 11264, Mar. 9, 2004; 81 FR 82021, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 270.30a-4
Annual report for wholly-owned registered management investment company subsidiary of registered management investment company.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 270.30a-1, a registered management investment company that is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a registered management investment company need not file an annual report on Form N-CEN if financial information with respect to that subsidiary is reported in the parent's annual report on Form N-CEN.
[81 FR 82021, Nov. 18, 2016]
§§ 270.30b1-1—270.b1-3
[Reserved]
§ 270.30b1-4
Report of proxy voting record.
Every registered management investment company, other than a small business investment company registered on Form N-5 (§§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter), shall file an annual report on Form N-PX (§§ 249.326 and 274.129 of this chapter) not later than August 31 of each year, containing the registrant's proxy voting record for the most recent twelve-month period ended June 30.
[68 FR 6581, Feb. 7, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 78809, Dec. 22, 2022]
§ 270.30b1-5
[Reserved]
§ 270.30b1-7
Monthly report for money market funds.
Every registered open-end management investment company, or series thereof, that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7 must file with the Commission a monthly report of portfolio holdings on Form N-MFP (§ 274.201 of this chapter), current as of the last business day or any subsequent calendar day of the preceding month, no later than the fifth business day of each month.
[79 FR 47967, Aug. 14, 2014]
§ 270.30b1-8
Current report for money market funds.
Every registered open-end management investment company, or series thereof, that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7, that experiences any of the events specified on Form N-CR (274.222 of this chapter), must file with the Commission a current report on Form N-CR within the period specified in that form.
[79 FR 47967, Aug. 14, 2014]
§ 270.30b1-9
Monthly report.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 73797, Sept. 11, 2024.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 73797, Sept. 11, 2024.
Each registered management investment company or exchange-traded fund organized as a unit investment trust, or series thereof, other than a registered open-end management investment company that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7 or a small business investment company registered on Form N-5 (§§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter), must file a monthly report of portfolio holdings on Form N-PORT (§ 274.150 of this chapter), current as of the last business day, or last calendar day, of the month. A registered investment company that has filed a registration statement with the Commission registering its securities for the first time under the Securities Act of 1933 is relieved of this reporting obligation with respect to any reporting period or portion thereof
prior to the date on which that registration statement becomes effective or is withdrawn. Each registered investment company that is required to file reports on Form N-PORT must maintain in its records the information that is required to be included on Form N-PORT no later than 30 days after the end of each month. Such information shall be treated as a record under section 31(a)(1) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-30(a)(1)] and § 270.31a-1(b) of this chapter subject to the requirements of § 270.31a-2(a)(2) of this chapter. Reports on Form N-PORT for each month in each fiscal quarter of a registered investment company must be filed with the Commission no later than 60 days after the end of such fiscal quarter.
[84 FR 7987, Mar. 6, 2019]
§ 270.30b1-9, Nts.

# Effective Date Notes:
1. At 89 FR 73797, Sept. 11, 2024, § 270.30b1-9 was revised, effective Nov. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 270.30b1-9
Monthly report.
Each registered management investment company or exchange-traded fund organized as a unit investment trust, or series thereof, other than a registered open-end management investment company that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7 or a small business investment company registered on Form N-5 (§§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter), must file a monthly report of portfolio holdings on Form N-PORT (§ 274.150 of this chapter), current as of the last business day, or last calendar day, of the month. A registered investment company that has filed a registration statement with the Commission registering an offering of its securities for the first time under the Securities Act of 1933 is relieved of this reporting obligation with respect to any reporting period or portion thereof prior to the date on which that registration statement becomes effective or is withdrawn. Reports on Form N-PORT must be filed with the Commission no later than 30 days after the end of each month. Each registered investment company that is required to file reports on Form N-PORT and that does not file monthly reports within 30 days after the end of each month must maintain in its records the information that is required to be included on Form N-PORT no later than 30 days after the end of each month for which it does not file a monthly report within that period. Such information shall be treated as a record under section 31(a)(1) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-30(a)(1)] and § 270.31a-1(b) subject to the requirements of § 270.31a-2(a)(2).

# Effective Date Notes:
2. At 89 FR 73797, Sept. 11, 2024, § 270.30b1-9 was amended by removing the last two sentences, effective May 18, 2026.
§ 270.30b1-9(T)
Temporary rule regarding monthly report.
(a) Until April 1, 2019, each registered management investment company subject to § 270.30b1-9 of this chapter must satisfy its reporting obligation under that section by maintaining in its records the information that is required to be included in Form N-PORT (§ 274.150 of this chapter).
(b) The information maintained in the registered management investment company's records under paragraph (a) of this section shall be treated as a record under section 31(a)(1) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-30(a)(1)] and § 270.31a-1(b) of this chapter subject to the requirements of § 270.31a-2(a)(2) of this chapter.
(c) This section will expire and no longer be effective on March 31, 2026.
[82 FR 58739, Dec. 14, 2017]

# Effective Date Note:
At 82 FR 58739, Dec. 14, 2017, § 270.30b1-9(T) was added, effective Jan. 16, 2018, to Mar. 31, 2026.
§ 270.30b1-10
Current report for open-end and closed-end management investment companies.
Every registered open-end management investment company, or series thereof, and every registered closed-end management investment company, but not a fund that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7, that experiences an event specified on Form N-RN, must file with the Commission a current report on Form N-RN within the period and according to the instructions specified in that form.
[85 FR 83295, Dec. 21, 2020]
§ 270.30b2-1
Filing of reports to stockholders.
(a) Every registered management investment company shall file a report on Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter) not later than 10 days after the transmission to stockholders of any report that is required to be transmitted to stockholders under § 270.30e-1.
(b) A registered investment company shall file with the Commission a copy
of every periodic or interim report or similar communication containing financial statements that is transmitted by or on behalf of such registered investment company to any class of such company's security holders and that is not required to be filed with the Commission under paragraph (a) of this section. The filing shall be made not later than 10 days after the transmission to security holders.
[68 FR 5366, Feb. 3, 2003]
§ 270.30d-1
Filing of copies of reports to shareholders.
A registered management investment company, other than a small business investment company registered on Form N-5 (§§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter), that is required to file annual and quarterly reports pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) shall satisfy its requirement to file such reports by the filing, in accordance with the rules and procedures specified therefor, of reports on Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter). A registered unit investment trust or a small business investment company registered on Form N-5 that is required to file annual and quarterly reports pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall satisfy its requirement to file such reports by the filing, in accordance with the rules and procedures specified therefor, of reports on Form N-CEN (§§ 249.330 and 274.101 of this chapter).
[69 FR 11264, Mar. 9, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 82021, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 270.30e-1
Reports to stockholders of management companies.
(a) Every registered management company shall transmit to each stockholder of record, at least semi-annually, a report containing the information required to be included in such reports by the company's registration statement form under the 1940 Act, except that the initial report of a newly registered company shall be made as of a date not later than the close of the fiscal year or half-year occurring on or after the date on which the company's notification of registration under the 1940 Act is filed with the Commission.
(b)(1) To satisfy its obligations under section 30(e) of the 1940 Act, an open-end management investment company registered on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter) also must:
(i) Make certain materials available on a website, as described under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(ii) Deliver certain materials upon request, as described under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) The following website availability requirements are applicable to an open-end management investment company registered on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter).
(i) The company must make the disclosures required by Items 7 through 11 of Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter) publicly accessible, free of charge, at the website address specified at the beginning of the report to stockholders under paragraph (a) of this section, no later than 60 days after the end of the fiscal half-year or fiscal year of the company until 60 days after the end of the next fiscal half-year or fiscal year of the company, respectively. The company may satisfy the requirement in this paragraph (b)(2)(i) by making its most recent report on Form N-CSR publicly accessible, free of charge, at the specified website address for the time period that this paragraph (b)(2)(i) specifies.
(ii) Unless the company is a money market fund under § 270.2a-7, the company must make the company's complete portfolio holdings, if any, as of the close of the company's most recent first and third fiscal quarters, after the date on which the company's registration statement became effective, presented in accordance with the schedules set forth in §§ 210.12-12 through 210.12-14 of this chapter (Regulation S-X), which need not be audited. The complete portfolio holdings required by this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) must be made publicly accessible, free of charge, at the website address specified at the beginning of the report to stockholders under paragraph (a) of this section, not later than 60 days after the close of the of the first and third fiscal quarters until 60 days after the end of the next
first and third fiscal quarters of the company, respectively.
(iii) The website address relied upon for compliance with this section may not be the address of the Commission's electronic filing system.
(iv) The materials that are accessible in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section must be presented on the website in a format, or formats, that are convenient for both reading online and printing on paper.
(v) Persons accessing the materials specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section must be able to permanently retain, free of charge, an electronic version of such materials in a format, or formats, that meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.
(vi) The requirements set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section will be deemed to be met, notwithstanding the fact that the materials specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are not available for a time in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section, provided that:
(A) The company has reasonable procedures in place to ensure that the specified materials are available in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section; and
(B) The company takes prompt action to ensure that the specified materials become available in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section, as soon as practicable following the earlier of the time at which it knows or reasonably should have known that the materials are not available in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.
(vii) The materials specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section may either be separately available for each series of a fund, or the materials may be grouped by the types of materials and/or by series, so long as the grouped information:
(A) Is presented in a format designed to communicate the information effectively;
(B) Clearly distinguishes the different types of materials and/or each series (as applicable); and
(C) Provides a means of easily locating the relevant information (including, for example, a table of contents that includes hyperlinks to the specific materials and series).
(3) The following requirements to deliver certain materials upon request are applicable to an open-end management investment company registered on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter).
(i) The company (or a financial intermediary through which shares of the company may be purchased or sold) must send, at no cost to the requestor and by U.S. first class mail or other reasonably prompt means, a paper copy of any of the materials specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, to any person requesting such a copy within three business days after receiving a request for a paper copy.
(ii) The company (or a financial intermediary through which shares of the company may be purchased or sold) must send, at no cost to the requestor, and by email or other reasonably prompt means, an electronic copy of any of the materials specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, to any person requesting such a copy within three business days after receiving a request for an electronic copy. The requirement to send an electronic copy of the requested materials may be satisfied by sending a direct link to the online location of the materials; provided that a current version of the materials is directly accessible through the link from the time that the email is sent through the date that is six months after the date that the email is sent and the email explains both how long the link will remain useable and that, if recipients desire to retain a copy of the materials, they should access and save the materials.
(c) For registered management companies other than open-end management investment companies registered on Form N-1A, if any matter was submitted during the period covered by the shareholder report to a vote of shareholders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise, furnish the following information:
(1) The date of the meeting and whether it was an annual or special meeting.
(2) If the meeting involved the election of directors, the name of each director elected at the meeting and the name of each other director whose term of office as a director continued after the meeting.
(3) A brief description of each matter voted upon at the meeting and the number of votes cast for, against or withheld, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes as to each such matter, including a separate tabulation with respect to each matter or nominee for office.
(i)
Instruction 1 to paragraph (c).
The solicitation of any authorization or consent (other than a proxy to vote at a shareholders' meeting) with respect to any matter shall be deemed a submission of such matter to a vote of shareholders within the meaning of this paragraph (c).
(ii) [Reserved]
(d) Each report shall be transmitted within 60 days after the close of the period for which such report is being made.
(e) The period of time within which any report prescribed by this rule shall be transmitted may be extended by the Commission upon written request showing good cause therefor. Section 270.0-5 shall not apply to such requests.
(f)(1) A company will be considered to have transmitted a report to shareholders who share an address if:
(i) The company transmits a report to the shared address;
(ii) The company addresses the report to the shareholders as a group (for example, “ABC Fund [or Corporation] Shareholders,” “Jane Doe and Household,” “The Smith Family”) or to each of the shareholders individually (for example, “John Doe and Richard Jones”); and
(iii) The shareholders consent in writing to delivery of one report.
(2) The company need not obtain written consent from a shareholder under paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section if all of the following conditions are met:
(i) The shareholder has the same last name as the other shareholders, or the company reasonably believes that the shareholders are members of the same family;
(ii) The company has transmitted a notice to the shareholder at least 60 days before the company begins to rely on this section concerning transmission of reports to that shareholder. The notice must be a separate written statement and:
(A) State that only one report will be delivered to the shared address unless the company receives contrary instructions;
(B) Include a toll-free telephone number or be accompanied by a reply form that is pre-addressed with postage provided, that the shareholder can use to notify the company that he or she wishes to receive a separate report;
(C) State the duration of the consent;
(D) Explain how a shareholder can revoke consent;
(E) State that the company will begin sending individual copies to a shareholder within 30 days after the company receives revocation of the shareholder's consent; and
(F) Contain the following prominent statement, or similar clear and understandable statement, in bold-face type: “Important Notice Regarding Delivery of Shareholder Materials”. This statement also must appear on the envelope in which the notice is delivered. Alternatively, if the notice is delivered separately from other communications to investors, this statement may appear either on the notice or on the envelope in which the notice is delivered;

# Note to paragraph (
f

# )(2)(
ii

# ):
The notice should be written in plain English. See § 230.421(d)(2) of this chapter for a discussion of plain English principles.
(iii) The company has not received the reply form or other notification indicating that the shareholder wishes to continue to receive an individual copy of the report, within 60 days after the company sent the notice; and
(iv) The company transmits the report to a post office box or to a residential street address. The company can assume a street address is a residence unless it has information that indicates it is a business.
(3) At least once a year, the company must explain to shareholders who have consented under paragraph (f)(1)(iii) or paragraph (f)(2) of this section how they can revoke their consent. The explanation must be reasonably designed
to reach these investors. If a shareholder, orally or in writing, revokes consent to delivery of one report to a shared address, the company must begin sending individual copies to that shareholder within 30 days after the company receives the revocation.
(4) For purposes of this section,
address
means a street address, a post office box number, an electronic mail address, a facsimile telephone number, or other similar destination to which paper or electronic documents are transmitted, unless otherwise provided in this section. If the company has reason to believe that the address is a street address of a multi-unit building, the address must include the unit number.
[46 FR 36126, July 14, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 37940, Aug. 22, 1983; 48 FR 44477, Sept. 29, 1983; 50 FR 26160, June 25, 1985; 57 FR 56836, Dec. 1, 1992; 59 FR 52700, Oct. 19, 1994; 61 FR 24657, May 15, 1996; 64 FR 62547, Nov. 16, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 66 FR 3759, Jan. 16, 2001; 87 FR 72847, Nov. 25, 2022]
§ 270.30e-2
Reports to shareholders of unit investment trusts.
(a) At least semiannually every registered unit investment trust substantially all the assets of which consist of securities issued by a management company must transmit to each shareholder of record (including record holders of periodic payment plan certificates), a report containing all the applicable information and financial statements or their equivalent, required by § 270.30d-1 to be included in reports of the management company for the same fiscal period. Each of these reports must be transmitted within the period allowed the management company by § 270.30e-1 for transmitting reports to its shareholders.
(b) Any report required by this section will be considered transmitted to a shareholder of record if the unit investment trust satisfies the conditions set forth in § 270.30e-1(f) with respect to that shareholder.
[64 FR 62547, Nov. 16, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 66 FR 3759, Jan. 16, 2001]
§ 270.30e-3
Internet availability of reports to shareholders.
(a)
General.
A Fund may satisfy its obligation to transmit a report required by § 270.30e-1 (“Report”) to a shareholder of record if all of the conditions set forth in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section are satisfied.
(b)
Availability of report to shareholders and other materials.
(1) The following materials are publicly accessible, free of charge, at the website address specified in the Notice from the date the Fund transmits the Report as required by § 270.30e-1 until the Fund next transmits a report required by § 270.30e-1 with respect to the Fund:
(i)
Current report to shareholders.
The Report.
(ii)
Prior report to shareholders.
Any report with respect to the Fund for the prior reporting period that was transmitted to shareholders of record pursuant to § 270.30e-1.
(iii)
Complete portfolio holdings from reports containing a summary schedule of investments.
If a report specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section includes a summary schedule of investments (§ 210.12-12B of this chapter) in lieu of Schedule I—Investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers (§ 210.12-12 of this chapter), the Fund's complete portfolio holdings as of the close of the period covered by the report, presented in accordance with the schedules set forth in §§ 210.12-12 through 210.12-14 of Regulation S-X (§§ 210.12-12 through 210.12-14 of this chapter), which need not be audited.
(iv)
Portfolio holdings for most recent first and third fiscal quarters.
The Fund's complete portfolio holdings as of the close of the Fund's most recent first and third fiscal quarters, if any, after the date on which the Fund's registration statement became effective, presented in accordance with the schedules set forth in §§ 210.12-12 through 210.12-14 of Regulation S-X [§§ 210.12-12 through 210.12-14 of this chapter], which need not be audited. The complete portfolio holdings required by this paragraph (b)(1)(iv) must be made publicly available not later than 60 days after the close of the fiscal quarter.
(2) The website address relied upon for compliance with this section may not be the address of the Commission's electronic filing system.
(3) The materials that are accessible in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of
this section must be presented on the website in a format, or formats, that are convenient for both reading online and printing on paper.
(4) Persons accessing the materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be able to retain permanently, free of charge, an electronic version of such materials in a format, or formats, that meet the conditions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(5) The conditions set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section shall be deemed to be met, notwithstanding the fact that the materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are not available for a time in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, provided that:
(i) The Fund has reasonable procedures in place to ensure that the specified materials are available in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section; and
(ii) The Fund takes prompt action to ensure that the specified documents become available in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, as soon as practicable following the earlier of the time at which it knows or reasonably should have known that the documents are not available in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(c)
Notice.
A paper notice (“Notice”) meeting the conditions of this paragraph (c) must be sent to the shareholder within 70 days after the close of the period for which the Report is being made. The Notice may contain only the information specified by paragraphs (c)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, and may include pictures, logos, or similar design elements so long as the design is not misleading and the information is clear.
(1) The Notice must be written using plain English principles pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section and:
(i) Contain a prominent legend in bold-face type that states “[An] Important Report[s] to [Shareholders] of [Fund] [is/are] Now Available Online and In Print by Request.” The Notice may also include information identifying the Fund, the Fund's sponsor (including any investment adviser or sub-adviser to the Fund), a variable annuity or variable life insurance contract or insurance company issuer thereof, or a financial intermediary through which shares of the Fund are held.
(ii) State that the Report contains important information about the Fund, including its portfolio holdings and financial statements. The statement may also include a brief listing of other types of information contained in the Report.
(iii) State that the Report is available at the website address specified in the Notice or, upon request, by mail, and encourage the shareholder to access and review the Report.
(iv) Include a website address where the Report and other materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are available. The website address must be specific enough to lead investors directly to the documents that are required to be accessible under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, rather than to the home page or a section of the website other than on which the documents are posted. The website may be a central site with prominent links to each document. In addition to the website address, the Notice may contain any other equivalent method or means to access the Report or other materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(v) Provide a toll-free (or collect) telephone number to contact the Fund or the shareholder's financial intermediary, and:
(A) Provide instructions describing how a shareholder may request a paper or email copy of the Report and other materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section at no charge, and an indication that the shareholder will not otherwise receive a paper or email copy;
(B) Explain that the shareholder can at any time elect to receive print reports in the future and provide instructions describing how a shareholder may make that election (
e.g.,
by contacting the Fund or by contacting the shareholder's financial intermediary); and
(C) If applicable, provide instructions describing how a shareholder can elect to receive shareholder reports or other documents and communications by electronic delivery.
(2) The Notice may include additional methods by which a shareholder can contact the Fund or the shareholder's financial intermediary (
e.g.,
by email or through a website), which may include any information needed to identify the shareholder.
(3) A Notice may include content from the Report if such content is set forth after the information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(4) The Notice may not be incorporated into, or combined with, another document, except that the Notice may incorporate or combine one or more other Notices.
(5) The Notice must be sent separately from other types of shareholder communications and may not accompany any other document or materials; provided, however, that the Notice may accompany:
(i) One or more other Notices;
(ii) A current Statutory Prospectus, Statement of Additional Information, or Notice of internet Availability of Proxy Materials under § 240.14a-16 of this chapter;
(iii) In the case of a Fund held in a separate account funding a variable annuity or variable life insurance contract, such contract or the Statutory Prospectus and Statement of Additional Information for such contract; or
(iv) The shareholder's account statement.
(6) A Notice required by this paragraph (c) will be considered transmitted to a shareholder of record if the conditions set forth in § 270.30e-1(f), § 240.14a-3(e), or § 240.14c-3(c) of this chapter are satisfied with respect to that shareholder.
(d)
Plain English requirements.
(1) To enhance the readability of the Notice, plain English principles must be used in the organization, language, and design of the Notice.
(2) The Notice must be drafted so that, at a minimum, it substantially complies with each of the following plain English writing principles:
(i) Short sentences;
(ii) Definite, concrete, everyday words;
(iii) Active voice;
(iv) Tabular presentation or bullet lists for complex material, whenever possible;
(v) No legal jargon or highly technical business terms; and
(vi) No multiple negatives.
(e)
Delivery of paper copy upon request.
A paper copy of any of the materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be transmitted to any person requesting such a copy, at no cost to the requestor and by U.S. first class mail or other reasonably prompt means, within three business days after a request for a paper copy is received.
(f)
Investor elections to receive future reports in paper.
(1) This section may not be relied upon to transmit a Report to a shareholder if the shareholder has notified the Fund (or the shareholder's financial intermediary) that the shareholder wishes to receive paper copies of shareholder reports at any time after the Fund has first notified the shareholder of its intent to rely on the rule or provided a Notice to the shareholder.
(2) A shareholder who has notified the Fund (or the shareholder's financial intermediary) that the shareholder wishes to receive paper copies of shareholder reports with respect to a Fund will be deemed to have requested paper copies of shareholder reports with respect to:
(i) Any and all current and future Funds held through an account or accounts with:
(A) The Fund's transfer agent or principal underwriter or agent thereof for the same “group of related investment companies” as such term is defined in § 270.0-10; or
(B) A financial intermediary; and
(ii) Any and all Funds held currently and in the future in a separate account funding a variable annuity or variable life insurance contract.
(g)
Delivery of other documents.
This section may not be relied upon to transmit a copy of a Fund's currently effective Statutory Prospectus or Statement of Additional Information, or both, under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) as otherwise permitted by paragraph (d) of § 270.30e-1.
(h)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Fund means a management company registered on Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a of this chapter) or Form N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter) and any separate series of the management company that is required to transmit a report to shareholders pursuant to 270.30e-1.
(2) Statement of Additional Information means the statement of additional information required by Part B of the applicable registration form.
(3) Statutory Prospectus means a prospectus that satisfies the requirements of section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77(j)(a)).

# Note 1 to § 270.30.e-3:
For a discussion of how the conditions and requirements of this rule may apply in the context of investors holding Fund shares through financial intermediaries, see Investment Company Release No. 33115 (June 5, 2018).
[87 FR 72848, Nov. 25, 2022]
§ 270.30h-1
Applicability of section 16 of the Exchange Act to section 30(h).
(a) The filing of any statement prescribed under section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78p(a)) shall satisfy the corresponding requirements of section 30(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h)).
(b) The rules under section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78p) shall apply to any duty, liability or prohibition imposed with respect to a transaction involving any security of a registered closed-end company under section 30(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h)).
(c) No statements need be filed pursuant to section 30(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h)) by an affiliated person of an investment adviser in his or her capacity as such if such person is solely an employee, other than an officer, of such investment adviser.
[67 FR 43537, June 28, 2002]
§ 270.31a-1
Records to be maintained by registered investment companies, certain majority-owned subsidiaries thereof, and other persons having transactions with registered investment companies.
(a) Every registered investment company, and every underwriter, broker, dealer, or investment adviser which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such a company, shall maintain and keep current the accounts, books, and other documents relating to its business which constitute the record forming the basis for financial statements required to be filed pursuant to section 30 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and of the auditor's certificates relating thereto.
(b) Every registered investment company shall maintain and keep current the following books, accounts, and other documents:
(1) Journals (or other records of original entry) containing an itemized daily record in detail of all purchases and sales of securities (including sales and redemptions of its own securities), all receipts and deliveries of securities (including certificate numbers if such detail is not recorded by custodian or transfer agent), all receipts and disbursements of cash and all other debits and credits. Such records shall show for each such transaction the name and quantity of securities, the unit and aggregate purchase or sale price, commission paid, the market on which effected, the trade date, the settlement date, and the name of the person through or from whom purchased or received or to whom sold or delivered. In the case of a money market fund, also identify the provider of any Demand Feature or Guarantee (as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(9) or § 270.2a-7(a)(16) respectively) and give a brief description of the nature of the Demand Feature or Guarantee (e.g., unconditional demand feature, conditional demand feature, letter of credit, or bond insurance) and, in a subsidiary portfolio investment record, provide the complete legal name and accounting and other information (including sufficient information to calculate coupons, accruals, maturities, puts, and calls) necessary to identify, value, and account for each investment.
(2) General and auxiliary ledgers (or other records) reflecting all assets, liability, reserve, capital, income and expense accounts, including:
(i) Separate ledger accounts (or other records) reflecting the following:
(
a
) Securities in transfer;
(
b
) Securities in physical possession;
(
c
) Securities borrowed and securities loaned;
(
d
) Monies borrowed and monies loaned (together with a record of the collateral therefor and substitutions in such collateral);
(
e
) Dividends and interest received;
(
f
) Dividends receivable and interest accrued.

# Instruction.
(a) and (b) of this subdivision shall be stated in terms of securities quantities only; (c) and (d) of this subdivision shall be stated in dollar amounts and securities quantities as appropriate; (e) and (f) of this subdivision shall be stated in dollar amounts only.
(ii) Separate ledger accounts (or other records) for each portfolio security, showing (as of trade dates) (
a
) the quantity and unit and aggregate price for each purchase, sale, receipt, and delivery of securities and commodities for such accounts, and (
b
) all other debits and credits for such accounts. Securities positions and money balances in such ledger accounts (or other records) shall be brought forward periodically but not less frequently than at the end of fiscal quarters. Any portfolio security, the salability of which is conditioned, shall be so noted. A memorandum record shall be available setting forth, with respect to each portfolio security account, the amount and declaration ex-dividend, and payment dates of each dividend declared thereon.
(iii) Separate ledger accounts (or other records) for each broker-dealer bank or other person with or through which transactions in portfolio securities are effected, showing each purchase or sale of securities with or through such persons, including details as to the date of the purchase or sale, the quantity and unit and aggregate price of such securities, and the commissions or other compensation paid to such persons. Purchases or sales effected during the same day at the same price may be aggregated.
(iv) Separate ledger accounts (or other records), which may be maintained by a transfer agent or registrar, showing for each shareholder of record of the investment company the number of shares of capital stock of the company held. In respect of share accumulation accounts (arising from periodic investment plans, dividend reinvestment plans, deposit of issued shares by the owner thereof, etc.), details shall be available as to the dates and number of shares of each accumulation, and except with respect to already issued shares deposited by the owner thereof, prices of each such accumulation.
(3) A securities record or ledger reflecting separately for each portfolio security as of trade date all “long” and “short” positions carried by the investment company for its own account and showing the location of all securities long and the off-setting position to all securities short. The record called for by this paragraph shall not be required in circumstances under which all portfolio securities are maintained by a bank or banks or a member or members of a national securities exchange as custodian under a custody agreement or as agent for such custodian.
(4) Corporate charters, certificates of incorporation or trust agreements, and by-laws, and minute books of stockholders' and directors' or trustees' meetings; and minute books of directors' or trustees' committee and advisory board or advisory committee meetings.
(5) A record of each brokerage order given by or in behalf of the investment company for, or in connection with, the purchase or sale of securities, whether executed or unexecuted. Such record shall include the name of the broker, the terms and conditions of the order and of any modification or cancellation thereof, the time of entry or cancellation, the price at which executed, and the time of receipt of report of execution. The record shall indicate the name of the person who placed the order in behalf of the investment company.
(6) A record of all other portfolio purchases or sales showing details comparable to those prescribed in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(7) A record of all puts, calls, spreads, straddles, and other options in which the investment company has any direct or indirect interest or which the investment company has granted or guaranteed; and a record of any contractual commitments to purchase, sell, receive or deliver securities or other property (but not including open
orders placed with broker-dealers for the purchase or sale of securities, which may be cancelled by the company on notices without penalty or cost of any kind); containing, at least, an identification of the security, the number of units involved, the option price, the date of maturity, the date of issuance, and the person to whom issued.
(8) A record of the proof of money balances in all ledger accounts (except shareholder accounts), in the form of trial balances. Such trial balances shall be prepared currently at least once a month.
(9) A record for each fiscal quarter, which shall be completed within ten days after the end of such quarter, showing specifically the basis or bases upon which the allocation of orders for the purchase and sale of portfolio securities to named brokers or dealers and the division of brokerage commissions or other compensation on such purchase and sale orders among named persons were made during such quarter. The record shall indicate the consideration given to (i) sales of shares of the investment company by brokers or dealers, (ii) the supplying of services or benefits by brokers or dealers to the investment company, its investment adviser or principal underwriter or any persons affiliated therewith, and (iii) any other considerations other than the technical qualifications of the brokers and dealers as such. The record shall show the nature of the services or benefits made available, and shall describe in detail the application of any general or specific formula or other determinant used in arriving at such allocation of purchase and sale orders and such division of brokerage commissions or other compensation. The record shall also include the identities of the persons responsible for the determination of such allocation and such division of brokerage commissions or other compensation.
(10) A record in the form of an appropriate memorandum identifying the person or persons, committees, or groups authorizing the purchase or sale of portfolio securities. Where an authorization is made by a committee or group, a record shall be kept of the names of its members who participated in the authorization. There shall be retained as part of the record required by this paragraph any memorandum, recommendation, or instruction supporting or authorizing the purchase or sale of portfolio securities. The requirements of this paragraph are applicable to the extent they are not met by compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(11) Files of all advisory material received from the investment adviser, any advisory board or advisory committee, or any other persons from whom the investment company accepts investment advice, other than material which is furnished solely through uniform publications distributed generally.
(12) The term “other records” as used in the expressions “journals (or other records of original entry)” and “ledger accounts (or other records)” shall be construed to include, where appropriate, copies of voucher checks, confirmations, or similar documents which reflect the information required by the applicable rule or rules in appropriate sequence and in permanent form, including similar records developed by the use of automatic data processing systems.
(13)(i) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(a)(1);
(ii) The written documentation of any detected unauthorized access to or use of customer information, as well as any response to, and recovery from such unauthorized access to or use of customer information required by § 248.30(a)(3);
(iii) The written documentation of any investigation and determination made regarding whether notification is required pursuant to § 248.30(a)(4), including the basis for any determination made, any written documentation from the United States Attorney General related to a delay in notice, as well as a copy of any notice transmitted following such determination;
(iv) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(a)(5)(i);
(v) The written documentation of any contract or agreement entered into pursuant to § 248.30(a)(5); and
(vi) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(b)(2).
(c) Every underwriter, broker, or dealer which is a majority-owned subsidiary of a registered investment company shall maintain in the form prescribed therein such accounts, books and other documents as are required to be maintained by brokers and dealers by rule adopted under section 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(d) Every depositer of any registered investment company, and every principal underwriter for any registered investment company other than a closed-end investment company, shall maintain such accounts, books and other documents as are required to be maintained by brokers and dealers by rule adopted under section 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to the extent such records are necessary or appropriate to record such person's transactions with such registered investment company.
(e) Every investment advisor which is a majority-owned subsidiary of a registered investment company shall maintain in the form prescribed therein such accounts, books and other documents as are required to be maintained by registered investment advisers by rule adopted under section 204 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(f) Every investment adviser not a majority-owned subsidiary of a registered investment company shall maintain such accounts, books and other documents as are required to be maintained by registered investment advisers by rule adopted under section 204 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, to the extent such records are necessary or appropriate to record such person's transactions with such registered investment company.
(Sec. 31, 54 Stat. 838; 15 U.S.C. 80a-30)
[27 FR 11993, Dec. 5, 1962, as amended at 61 FR 13983, Mar. 28, 1996; 62 FR 64986, Dec. 9, 1997; 79 FR 47968, Aug. 14, 2014; 80 FR 58155, Sept. 25, 2015; 89 FR 47789, June 3, 2024]
§ 270.31a-2
Records to be preserved by registered investment companies, certain majority-owned subsidiaries thereof, and other persons having transactions with registered investment companies.
(a) Every registered investment company shall:
(1) Preserve permanently, the first two years in an easily accessible place, all books and records required to be made pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (4) of § 270.31a-1(b);
(2) Preserve for a period not less than six years from the end of the fiscal year in which any transaction occurred, the first two years in an easily accessible place, all books and records required to be made pursuant to § 270.31a-1(b)(5) through (12) and all vouchers, memoranda, correspondence, checkbooks, bank statements, cancelled checks, cash reconciliation, cancelled stock certificates, and all schedules evidencing and supporting each computation of net asset value of the investment company shares, including schedules evidencing and supporting each computation of an adjustment to net asset value of the investment company shares based on swing pricing policies and procedures established and implemented pursuant to § 270.22c-1(a)(3), all schedules evidencing and supporting each computation of a liquidity fee by a money market fund pursuant to § 270.2a-7(c)(2), and other documents required to be maintained by § 270.31a-1(a) and not enumerated in § 270.31a-1(b).
(3) Preserve for a period not less than 6 years from the end of the fiscal year last used, the first 2 years in an easily accessible place, any advertisement, pamphlet, circular, form letter or other sales literature addressed to or intended for distribution to prospective investors;
(4) Preserve for a period not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, any record of the initial determination that a director is not an interested person of the investment company, and each subsequent determination that the director is not an interested person of the investment company. These records must include any questionnaire and any other document used to determine that a director
is not an interested person of the company;
(5) Preserve for a period not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, any materials used by the disinterested directors of an investment company to determine that a person who is acting as legal counsel to those directors is an independent legal counsel;
(6) Preserve for a period not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, any documents or other written information considered by the directors of the investment company pursuant to section 15(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-15(c)) in approving the terms or renewal of a contract or agreement between the company and an investment adviser; and
(7) Preserve for a period not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, any shareholder report required by § 270.30e-1 (including any version posted on a website or otherwise provided electronically) that is not filed with the Commission in the exact form in which it was used; and
(8) Preserve for a period not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, the records required by § 270.31a-1(b)(13) apart from any policies and procedures thereunder and, in the case of policies and procedures required under § 270.31a-1(b)(13), preserve a copy of such policies and procedures in effect, or that at any time within the past six years were in effect, in an easily accessible place.
(b) Every underwriter, broker, or dealer which is a majority-owned subsidiary of a registered investment company shall preserve for the periods prescribed therein such accounts, books and other documents as are required to be preserved by brokers and dealers by rule adopted under section 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(c) Every depositor of any registered investment company, and every principal underwriter for any registered investment company other than a closed-end company, shall preserve for a period of not less than six years such accounts, books and other documents as are required to be maintained by brokers and dealers by rule adopted under section 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to the extent such records are necessary or appropriate to record such person's transactions with such registered investment company.
(d) Every investment adviser which is a majority-owned subsidiary of a registered investment company shall preserve for the periods prescribed therein such accounts, books and other documents as are required to be preserved by investment advisers by rule adopted under section 204 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(e) Every investment adviser not a majority-owned subsidiary of a registered investment company shall preserve for a period of not less than six years such accounts, books and other documents as are required to be maintained by registered investment advisers by rule adopted under section 204 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, to the extent such records are necessary or appropriate to record such person's transactions with such registered investment company.
(f)
Micrographic and electronic storage permitted
—(1)
General.
The records required to be maintained and preserved under this part may be maintained and preserved for the required time by, or on behalf of, an investment company on:
(i) Micrographic media, including microfilm, microfiche, or any similar medium; or
(ii) Electronic storage media, including any digital storage medium or system that meets the terms of this section.
(2)
General requirements.
The investment company, or person that maintains and preserves records on its behalf, must:
(i) Arrange and index the records in a way that permits easy location, access, and retrieval of any particular record;
(ii) Provide promptly any of the following that the Commission (by its examiners or other representatives) or the directors of the company may request:
(A) A legible, true, and complete copy of the record in the medium and format in which it is stored;
(B) A legible, true, and complete printout of the record; and
(C) Means to access, view, and print the records; and
(iii) Separately store, for the time required for preservation of the original record, a duplicate copy of the record on any medium allowed by this section.
(3)
Special requirements for electronic storage media.
In the case of records on electronic storage media, the investment company, or person that maintains and preserves records on its behalf, must establish and maintain procedures:
(i) To maintain and preserve the records, so as to reasonably safeguard them from loss, alteration, or destruction;
(ii) To limit access to the records to properly authorized personnel, the directors of the investment company, and the Commission (including its examiners and other representatives); and
(iii) To reasonably ensure that any reproduction of a non-electronic original record on electronic storage media is complete, true, and legible when retrieved.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, any record, book or other document may be destroyed in accordance with a plan previously submitted to and approved by the Commission. A plan shall be deemed to have been approved by the Commission if notice to the contrary has not been received within 90 days after submission of the plan to the Commission.
[27 FR 11994, Dec. 5, 1962, as amended at 38 FR 7797, Mar. 26, 1973; 51 FR 42209, Nov. 24, 1986; 53 FR 3880, Feb. 10, 1988; 66 FR 3759, Jan. 16, 2001; 66 FR 29228, May 30, 2001; 69 FR 46390, Aug. 2, 2004; 81 FR 82138, Nov. 18, 2016; 87 FR 72850, Nov. 25, 2022; 88 FR 51523, Aug. 3, 2023; 89 FR 47789, June 3, 2024]
§ 270.31a-3
Records prepared or maintained by other than person required to maintain and preserve them.
(a) If the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to the provisions of §§ 270.31a-1 and 270.31a-2 are prepared or maintained by others on behalf of the person required to maintain and preserve such records, the person required to maintain and preserve such records shall obtain from such other person an agreement in writing to the effect that such records are the property of the person required to maintain and preserve such records and will be surrendered promptly on request.
(b) In cases where a bank or member of a national securities exchange acts as custodian, transfer agent, or dividend disbursing agent, compliance with this section shall be considered to have been met if such bank or exchange member agrees in writing to make any records relating to such service available upon request and to preserve for the periods prescribed in § 270.31a-2 any such records as are required to be maintained by § 270.31a-1.
(Sec. 31, 54 Stat. 838; 15 U.S.C. 80a-30)
[27 FR 11994, Dec. 5, 1962]
§ 270.31a-4
Records to be maintained and preserved by registered investment companies relating to fair value determinations.
(a)
Appropriate documentation.
Every registered investment company shall maintain appropriate documentation to support fair value determinations made pursuant to § 270.2a-5 for at least six years from the time that the determination was made, the first two years in an easily accessible place.
(b)
Records when designating.
If the board of a registered investment company has designated performance of fair value determinations to a valuation designee under § 270.2a-5(b), in addition to the records required in paragraph (a) of this section, the registered investment company must maintain copies of:
(1) The reports and other information provided to the board as required under § 270.2a-5(b)(1) for at least six years after the end of the fiscal year in which the documents were provided to the board, the first two years in an easily accessible place; and
(2) A specified list of the investments or investment types whose fair value determination has been designated to the valuation designee to perform pursuant to § 270.2a-5(b) for a period beginning with the designation and ending at least six years after the end of the fiscal year in which the designation was terminated, in an easily accessible place until two years after such termination.
(c)
Party to maintain.
If the board of a registered investment company has
designated performance of fair value determinations to its investment adviser under § 270.2a-5(b), such investment adviser shall maintain the records required by this section. If the investment adviser is not so designated, the fund shall maintain such records.
[86 FR 808, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 270.32a-1
Exemption of certain companies from affiliation provisions of section 32(a).
A registered investment company shall be exempt from the provisions of paragraph (1) of section 32(a) of the Act (54 Stat. 838; 15 U.S.C. 80a-31), insofar as said paragraph requires that independent public accountants for such company be selected by a majority of certain members of the board of directors, if:
(a) Such company meets the conditions of paragraphs (1) to (8), inclusive, of section 10(d) of the Act (54 Stat. 807; 15 U.S.C. 80a-10); and
(b) Such accountants are selected by a majority of all the members of the board of directors.
[Rule N-32A-1, 6 FR 6631, Dec. 23, 1941, as amended at 87 FR 22446, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 270.32a-2
Exemption for initial period from vote of security holders on independent public accountant for certain registered separate accounts.
(a) A registered separate account shall be exempt from the requirement under paragraph (2) of section 32(a) of the Act that selection of an independent public accountant shall have been submitted for ratification or rejection at the next succeeding annual meeting of security owners, subject to the following conditions:
(1) Such registered separate account qualifies for exemption from section 14(a) of the Act pursuant to § 270.14a-2, or is exempt therefrom by order of the Commission upon application; and
(2) The selection of such accountant shall be submitted for ratification or rejection to variable annuity contract owners at their first meeting after the effective date of the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), relating to contracts participating in such account:
Provided,
That such meeting shall take place within 1 year after such effective date, unless the time for the holding of such meeting shall be extended by the Commission upon written request showing good cause therefor.
(Sec. 6, 54 Stat. 800; 15 U.S.C. 80a-6)
[34 FR 12696, Aug. 5, 1969]
§ 270.32a-3
Exemption from provision of section 32(a)(1) regarding the time period during which a registered management investment company must select an independent public accountant.
(a) A registered management investment company (“company”) organized in a jurisdiction that does not require it to hold regular annual meetings of its stockholders, and which does not hold a regular annual stockholders' meeting in a given fiscal year, shall be exempt in that fiscal year from the requirement of section 32(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-31(a)(1)) that the independent public accountant (“accountant”) be selected at a board of directors meeting held within 30 days before or after the beginning of the fiscal year or before the annual meeting of stockholders in that year,
provided,
that such company is either:
(1) In a set of investment companies as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, if not all the members of such set have an identical fiscal year end and if such company selects an accountant at a board of directors meeting held within 90 days before or after the beginning of that fiscal year; or
(2) Not in a set of investment companies, or is in a set, each of whose members has the same fiscal year end, and if such company selects an accountant at a board of directors meeting held within 30 days before or 90 days after the beginning of that fiscal year.
(b) For purposes of this rule, “set of investment companies” means any two or more registered management investment companies that hold themselves out to investors as related companies for purposes of investment and investor services, and
(1) That have a common investment adviser or principal underwriter, or
(2) If the investment adviser or principal underwriter of one of the companies is an affiliated person as defined in section 2(a)(3)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(3)(C)) of the investment adviser or principal underwriter of each of the other companies.
[54 FR 31332, July 28, 1989]
§ 270.32a-4
Independent audit committees.
A registered management investment company or a registered face-amount certificate company is exempt from the requirement of section 32(a)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-32(a)(2)) that the selection of the company's independent public accountant be submitted for ratification or rejection at the next succeeding annual meeting of shareholders, if:
(a) The company's board of directors has established a committee, composed solely of directors who are not interested persons of the company, that has responsibility for overseeing the fund's accounting and auditing processes (“audit committee”);
(b) The company's board of directors has adopted a charter for the audit committee setting forth the committee's structure, duties, powers, and methods of operation or set forth such provisions in the fund's charter or bylaws; and
(c) The company maintains and preserves permanently in an easily accessible place a copy of the audit committee's charter and any modification to the charter.
[66 FR 3759, Jan. 16, 2001]
§ 270.34b-1
Sales literature deemed to be misleading.
Any advertisement, pamphlet, circular, form letter, or other sales literature addressed to or intended for distribution to prospective investors that is required to be filed with the Commission by section 24(b) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-24(b)] (for purposes of paragraph (a) and (b) of this section, “sales literature”) will have omitted to state a fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein not materially misleading unless the sales literature includes the information specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Any registered investment company or business development company advertisement, pamphlet, circular, form letter, or other sales literature addressed to or intended for distribution to prospective investors in connection with a public offering (for purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, “sales literature”) will have omitted to state a fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not materially misleading unless the sales literature includes the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

# Note 1 to § 270.34
b

# -1 Introductory Text:
The fact that the sales literature includes the information specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section does not relieve the investment company, underwriter, or dealer of any obligations with respect to the sales literature under the antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws. For guidance about factors to be weighed in determining whether statements, representations, illustrations, and descriptions contained in investment company sales literature are misleading,
see
§ 230.156 of this chapter.
(a) Sales literature for a money market fund shall contain the information required by paragraph (b)(4) of § 230.482 of this chapter, presented in the manner required by paragraph (b)(5) of § 230.482 of this chapter.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section:
(i) In any sales literature that contains performance data for an investment company, include the disclosure required by paragraph (b)(3) of § 230.482 of this chapter, presented in the manner required by paragraph (b)(5) of § 230.482 of this chapter.
(ii) In any sales literature for a money market fund:
(A) Accompany any quotation of yield or similar quotation purporting to demonstrate the income earned or distributions made by the money market fund with a quotation of current yield specified by paragraph (e)(1)(i) of § 230.482 of this chapter;
(B) Accompany any quotation of the money market fund's tax equivalent yield or tax equivalent effective yield with a quotation of current yield as specified in § 230.482(d)(1)(iii) of this chapter; and
(C) Accompany any quotation of the money market fund's total return with
a quotation of the money market fund's current yield specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of § 230.482 of this chapter. Place the quotations of total return and current yield next to each other, in the same size print, and if there is a material difference between the quoted total return and the quoted current yield, include a statement that the yield quotation more closely reflects the current earnings of the money market fund than the total return quotation.
(iii) In any sales literature for an investment company other than a money market fund that contains performance data:
(A) Include the total return information required by paragraph (d)(3) of § 230.482 of this chapter;
(B) Accompany any quotation of performance adjusted to reflect the effect of taxes (not including a quotation of tax equivalent yield or other similar quotation purporting to demonstrate the tax equivalent yield earned or distributions made by the company) with the quotations of total return specified by paragraph (d)(4) of § 230.482 of this chapter;
(C) If the sales literature (other than sales literature for a company that is permitted under § 270.35d-1(a)(4) to use a name suggesting that the company's distributions are exempt from federal income tax or from both federal and state income tax) represents or implies that the company is managed to limit or control the effect of taxes on company performance, include the quotations of total return specified by paragraph (d)(4) of § 230.482 of this chapter;
(D) Accompany any quotation of yield or similar quotation purporting to demonstrate the income earned or distributions made by the company with a quotation of current yield specified by paragraph (d)(1) of § 230.482 of this chapter; and
(E) Accompany any quotation of tax equivalent yield or other similar quotation purporting to demonstrate the tax equivalent yield earned or distributions made by the company with a quotation of tax equivalent yield specified in paragraph (d)(2) and current yield specified by paragraph (d)(1) of § 230.482 of this chapter.
(2) Any performance data included in sales literature under paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section must meet the currentness requirements of paragraph (g) of § 230.482 of this chapter.
(3) The requirements specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not apply to any quarterly, semi-annual, or annual report to shareholders under Section 30 of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-29] containing performance data for a period commencing no earlier than the first day of the period covered by the report; nor do the requirements of paragraphs (d)(3)(ii), (d)(4)(ii), and (g) of § 230.482 of this chapter apply to any such periodic report containing any other performance data.
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section:
(i) In any sales literature that contains fee and expense figures for a registered investment company or business development company, include the disclosure required by paragraph (i) of § 230.482 of this chapter.
(ii) Any fee and expense information included in sales literature must meet the timeliness requirements of paragraph (j) of § 230.482 of this chapter.
(2) The requirements specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section do not apply to any quarterly, semi-annual, or annual report to shareholders under Section 30 of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-29] or to other reports pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 79m or 78o(d)) containing fee and expense information; nor do the requirements of paragraphs (i) and (j) of § 230.482 of this chapter or paragraph (c)(3) of § 230.433 of this chapter apply to any such report containing fee and expense information.

# Note:
Sales literature (except that of a money market fund) containing a quotation of yield or tax equivalent yield must also contain the total return information. In the case of sales literature, the currentness provisions apply from the date of distribution and not the date of submission for publication.
[58 FR 19055, Apr. 12, 1993; 58 FR 21927, Apr. 26, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 64986, Dec. 9, 1997; 63 FR 13987, Mar. 23, 1998; 66 FR 9018, Feb. 5, 2001; 68 FR 57779, Oct. 6, 2003; 87 FR 72850, Nov. 25, 2022]
§ 270.35d-1
Investment company names.
(a)
Materially deceptive and misleading fund names.
For purposes of section 35(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-34(d)), a materially deceptive and misleading name of a fund includes:
(1)
Names suggesting guarantee or approval by the United States Government.
A name suggesting that the fund or the securities issued by it are guaranteed, sponsored, recommended, or approved by the United States Government or any United States Government agency or instrumentality, including any name that uses the words “guaranteed” or “insured” or similar terms in conjunction with the words “United States” or “U.S. Government.”
(2)
Names suggesting an investment focus.
A name that includes terms suggesting that the fund focuses its investments in: a particular type of investment or investments; a particular industry or group of industries; particular countries or geographic regions; or investments that have, or whose issuers have, particular characteristics (
e.g.,
a name with terms such as “growth” or “value,” or terms indicating that the fund's investment decisions incorporate one or more environmental, social, or governance factors), unless:
(i) The fund has adopted a policy to invest, under normal circumstances, at least 80% of the value of its assets in investments in accordance with the investment focus that the fund's name suggests. For a name suggesting that the fund focuses its investments in a particular country or geographic region, investments that are in accordance with the investment focus that the fund's name suggests are investments that are tied economically to the particular country or geographic region suggested by its name;
(ii) The policy described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section is a fundamental policy, or the fund has adopted a policy to provide the fund's shareholders with at least 60 days' prior notice of any change in the policy described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, and any change in the fund's name that accompanies the change, that meets the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section; and
(iii) Any terms used in the fund's name that suggest that the fund focuses its investments as described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section are consistent with those terms' plain English meaning or established industry use.
(3)
Tax-exempt funds.
A name suggesting that the fund's distributions are exempt from Federal income tax or from both Federal and State income tax, unless:
(i) The fund has adopted a fundamental policy:
(A) To invest, under normal circumstances, at least 80% of the value of its assets in investments the income from which is exempt, as applicable, from Federal income tax or from both Federal and State income tax; or
(B) To invest, under normal circumstances, its assets so that at least 80% of the income that it distributes will be exempt, as applicable, from Federal income tax or from both Federal and State income tax; and
(ii) Any terms used in the fund's name that suggest that the fund invests its assets as described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section are consistent with those terms' plain English meaning or established industry use.
(b)
Operation of policies and related recordkeeping.
(1) The requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(i) and (a)(3)(i) of this section apply at the time a fund invests its assets, provided that:
(i) The fund must review its portfolio investments' inclusion in the fund's 80% basket, as defined in paragraph (g) of this section, at least quarterly. If, subsequent to an investment, the fund identifies that the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(i) of this section, as applicable, are no longer met, the fund must make future investments in a manner that will bring the fund into compliance with those paragraphs as soon as reasonably practicable, and in all circumstances within 90 consecutive days of the fund's identification that those requirements are no longer met;
(ii) If the fund departs from the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(i) of this section, as applicable, in other-than-normal circumstances, the fund must come back into compliance
with the requirements of those paragraphs within 90 consecutive days, measured from the time of the initial departure; and
(iii) A fund may temporarily invest less than 80% of the value of its assets in accordance with the fund's investment focus as otherwise required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(i) of this section, as applicable, to reposition or liquidate the fund's assets in connection with a reorganization, to launch the fund, or when notice of a change in a fund's policy as described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section has been provided to fund shareholders.
(2) For the purpose of determining the fund's compliance with an investment policy adopted under paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section, in addition to any derivatives instrument that the fund includes in its 80% basket because the derivatives instrument provides investment exposure to investments suggested by the fund's name, a fund may include in its 80% basket a derivatives instrument that provides investment exposure to one or more of the market risk factors associated with the investment focus that the fund's name suggests.
(3) A fund must maintain written records documenting its compliance under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable. A fund must maintain written records, at the time a fund invests its assets, documenting: whether the investment the fund makes is included in the fund's 80% basket and, if so, the basis for including such investment in the fund's 80% basket; and the value of the fund's 80% basket, as a percentage of the value of the fund's assets. A fund must maintain written records documenting its review of its portfolio investments' inclusion in the fund's 80% basket, as described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, including whether each investment is included in the fund's 80% basket and the basis for including such investment in the 80% basket. If during the review of portfolio investments' inclusion in the fund's 80% basket or otherwise, the fund identifies that the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(i) of this section, as applicable, are no longer met, the fund must maintain written records documenting: the date this was identified; and the reason for any departure from the policies described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(3)(i) of this section. If the fund departs from the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(i) of this section, as applicable, in other-than-normal circumstances as described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, or as described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the fund must keep records documenting: the date of any departure from the policies described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(3)(i) of this section; and the reason for any such departure (including why the fund determined that circumstances are other-than-normal). A fund must maintain records of any notice sent to the fund's shareholders pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. Written records documenting the fund's compliance under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be maintained for a period of not less than six years following the creation of each required record (or, in the case of notices, following the date the notice was sent), the first two years in an easily accessible place.
(c)
Effect of compliance with policy adopted under paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(i).
A fund name may be materially deceptive or misleading under section 35(d) of the Act even if the fund adopts and implements a policy under paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(i) of this section and otherwise complies with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, as applicable.
(d)
Notice.
A policy to provide a fund's shareholders with notice of a change in a fund's policy as described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section must provide that:
(1) The notice will be provided in plain English separately from any other documents (provided, however, that if the notice is delivered in paper form, it may be provided in the same envelope as other written documents);
(2) The notice will contain the following prominent statement, or similar clear and understandable statement, in bold-face type: “Important Notice Regarding Change in Investment Policy [and Name]”, provided that:
(i) If the notice is provided in paper form, the statement also will appear on
the envelope in which the notice is delivered; and
(ii) If the notice is provided electronically, the statement also will appear on the subject line of the email communication that includes the notice or an equivalent indication of the subject of the communication in other forms of electronic media; and
(3) The notice must describe, as applicable, the fund's policy adopted under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, the nature of the change to the policy, the fund's old and new names, and the effective date of any policy and/or name changes.
(e)
Unit investment trusts.
The requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (a)(3)(i), and (b)(3) of this section shall apply to any unit investment trust (as defined in section 4(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-4(2)) only at the time of initial deposit of portfolio securities.
(f)
Unlisted registered closed-end funds and business development companies.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, if the fund is a closed-end company or business development company, and the fund does not have shares that are listed on a national securities exchange, any policy adopted pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section can be changed only if authorized by the vote of the majority of the outstanding voting securities of such fund unless:
(1) The fund conducts a tender or repurchase offer to allow shareholders to redeem shares, in accordance with all applicable Commission rules, in advance of any change in such policy;
(2) The fund provides the fund's shareholders with at least 60 days' prior notice of any change in such policy in advance of the tender or repurchase offer described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section;
(3) The tender or repurchase offer described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section is not oversubscribed; and
(4) In the event of a tender offer, the fund purchases shares at their net asset value.
(g)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Assets
means net assets, plus the amount of any borrowings for investment purposes. In determining the value of a fund's assets for purposes of this section, a fund must value each derivatives instrument using the instrument's notional amount (which must be converted to 10-year bond equivalents for interest rate derivatives and delta adjusted for options contracts) and must value each physical short position using the value of the asset sold short. The fund may reduce the value of its assets by excluding any cash and cash equivalents, and U.S. Treasury securities with remaining maturities of one year or less, up to the notional amount of the derivatives instrument(s) and the value of asset(s) sold short, and also exclude any closed-out derivatives positions if those positions result in no credit or market exposure to the fund. A fund must exclude from this calculation derivatives instruments used to hedge currency risks associated with one or more specific foreign-currency-denominated equity or fixed-income investments held by the fund, provided that such currency derivatives are entered into and maintained by the fund for hedging purposes and that the notional amounts of such derivatives do not exceed the value of the hedged investments (or the par value thereof, in the case of fixed-income investments) by more than 10 percent.
Derivatives instrument
means any swap, security-based swap, futures contract, forward contract, option, any combination of the foregoing, or any similar instrument.
Eighty percent (80%) basket
means investments that are invested in accordance with the investment focus that the fund's name suggests (or as described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section).
Fund
means a registered investment company or a business development company, including any separate series thereof.
Fundamental policy
means a policy that a fund adopts under section 8(b)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8(b)(3)) or, in the case of a business development company, a policy that is changeable only if authorized by the vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of the fund.
Launch
means a period, not to exceed 180 consecutive days, starting from the date the fund commences operations.
Oversubscribed
means shareholders have tendered or requested repurchase of a greater number of shares than the fund has offered to purchase in accordance with applicable Commission rules.
[88 FR 70509, Dec. 11, 2023]
§ 270.38a-1
Compliance procedures and practices of certain investment companies.
(a) Each registered investment company and business development company (“fund”) must:
(1)
Policies and procedures.
Adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the Federal Securities Laws by the fund, including policies and procedures that provide for the oversight of compliance by each investment adviser, principal underwriter, administrator, and transfer agent of the fund;
(2)
Board approval.
Obtain the approval of the fund's board of directors, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the fund, of the fund's policies and procedures and those of each investment adviser, principal underwriter, administrator, and transfer agent of the fund, which approval must be based on a finding by the board that the policies and procedures are reasonably designed to prevent violation of the Federal Securities Laws by the fund, and by each investment adviser, principal underwriter, administrator, and transfer agent of the fund;
(3)
Annual review.
Review, no less frequently than annually, the adequacy of the policies and procedures of the fund and of each investment adviser, principal underwriter, administrator, and transfer agent and the effectiveness of their implementation;
(4)
Chief compliance officer.
Designate one individual responsible for administering the fund's policies and procedures adopted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
(i) Whose designation and compensation must be approved by the fund's board of directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the fund;
(ii) Who may be removed from his or her responsibilities by action of (and only with the approval of) the fund's board of directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the fund;
(iii) Who must, no less frequently than annually, provide a written report to the board that, at a minimum, addresses:
(A) The operation of the policies and procedures of the fund and each investment adviser, principal underwriter, administrator, and transfer agent of the fund, any material changes made to those policies and procedures since the date of the last report, and any material changes to the policies and procedures recommended as a result of the annual review conducted pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and
(B) Each Material Compliance Matter that occurred since the date of the last report; and
(iv) Who must, no less frequently than annually, meet separately with the fund's independent directors.
(b)
Unit investment trusts.
If the fund is a unit investment trust, the fund's principal underwriter or depositor must approve the fund's policies and procedures and chief compliance officer, must receive all annual reports, and must approve the removal of the chief compliance officer from his or her responsibilities.
(c)
Undue influence prohibited.
No officer, director, or employee of the fund, its investment adviser, or principal underwriter, or any person acting under such person's direction may directly or indirectly take any action to coerce, manipulate, mislead, or fraudulently influence the fund's chief compliance officer in the performance of his or her duties under this section.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
The fund must maintain:
(1) A copy of the policies and procedures adopted by the fund under paragraph (a)(1) that are in effect, or at any time within the past five years were in effect, in an easily accessible place; and
(2) Copies of materials provided to the board of directors in connection with their approval under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and written reports provided to the board of directors pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this
section (or, if the fund is a unit investment trust, to the fund's principal underwriter or depositor, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section) for at least five years after the end of the fiscal year in which the documents were provided, the first two years in an easily accessible place; and
(3) Any records documenting the fund's annual review pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section for at least five years after the end of the fiscal year in which the annual review was conducted, the first two years in an easily accessible place.
(e)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Federal Securities Laws
means the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a-aa), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a-mm), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745 (2002)), the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a), the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b), Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (Pub. L. No. 106-102, 113 Stat. 1338 (1999), any rules adopted by the Commission under any of these statutes, the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5311-5314; 5316-5332) as it applies to funds, and any rules adopted thereunder by the Commission or the Department of the Treasury.
(2) A
Material Compliance Matter
means any compliance matter about which the fund's board of directors would reasonably need to know to oversee fund compliance, and that involves, without limitation:
(i) A violation of the Federal securities laws by the fund, its investment adviser, principal underwriter, administrator or transfer agent (or officers, directors, employees or agents thereof),
(ii) A violation of the policies and procedures of the fund, its investment adviser, principal underwriter, administrator or transfer agent, or
(iii) A weakness in the design or implementation of the policies and procedures of the fund, its investment adviser, principal underwriter, administrator or transfer agent.
[68 FR 74729, Dec. 24, 2003]
§ 270.45a-1
Confidential treatment of names and addresses of dealers of registered investment company securities.
(a) Exhibits calling for the names and addresses of dealers to or through whom principal underwriters of registered investment companies are currently offering securities and which are required to be furnished with registration statements filed pursuant to section 8(b) of the Act (54 Stat. 804; 15 U.S.C. 80a-8), or periodic reports filed pursuant to section 30(a) or section 30(b)(1) of the Act (54 Stat. 836; 15 U.S.C. 80a-30), shall be the subject of confidential treatment and shall not be made available to the public, except that the Commission may by order make such exhibits available to the public if, after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing, it finds that public disclosure of such material is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(b) The exhibits referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall be filed in quadruplicate with the Commission at the time the registration statement or periodic report is filed. Such exhibits shall be enclosed in a separate envelope marked “Confidential Treatment” and addressed to the Chairman, Securities and Executive Commission, Washington, DC. Confidential treatment requests shall be submitted in paper only, whether or not the registrant is required to file in electronic format.
[Rule N-45A-1, 7 FR 197, Jan. 10, 1942, as amended at 20 FR 7036, Sept. 20, 1955; 58 FR 14860, Mar. 18, 1993]
§ 270.55a-1
Investment activities of business development companies.
Notwithstanding section 55(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-54(a)), a business development company may acquire securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from an issuer, or from any person who is an officer or employee of the issuer, if the issuer meets the requirements of sections 2(a)(46)(A) and (B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(46)(A) and (B)), but the issuer is not an eligible portfolio company because it does not meet the requirements of § 270.2a-46, and the business development company meets the
requirements of paragraphs (i) and (ii) of section 55(a)(1)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-54(a)(1)(B)(i) and (ii)).
[71 FR 64092, Oct. 31, 2006]
§ 270.57b-1
Exemption for downstream affiliates of business development companies.
Notwithstanding subsection (b)(2) of section 57 of the Act, the provisions of subsection (a) of that section shall not apply to any person (a) solely because that person is directly or indirectly controlled by a business development company or (b) solely because that person is, within the meaning of section 2(a)(3) (C) or (D) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(3) (C) or (D)], an affiliated person of a person described in (a) of this section.
[46 FR 16674, Mar. 13, 1981]
§ 270.60a-1
Exemption for certain business development companies.
Section 12(d)(1) (A) and (C) of the Act shall not apply to the acquisition by a business development company of the securities of a small business investment company licensed to do business under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 which is operated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the business development company.
[46 FR 16674, Mar. 13, 1981]
Pt. 271

# PART 271—INTERPRETATIVE RELEASES RELATING TO THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 AND GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS THEREUNDER

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 80a
et seq.
Subject
Release No.
Date
Fed. Reg. Vol. and Page
Statement of the Commission respecting distinctions between the reporting requirements of section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and section 30(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940
12
Nov. 16, 1940
11 FR 10991.
Letter of General Counsel relating to sections(b) and 26(c)
69
Feb. 19, 1941
Do.
Letter of the Director of the Investment Company Division relating to section 19 and Rule N-19-1 (17 CFR, 270.19a-1)
71
Feb. 21, 1941
Do.
Statement by the Commission relating to section 23(c)(3) and Rule N-23C-1 (17 CFR, 270.23c-1)
78
Mar. 4, 1941
Do.
Letter of General Counsel relating to section 22(d)
87
Mar. 14, 1941
11 FR 10992.
Letter of General Counsel relating to section 22(d)
89
Mar. 13, 1941
Do.
Letter of General Counsel relating to section 24(b)
150
June 20, 1941
Do.
Opinion of General Counsel relating to sections 8(b)(1) and 13(a)
167
July 23, 1941
11 FR 10993.
Letter of General Counsel relating to section 10(a)
214
Sept. 15, 1941
11 FR 10994.
Extract from letter of the Director of the Corporation Finance Division relating to sections 20 and 34(b)
446
Feb. 5, 1943
Do.
Excerpts from letters of the Director of the Corporation Finance Division relating to section 14 and Schedule 14A under Regulation X-14
448
Feb. 17, 1943
Do.
Letter of the Director of the Corporation Finance Division relating to section 20 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and to Rule X-14A-7 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (17 CFR, 240.14a-7)
735
Jan. 3, 1945
11 FR 10995.
Statement of the Commission on the offering of common stock to the public at a per share price substantially in excess of the net asset value of the stock
3187
Feb. 6, 1961
26 FR 1275.
Opinion of the Commission that “Equity Funding,” “Secured Funding,” or “Life Funding” constitutes an investment contract and when publicly offered is required to be registered under the Securities Act of 1933
3480
May 22, 1962
27 FR 5190.
Statement of the Commission advising all registered investment companies to divest themselves of interest and securities acquired in contravention of the provisions of section 12(d)(3) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 within a reasonable period of time
3542
Sept. 21, 1962
27 FR 9652.
Statement of the Commission advising any closed-end investment company contemplating repurchase of its own shares to consult with the Division of Corporate re nature of disclosure to be made to security holders
3548
Oct. 3, 1962
27 FR 9987.
Opinion and statement of the Commission in regard to proper reporting of deferred income taxes arising from installment sales
4426
Dec. 7, 1965
30 FR 15420.
Statement of the Commission to clarify the meaning of “beneficial ownership of securities” as relates to beneficial ownership of securities held by family members
4483
Jan. 19, 1966
31 FR 1005.
Statement of the Commission setting the date of May 1, 1966 after which filings must reflect beneficial ownership of securities held by family members
4516
Feb. 14, 1966
31 FR 3175.
Staff interpretative and no-action positions relating to property rights of an investment company and its investment adviser in the company's name and to the status of arrangement funding qualified Self-Employed Individual's Retirement Plans with life insurance contracts and investment company securities. The staff's comments do not purport to be an official expression of the Commission
5510
Oct. 8, 1968
33 FR 15650.
Statement of the Director of the Commission's Division of Corporate Regulation re the filing of supplements to investment company prospectuses under the Securities Act of 1933 as a result of changes in stock exchange rules effective December 5, 1968 relating to “customer-directed give ups”
5554
Dec. 3, 1968
33 FR 18576.
Interpretative positions of the Division of Corporate Regulation on questions relating to Rule 22c-1 which was adopted Oct. 16, 1968; text of questions and answers
5569
Dec. 27, 1968
34 FR 382.
Statement of the Commission setting forth emergency procedures adopted by the Division of Corporate Regulation to expedite processing of registration statements, amendments, and proxy statements
5632
Mar. 12, 1969
34 FR 5547.
Letter by Philip A. Loomis, Jr., General Counsel for the Commission, explaining obligations of mutual fund managements and brokers with respect to commissions on portfolio brokerage of mutual funds
Nov. 10, 1969
34 FR 18543.
Commission's statement discussing restricted securities
5847
Oct. 21, 1969
35 FR 19989.
Commission's statement that disclosure requirements set forth in release of October 21, 1969 will be applied to lists of portfolio securities set forth not only in registration statements but also in reports to the Commission and to shareholders, in sales literature and in proxy statements
6026
Apr. 13, 1970
35 FR 19991.
Publication of the Commission's guidelines re applicability of Federal securities law to offer and sale outside the U.S. of shares of registered open-end investment companies
6082
June 23, 1970
36 FR 12103.
Statement of the Commission reminding reporting companies of obligation re Commission's rules to file reports on a timely basis
6209
Oct. 15, 1970
35 FR 16733.
Commission's views relating to important questions re the accounting by registered investment companies for investment securities in their financial statements and in the periodic computations of net asset value for the purpose of pricing their shares
6295
Dec. 23, 1970
35 FR 19986.
Publication of the Commission's procedure to be followed if requests are to be met for no action or interpretative letters and responses thereto to be made available for public use
6330
Jan. 25, 1971
36 FR 2600.
First in a series of statements by the Commission alerting registered companies, their counsel, and other interested persons re certain changes made in the Investment Company Act of 1940 by Pub. L. 91-547 (1970 Act) such as approval of investment advisory contracts which should be considered in connection with 1971 annual meetings
6336
Feb. 2, 1971
36 FR 2867.
The Commission's views on the purchase, redemption, or repurchase of fund shares
6366
Mar. 5, 1971
36 FR 4978.
Second in a series of statements by the Commission calling attention to some important provisions of Pub. L. 91-547 (1970 Act) which in this case require companies that issue periodic payment plans and face-amount certificates to take certain actions
6392
Mar. 19, 1971
36 FR 5840.
Third in a series of statements by the Commission on problems arising under Pub. L. 91-547 (1970 Act) re registration and regulation of insurance company separate accounts used as funding vehicles for certain employee stock bonus, pension and profit sharing plans
6430
Apr. 2, 1971
36 FR 7897.
Publication by the Commission of certain important amendments relating to the repeal and modification of certain exemptions by the Investment Company Amendments Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-547) and to the pyramiding of investment companies and the regulation of fund holding companies under the same act
6440
Apr. 6, 1971
36 FR 8729.
Commission's statement on amendments contained in Pub. L. 91-547 concerning policies of a registered investment company; ineligibility of certain persons to serve as employees of a registered company; legal standards for investment company reorganizations of unit investment trusts; and filing of certain legal documents with the Commission
6506
May 5, 1971
36 FR 9130.
Commission's interpretative position relating to judiciary duty of Directors of a Registered Investment Company
6480
May 10, 1971
36 FR 9627.
Commission's issuance of guidelines for additional disclosures for contractual plan prospectuses concerning new refund and election provisions of the Investment Company Amendments Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-547)
6568
June 11, 1971
36 FR 12164.
Commission's guidelines relating to checking accounts established by investment companies having bank custodians
6863
Jan. 29, 1972
37 FR 1474.
Commission endorses the establishment by all publicly held companies of audit committees composed of outside directors
7091
Apr. 5, 1972
37 FR 6850.
Commission's statement of factors to be considered in connection with investment company advisory contracts containing incentive arrangements
7113
Apr. 19, 1972
37 FR 7690.
Applicability of Commission's policy statement on the future structure of securities markets to selection of brokers and payment of commissions by institutional managers
7170
May 18, 1972
37 FR 9988.
Commission's statement and policy on misleading pro rata stock distributions to shareholders
7204
June 9, 1972
37 FR 11559.
Commission's guidelines prepared by the Division of Corporate Regulation for use in preparing and filing registration statements for open-end and closed-end management investment companies on Forms S-4 and S-5
7220
June 9, 1972
37 FR 12790.
Guidelines prepared by the Commission's Division of Corporate Regulation for use in preparation and filing of registration statements for both open-end and closed-end management investment companies on Form N-8B-1
7221
June 9, 1972
37 FR 12790.
Commission's guidelines on independence of certifying accountants; example cases and Commission's conclusions
7264
July 5, 1972
37 FR 14294.
Commission's decisions on advisory committee recommendations regarding commencement of enforcement proceedings and termination of staff investigations
7390
Mar. 1, 1973
38 FR 5457.
Commission's interpretation of risk-sharing in pooling-of-interest accounting
7395
Oct. 5, 1972
37 FR 20937.
Amendment of previous interpretation (AS-130) of risk-sharing test in pooling-of-interest accounting
7606
Jan. 18, 1973
38 FR 1734.
Commission expresses concern with failure of issuers to timely file periodic and current reports
7856
July 10, 1973
38 FR 18366.
Commission's conclusion as to certain problems relating to the effect of treasury stock transaction on accounting for business combinations
7955
Sept. 10, 1973
38 FR 24635.
Commission request for comments on Accounting Series Release No. 146
8025
Oct. 17, 1973
38 FR 28819.
Commission's statement on procedure to be followed upon issuance of a notice pursuant to Rule 0-5
8236
Mar. 7, 1974
39 FR 8916.
Commission's statement of policy and interpretations
7955A
Apr. 12, 1974
39 FR 14588.
Commission's views on business combinations involving open-end investment companies
8410
July 3, 1974
39 FR 26719.
Commission's guidelines for filings related to extractive reserves and natural gas supplies
8433
July 22, 1974
39 FR 28520.
Commission's statement on two-tier real estate investment companies
8456
Sept. 5, 1974
39 FR 32129.
Division of Investment Management Regulation Interpretive Position Relating to Rule 22c-1
8752
Apr. 24, 1975
40 FR 17986.
Commission's guidelines in Accounting Series Release No. 148
8819
June 13, 1975
40 FR 27441.
Commission's guidelines for filing of application for Order permitting registration of foreign investment companies
8959
Oct. 2, 1975
40 FR 45424.
Commission's statements of investment policies of money market funds relating to industry concentration
9011
Oct. 30, 1975
40 FR 54241.
Procedures for filing and processing registration statements and post-effective amendments filed by registered investment companies
9426
Sept. 13, 1976
41 FR 39012.
41 FR 46851.
Valuation of debt instruments by money market funds and certain other open end investment companies
9786
May 31, 1977
42 FR 28999.
Rescission of certain accounting series releases
9817
June 15, 1977
42 FR 33282.
Withdrawal of undertaking required of investment companies
9889
Aug. 12, 1977
42 FR 42196.
Disclosure of management remuneration
9900
Aug. 18, 1977
42 FR 43058;
42 FR 46047.
Bearing of distribution expenses by mutual funds
9915
Aug. 31, 1977
42 FR 44810.
Division of investment management interpretative position relating to rights offerings by closed-end investment companies below net asset value
9932
Sept. 15, 1977
42 FR 47553.
Disclosure of management remuneration
10112
Feb. 6, 1978
43 FR 6060.
Sales load variation in special offerings to permit mutual fund shareholders to purchase additional shares
10419
Oct. 4, 1978
43 FR 47492;
43 FR 52022.
Disclosure of management remuneration
10597
Feb. 22, 1979
44 FR 16368.
General statement of policy regarding exemptive provisions relating to annuity and insurance contracts
10653
Apr. 5, 1979
44 FR 21629.
General statement of policy regarding securities trading practices of registered investment companies
10666
Apr. 18, 1979
44 FR 25128.
Shareholder communications, shareholder participation in the corporate electoral process and corporate governance generally
10860
Sept. 6, 1979
44 FR 53426.
Statement of staff position on pooled income funds
11016
Jan. 10, 1980
45 FR 3258.
Effect of credit controls on the operations of certain registered investment companies including money market refunds
11088
Mar. 14, 1980
45 FR 17954.
Effective of the termination of credit controls on the operations of certain registered investment companies including money market funds
11263
July 21, 1980
45 FR 49917.
Indemnification by investment companies
11330
Sept. 4, 1980
45 FR 62423;
45 FR 67082.
Issuance of “Retail Repurchase Agreements” by banks and savings and loan associations
11958
Sept. 25, 1981
46 FR 48637.
Effect of revenue ruling 81-225 on issuers and holders of certain variable annuity contracts
11960
Sept. 28, 1981
46 FR 48640.
Disclosure of management remuneration
12070
Dec. 3, 1981
46 FR 60421.
Statement of staff position on adoption of permanent notification forms for business development companies
12274
Mar. 5, 1982
47 FR 10518.
Statement of staff position regarding securities trading practices of registered investment companies
13005
Feb. 2, 1983
48 FR 5894.
Public statements by corporate representatives
13718
Jan. 13, 1984
49 FR 2469.
Statement of position of Commission's Division of Investment Management
14492
Apr. 30, 1985
50 FR 19339.
Statement of the Commission Regarding Disclosure Obligations of Companies Affected by the Government's Defense Contract Procurement Inquiry and Related Issues
16509
Aug. 1, 1988
53 FR 29228.
Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations; certain investment company disclosure
16961
May 18, 1989
54 FR 22427.
Status under the Investment Company Act of 1940 of United States Branches or Agencies of Foreign Banks Issuing Securities;Interpretive Release
17681
Aug. 17, 1990
55 FR 34551.
Ownership reports and trading by officers, directors and principal security holders
18114
Apr. 26, 1991
56 FR 19928.
Use of electronic media for delivery purposes
21399
Oct. 6, 1995
60 FR 53467.
Use of electronic media for delivery purposes
21945
May 9, 1996
60 FR 24651.
Statement of the Commission Regarding Use of Internet Web Sites to Offer Securities, Solicit Securities Transactions or Advertise Investment Services Offshore
23071
Mar. 23, 1998
63 FR 14813
Statement of the Commission Regarding Disclosure of Year 2000 Issues and Consequences by Public Companies, Investment Advisers, Investment Companies, and Municipal Securities Issuers
23366
July 29, 1998
63 FR 41404.
Interpretive Matters Concerning Independent Directors of Investment Companies.
24083
Oct. 14, 1999
64 FR 59877.
Use of electronic media
24426
Apr. 28, 2000
65 FR 25857.
Commission Guidance on Mini-Tender Offers and Limited Partnership Tender Offers
24564
July 24, 2000
65 FR 46588.
Exemption From Section 101(c)(1) of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act for Registered Investment Companies
24582
July 27, 2000
65 FR 47284.
Application of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act to Record Retention Requirements Pertaining to Issuers
25003
June 14, 2001
66 FR 33176.
Commission Guidance Regarding Prohibited Conduct in Connection with IPO Allocations
26828
April 7, 2005
70 FR 19672.
Commission Guidance Regarding Accounting for Sales of Vaccines and Bioterror Countermeasures to the Federal Government for Placement Into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the Strategic National Stockpile
27178
December 5, 2005
70 FR 73345
Commission Guidance on the Use of Company Web Sites
28351
August 1, 2008
73 FR 45874
Commission Guidance Regarding the Definition of the Terms “Spouse” and “Marriage” Following the Supreme Court's Decision in
United States
v.
Windsor
IC-31684
June 19, 2015
80 FR 37537
Commission Guidance Regarding Revenue Recognition for Bill-and-Hold Arrangements
IC-32784
Aug. 18, 2017
82 FR 41148
Updates to Commission Guidance Regarding Accounting for Sales of Vaccines and Bioterror Countermeasures to the Federal Government for Placement into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the Strategic National Stockpile
IC-32785
Aug. 18, 2017
82 FR 41151
Commission Guidance Regarding the Proxy Voting Responsibilities of Investment Advisers
IC-33605
Aug. 21, 2019
84 FR 47426
Pt. 274

# PART 274—FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Sec.
274.0-1
Availability of forms.

# Subpart A—Registration Statements
274.5
Form N-5, for registration statement of small business investment company under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Investment Company Act of 1940.
274.10
Form N-8A, for notification of registration.
274.11
[Reserved]
274.11A
Form N-1A, registration statement of open-end management investment companies.
274.11a-1
Form N-2, registration statement of closed end management investment companies.
274.11b
Form N-3, registration statement of separate accounts organized as management investment companies.
274.11c
Form N-4, registration statement of separate accounts organized as unit investment trusts.
274.11d
Form N-6, registration statement of separate accounts organized as unit investment trusts that offer variable life insurance policies.
274.12
Form N-8B-2, registration statement of unit investment trusts which are currently issuing securities.
274.13
Form N-8B-3, registration statement of unincorporated management investment companies currently issuing periodic payment plan certificates.
274.14
Form N-8B-4, registration statements of face-amount certificate companies.
274.15
Form N-6F, notice of intent to elect to be subject to sections 55 through 65 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
274.24
Form 24F-2, annual filing of securities sold pursuant to registration of certain investment company securities and registered non-variable annuities.
274.51
Form N-18F-1, for notification of election pursuant to § 270.18f-1 of this chapter.
274.53
Form N-54A, notification of election to be subject to sections 55 through 65 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 filed pursuant to section 54(a) of the Act.
274.54
Form N-54C, notification of withdrawal of election to be subject to sections 55 through 65 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 filed pursuant to section 54(c) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.

# Subpart B—Forms for Reports
274.101
Form N-CEN, annual report of registered investment companies.
274.102-274.126
[Reserved]
274.127d-1
Form N-27D-1, accounting of segregated trust account.
274.128
Form N-CSR, certified shareholder report.
274.129
Form N-PX, annual report of proxy voting record.
274.130
[Reserved]
274.150
Form N-PORT, Monthly portfolio holdings report.
274.200
Form N--17D-1, report filed by small business investment company (SBIC) registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and an affiliated bank, with respect to investments by the SBIC and the bank, submitted pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of § 270.17d-1 of this chapter.

# Subpart C—Forms for Other Statements
274.201
Form N-MFP, portfolio holdings of money market funds.
274.202
Form 3, initial statement of beneficial ownership of securities.
274.203
Form 4, statement of changes in beneficial ownership of securities.
274.218
Form N-8F, application for deregistration of certain registered investment companies.
274.219
Form N-17f-1, cover page for each certificate of accounting of securities and similar investments of a management investment company in the custody of a member of a national securities exchange, filed pursuant to rule 17f-1.
274.220
Form N-17f-2, cover page for each certificate of accounting of securities and similar investments in the custody of a registered management investment company, filed pursuant to rule 17f-2.
274.221
Form N-23c-3, Notification of repurchase offer.
274.222
Form N-CR, Current report of money market fund material events.
274.223
Form N-RN, Current report, open- and closed-end investment company reporting.

# Subpart D—Forms for Exemptions
274.301
Notification of claim of exemption pursuant to Rule 6e-2 or Rule 6e-3(T) under the Investment Company Act.

# Subpart E—Forms for Electronic Filing
274.401
[Reserved]
274.402
Form ID, application for EDGAR access.
274.403
Form SE, form for submission of paper format exhibits by electronic filers.
274.404
Form TH—Notification of reliance on temporary hardship exemption.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s, 78c(b), 78
l,
78m, 78n, 78n-1, 78
o
(d), 80a-8, 80a-24, 80a-26, 80a-29, and sec. 939A, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
33 FR 19003, Dec. 20, 1968, unless otherwise noted.
§ 274.0-1
Availability of forms.
(a) This part identifies and describes the forms prescribed for use under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(b) Any person may obtain a copy of any form prescribed for use in this part by written request to the Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. Any person may inspect the forms at this address and at the Commission's regional offices. (See § 200.11 of this chapter for the addresses of SEC regional offices)
[46 FR 17757, Mar. 20, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 26820, June 22, 1982; 59 FR 5946, Feb. 9, 1994; 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008]

# Subpart A—Registration Statements
§ 274.5
Form N-5, for registration statement of small business investment company under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Investment Company Act of 1940.
This form shall be used for the registration statement under both sections 6 and 7 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g) and section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8(b)), by a small business investment company which is licensed as such under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 or which has received preliminary approval of the Small Business Administration and has been notified by that Administration that it may submit a license application.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-5, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.10
Form N-8A, for notification of registration.
This form shall be used as the notification of registration filed with the Commission pursuant to section 8(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-8A, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.11
[Reserved]
§ 274.11A
Form N-1A, registration statement of open-end management investment companies.
Form N-1A shall be used as the registration statement to be filed pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 by open-end management investment companies other than separate accounts of insurance companies or companies which issue periodic payment plan certificates or which are sponsors or depositors of companies issuing such certificates. This form shall be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of the securities of all open-end management investment companies other than registered separate accounts of insurance companies. This form is not applicable for small business investment companies which register pursuant to §§ 293.24 and 274.5 of this chapter.
[48 FR 37940, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 59 FR 52701, Oct. 19, 1994]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-1A, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.11a-1
Form N-2, registration statement of closed end management investment companies.
This form shall be used as the registration statement to be filed pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 by closed end management investment companies other than companies which issue periodic payment plan certificates or which are sponsors or depositors of companies issuing such certificates. This form also shall be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of the securities of all closed end management investment companies. This form is not applicable for small business investment companies which register pursuant to §§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter.
[43 FR 39553, Sept. 5, 1978, as amended at 59 FR 52701, Oct. 19, 1994]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.11b
Form N-3, registration statement of separate accounts organized as management investment companies.
Form N-3 shall be used as the registration statement to be filed pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 by separate accounts that offer variable annuity contracts to register as management investment companies. This form shall also be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of the securities of such separate accounts (§ 239.17a of this chapter).
[50 FR 26161, June 25, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the
Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.11c
Form N-4, registration statement of separate accounts organized as unit investment trusts.
Form N-4 shall be used as the registration statement to be filed pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 by separate accounts that offer variable annuity contracts to register as unit investment trusts. This form shall also be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of the securities of such separate accounts (§ 239.17b of this chapter).
[50 FR 26161, June 25, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.11d
Form N-6, registration statement of separate accounts organized as unit investment trusts that offer variable life insurance policies.
Form N-6 shall be used as the registration statement to be filed pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 by separate accounts that offer variable life insurance policies to register as unit investment trusts. This form shall also be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of the securities of such separate accounts (§ 239.17c of this chapter).
[67 FR 19870, Apr. 23, 2002]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.12
Form N-8B-2, registration statement of unit investment trusts that are currently issuing securities.
This form shall be used as the registration statement to be filed, pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, by unit investment trusts other than separate accounts that are currently issuing securities, including unit investment trusts that are issuers of periodic payment plan certificates.
[67 FR 19870, Apr. 23, 2002]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-8B-2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.13
Form N-8B-3, registration statement of unincorporated management investment companies currently issuing periodic payment plan certificates.
(a) This form shall be used for registration statement to be filed, pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, by unincorporated management investment companies currently issuing periodic payment plan certificates.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-8B-3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.14
Form N-8B-4, registration statements of face-amount certificate companies.
This form shall be used for registration statements of face-amount certificate companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-8B-4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.15
Form N-6F, notice of intent to elect to be subject to sections 55 through 65 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
This form shall be used by a company that would be excluded from the definition of an investment company by section 3(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)], except that at the time of filing it proposes to make a public offering of its securities as a business development company, to notify the Securities and Exchange Commission that the company intends in good faith to file, within 90 days, a notification of election to become subject to the provisions of sections 55 through 65 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-54 through 64].
The text of the form is set forth in the appendix to this release.
1
1
A copy of Form N-6F accompanied this release as originally filed in the Office of the Federal Register.
[47 FR 10520, Mar. 11, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-6F, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.24
Form 24F-2, annual filing of securities sold pursuant to registration of certain investment company securities and registered non-variable annuities.
Form 24F-2 shall be used as the annual report filed by face amount certificate companies, open-end management companies, unit investment trusts, and registered non-variable annuities pursuant to §§ 230.456, 230.457, or 270.24f-2 of this chapter for reporting securities sold during the fiscal year.
[89 FR 60092, July 24, 2024]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 24F-2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.51
Form N-18F-1, for notification of election pursuant to § 270.18f-1 of this chapter.
(a) This form shall be filed with the Commission in triplicate as the notification of election pursuant to § 270.18f-1 of this chapter by a registered open-end investment company to commit itself to pay in cash all redemptions requested by a shareholder of record as provided in said section.
[36 FR 11920, June 23, 1971 as amended at 36 FR 20504, Oct. 23, 1971; 39 FR 36003, Oct. 7, 1974; 59 FR 52701, Oct. 19, 1994]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-18F-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.53
Form N-54A, notification of election to be subject to sections 55 through 65 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 filed pursuant to section 54(a) of the Act.
This form shall be used pursuant to section 54(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-53(a)] by a company of the type defined in sections 2(a)(48) (A) and (B) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48) (A) and (B) to notify the Securities and Exchange Commission of its election to be subject to the provisions of sections 55 through 65 of said Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-54 through 64].
The text of the form is set forth in the appendix to this release.
2
2
A copy of Form N-54A accompanied this release as originally filed in the Office of the Federal Register.
[47 FR 10520, Mar. 11, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-54A, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.54
Form N-54C, notification of withdrawal of election to be subject to sections 55 through 65 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 filed pursuant to section 54(c) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
This form shall be used pursuant to section 54(c) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-53(c)] by a business development company to file a notice of withdrawal of its election under section 54(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-53(a)].
The text of the form is set forth in the appendix to this release.
3
3
A copy of Form N-54C accompanied this release as originally filed in the Office of the Federal Register.
[47 FR 10520, Mar. 11, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-54C, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart B—Forms for Reports
§ 274.101
Form N-CEN, annual report of registered investment companies.
This form shall be used by registered investment companies for annual reports to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 270.30a-1.
[81 FR 82023, Nov. 18, 2016]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-CEN, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§§ 274.102-274.126
[Reserved]
§ 274.127d-1
Form N-27D-1 accounting of segregated trust account.
This form shall be completed and filed with the Commission as a report required by § 270.27d-1 of this chapter by each depositor or principal underwriter, within 15 days after the close of each quarter during the first 2 years after the effective date of § 270.27d-1 of this chapter, and thereafter this form shall be filed annually on or before January 31 of the following calendar year. Each investment company for which a segregated trust account is established shall be listed on the cover page. Two copies of the form, plus an additional copy for each registered investment company covered, shall be filed and the filing shall be signed by an authorized representative of the depositor or underwriter.
[36 FR 24056, Dec. 18, 1971]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-27D-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.128
Form N-CSR, certified shareholder report.
This form shall be used by registered management investment companies to file reports pursuant to § 270.30b2-1(a) of this chapter not later than 10 days after the transmission to stockholders of any report that is required to be transmitted to stockholders under § 270.30e-1 of this chapter.
[68 FR 5368, Feb. 3, 2003]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-CSR, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.129
Form N-PX, annual report of proxy voting record.
This form shall be used by registered management investment companies, other than small business investment companies registered on Form N-5 (§§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter), for annual reports to be filed not later than August 31 of each year, containing the company's proxy voting record for the most recent twelve-month period ended June 30, pursuant to section 30 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and § 270.30b1-4 of this chapter.
[68 FR 6584, Feb. 7, 2003]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-PX, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.130
[Reserved]
§ 274.150
Form N-PORT, Monthly portfolio holdings report.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 73797, Sept. 11, 2024.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this form shall be used by registered management investment companies or exchange-traded funds organized as unit investment trusts, or series thereof, to file reports pursuant to § 270.30b1-9 of this chapter not later than 60 days after the end of each fiscal quarter.
(b) Form N-PORT shall not be filed by a registered open-end management investment company that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7 of this chapter or a small business investment company registered on Form N-5 (§§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter), or series thereof.

# Note:
The text of Form N-PORT will not appear in the
Code of Federal Regulations.
[84 FR 7988, Mar. 6, 2019]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-PORT, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.150, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 73797, Sept. 11, 2024, § 274.150 was amended by revising paragraph (a), effective date to be determined. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 274.150
Form N-PORT, Monthly portfolio holdings report.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this form shall be used by registered management investment companies or exchange-traded funds organized as unit investment trusts, or series thereof, to file
reports pursuant to § 270.30b1-9 of this chapter not later than 30 days after the end of each month.
§ 274.200
Form N-17D-1, report filed by small business investment company (SBIC) registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and an affiliated bank, with respect to investments by the SBIC and the bank, submitted pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of § 270.17d-1 of this chapter.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 17d-2 (§ 270.17d-2 of this chapter) as the report required, under subparagraph (d)(3) of Rule 17d-1 (§ 270.17d-1(d)(3) of this chapter), to be filed, either jointly or separately, by a small business investment company (SBIC) licensed as such under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, and by a bank which is an affiliated person of either the SBIC or of an affiliated person of the SBIC, with respect to investments in a small business concern by the SBIC and the bank.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-17D-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart C—Forms for Other Statements
§ 274.201
Form N-MFP, portfolio holdings of money market funds.
This form shall be used by registered open-end management investment companies that are regulated as money market funds under § 270.2a-7 of this chapter to file reports pursuant to § 270.30b1-7 of this chapter no later than the fifth business day of each month.
[75 FR 10118, Mar. 4, 2010]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-MFP, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.202
Form 3, initial statement of beneficial ownership of securities.
This form shall be filed pursuant to § 270.30h-1 for initial statements of beneficial ownership of securities required to be filed pursuant to section 30(h) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h)). (Same as § 249.103 of this chapter.)
[67 FR 43537, June 28, 2002]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.203
Form 4, statement of changes in beneficial ownership of securities.
This form shall be filed pursuant to § 270.30h-1 for statements of changes in beneficial ownership of securities required to be filed pursuant to section 30(h) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h)). (Same as § 249.104 of this chapter.)
[67 FR 43537, June 28, 2002]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.218
Form N-8F, application for deregistration of certain registered investment companies.
This form must be used as the application for an order of the Commission in cases in which the applicant is a registered investment company that:
(a) Has sold substantially all of its assets to another registered investment company or merged into or consolidated with another registered investment company;
(b) Has distributed substantially all of its assets to its shareholders and has completed, or is in the process of, winding up its affairs;
(c) Qualifies for an exclusion from the definition of “investment company” under section 3(c)(1) (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)) or section 3(c)(7) (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)) of the Act; or
(d) Has become a business development company.
[64 FR 19471, Apr. 21, 1999]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-8F, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.219
Form N-17f-1, cover page for each certificate of accounting of securities and similar investments of a management investment company in the custody of a member of a national securities exchange, filed pursuant to rule 17f-1.
[54 FR 32049, Aug. 4, 1989]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-17f-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.220
Form N-17f-2, cover page for each certificate of accounting of securities and similar investments in the custody of a registered management investment company, filed pursuant to rule 17f-2.
[54 FR 32049, Aug. 4, 1989]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-17f-2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.221
Form N-23c-3, Notification of repurchase offer.
Form N-23c-3 shall be filed with copies of notifications of repurchase offers submitted to the Commission as required under rule 23c-3 (§ 270.23c-3 of this chapter).
[58 FR 19345, Apr. 14, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-23c-3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.222
Form N-CR, Current report of money market fund material events.
This form shall be used by registered investment companies that are regulated as money market funds under § 270.2a-7 of this chapter to file current reports pursuant to § 270.30b1-8 of this chapter within the time periods specified in the form.
[79 FR 47973, Aug. 14, 2014]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-CR, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.223
Form N-RN, Current report, open- and closed-end investment company reporting.
This form shall be used by registered open-end management investment companies, or series thereof, and closed-end management investment companies, to file reports pursuant to § 270.18f-4(c)(7) and § 270.30b1-10 of this chapter.
[85 FR 83296, Dec. 21, 2020]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-RN, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart D—Forms for Exemptions

# Authority:
Secs. 6(c), (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c)), 6(e), (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(e)), 38(a), 15 U.S.C. 80a-37(a) of the Act.
§ 274.301
Notification of claim of exemption pursuant to Rule 6e-2 or Rule 6e-3(T) under the Investment Company Act.
This form shall be filed with the Commission as required by § 270.6e-2 or § 270.6e-3(T) of this chapter by each insurance company with respect to each separate account for which exemption is claimed pursuant to § 270.6e-2 or § 270.6e-3(T).
[49 FR 47228, Dec. 3, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-6EI-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart E—Forms for Electronic Filing

# Source:
50 FR 40485, Oct. 4, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 274.401
[Reserved]
§ 274.402
Form ID, uniform application for access codes to file on EDGAR.
Form ID must be filed by electronic filers, or by their account administrators, to request EDGAR access and to authorize account administrators to manage the electronic filer's EDGAR account.
[89 FR 106223, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 274.403
Form SE, form for submission of paper format exhibits by electronic filers.
This form shall be used by an electronic filer for the submission of any paper format document relating to an otherwise electronic filing, as provided in rule 311 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.311 of this chapter).
[58 FR 14861, Mar. 18, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SE, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274.404
Form TH—Notification of reliance on temporary hardship exemption.
Form TH shall be filed by any electronic filer who submits to the Commission, pursuant to a temporary hardship exemption, a document in paper format that otherwise would be required to be submitted electronically, as prescribed by rule 201(a) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201(a) of this chapter).
[58 FR 14861, Mar. 18, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form TH, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 275

# PART 275—RULES AND REGULATIONS, INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Sec.
275.0-2
General procedures for serving non-residents.
275.0-3
References to rules and regulations.
275.0-4
General requirements of papers and applications.
275.0-5
Procedure with respect to applications and other matters.
275.0-6
Incorporation by reference in applications.
275.0-7
Small entities under the Investment Advisers Act for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
275.202(a)(1)-1
Certain transactions not deemed assignments.
275.202(a)(11)(G)-1
Family offices.
275.202(a)(30)-1
Foreign private advisers.
275.203-1
Application for investment adviser registration.
275.203-2
Withdrawal from investment adviser registration.
275.203-3
Hardship exemptions.
275.203(l)-1
Venture capital fund defined.
275.203(m)-1
Private fund adviser exemption.
275.203A-1
Eligibility for SEC registration; switching to or from SEC registration.
275.203A-2
Exemptions from prohibition on Commission registration.
275.203A-3
Definitions.
275.203A-4—203A-6
[Reserved]
275.204-1
Amendments to Form ADV
275.204-2
Books and records to be maintained by investment advisers.
275.204-3
Delivery of brochures and brochure supplements.
275.204-4
Reporting by exempt reporting advisers.
275.204-5
Delivery of Form CRS.
275.204(b)-1
Reporting by investment advisers to private funds.
275.204A-1
Investment adviser codes of ethics.
275.205-1
Definition of “investment performance” of an investment company and “investment record” of an appropriate index of securities prices.
275.205-2
Definition of “specified period” over which the asset value of the company or fund under management is averaged.
275.205-3
Exemption from the compensation prohibition of section 205(a)(1) for investment advisers.
275.206(3)-1
Exemption of investment advisers registered as broker-dealers in connection with the provision of certain investment advisory services.
275.206(3)-2
Agency cross transactions for advisory clients.
275.206(4)-1
Investment adviser marketing.
275.206(4)-2
Custody of funds or securities of clients by investment advisers.
275.206(4)-3—275.206(4)-4
[Reserved]
275.206(4)-5
Political contributions by certain investment advisers.
275.206(4)-6
Proxy voting.
275.206(4)-7
Compliance procedures and practices.
275.206(4)-8
Pooled investment vehicles.
275.222-1
Definitions.
275.222-2
Definition of “client” for purposes of the national de mimimis standard.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)(G), 80b-2(a)(11)(H), 80b-2(a)(17), 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-4a, 80b-6(4), 80b-6a, 80b-11, 1681w(a)(1), 6801-6809, and 6825, unless otherwise noted.
Section 275.203A-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80b-3a.
Section 275.203A-2 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80b-3a.
Section 275.203A-3 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80b-3a.
Section 275.204-1 is also issued under sec. 407 and 408, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.
Section 275.204-2 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80b-6.
Section 275.205-3 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80b-5(e).
Section 275.204-4 is also issued under sec. 407 and 408, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.
Section 275.204-5 is also issued under sec. 913, Public Law 111-203, sec. 124 Stat. 1827-28 (2010).
§ 275.0-2
General procedures for serving non-residents.
(a)
General procedures for serving process, pleadings, or other papers on non-resident investment advisers, general partners and managing agents.
Under Forms ADV and ADV-NR [17 CFR 279.1 and 279.4], a person may serve process, pleadings, or other papers on a non-resident investment adviser, or on a non-resident general partner or non-resident managing agent of an investment adviser by serving any or all of its appointed agents:
(1) A person may serve a non-resident investment adviser, non-resident general partner, or non-resident managing agent by furnishing the Commission with one copy of the process, pleadings, or papers, for each named party, and one additional copy for the Commission's records.
(2) If process, pleadings, or other papers are served on the Commission as described in this section, the Secretary of the Commission (Secretary) will promptly forward a copy to each named party by registered or certified mail at that party's last address filed with the Commission.
(3) If the Secretary certifies that the Commission was served with process, pleadings, or other papers pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section and forwarded these documents to a named party pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, this certification constitutes evidence of service upon that party.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Managing agent
means any person, including a trustee, who directs or manages, or who participates in directing or managing, the affairs of any unincorporated organization or association other than a partnership.
(2)
Non-resident
means:
(i) An individual who resides in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States;
(ii) A corporation that is incorporated in or that has its principal office and place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; and
(iii) A partnership or other unincorporated organization or association that has its principal office and place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(3)
Principal office and place of business
has the same meaning as in § 275.203A-3(c) of this chapter.
[65 FR 57448, Sept. 22, 2000]
§ 275.0-3
References to rules and regulations.
The term
rules and regulations
refers to all rules and regulations adopted by the Commission pursuant to the Act, including the forms for registration and reports and the accompanying instructions thereto.
[30 FR 4129, Mar. 30, 1965]
§ 275.0-4
General requirements of papers and applications.
(a)
Filings.
(1) All papers required to be filed with the Commission shall, unless otherwise provided by the rules and regulations, be delivered through the mails or otherwise to the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, DC 20549. Except as otherwise provided by the rules and regulations, such papers shall be deemed to have been filed with the Commission on the date when they are actually received by it.
(2) All filings required to be made electronically with the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (“IARD”) shall, unless otherwise provided by the rules and regulations in this part, be deemed to have been filed with the Commission upon acceptance by the IARD. Filings required to be made through the IARD on a day that the IARD is closed shall be considered timely filed with the Commission if filed with the IARD no later than the following business day.
(3) Filings required to be made through the IARD during the period in December of each year that the IARD is not available for submission of filings shall be considered timely filed with the Commission if filed with the IARD no later than the following January 7.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3):
Each year the IARD shuts down to filers for several days during the end of December to process renewals of state notice filings and registrations. During this period, advisers are not able to submit filings through the IARD. Check the Commission's Web site at
http://www.sec.gov/iard
for the dates of the annual IARD shutdown.
(b)
Formal specifications respecting applications.
Every application for an order under any provision of the Act, for which a form with instructions is not specifically prescribed, and every amendment to such application, shall be filed electronically pursuant to 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T). Any filings made in paper, including filings made pursuant to a hardship exemption under Regulation S-T, shall be filed in quintuplicate. One copy shall be signed by the applicant, but the other four copies may have facsimile or typed signatures. Such applications shall be on paper no larger than 8
1/2
x 11 inches in size. To the extent that the reduction of larger documents would render them illegible, those documents may be filed on paper larger than 8
1/2
x 11 inches in size. The left margin should be at least 1
1/2
inches wide and, if the application is bound, it should be bound on the left side. All typewritten or printed matter (including deficits in financial statements) should be set forth in black so as to permit photocopying.
(c)
Authorization respecting applications.
(1) Every application for an order under any provision of the Act, for which a form with instructions is not specifically prescribed and which is executed by a corporation, partnership, or other company and filed with the Commission, shall contain a concise statement of the applicable provisions of the articles of incorporation, bylaws, or similar documents, relating to the right of the person signing and filing such application to take such action on behalf of the applicant, and a statement that all such requirements have been complied with and that the person signing and filing the same is fully authorized to do so. If such authorization is dependent on resolutions of stockholders, directors, or other bodies, such resolutions shall be attached as an exhibit to, or the pertinent provisions thereof shall be quoted in, the application.
(2) If an amendment to any such application shall be filed, such amendment shall contain a similar statement or, in lieu thereof, shall state that the authorization described in the original application is applicable to the individual who signs such amendment and that such authorization still remains in effect.
(3) When any such application or amendment is signed by an agent or attorney, the power of attorney evidencing his authority to sign shall contain similar statements and shall be filed with the Commission.
(d)
Verification of applications and statements of fact.
Every application for an order under any provision of the Act, for which a form with instructions is not specifically prescribed, and every amendment to such application, and every statement of fact formally filed in support of, or in opposition to, any application or declaration shall be verified by the person executing the same. An instrument executed on behalf of a corporation shall be verified in substantially the following form, but suitable changes may be made in such form for other kinds of companies and for individuals:
The undersigned states that he or she has duly executed the attached dated , 20__, for and on behalf of (Name of company); that he or she is the (Title of officer) of such company; and that all action by stockholders, directors, and other bodies necessary to authorize the undersigned to execute and file such instrument has been taken. The undersigned further states that he or she is familiar with such instrument, and the contents thereof, and that the facts therein set forth are true to the best of his or her knowledge, information and belief.
(Signature)
(e)
Statement of grounds for application.
Each application should contain a brief statement of the reasons why the applicant is deemed to be entitled to the action requested with a reference to the provisions of the Act and of the rules and regulations under which application is made.
(f)
Name and address.
Every application shall contain the name and address of each applicant and the name and address of any person to whom any applicant wishes any question regarding the application to be directed.
(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Definition of application.
For purposes of this rule, an “application” means any application for an order of the Commission under the Act other than an application for registration as an investment adviser.
(i) The manually signed original (or in the case of duplicate originals, one duplicate original) of all registrations, applications, statements, reports, or other documents filed under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, shall be numbered sequentially (in addition to any internal numbering which otherwise may be present) by handwritten, typed, printed, or other legible form of notation from the facing page of the document through the last page of that document and any exhibits or attachments thereto. Further, the total number of pages contained in a numbered original shall be set forth on the first page of the document.
[41 FR 39019, Sept. 14, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 4666, Jan. 23, 1979; 47 FR 58239, Dec. 30, 1982; 68 FR 42248, July 17, 2003; 76 FR 71877, Nov. 21, 2011; 87 FR 38976, June 30, 2022]
§ 275.0-5
Procedure with respect to applications and other matters.
The procedure hereinbelow set forth will be followed with respect to any proceeding initiated by the filing of an application, or upon the Commission's own motion, pursuant to any section of the Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, unless in the particular case a different procedure is provided:
(a) Notice of the initiation of the proceeding will be published in the
Federal Register
and will indicate the earliest date upon which an order disposing of the matter may be entered. The notice will also provide that any interested person may, within the period of time specified therein, submit to the Commission in writing any facts bearing upon the desirability of a hearing on the matter and may request that a hearing be held, stating his reasons therefor and the nature of his interest in the matter.
(b) An order disposing of the matter will be issued as of course following the expiration of the period of time referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, unless the Commission thereafter orders a hearing on the matter.
(c) The Commission will order a hearing on the matter, if it appears that a hearing is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, (1) upon the request of any interested person or (2) upon its own motion.
(d)
Definition of application.
For purposes of this rule, an “application” means any application for an order of the Commission under the Act other than an application for registration as an investment adviser.
[41 FR 39020, Sept. 14, 1976, as amended at 61 FR 49962, Sept. 24, 1996]
§ 275.0-6
Incorporation by reference in applications.
(a)
Exhibits.
Any document or part thereof, including any financial statement or part thereof, filed with the Commission pursuant to any Act administered by the Commission may be incorporated by reference as an exhibit to any application filed with the Commission by the same or any other person. If any modification has occurred in the text of any document incorporated by reference since the filing thereof, the registrant must file with the reference a statement containing the text of any such modification and the date thereof.
(b)
General.
Include an express statement clearly describing the specific location of the information you are incorporating by reference. The statement must identify the document where the information was originally filed or submitted and the location of the information within that document. The statement must be made at the particular place where the information is required, if applicable. Information must not be incorporated by reference in any case where such incorporation would render the disclosure incomplete, unclear, or confusing. For example, unless expressly permitted or required, disclosure must not be incorporated by reference from a second document if that second document incorporates information pertinent to
such disclosure by reference to a third document.
(c)
Definition of Application.
For purposes of this rule, an “application” means any application for an order of the Commission under the Act other than an application for registration as an investment adviser.
[84 FR 12738, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 275.0-7
Small entities under the Investment Advisers Act for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
(a) For purposes of Commission rulemaking in accordance with the provisions of Chapter Six of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
) and unless otherwise defined for purposes of a particular rulemaking proceeding, the term
small business
or
small organization
for purposes of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 shall mean an investment adviser that:
(1) Has assets under management, as defined under Section 203A(a)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3a(a)(2)) and reported on its annual updating amendment to Form ADV (17 CFR 279.1), of less than $25 million, or such higher amount as the Commission may by rule deem appropriate under Section 203A(a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3a(a)(1)(A));
(2) Did not have total assets of $5 million or more on the last day of the most recent fiscal year; and
(3) Does not control, is not controlled by, and is not under common control with another investment adviser that has assets under management of $25 million or more (or such higher amount as the Commission may deem appropriate), or any person (other than a natural person) that had total assets of $5 million or more on the last day of the most recent fiscal year.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1)
Control
means the power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of a person, whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise.
(i) A person is presumed to control a corporation if the person:
(A) Directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25 percent or more of a class of the corporation's voting securities; or
(B) Has the power to sell or direct the sale of 25 percent or more of a class of the corporation's voting securities.
(ii) A person is presumed to control a partnership if the person has the right to receive upon dissolution, or has contributed, 25 percent or more of the capital of the partnership.
(iii) A person is presumed to control a limited liability company (LLC) if the person:
(A) Directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25 percent or more of a class of the interests of the LLC;
(B) Has the right to receive upon dissolution, or has contributed, 25 percent or more of the capital of the LLC; or
(C) Is an elected manager of the LLC.
(iv) A person is presumed to control a trust if the person is a trustee or managing agent of the trust.
(2)
Total assets
means the total assets as shown on the balance sheet of the investment adviser or other person described above under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or the balance sheet of the investment adviser or such other person with its subsidiaries consolidated, whichever is larger.
[63 FR 35515, June 30, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 57448, Sept. 22, 2000; 76 FR 43011, July 19, 2011]
§ 275.202(a)(1)-1
Certain transactions not deemed assignments.
A transaction which does not result in a change of actual control or management of an investment adviser is not an assignment for purposes of section 205(a)(2) of the Act.
[51 FR 32907, Sept. 17, 1986; 64 FR 2567, Jan. 15, 1999]
§ 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1
Family offices.
(a)
Exclusion.
A family office, as defined in this section, shall not be considered to be an investment adviser for purpose of the Act.
(b)
Family office.
A family office is a company (including its directors, partners, members, managers, trustees, and employees acting within the scope of their position or employment) that:
(1) Has no clients other than family clients; provided that if a person that is not a family client becomes a client of the family office as a result of the death of a family member or key employee or other involuntary transfer
from a family member or key employee, that person shall be deemed to be a family client for purposes of this section for one year following the completion of the transfer of legal title to the assets resulting from the involuntary event;
(2) Is wholly owned by family clients and is exclusively controlled (directly or indirectly) by one or more family members and/or family entities; and
(3) Does not hold itself out to the public as an investment adviser.
(c)
Grandfathering.
A family office as defined in paragraph (a) of this section shall not exclude any person, who was not registered or required to be registered under the Act on January 1, 2010, solely because such person provides investment advice to, and was engaged before January 1, 2010 in providing investment advice to:
(1) Natural persons who, at the time of their applicable investment, are officers, directors, or employees of the family office who have invested with the family office before January 1, 2010 and are accredited investors, as defined in Regulation D under the Securities Act of 1933;
(2) Any company owned exclusively and controlled by one or more family members; or
(3) Any investment adviser registered under the Act that provides investment advice to the family office and who identifies investment opportunities to the family office, and invests in such transactions on substantially the same terms as the family office invests, but does not invest in other funds advised by the family office, and whose assets as to which the family office directly or indirectly provides investment advice represents, in the aggregate, not more than 5 percent of the value of the total assets as to which the family office provides investment advice; provided that a family office that would not be a family office but for this paragraph (c) shall be deemed to be an investment adviser for purposes of paragraphs (1), (2) and (4) of section 206 of the Act.
(d)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Affiliated family office
means a family office wholly owned by family clients of another family office and that is controlled (directly or indirectly) by one or more family members of such other family office and/or family entities affiliated with such other family office and has no clients other than family clients of such other family office.
(2)
Control
means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company, unless such power is solely the result of being an officer of such company.
(3)
Executive officer
means the president, any vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division or function (such as administration or finance), any other officer who performs a policy-making function, or any other person who performs similar policy-making functions, for the family office.
(4)
Family client
means:
(i) Any family member;
(ii) Any former family member;
(iii) Any key employee;
(iv) Any former key employee, provided that upon the end of such individual's employment by the family office, the former key employee shall not receive investment advice from the family office (or invest additional assets with a family office-advised trust, foundation or entity) other than with respect to assets advised (directly or indirectly) by the family office immediately prior to the end of such individual's employment, except that a former key employee shall be permitted to receive investment advice from the family office with respect to additional investments that the former key employee was contractually obligated to make, and that relate to a family-office advised investment existing, in each case prior to the time the person became a former key employee.
(v) Any non-profit organization, charitable foundation, charitable trust (including charitable lead trusts and charitable remainder trusts whose only current beneficiaries are other family clients and charitable or non-profit organizations), or other charitable organization, in each case for which all the funding such foundation, trust or organization holds came exclusively from one or more other family clients;
(vi) Any estate of a family member, former family member, key employee, or, subject to the condition contained
in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section, former key employee;
(vii) Any irrevocable trust in which one or more other family clients are the only current beneficiaries;
(viii) Any irrevocable trust funded exclusively by one or more other family clients in which other family clients and non-profit organizations, charitable foundations, charitable trusts, or other charitable organizations are the only current beneficiaries;
(ix) Any revocable trust of which one or more other family clients are the sole grantor;
(x) Any trust of which: Each trustee or other person authorized to make decisions with respect to the trust is a key employee; and each settlor or other person who has contributed assets to the trust is a key employee or the key employee's current and/or former spouse or spousal equivalent who, at the time of contribution, holds a joint, community property, or other similar shared ownership interest with the key employee; or
(xi) Any company wholly owned (directly or indirectly) exclusively by, and operated for the sole benefit of, one or more other family clients; provided that if any such entity is a pooled investment vehicle, it is excepted from the definition of “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(5)
Family entity
means any of the trusts, estates, companies or other entities set forth in paragraphs (d)(4)(v), (vi), (vii), (viii), (ix), or (xi) of this section, but excluding key employees and their trusts from the definition of family client solely for purposes of this definition.
(6)
Family member
means all lineal descendants (including by adoption, stepchildren, foster children, and individuals that were a minor when another family member became a legal guardian of that individual) of a common ancestor (who may be living or deceased), and such lineal descendants' spouses or spousal equivalents; provided that the common ancestor is no more than 10 generations removed from the youngest generation of family members.
(7)
Former family member
means a spouse, spousal equivalent, or stepchild that was a family member but is no longer a family member due to a divorce or other similar event.
(8)
Key employee
means any natural person (including any key employee's spouse or spouse equivalent who holds a joint, community property, or other similar shared ownership interest with that key employee) who is an executive officer, director, trustee, general partner, or person serving in a similar capacity of the family office or its affiliated family office or any employee of the family office or its affiliated family office (other than an employee performing solely clerical, secretarial, or administrative functions with regard to the family office) who, in connection with his or her regular functions or duties, participates in the investment activities of the family office or affiliated family office, provided that such employee has been performing such functions and duties for or on behalf of the family office or affiliated family office, or substantially similar functions or duties for or on behalf of another company, for at least 12 months.
(9)
Spousal equivalent
means a cohabitant occupying a relationship generally equivalent to that of a spouse.
[76 FR 37994, June 29, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 60457, Sept. 1, 2016]
§ 275.202(a)(30)-1
Foreign private advisers.
(a)
Client.
You may deem the following to be a single client for purposes of section 202(a)(30) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(30)):
(1) A natural person, and:
(i) Any minor child of the natural person;
(ii) Any relative, spouse, spousal equivalent, or relative of the spouse or of the spousal equivalent of the natural person who has the same principal residence;
(iii) All accounts of which the natural person and/or the persons referred to in this paragraph (a)(1) are the only primary beneficiaries; and
(iv) All trusts of which the natural person and/or the persons referred to in this paragraph (a)(1) are the only primary beneficiaries;
(2)(i) A corporation, general partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company, trust (other than a
trust referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section), or other legal organization (any of which are referred to hereinafter as a “legal organization”) to which you provide investment advice based on its investment objectives rather than the individual investment objectives of its shareholders, partners, limited partners, members, or beneficiaries (any of which are referred to hereinafter as an “owner”); and
(ii) Two or more legal organizations referred to in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section that have identical owners.
(b)
Special rules regarding clients.
For purposes of this section:
(1) You must count an owner as a client if you provide investment advisory services to the owner separate and apart from the investment advisory services you provide to the legal organization, provided, however, that the determination that an owner is a client will not affect the applicability of this section with regard to any other owner;
(2) You are not required to count an owner as a client solely because you, on behalf of the legal organization, offer, promote, or sell interests in the legal organization to the owner, or report periodically to the owners as a group solely with respect to the performance of or plans for the legal organization's assets or similar matters;
(3) A limited partnership or limited liability company is a client of any general partner, managing member or other person acting as investment adviser to the partnership or limited liability company;
(4) You are not required to count a private fund as a client if you count any investor, as that term is defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, in that private fund as an investor in the United States in that private fund; and
(5) You are not required to count a person as an investor, as that term is defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, in a private fund you advise if you count such person as a client in the United States.

# Note to paragraphs (
a

# ) and (
b

# ):
These paragraphs are a safe harbor and are not intended to specify the exclusive method for determining who may be deemed a single client for purposes of section 202(a)(30) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(30)).
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of section 202(a)(30) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(30)):
(1)
Assets under management
means the regulatory assets under management as determined under Item 5.F of Form ADV (§ 279.1 of this chapter).
(2)
Investor
means:
(i) Any person who would be included in determining the number of beneficial owners of the outstanding securities of a private fund under section 3(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)), or whether the outstanding securities of a private fund are owned exclusively by qualified purchasers under section 3(c)(7) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)); and
(ii) Any beneficial owner of any outstanding short-term paper, as defined in section 2(a)(38) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(38)), issued by the private fund.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(2):
You may treat as a single investor any person who is an investor in two or more private funds you advise.
(3)
In the United States
means with respect to:
(i) Any client or investor, any person who is a U.S. person as defined in § 230.902(k) of this chapter, except that any discretionary account or similar account that is held for the benefit of a person in the United States by a dealer or other professional fiduciary is in the United States if the dealer or professional fiduciary is a related person, as defined in § 275.206(4)-2(d)(7), of the investment adviser relying on this section and is not organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(3)(
i

# ):
A person who is in the United States may be treated as not being in the United States if such person was not in the United States at the time of becoming a client or, in the case of an investor in a private fund, each time the investor acquires securities issued by the fund.
(ii) Any place of business,
in the United States,
as that term is defined in § 230.902(l) of this chapter; and
(iii) The public,
in the United States,
as that term is defined in § 230.902(l) of this chapter.
(4)
Place of business
has the same meaning as in § 275.222-1(a).
(5)
Spousal equivalent
has the same meaning as in § 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(9).
(d)
Holding out.
If you are relying on this section, you shall not be deemed to be holding yourself out generally to the public in the United States as an investment adviser, within the meaning of section 202(a)(30) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(30)), solely because you participate in a non-public offering in the United States of securities issued by a private fund under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a).
[76 FR 39701, July 6, 2011]
§ 275.203-1
Application for investment adviser registration.
(a)
Form ADV.
(1) To apply for registration with the Commission as an investment adviser, you must complete Form ADV (17 CFR 279.1) by following the instructions in the form and you must file Part 1A of Form ADV, the firm brochure(s) required by Part 2A of Form ADV and Form CRS required by Part 3 of Form ADV electronically with the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD) unless you have received a hardship exemption under § 275.203-3. You are not required to file with the Commission the brochure supplements required by Part 2B of Form ADV.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(1):
Information on how to file with the IARD is available on the Commission's website at
http://www.sec.gov/iard.
If you are not required to deliver a brochure or Form CRS to any clients, you are not required to prepare or file a brochure or Form CRS, as applicable, with the Commission. If you are not required to deliver a brochure supplement to any clients for any particular supervised person, you are not required to prepare a brochure supplement for that supervised person.
(2)(i) On or after June 30, 2020, the Commission will not accept any initial application for registration as an investment adviser that does not include a Form CRS that satisfies the requirements of Part 3 of Form ADV.
(ii) Beginning on May 1, 2020, any initial application for registration as an investment adviser filed prior to June 30, 2020, must include a Form CRS that satisfies the requirements of Part 3 of Form ADV by no later than June 30, 2020.
(b)
When filed.
Each Form ADV is considered filed with the Commission upon acceptance by the IARD.
(c)
Filing fees.
You must pay FINRA (the operator of the IARD) a filing fee. The Commission has approved the amount of the filing fee. No portion of the filing fee is refundable. Your completed application for registration will not be accepted by FINRA, and thus will not be considered filed with the Commission, until you have paid the filing fee.
(d)
Form ADV-NR
—(1)
General Requirements.
Each non-resident, as defined in 17 CFR 275.0-2(b)(2) (Rule 0-2(b)(2)), general partner or a non-resident managing agent, as defined in 17 CFR 275.0-2(b)(2) (Rule 0-2(b)(1)), of any investment adviser registered, or applying for registration with, the Commission must submit Form ADV-NR (17 CFR 279.4). Form ADV-NR must be completed in connection with the adviser's initial registration with the Commission. If a person becomes a non-resident general partner or a non-resident managing agent after the date the adviser files its initial registration with the Commission, the person must file Form ADV-NR with the Commission within 30 days of becoming a non-resident general partner or a non-resident managing agent. If a person serves as a general partner or managing agent for multiple advisers, they must submit a separate Form ADV-NR for each adviser.
(2)
When an amendment is required.
Each non-resident general partner or a non-resident managing agent of any investment adviser must amend its Form ADV-NR within 30 days whenever any information contained in the form becomes inaccurate by filing with the Commission a new Form ADV-NR.
(3)
Electronic filing.
Form ADV-NR (and any amendments to Form ADV-NR) must be filed electronically through the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD), unless a hardship exemption under 17 CFR 275.203-3 (Rule 203-3) has been granted.
(4)
When filed.
Each Form ADV-NR is considered filed with the Commission upon acceptance by the IARD.
(5)
Filing fees.
No fee shall be assessed for filing Form ADV-NR through IARD.
(6)
Form ADV-NR is a report.
Each Form ADV-NR (and any amendment to Form ADV-NR) required to be filed under this rule is a “report” within the meaning of sections 204 and 207 of the Act.
[65 FR 57448, Sept. 22, 2000; 65 FR 81737, Dec. 27, 2000 as amended at 84 FR 33630, July 12, 2019; 87 FR 38977, June 30, 2022]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ADV, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 275.203-2
Withdrawal from investment adviser registration.
(a)
Form ADV-W.
You must file Form ADV-W (17 CFR 279.2) to withdraw from investment adviser registration with the Commission (or to withdraw a pending registration application).
(b)
Electronic filing.
Once you have filed your Form ADV (17 CFR 279.1) (or any amendments to Form ADV) electronically with the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD), any Form ADV-W you file must be filed with the IARD, unless you have received a hardship exemption under § 275.203-3.
(c)
Effective date—upon filing.
Each Form ADV-W filed under this section is effective upon acceptance by the IARD, provided however that your investment adviser registration will continue for a period of sixty days after acceptance solely for the purpose of commencing a proceeding under section 203(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(e)).
(d)
Filing fees.
You do not have to pay a fee to file Form ADV-W through the IARD.
(e)
Form ADV-W is a report.
Each Form ADV-W required to be filed under this section is a “report” within the meaning of sections 204 and 207 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-4 and 80b-7).
[65 FR 57449, Sept. 22, 2000]
§ 275.203-3
Hardship exemptions.
This section provides two “hardship exemptions” from the requirement to make Advisers Act filings electronically with the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD).
(a)
Temporary hardship exemption
—(1)
Eligibility for exemption.
If you are registered or are registering with the Commission as an investment adviser and submit electronic filings on the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD) system, but have unanticipated technical difficulties that prevent you from submitting a filing to the IARD system, you may request a temporary hardship exemption from the requirements of this chapter to file electronically.
(2)
Application procedures.
To request a temporary hardship exemption, you must:
(i) File Form ADV-H (17 CFR 279.3) in paper format with no later than one business day after the filing that is the subject of the ADV-H was due; and
(ii) Submit the filing that is the subject of the Form ADV-H in electronic format with the IARD no later than seven business days after the filing was due.
(3)
Effective date—upon filing.
The temporary hardship exemption will be granted when you file a completed Form ADV-H.
(b)
Continuing hardship exemption
—(1)
Eligibility for exemption.
If you are a “small business” (as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section), you may apply for a continuing hardship exemption.
The period of the exemption may be no longer than one year after the date on which you apply for the exemption.
(2)
Application procedures.
To apply for a continuing hardship exemption, you must file Form ADV-H at least ten business days before a filing is due. The Commission will grant or deny your application within ten business days after you file Form ADV-H.
(3)
Effective date—upon approval.
You are not exempt from the electronic filing requirements until and unless the Commission approves your application. If the Commission approves your application, you may submit your filings to FINRA in paper format for the period of time for which the exemption is granted.
(4)
Criteria for exemption.
Your application will be granted only if you are able to demonstrate that the electronic filing requirements of this chapter are prohibitively burdensome or expensive.
(5)
Small business.
You are a “small business” for purposes of this section if you are required to answer Item 12 of Form ADV (17 CFR 279.1) and checked “no” to each question in Item 12 that you were required to answer.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
FINRA will charge you an additional fee covering its cost to convert to electronic format a filing made in reliance on a continuing hardship exemption.
[65 FR 57449, Sept. 22, 2000; 65 FR 81738, Dec. 27, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 42248, July 17, 2003; 73 FR 4694, Jan. 28, 2008]
§ 275.203(l)-1
Venture capital fund defined.
(a)
Venture capital fund defined.
For purposes of section 203(
l
) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(
l
)), a venture capital fund is any entity described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 203(b)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(7)) (other than an entity that has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53)) or any entity described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 203(b)(8) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(8)) (other than an entity that has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53)) or any private fund that:
(1) Represents to investors and potential investors that it pursues a venture capital strategy;
(2) Immediately after the acquisition of any asset, other than qualifying investments or short-term holdings, holds no more than 20 percent of the amount of the fund's aggregate capital contributions and uncalled committed capital in assets (other than short-term holdings) that are not qualifying investments, valued at cost or fair value, consistently applied by the fund;
(3) Does not borrow, issue debt obligations, provide guarantees or otherwise incur leverage, in excess of 15 percent of the private fund's aggregate capital contributions and uncalled committed capital, and any such borrowing, indebtedness, guarantee or leverage is for a non-renewable term of no longer than 120 calendar days, except that any guarantee by the private fund of a qualifying portfolio company's obligations up to the amount of the value of the private fund's investment in the qualifying portfolio company is not subject to the 120 calendar day limit;
(4) Only issues securities the terms of which do not provide a holder with any right, except in extraordinary circumstances, to withdraw, redeem or require the repurchase of such securities but may entitle holders to receive distributions made to all holders pro rata; and
(5) Is not registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), and has not elected to be treated as a business development company pursuant to section 54 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-53).
(b)
Certain pre-existing venture capital funds.
For purposes of section 203(l) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(l)) and in addition to any venture capital fund as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, a venture capital fund also includes any private fund that:
(1) Has represented to investors and potential investors at the time of the offering of the private fund's securities that it pursues a venture capital strategy;
(2) Prior to December 31, 2010, has sold securities to one or more investors that are not related persons, as defined in § 275.206(4)-2(d)(7), of any investment adviser of the private fund; and
(3) Does not sell any securities to (including accepting any committed capital from) any person after July 21, 2011.
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Committed capital
means any commitment pursuant to which a person is obligated to:
(i) Acquire an interest in the private fund; or
(ii) Make capital contributions to the private fund.
(2)
Equity security
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(11)) and § 240.3a11-1 of this chapter.
(3)
Qualifying investment
means:
(i) An equity security issued by a qualifying portfolio company that has been acquired directly by the private
fund from the qualifying portfolio company;
(ii) Any equity security issued by a qualifying portfolio company in exchange for an equity security issued by the qualifying portfolio company described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section; or
(iii) Any equity security issued by a company of which a qualifying portfolio company is a majority-owned subsidiary, as defined in section 2(a)(24) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(24)), or a predecessor, and is acquired by the private fund in exchange for an
equity security
described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) or (c)(3)(ii) of this section.
(4)
Qualifying portfolio company
means any company that:
(i) At the time of any investment by the private fund, is not reporting or foreign traded and does not control, is not controlled by or under common control with another company, directly or indirectly, that is reporting or foreign traded;
(ii) Does not borrow or issue debt obligations in connection with the private fund's investment in such company and distribute to the private fund the proceeds of such borrowing or issuance in exchange for the private fund's investment; and
(iii) Is not an investment company, a private fund, an issuer that would be an investment company but for the exemption provided by § 270.3a-7 of this chapter, or a commodity pool.
(5)
Reporting or foreign traded
means, with respect to a company, being subject to the reporting requirements under section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)), or having a security listed or traded on any exchange or organized market operating in a foreign jurisdiction.
(6)
Short-term holdings
means cash and cash equivalents, as defined in § 270.2a51-1(b)(7)(i) of this chapter, U.S. Treasuries with a remaining maturity of 60 days or less, and shares of an open-end management investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8) that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7 of this chapter.

# Note:
For purposes of this section, an investment adviser may treat as a private fund any issuer formed under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States that has not offered or sold its securities in the United States or to U.S. persons in a manner inconsistent with being a private fund, provided that the adviser treats the issuer as a private fund under the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b) and the rules thereunder for all purposes.
[76 FR 39702, July 6, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 1302, Jan. 11, 2018; 85 FR 13741, Mar. 10, 2020]
§ 275.203(m)-1
Private fund adviser exemption.
(a)
United States investment advisers.
For purposes of section 203(m) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(m)), an investment adviser with its principal office and place of business in the United States is exempt from the requirement to register under section 203 of the Act if the investment adviser:
(1) Acts solely as an investment adviser to one or more qualifying private funds; and
(2) Manages private fund assets of less than $150 million.
(b)
Non-United States investment advisers.
For purposes of section 203(m) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(m)), an investment adviser with its principal office and place of business outside of the United States is exempt from the requirement to register under section 203 of the Act if:
(1) The investment adviser has no client that is a United States person except for one or more qualifying private funds; and
(2) All assets managed by the investment adviser at a place of business in the United States are solely attributable to private fund assets, the total value of which is less than $150 million.
(c)
Frequency of Calculations.
For purposes of this section, calculate private fund assets annually, in accordance with General Instruction 15 to Form ADV (§ 279.1 of this chapter).
(d)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Assets under management
means the regulatory assets under management as determined under Item 5.F of Form ADV (§ 279.1 of this chapter), except the following shall be excluded from the definition of assets under
management for purposes of this section:
(i) The regulatory assets under management attributable to a private fund that is an entity described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 203(b)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b- 3(b)(7)) (other than an entity that has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53)); and
(ii) The regulatory assets under management attributable to a private fund that is an entity described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 203(b)(8) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(8)) (other than an entity that has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53).
(2)
Place of business
has the same meaning as in § 275.222-1(a).
(3)
Principal office and place of business
of an investment adviser means the executive office of the investment adviser from which the officers, partners, or managers of the investment adviser direct, control, and coordinate the activities of the investment adviser.
(4)
Private fund assets
means the investment adviser's assets under management attributable to a qualifying private fund.
(5)
Qualifying private fund
means any private fund that is not registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8) and has not elected to be treated as a business development company pursuant to section 54 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-53). For purposes of this section, an investment adviser may treat as a private fund an issuer that qualifies for an exclusion from the definition of an “investment company,” as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3), in addition to those provided by section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) or 15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)), provided that the investment adviser treats the issuer as a private fund under the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b) and the rules thereunder for all purposes.
(6)
Related person
has the same meaning as in § 275.206(4)-2(d)(7).
(7)
United States
has the same meaning as in § 230.902(l) of this chapter.
(8)
United States person
means any person that is a U.S. person as defined in § 230.902(k) of this chapter, except that any discretionary account or similar account that is held for the benefit of a United States person by a dealer or other professional fiduciary is a United States person if the dealer or professional fiduciary is a related person of the investment adviser relying on this section and is not organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# )(8):
A client will not be considered a United States person if the client was not a United States person at the time of becoming a client.
[76 FR 39703, July 6, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 1302, Jan. 11, 2018; 85 FR 13741, Mar. 10, 2020]
§ 275.203A-1
Eligibility for SEC registration; Switching to or from SEC registration.
(a)
Eligibility for SEC registration of mid-sized investment advisers.
If you are an investment adviser described in section 203A(a)(2)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3a(a)(2)(B)):
(1)
Threshold for SEC registration and registration buffer.
You may, but are not required to register with the Commission if you have assets under management of at least $100,000,000 but less than $110,000,000, and you need not withdraw your registration unless you have less than $90,000,000 of assets under management.
(2)
Exceptions.
This paragraph (a) does not apply if:
(i) You are an investment adviser to an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a) or to a company which has elected to be a business development company pursuant to section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-54), and has not withdrawn the election; or
(ii) You are eligible for an exemption described in § 275.203A-2 of this chapter.
(b)
Switching to or from SEC registration
—(1)
State-registered advisers—switching to SEC registration.
If you are registered with a state securities authority, you must apply for registration with the Commission within 90
days of filing an annual updating amendment to your Form ADV reporting that you are eligible for SEC registration and are not relying on an exemption from registration under sections 203(l) or 203(m) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(l), (m)).
(2)
SEC-registered advisers—switching to State registration.
If you are registered with the Commission and file an annual updating amendment to your Form ADV reporting that you are not eligible for SEC registration and are not relying on an exemption from registration under sections 203(l) or 203(m) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(l), (m)), you must file Form ADV-W (17 CFR 279.2) to withdraw your SEC registration within 180 days of your fiscal year end (unless you then are eligible for SEC registration). During this period while you are registered with both the Commission and one or more state securities authorities, the Act and applicable State law will apply to your advisory activities.
[76 FR 43011, July 19, 2011]
§ 275.203A-2
Exemptions from prohibition on Commission registration.
The prohibition of section 203A(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3a(a)) does not apply to:
(a)
Pension consultants.
(1) An investment adviser that is a “pension consultant,” as defined in this section, with respect to assets of plans having an aggregate value of at least $200,000,000.
(2) An investment adviser is a pension consultant, for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, if the investment adviser provides investment advice to:
(i) Any employee benefit plan described in section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) [29 U.S.C. 1002(3)];
(ii) Any governmental plan described in section 3(32) of ERISA (29 U.S.C. 1002(32)); or
(iii) Any church plan described in section 3(33) of ERISA (29 U.S.C. 1002(33)).
(3) In determining the aggregate value of assets of plans, include only that portion of a plan's assets for which the investment adviser provided investment advice (including any advice with respect to the selection of an investment adviser to manage such assets). Determine the aggregate value of assets by cumulating the value of assets of plans with respect to which the investment adviser was last employed or retained by contract to provide investment advice during a 12-month period ended within 90 days of filing an annual updating amendment to Form ADV (17 CFR 279.1).
(b)
Investment advisers controlling, controlled by, or under common control with an investment adviser registered with the Commission.
An investment adviser that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, an investment adviser eligible to register, and registered with, the Commission (“registered adviser”), provided that the principal office and place of business of the investment adviser is the same as that of the registered adviser. For purposes of this paragraph, control means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of an investment adviser, whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise. Any person that directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25 percent or more of the voting securities, or is entitled to 25 percent or more of the profits, of an investment adviser is presumed to control that investment adviser.
(c)
Investment advisers expecting to be eligible for Commission registration within 120 Days.
An investment adviser that:
(1) Immediately before it registers with the Commission, is not registered or required to be registered with the Commission or a state securities authority of any State and has a reasonable expectation that it would be eligible to register with the Commission within 120 days after the date the investment adviser's registration with the Commission becomes effective;
(2) Indicates on Schedule D of its Form ADV (17 CFR 279.1) that it will withdraw from registration with the Commission if, on the 120th day after the date the investment adviser's registration with the Commission becomes effective, the investment adviser would be prohibited by section 203A(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3a(a)) from registering with the Commission; and
(3) Notwithstanding § 275.203A-1(b)(2) of this chapter, files a completed Form ADV-W (17 CFR 279.2) withdrawing from registration with the Commission within 120 days after the date the investment adviser's registration with the Commission becomes effective.
(d)
Multi-state investment advisers.
An investment adviser that:
(1) Upon submission of its application for registration with the Commission, is required by the laws of 15 or more States to register as an investment adviser with the state securities authority in the respective States, and thereafter would, but for this section, be required by the laws of at least 15 States to register as an investment adviser with the state securities authority in the respective States;
(2) Elects to rely on paragraph (d) of this section by:
(i) Indicating on Schedule D of its Form ADV that the investment adviser has reviewed the applicable State and federal laws and has concluded that, in the case of an application for registration with the Commission, it is required by the laws of 15 or more States to register as an investment adviser with the state securities authorities in the respective States or, in the case of an amendment to Form ADV, it would be required by the laws of at least 15 States to register as an investment adviser with the state securities authorities in the respective States, within 90 days prior to the date of filing Form ADV; and
(ii) Undertaking on Schedule D of its Form ADV to withdraw from registration with the Commission if the adviser indicates on an annual updating amendment to Form ADV that the investment adviser would be required by the laws of fewer than 15 States to register as an investment adviser with the state securities authority in the respective States, and that the investment adviser would be prohibited by section 203A(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3a(a)) from registering with the Commission, by filing a completed Form ADV-W within 180 days of the adviser's fiscal year end (unless the adviser then is eligible for SEC registration); and
(3) Maintains in an easily accessible place a record of the States in which the investment adviser has determined it would, but for the exemption, be required to register for a period of not less than five years from the filing of a Form ADV that includes a representation that is based on such record.
(e)
Internet investment advisers.
(1) An investment adviser that:
(i) Provides investment advice to all of its clients exclusively through an operational interactive website at all times during which the investment adviser relies on this paragraph (e);
(ii) Maintains, in an easily accessible place, for a period of not less than five years from the filing of a Form ADV that includes a representation that the adviser is eligible to register with the Commission under this paragraph (e), a record demonstrating that it provides investment advice to its clients exclusively through an operational interactive website in accordance with the limits in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section; and
(iii) Does not control, is not controlled by, and is not under common control with, another investment adviser that registers with the Commission under paragraph (b) of this section solely in reliance on the adviser registered under this paragraph (e) as its registered adviser.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (e), “operational interactive website” means a website, mobile application, or similar digital platform through which the investment adviser provides digital investment advisory services on an ongoing basis to more than one client (except during temporary technological outages of a
de minimis
duration). For purposes of this rule, “digital investment advisory service” is investment advice to clients that is generated by the operational interactive website's software-based models, algorithms, or applications based on personal information each client supplies through the operational interactive website.
(3) An investment adviser may rely on the definition of
client
in § 275.202(a)(30)-1 in determining whether it is eligible to rely on this paragraph (e).
[62 FR 28133, May 22, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 39715, 39716, July 24, 1998; 65 FR 57450, Sept. 22, 2000; 67 FR 77625, Dec. 18, 2003; 76 FR 43012, July 19, 2011; 89 FR 24712, Apr. 9, 2024]
§ 275.203A-3
Definitions.
For purposes of section 203A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3a) and the rules thereunder:
(a)(1)
Investment adviser representative.
“Investment adviser representative” of an investment adviser means a supervised person of the investment adviser:
(i) Who has more than five clients who are natural persons (other than excepted persons described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section); and
(ii) More than ten percent of whose clients are natural persons (other than excepted persons described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section).
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a supervised person is not an investment adviser representative if the supervised person:
(i) Does not on a regular basis solicit, meet with, or otherwise communicate with clients of the investment adviser; or
(ii) Provides only impersonal investment advice.
(3) For purposes of this section:
(i) “Excepted person” means a natural person who is a qualified client as described in § 275.205-3(d)(1).
(ii) “Impersonal investment advice” means investment advisory services provided by means of written material or oral statements that do not purport to meet the objectives or needs of specific individuals or accounts.
(4) Supervised persons may rely on the definition of “client” in § 275.202(a)(30)-1 to identify clients for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, except that supervised persons need not count clients that are not residents of the United States.
(b)
Place of business.
“Place of business” of an investment adviser representative means:
(1) An office at which the investment adviser representative regularly provides investment advisory services, solicits, meets with, or otherwise communicates with clients; and
(2) Any other location that is held out to the general public as a location at which the investment adviser representative provides investment advisory services, solicits, meets with, or otherwise communicates with clients.
(c)
Principal office and place of business.
“Principal office and place of business” of an investment adviser means the executive office of the investment adviser from which the officers, partners, or managers of the investment adviser direct, control, and coordinate the activities of the investment adviser.
(d)
Assets under management.
Determine “assets under management” by calculating the securities portfolios with respect to which an investment adviser provides continuous and regular supervisory or management services as reported on the investment adviser's Form ADV (17 CFR 279.1).
(e)
State securities authority.
“State securities authority” means the securities commissioner or commission (or any agency, office or officer performing like functions) of any State.
[62 FR 28134, May 22, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 39715, July 24, 1998; 69 FR 72088, Dec. 10, 2004; 76 FR 43012, July 19, 2011]
§§ 275.203A-4—275.203A-6
[Reserved]
§ 275.204-1
Amendments to Form ADV.
(a)
When amendment is required.
You must amend your Form ADV (17 CFR 279.1):
(1) Parts 1 and 2:
(i) At least annually, within 90 days of the end of your fiscal year; and
(ii) More frequently, if required by the instructions to Form ADV.
(2) Part 3 at the frequency required by the instructions to Form ADV.
(b)
Electronic filing of amendments.
(1) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, you must file all amendments to Part 1A, Part 2A, and Part 3 of Form ADV electronically with the IARD, unless you have received a continuing hardship exemption under § 275.203-3. You are not required to file with the Commission amendments to brochure supplements required by Part 2B of Form ADV.
(2) If you have received a continuing hardship exemption under § 275.203-3, you must, when you are required to amend your Form ADV, file a completed Part 1A, Part 2A and Part 3 of Form ADV on paper with the SEC by mailing it to FINRA.
(c)
Filing fees.
You must pay FINRA (the operator of the IARD) an initial filing fee when you first electronically file Part 1A of Form ADV. After you
pay the initial filing fee, you must pay an annual filing fee each time you file your annual updating amendment. No portion of either fee is refundable. The Commission has approved the filing fees. Your amended Form ADV will not be accepted by FINRA, and thus will not be considered filed with the Commission, until you have paid the filing fee.
(d)
Amendments to Form ADV are reports.
Each amendment required to be filed under this section is a “report” within the meaning of sections 204 and 207 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-4 and 80b-7).
(e)
Transition to Filing Form CRS.
If you are registered with the Commission or have an application for registration pending with the Commission prior to June 30, 2020, you must amend your Form ADV by electronically filing with IARD your initial Form CRS that satisfies the requirements of Part 3 of Form ADV (as amended effective September 30, 2019) beginning on May 1, 2020 and by no later than June 30, 2020.

# Note 1 to paragraphs (
e

# ):
This note applies to paragraphs (a), (b), and (e) of this section. Information on how to file with the IARD is available on our website at
http://www.sec.gov/iard.
For the annual updating amendment: Summaries of material changes that are not included in the adviser's brochure must be filed with the Commission as an exhibit to Part 2A in the same electronic file; and if you are not required to prepare a brochure, a summary of material changes, an annual updating amendment to your brochure, or Form CRS you are not required to file them with the Commission. See the instructions for Part 2A and Part 3 of Form ADV.
[65 FR 57450, Sept. 22, 2000; 65 FR 81738, Dec. 27, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 42248, July 17, 2003; 73 FR 4694, Jan. 28, 2008; 75 FR 49267, Aug. 12, 2010; 76 FR 43013, July 19, 2011; 81 FR 60458, Sept. 1, 2016; 84 FR 33630, July 12, 2019]
§ 275.204-2
Books and records to be maintained by investment advisers.
(a) Every investment adviser registered or required to be registered under section 203 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3) shall make and keep true, accurate and current the following books and records relating to its investment advisory business;
(1) A journal or journals, including cash receipts and disbursements, records, and any other records of original entry forming the basis of entries in any ledger.
(2) General and auxiliary ledgers (or other comparable records) reflecting asset, liability, reserve, capital, income and expense accounts.
(3) A memorandum of each order given by the investment adviser for the purchase or sale of any security, of any instruction received by the investment adviser concerning the purchase, sale, receipt or delivery of a particular security, and of any modification or cancellation of any such order or instruction. Such memoranda shall show the terms and conditions of the order, instruction, modification or cancellation; shall identify the person connected with the investment adviser who recommended the transaction to the client and the person who placed such order; and shall show the account for which entered, the date of entry, and the bank, broker or dealer by or through whom executed where appropriate. Orders entered pursuant to the exercise of discretionary power shall be so designated.
(4) All check books, bank statements, cancelled checks and cash reconciliations of the investment adviser.
(5) All bills or statements (or copies thereof), paid or unpaid, relating to the business of the investment adviser as such.
(6) All trial balances, financial statements, and internal audit working papers relating to the business of such investment adviser.
(7) Originals of all written communications received and copies of all written communications sent by such investment adviser relating to:
(i) Any recommendation made or proposed to be made and any advice given or proposed to be given;
(ii) Any receipt, disbursement or delivery of funds or securities;
(iii) The placing or execution of any order to purchase or sell any security; and, for any transaction that is subject to the requirements of § 240.15c6-2(a) of this chapter, each confirmation received, and any allocation and each affirmation sent or received, with a date and time stamp for each allocation and affirmation that indicates when the allocation and affirmation was sent or received;
(iv) Predecessor performance (as defined in § 275.206(4)-1(e)(12) of this chapter) and the performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts, portfolios (as defined in § 275.206(4)-1(e)(11) of this chapter), or securities recommendations; Provided, however:
(A) That the investment adviser shall not be required to keep any unsolicited market letters and other similar communications of general public distribution not prepared by or for the investment adviser; and
(B) That if the investment adviser sends any notice, circular, or other advertisement (as defined in § 275.206(4)-1(e)(1) of this chapter) offering any report, analysis, publication or other investment advisory service to more than ten persons, the investment adviser shall not be required to keep a record of the names and addresses of the persons to whom it was sent; except that if such notice, circular, or advertisement is distributed to persons named on any list, the investment adviser shall retain with the copy of such notice, circular, or advertisement a memorandum describing the list and the source thereof.
(8) A list or other record of all accounts in which the investment adviser is vested with any discretionary power with respect to the funds, securities or transactions of any client.
(9) All powers of attorney and other evidences of the granting of any discretionary authority by any client to the investment adviser, or copies thereof.
(10) All written agreements (or copies thereof) entered into by the investment adviser with any client or otherwise relating to the business of such investment adviser as such.
(11)(i) A copy of each
(A) Advertisement (as defined in § 275.206(4)-1(e)(1) of this chapter) that the investment adviser disseminates, directly or indirectly, except:
(
1
) For oral advertisements, the adviser may instead retain a copy of any written or recorded materials used by the adviser in connection with the oral advertisement; and
(
2
) For compensated oral testimonials and endorsements (as defined in § 275.206(4)-1(e)(17) and (5) of this chapter), the adviser may instead make and keep a record of the disclosures provided to clients or investors pursuant to § 275.206(4)-1(b)(1) of this chapter; and
(B) Notice, circular, newspaper article, investment letter, bulletin, or other communication that the investment adviser disseminates, directly or indirectly, to ten or more persons (other than persons associated with such investment adviser); and
(C) If such notice, circular, advertisement, newspaper article, investment letter, bulletin, or other communication recommends the purchase or sale of a specific security and does not state the reasons for such recommendation, a memorandum of the investment adviser indicating the reasons therefor; and
(ii) A copy of any questionnaire or survey used in the preparation of a third-party rating included or appearing in any advertisement in the event the adviser obtains a copy of the questionnaire or survey.
(12)(i) A copy of the investment adviser's code of ethics adopted and implemented pursuant to § 275.204A-1 that is in effect, or at any time within the past five years was in effect;
(ii) A record of any violation of the code of ethics, and of any action taken as a result of the violation; and
(iii) A record of all written acknowledgments as required by § 275.204A-1(a)(5) for each person who is currently, or within the past five years was, a supervised person of the investment adviser.
(13)(i) A record of each report made by an access person as required by § 275.204A-1(b), including any information provided under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of that section in lieu of such reports;
(ii) A record of the names of persons who are currently, or within the past five years were, access persons of the investment adviser; and
(iii) A record of any decision, and the reasons supporting the decision, to approve the acquisition of securities by access persons under § 275.204A-1(c), for at least five years after the end of the fiscal year in which the approval is granted.
(14)(i) A copy of each brochure, brochure supplement and Form CRS, and
each amendment or revision to the brochure, brochure supplement and Form CRS, that satisfies the requirements of Part 2 or Part 3 of Form ADV, as applicable [17 CFR 279.1]; any summary of material changes that satisfies the requirements of Part 2 of Form ADV but is not contained in the brochure; and a record of the dates that each brochure, brochure supplement and Form CRS, each amendment or revision thereto, and each summary of material changes not contained in a brochure given to any client or to any prospective client who subsequently becomes a client.
(ii) Documentation describing the method used to compute managed assets for purposes of Item 4.E of Part 2A of Form ADV, if the method differs from the method used to compute regulatory assets under management in Item 5.F of Part 1A of Form ADV.
(iii) A memorandum describing any legal or disciplinary event listed in Item 9 of Part 2A or Item 3 of Part 2B (Disciplinary Information) and presumed to be material, if the event involved the investment adviser or any of its supervised persons and is not disclosed in the brochure or brochure supplement described in paragraph (a)(14)(i) of this section. The memorandum must explain the investment adviser's determination that the presumption of materiality is overcome, and must discuss the factors described in Item 9 of Part 2A of Form ADV or Item 3 of Part 2B of Form ADV.
(15)(i) If not included in the advertisement, a record of the disclosures provided to clients or investors pursuant to § 275.206(4)-1(b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this chapter;
(ii) Documentation substantiating the adviser's reasonable basis for believing that a testimonial or endorsement (as defined in § 275.206(4)-1(e)(17) and (5) of this chapter) complies with § 275.206(4)-1 and that the third-party rating (as defined in § 275.206(4)-1(e)(18) of this chapter) complies with § 275.206(4)-1(c)(1) of this chapter; and
(iii) A record of the names of all persons who are an investment adviser's partners, officers, directors, or employees, or a person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the investment adviser, or is a partner, officer, director or employee of such a person pursuant to § 275.206(4)-1(b)(4)(ii) of this chapter.
(16) All accounts, books, internal working papers, and any other records or documents that are necessary to form the basis for or demonstrate the calculation of any performance or rate of return of any or all managed accounts, portfolios (as defined in § 275.206(4)-1(e)(11) of this chapter), or securities recommendations presented in any notice, circular, advertisement (as defined in § 275.206(4)-1(e)(1) of this chapter), newspaper article, investment letter, bulletin, or other communication that the investment adviser disseminates, directly or indirectly, to any person (other than persons associated with such investment adviser), including copies of all information provided or offered pursuant to § 275.206(4)-1(d)(6) of this chapter; provided, however, that, with respect to the performance of managed accounts, the retention of all account statements, if they reflect all debits, credits, and other transactions in a client's or investor's account for the period of the statement, and all worksheets necessary to demonstrate the calculation of the performance or rate of return of all managed accounts shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph.
(17)(i) A copy of the investment adviser's policies and procedures formulated pursuant to § 275.206(4)-7(a) of this chapter that are in effect, or at any time within the past five years were in effect;
(ii) Any records documenting the investment adviser's annual review of those policies and procedures conducted pursuant to § 275.206(4)-7(b) of this chapter;
(iii) A copy of any internal control report obtained or received pursuant to § 275.206(4)-2(a)(6)(ii).
(18)(i) Books and records that pertain to § 275.206(4)-5 containing a list or other record of:
(A) The names, titles and business and residence addresses of all covered associates of the investment adviser;
(B) All government entities to which the investment adviser provides or has provided investment advisory services, or which are or were investors in any covered investment pool to which the
investment adviser provides or has provided investment advisory services, as applicable, in the past five years, but not prior to September 13, 2010;
(C) All direct or indirect contributions made by the investment adviser or any of its covered associates to an official of a government entity, or direct or indirect payments to a political party of a State or political subdivision thereof, or to a political action committee; and
(D) The name and business address of each regulated person to whom the investment adviser provides or agrees to provide, directly or indirectly, payment to solicit a government entity for investment advisory services on its behalf, in accordance with § 275.206(4)-5(a)(2).
(ii) Records relating to the contributions and payments referred to in paragraph (a)(18)(i)(C) of this section must be listed in chronological order and indicate:
(A) The name and title of each contributor;
(B) The name and title (including any city/county/State or other political subdivision) of each recipient of a contribution or payment;
(C) The amount and date of each contribution or payment; and
(D) Whether any such contribution was the subject of the exception for certain returned contributions pursuant to § 275.206(4)-5(b)(2).
(iii) An investment adviser is only required to make and keep current the records referred to in paragraphs (a)(18)(i)(A) and (C) of this section if it provides investment advisory services to a government entity or a government entity is an investor in any covered investment pool to which the investment adviser provides investment advisory services.
(iv) For purposes of this section, the terms “contribution,” “covered associate,” “covered investment pool,” “government entity,” “official,” “payment,” “regulated person,” and “solicit” have the same meanings as set forth in § 275.206(4)-5.
(19) A record of who the “intended audience” is pursuant to § 275.206(4)-1(d)(6) and(e)(10)(ii)(B) of this chapter.
(20) - (24) [Reserved]
(25)(i) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(a)(1);
(ii) The written documentation of any detected unauthorized access to or use of customer information, as well as any response to, and recovery from such unauthorized access to or use of customer information required by § 248.30(a)(3) of this chapter;
(iii) The written documentation of any investigation and determination made regarding whether notification is required pursuant to § 248.30(a)(4) of this chapter, including the basis for any determination made, any written documentation from the United States Attorney General related to a delay in notice, as well as a copy of any notice transmitted following such determination;
(iv) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(a)(5)(i) of this chapter;
(v) The written documentation of any contract or agreement entered into pursuant to § 248.30(a)(5) of this chapter; and
(vi) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(b)(2) of this chapter.
(b) If an investment adviser subject to paragraph (a) of this section has custody or possession of securities or funds of any client, the records required to be made and kept under paragraph (a) of this section shall include:
(1) A journal or other record showing all purchases, sales, receipts and deliveries of securities (including certificate numbers) for such accounts and all other debits and credits to such accounts.
(2) A separate ledger account for each such client showing all purchases, sales, receipts and deliveries of securities, the date and price of each purchase and sale, and all debits and credits.
(3) Copies of confirmations of all transactions effected by or for the account of any such client.
(4) A record for each security in which any such client has a position, which record shall show the name of each such client having any interest in such security, the amount or interest
of each such client, and the location of each such security.
(5) A memorandum describing the basis upon which you have determined that the presumption that any related person is not operationally independent under § 275.206(4)-2(d)(5) has been overcome.
(c)(1) Every investment adviser subject to paragraph (a) of this section who renders any investment supervisory or management service to any client shall, with respect to the portfolio being supervised or managed and to the extent that the information is reasonably available to or obtainable by the investment adviser, make and keep true, accurate and current:
(i) Records showing separately for each such client the securities purchased and sold, and the date, amount and price of each such purchase and sale.
(ii) For each security in which any such client has a current position, information from which the investment adviser can promptly furnish the name of each such client, and the current amount or interest of such client.
(2) Every investment adviser subject to paragraph (a) of this section that exercises voting authority with respect to client securities shall, with respect to those clients, make and retain the following:
(i) Copies of all policies and procedures required by § 275.206(4)-6.
(ii) A copy of each proxy statement that the investment adviser receives regarding client securities. An investment adviser may satisfy this requirement by relying on a third party to make and retain, on the investment adviser's behalf, a copy of a proxy statement (provided that the adviser has obtained an undertaking from the third party to provide a copy of the proxy statement promptly upon request) or may rely on obtaining a copy of a proxy statement from the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system.
(iii) A record of each vote cast by the investment adviser on behalf of a client. An investment adviser may satisfy this requirement by relying on a third party to make and retain, on the investment adviser's behalf, a record of the vote cast (provided that the adviser has obtained an undertaking from the third party to provide a copy of the record promptly upon request).
(iv) A copy of any document created by the adviser that was material to making a decision how to vote proxies on behalf of a client or that memorializes the basis for that decision.
(v) A copy of each written client request for information on how the adviser voted proxies on behalf of the client, and a copy of any written response by the investment adviser to any (written or oral) client request for information on how the adviser voted proxies on behalf of the requesting client.
(d) Any books or records required by this section may be maintained by the investment adviser in such manner that the identity of any client to whom such investment adviser renders investment supervisory services is indicated by numerical or alphabetical code or some similar designation.
(e)(1) All books and records required to be made under the provisions of paragraphs (a) to (c)(1)(i), inclusive, and (c)(2) of this section (except for books and records required to be made under the provisions of paragraphs (a)(11), (a)(12)(i), (a)(12)(iii), (a)(13)(ii), (a)(13)(iii), (a)(16), and (a)(17)(i) of this section), shall be maintained and preserved in an easily accessible place for a period of not less than five years from the end of the fiscal year during which the last entry was made on such record, the first two years in an appropriate office of the investment adviser.
(2) Partnership articles and any amendments thereto, articles of incorporation, charters, minute books, and stock certificate books of the investment adviser and of any predecessor, shall be maintained in the principal office of the investment adviser and preserved until at least three years after termination of the enterprise.
(3)(i) Books and records required to be made under the provisions of paragraphs (a)(11) and (a)(16) of this rule shall be maintained and preserved in an easily accessible place for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in an appropriate office of the investment adviser, from the end of the
fiscal year during which the investment adviser last published or otherwise disseminated, directly or indirectly, the notice, circular, advertisement, newspaper article, investment letter, bulletin or other communication.
(ii)
Transition rule.
If you are an investment adviser that was, prior to July 21, 2011, exempt from registration under section 203(b)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(3)), as in effect on July 20, 2011, paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section does not require you to maintain or preserve books and records that would otherwise be required to be maintained or preserved under the provisions of paragraph (a)(16) of this section to the extent those books and records pertain to the performance or rate of return of such private fund (as defined in section 202(a)(29) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(29)), or other account you advise for any period ended prior to your registration, provided that you continue to preserve any books and records in your possession that pertain to the performance or rate of return of such private fund or other account for such period.
(f) An investment adviser subject to paragraph (a) of this section, before ceasing to conduct or discontinuing business as an investment adviser shall arrange for and be responsible for the preservation of the books and records required to be maintained and preserved under this section for the remainder of the period specified in this section, and shall notify the Commission in writing, at its principal office, Washington, D.C. 20549, of the exact address where such books and records will be maintained during such period.
(g)
Micrographic and electronic storage permitted
—(1)
General.
The records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to this part may be maintained and preserved for the required time by an investment adviser on:
(i) Micrographic media, including microfilm, microfiche, or any similar medium; or
(ii) Electronic storage media, including any digital storage medium or system that meets the terms of this section.
(2)
General requirements.
The investment adviser must:
(i) Arrange and index the records in a way that permits easy location, access, and retrieval of any particular record;
(ii) Provide promptly any of the following that the Commission (by its examiners or other representatives) may request:
(A) A legible, true, and complete copy of the record in the medium and format in which it is stored;
(B) A legible, true, and complete printout of the record; and
(C) Means to access, view, and print the records; and
(iii) Separately store, for the time required for preservation of the original record, a duplicate copy of the record on any medium allowed by this section.
(3)
Special requirements for electronic storage media.
In the case of records on electronic storage media, the investment adviser must establish and maintain procedures:
(i) To maintain and preserve the records, so as to reasonably safeguard them from loss, alteration, or destruction;
(ii) To limit access to the records to properly authorized personnel and the Commission (including its examiners and other representatives); and
(iii) To reasonably ensure that any reproduction of a non-electronic original record on electronic storage media is complete, true, and legible when retrieved.
(h)(1) Any book or other record made, kept, maintained and preserved in compliance with §§ 240.17a-3 and 240.17a-4 of this chapter under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or with rules adopted by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which is substantially the same as the book or other record required to be made, kept, maintained and preserved under this section, shall be deemed to be made, kept, maintained and preserved in compliance with this section.
(2) A record made and kept pursuant to any provision of paragraph (a) of this section, which contains all the information required under any other provision of paragraph (a) of this section, need not be maintained in duplicate in order to meet the requirements of the other provision of paragraph (a) of this section.
(i) As used in this section the term “discretionary power” shall not include discretion as to the price at which or the time when a transaction is or is to be effected, if, before the order is given by the investment adviser, the client has directed or approved the purchase or sale of a definite amount of the particular security.
(j)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (j)(3) of this section, each non-resident investment adviser registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 203 of the Act shall keep, maintain and preserve, at a place within the United States designated in a notice from him as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section true, correct, complete and current copies of books and records which he is required to make, keep current, maintain or preserve pursuant to any provisions of any rule or regulation of the Commission adopted under the Act.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (j)(3) of this section, each nonresident investment adviser subject to this paragraph (j) shall furnish to the Commission a written notice specifying the address of the place within the United States where the copies of the books and records required to be kept and preserved by him pursuant to paragraph (j)(1) of this section are located. Each non-resident investment adviser registered or applying for registration when this paragraph becomes effective shall file such notice within 30 days after such rule becomes effective. Each non-resident investment adviser who files an application for registration after this paragraph becomes effective shall file such notice with such application for registration.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section, a non-resident investment adviser need not keep or preserve within the United States copies of the books and records referred to in said paragraphs (j)(1) and (2), if:
(i) Such non-resident investment adviser files with the Commission, at the time or within the period provided by paragraph (j)(2) of this section, a written undertaking, in form acceptable to the Commission and signed by a duly authorized person, to furnish to the Commission, upon demand, at its principal office in Washington, DC, or at any Regional Office of the Commission designated in such demand, true, correct, complete and current copies of any or all of the books and records which he is required to make, keep current, maintain or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Commission adopted under the Act, or any part of such books and records which may be specified in such demand. Such undertaking shall be in substantially the following form:
The undersigned hereby undertakes to furnish at its own expense to the Securities and Exchange Commission at its principal office in Washington, DC or at any Regional Office of said Commission specified in a demand for copies of books and records made by or on behalf of said Commission, true, correct, complete and current copies of any or all, or any part, of the books and records which the undersigned is required to make, keep current or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. This undertaking shall be suspended during any period when the undersigned is making, keeping current, and preserving copies of all of said books and records at a place within the United States in compliance with Rule 204-2(j) under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. This undertaking shall be binding upon the undersigned and the heirs, successors and assigns of the undersigned, and the written irrevocable consents and powers of attorney of the undersigned, its general partners and managing agents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall extend to and cover any action to enforce same.
and
(ii) Such non-resident investment adviser furnishes to the Commission, at his own expense 14 days after written demand therefor forwarded to him by registered mail at his last address of record filed with the Commission and signed by the Secretary of the Commission or such person as the Commission may authorize to act in its behalf, true, correct, complete and current copies of any or all books and records which such investment adviser is required to make, keep current or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Commission adopted under the Act, or any part of such books and records which may be specified in said written demand. Such
copies shall be furnished to the Commission at its principal office in Washington, DC, or at any Regional Office of the Commission which may be specified in said written demand.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (j) the term
non-resident investment adviser
shall have the same meaning set out in § 275.0-2(b)(2).
(k) Every investment adviser that registers under section 203 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3) after July 8, 1997 shall be required to preserve in accordance with this section the books and records the investment adviser had been required to maintain by the State in which the investment adviser had its principal office and place of business prior to registering with the Commission.
[26 FR 5002, June 6, 1961]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 275.204-2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 275.204-3
Delivery of brochures and brochure supplements.
(a)
General requirements.
If you are registered under the Act as an investment adviser, you must deliver a brochure and one or more brochure supplements to each client or prospective client that contains all information required by Part 2 of Form ADV [17 CFR 279.1].
(b)
Delivery requirements.
You (or a supervised person acting on your behalf) must:
(1) Deliver to a client or prospective client your current brochure before or at the time you enter into an investment advisory contract with that client.
(2) Deliver to each client, annually within 120 days after the end of your fiscal year and without charge, if there are material changes in your brochure since your last annual updating amendment:
(i) A current brochure, or
(ii) The summary of material changes to the brochure as required by Item 2 of Form ADV, Part 2A that offers to provide your current brochure without charge, accompanied by the Web site address (if available) and an e-mail address (if available) and telephone number by which a client may obtain the current brochure from you, and the Web site address for obtaining information about you through the Investment Adviser Public Disclosure (IAPD) system.
(3) Deliver to each client or prospective client a current brochure supplement for a supervised person before or at the time that supervised person begins to provide advisory services to the client; provided, however, that if investment advice for a client is provided by a team comprised of more than five supervised persons, a current brochure supplement need only be delivered to that client for the five supervised persons with the most significant responsibility for the day-to-day advice provided to that client. For purposes of this section, a supervised person will provide advisory services to a client if that supervised person will:
(i) Formulate investment advice for the client and have direct client contact; or
(ii) Make discretionary investment decisions for the client, even if the supervised person will have no direct client contact.
(4) Deliver the following to each client promptly after you create an amended brochure or brochure supplement, as applicable, if the amendment adds disclosure of an event, or materially revises information already disclosed about an event, in response to Item 9 of Part 2A of Form ADV or Item 3 of Part 2B of Form ADV (Disciplinary Information), respectively, (i) the amended brochure or brochure supplement, as applicable, along with a statement describing the material facts relating to the change in disciplinary information, or (ii) a statement describing the material facts relating to the change in disciplinary information.
(c)
Exceptions to delivery requirement.
(1) You are not required to deliver a brochure to a client:
(i) That is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-1 to 80a-64] or a business development company as defined in that Act, provided that the advisory contract with that client meets the requirements of section 15(c) of that Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-15(c)]; or
(ii) Who receives only impersonal investment advice for which you charge less than $500 per year.
(2) You are not required to deliver a brochure supplement to a client:
(i) To whom you are not required to deliver a brochure under subparagraph (c)(1) of this section;
(ii) Who receives only impersonal investment advice; or
(iii) Who is an officer, employee, or other person related to the adviser that would be a “qualified client” of your firm under § 275.205-3(d)(1)(iii).
(d)
Wrap fee program brochures.
(1) If you are a sponsor of a wrap fee program, then the brochure that paragraph (b) of this section requires you to deliver to a client or prospective client of the wrap fee program must be a wrap fee program brochure containing all the information required by Part 2A, Appendix 1 of Form ADV. Any additional information in a wrap fee program brochure must be limited to information applicable to wrap fee programs that you sponsor.
(2) You do not have to deliver a wrap fee program brochure if another sponsor of the wrap fee program delivers, to the client or prospective client of the wrap fee program, a wrap fee program brochure containing all the information required by Part 2A, Appendix 1 of Form ADV.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
A wrap fee program brochure does not take the place of any brochure supplements that you are required to deliver under paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Multiple brochures.
If you provide substantially different advisory services to different clients, you may provide them with different brochures, so long as each client receives all information about the services and fees that are applicable to that client. The brochure you deliver to a client may omit any information required by Part 2A of Form ADV if the information does not apply to the advisory services or fees that you will provide or charge, or that you propose to provide or charge, to that client.
(f)
Other disclosure obligations.
Delivering a brochure or brochure supplement in compliance with this section does not relieve you of any other disclosure obligations you have to your advisory clients or prospective clients under any federal or state laws or regulations.
(g)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Impersonal investment advice
means investment advisory services that do not purport to meet the objectives or needs of specific individuals or accounts.
(2)
Current brochure
and
current brochure supplement
mean the most recent revision of the brochure or brochure supplement, including all amendments to date.
(3)
Sponsor
of a wrap fee program means an investment adviser that is compensated under a wrap fee program for sponsoring, organizing, or administering the program, or for selecting, or providing advice to clients regarding the selection of, other investment advisers in the program.
(4)
Supervised person
means any of your officers, partners or directors (or other persons occupying a similar status or performing similar functions) or employees, or any other person who provides investment advice on your behalf.
(5)
Wrap fee program
means an advisory program under which a specified fee or fees not based directly upon transactions in a client's account is charged for investment advisory services (which may include portfolio management or advice concerning the selection of other investment advisers) and the execution of client transactions.
[75 FR 49268, Aug. 12, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 60458, Oct. 31, 2016; 84 FR 33630, July 12, 2019; 87 FR 22447, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 275.204-4
Reporting by exempt reporting advisers.
(a)
Exempt reporting advisers.
If you are an investment adviser relying on the exemption from registering with the Commission under section 203(l) or (m) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(l) or 80b-3(m)), you must complete and file reports on Form ADV (17 CFR 279.1) by following the instructions in the Form, which specify the information that an exempt reporting adviser must provide.
(b)
Electronic filing.
You must file Form ADV electronically with the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD) unless you have received a hardship exemption under paragraph (e) of this section.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
Information on how to file with the IARD is available on the Commission's Web site at
http://www.sec.gov/iard.
(c)
When filed.
Each Form ADV is considered filed with the Commission upon acceptance by the IARD.
(d)
Filing fees.
You must pay FINRA (the operator of the IARD) a filing fee. The Commission has approved the amount of the filing fee. No portion of the filing fee is refundable. Your completed Form ADV will not be accepted by FINRA, and thus will not be considered filed with the Commission, until you have paid the filing fee.
(e)
Temporary hardship exemption
—(1)
Eligibility for exemption.
If you have unanticipated technical difficulties that prevent submission of a filing to the IARD, you may request a temporary hardship exemption from the requirements of this chapter to file electronically.
(2)
Application procedures.
To request a temporary hardship exemption, you must:
(i) File Form ADV-H (17 CFR 279.3) in paper format no later than one business day after the filing that is the subject of the ADV-H was due; and
(ii) Submit the filing that is the subject of the Form ADV-H in electronic format with the IARD no later than seven business days after the filing was due.
(3)
Effective date—upon filing.
The temporary hardship exemption will be granted when you file a completed Form ADV-H.
(f)
Final report.
You must file a final report in accordance with instructions in Form ADV when:
(1) You cease operation as an investment adviser;
(2) You no longer meet the definition of exempt reporting adviser under paragraph (a); or
(3) You apply for registration with the Commission.

# Note to paragraph (
f

# ):
You do not have to pay a filing fee to file a final report on Form ADV through the IARD.
[76 FR 43013, July 19, 2011]
§ 275.204-5
Delivery of Form CRS.
(a)
General requirements.
If you are registered under the Act as an investment adviser, you must deliver Form CRS, required by Part 3 of Form ADV [17 CFR 279.1], to each retail investor.
(b)
Delivery requirements.
You (or a supervised person acting on your behalf) must:
(1) Deliver to each retail investor your current Form CRS before or at the time you enter into an investment advisory contract with that retail investor.
(2) Deliver to each retail investor who is an existing client your current Form CRS before or at the time you:
(i) Open a new account that is different from the retail investor's existing account(s);
(ii) Recommend that the retail investor roll over assets from a retirement account into a new or existing account or investment; or
(iii) Recommend or provide a new investment advisory service or investment that does not necessarily involve the opening of a new account and would not be held in an existing account.
(3) Post the current Form CRS prominently on your website, if you have one, in a location and format that is easily accessible for retail investors.
(4) Communicate any changes made to Form CRS to each retail investor who is an existing client within 60 days after the amendments are required to be made and without charge. The communication can be made by delivering the amended Form CRS or by communicating the information through another disclosure that is delivered to the retail investor.
(5) Deliver a current Form CRS to each retail investor within 30 days upon request.
(c)
Other disclosure obligations.
Delivering Form CRS in compliance with this section does not relieve you of any other disclosure obligations you have to your retail investors under any Federal or State laws or regulations.
(d)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Current Form CRS
means the most recent version of the Form CRS.
(2)
Retail investor
means a natural person, or the legal representative of such natural person, who seeks to receive or receives services primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
(3)
Supervised person
means any of your officers, partners or directors (or other persons occupying a similar status or performing similar functions) or employees, or any other person who provides investment advice on your behalf.
(e)
Transition rule.
(1) Within 30 days after the date by which you are first required by § 275.204-1(b) to electronically file your Form CRS with the Commission, you must deliver to each of your existing clients who is a retail investor your current Form CRS as required by Part 3 of Form ADV.
(2) As of the date by which you are first required to electronically file your Form CRS with the Commission, you must begin using your Form CRS as required by Part 3 of Form ADV to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
[84 FR 33631, July 12, 2019, as amended at 87 FR 22447, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 275.204(b)-1
Reporting by investment advisers to private funds.
(a)
Reporting by investment advisers to private funds on Form PF.
If you are an investment adviser registered or required to be registered under section 203 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3), you act as an investment adviser to one or more private funds and, as of the end of your most recently completed fiscal year, you managed private fund assets of at least $150 million, you must complete and file a report on Form PF (17 CFR 279.9) by following the instructions in the Form, which specify the information that an investment adviser must provide. Your initial report on Form PF is due no later than the last day on which your next update would be timely in accordance with paragraph (e) if you had previously filed the Form; provided that you are not required to file Form PF with respect to any fiscal quarter or fiscal year ending prior to the date on which your registration becomes effective.
(b)
Electronic filing.
You must file Form PF electronically with the Form PF filing system on the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD).

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
Information on how to file Form PF is available on the Commission's Web site at
http://www.sec.gov/iard.
(c)
When filed.
Each Form PF is considered filed with the Commission upon acceptance by the Form PF filing system.
(d)
Filing fees.
You must pay the operator of the Form PF filing system a filing fee as required by the instructions to Form PF. The Commission has approved the amount of the filing fee. No portion of the filing fee is refundable. Your completed Form PF will not be accepted by the operator of the Form PF filing system, and thus will not be considered filed with the Commission, until you have paid the filing fee.
(e)
Updates to Form PF.
You must file an updated Form PF:
(1) At least annually, no later than the date specified in the instructions to Form PF; and
(2) More frequently, if required by the instructions to Form PF. You must file all updated reports electronically with the Form PF filing system.
(f)
Temporary hardship exemption.
(1) If you have unanticipated technical difficulties that prevent you from submitting Form PF on a timely basis through the Form PF filing system, you may request a temporary hardship exemption from the requirements of this section to file electronically.
(2) To request a temporary hardship exemption, you must:
(i) Complete and file in accordance with the instructions to Form PF no later than one business day after the electronic Form PF filing was due; and
(ii) Submit the filing that is the subject of the Form PF paper filing in electronic format with the Form PF filing system no later than seven business days after the filing was due.
(3) The temporary hardship exemption will be granted when you file Item A of Section 1a and Section 7 of Form PF, checking the box in Section 1a indicating that you are requesting a temporary hardship exemption.
(4) A request for a temporary hardship exemption is considered filed upon the earlier of the date the request is postmarked or the date it is received by the Commission.
(5) The hardship exemptions available under § 275.203-3 do not apply to Form PF.
(g)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Assets under management
means the regulatory assets under management as determined under Item 5.F of Form ADV (§ 279.1 of this chapter).
(2)
Private fund assets
means the investment adviser's assets under management attributable to private funds.
[76 FR 71174, Nov. 16, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 38202, June 12, 2023; 89 FR 18060, Mar. 12, 2024]
§ 275.204A-1
Investment adviser codes of ethics.
(a)
Adoption of code of ethics.
If you are an investment adviser registered or required to be registered under section 203 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3), you must establish, maintain and enforce a written code of ethics that, at a minimum, includes:
(1) A standard (or standards) of business conduct that you require of your supervised persons, which standard must reflect your fiduciary obligations and those of your supervised persons;
(2) Provisions requiring your supervised persons to comply with applicable Federal securities laws;
(3) Provisions that require all of your access persons to report, and you to review, their personal securities transactions and holdings periodically as provided below;
(4) Provisions requiring supervised persons to report any violations of your code of ethics promptly to your chief compliance officer or, provided your chief compliance officer also receives reports of all violations, to other persons you designate in your code of ethics; and
(5) Provisions requiring you to provide each of your supervised persons with a copy of your code of ethics and any amendments, and requiring your supervised persons to provide you with a written acknowledgment of their receipt of the code and any amendments.
(b)
Reporting requirements
—(1)
Holdings reports.
The code of ethics must require your access persons to submit to your chief compliance officer or other persons you designate in your code of ethics a report of the access person's current securities holdings that meets the following requirements:
(i)
Content of holdings reports.
Each holdings report must contain, at a minimum:
(A) The title and type of security, and as applicable the exchange ticker symbol or CUSIP number, number of shares, and principal amount of each reportable security in which the access person has any direct or indirect beneficial ownership;
(B) The name of any broker, dealer or bank with which the access person maintains an account in which any securities are held for the access person's direct or indirect benefit; and
(C) The date the access person submits the report.
(ii)
Timing of holdings reports.
Your access persons must each submit a holdings report:
(A) No later than 10 days after the person becomes an access person, and the information must be current as of a date no more than 45 days prior to the date the person becomes an access person.
(B) At least once each 12-month period thereafter on a date you select, and the information must be current as of a date no more than 45 days prior to the date the report was submitted.
(2)
Transaction reports.
The code of ethics must require access persons to submit to your chief compliance officer or other persons you designate in your code of ethics quarterly securities transactions reports that meet the following requirements:
(i)
Content of transaction reports.
Each transaction report must contain, at a minimum, the following information about each transaction involving a reportable security in which the access person had, or as a result of the transaction acquired, any direct or indirect beneficial ownership:
(A) The date of the transaction, the title, and as applicable the exchange ticker symbol or CUSIP number, interest rate and maturity date, number of
shares, and principal amount of each reportable security involved;
(B) The nature of the transaction (i.e., purchase, sale or any other type of acquisition or disposition);
(C) The price of the security at which the transaction was effected;
(D) The name of the broker, dealer or bank with or through which the transaction was effected; and
(E) The date the access person submits the report.
(ii)
Timing of transaction reports.
Each access person must submit a transaction report no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter, which report must cover, at a minimum, all transactions during the quarter.
(3)
Exceptions from reporting requirements.
Your code of ethics need not require an access person to submit:
(i) Any report with respect to securities held in accounts over which the access person had no direct or indirect influence or control;
(ii) A transaction report with respect to transactions effected pursuant to an automatic investment plan;
(iii) A transaction report if the report would duplicate information contained in broker trade confirmations or account statements that you hold in your records so long as you receive the confirmations or statements no later than 30 days after the end of the applicable calendar quarter.
(c)
Pre-approval of certain investments.
Your code of ethics must require your access persons to obtain your approval before they directly or indirectly acquire beneficial ownership in any security in an initial public offering or in a limited offering.
(d)
Small advisers.
If you have only one access person (i.e., yourself), you are not required to submit reports to yourself or to obtain your own approval for investments in any security in an initial public offering or in a limited offering, if you maintain records of all of your holdings and transactions that this section would otherwise require you to report.
(e)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
(1)
Access person
means:
(i) Any of your supervised persons:
(A) Who has access to nonpublic information regarding any clients' purchase or sale of securities, or nonpublic information regarding the portfolio holdings of any reportable fund, or
(B) Who is involved in making securities recommendations to clients, or who has access to such recommendations that are nonpublic.
(ii) If providing investment advice is your primary business, all of your directors, officers and partners are presumed to be access persons.
(2)
Automatic investment plan
means a program in which regular periodic purchases (or withdrawals) are made automatically in (or from) investment accounts in accordance with a predetermined schedule and allocation. An automatic investment plan includes a dividend reinvestment plan.
(3)
Beneficial ownership
is interpreted in the same manner as it would be under § 240.16a-1(a)(2) of this chapter in determining whether a person has beneficial ownership of a security for purposes of section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78p) and the rules and regulations thereunder. Any report required by paragraph (b) of this section may contain a statement that the report will not be construed as an admission that the person making the report has any direct or indirect beneficial ownership in the security to which the report relates.
(4)
Federal securities laws
means the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a-aa), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a-mm), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745 (2002)), the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a), the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b), title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (Pub. L. 106-102, 113 Stat. 1338 (1999), any rules adopted by the Commission under any of these statutes, the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5311-5314; 5316-5332) as it applies to funds and investment advisers, and any rules adopted thereunder by the Commission or the Department of the Treasury.
(5)
Fund
means an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act.
(6)
Initial public offering
means an offering of securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a),
the issuer of which, immediately before the registration, was not subject to the reporting requirements of sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)).
(7)
Limited offering
means an offering that is exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to section 4(a)(2) or section 4(a)(5) (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(2) or 77d(a)(5)) or pursuant to §§ 230.504 or 230.506 of this chapter.
(8)
Purchase or sale of a security
includes, among other things, the writing of an option to purchase or sell a security.
(9)
Reportable fund
means:
(i) Any fund for which you serve as an investment adviser as defined in section 2(a)(20) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(20)) (i.e., in most cases you must be approved by the fund's board of directors before you can serve); or
(ii) Any fund whose investment adviser or principal underwriter controls you, is controlled by you, or is under common control with you. For purposes of this section,
control
has the same meaning as it does in section 2(a)(9) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(9)).
(10)
Reportable security
means a security as defined in section 202(a)(18) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(18)), except that it does not include:
(i) Direct obligations of the Government of the United States;
(ii) Bankers' acceptances, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper and high quality short-term debt instruments, including repurchase agreements;
(iii) Shares issued by money market funds;
(iv) Shares issued by open-end funds other than reportable funds; and
(v) Shares issued by unit investment trusts that are invested exclusively in one or more open-end funds, none of which are reportable funds.
[69 FR 41708, July 9, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 81806, Dec. 29, 2011; 81 FR 83554, Nov. 21, 2016]
§ 275.205-1
Definition of “investment performance” of an investment company and “investment record” of an appropriate index of securities prices.
(a)
Investment performance
of an investment company for any period shall mean the sum of:
(1) The change in its net asset value per share during such period;
(2) The value of its cash distributions per share accumulated to the end of such period; and
(3) The value of capital gains taxes per share paid or payable on undistributed realized long-term capital gains accumulated to the end of such period; expressed as a percentage of its net asset value per share at the beginning of such period. For this purpose, the value of distributions per share of realized capital gains, of dividends per share paid from investment income and of capital gains taxes per share paid or payable on undistributed realized long-term capital gains shall be treated as reinvested in shares of the investment company at the net asset value per share in effect at the close of business on the record date for the payment of such distributions and dividends and the date on which provision is made for such taxes, after giving effect to such distributions, dividends and taxes.
(b)
Investment record
of an appropriate index of securities prices for any period shall mean the sum of:
(1) The change in the level of the index during such period; and
(2) The value, computed consistently with the index, of cash distributions made by companies whose securities comprise the index accumulated to the end of such period; expressed as a percentage of the index level at the beginning of such period. For this purpose cash distributions on the securities which comprise the index shall be treated as reinvested in the index at least as frequently as the end of each calendar quarter following the payment of the dividend.
Exhibit I
[
Method of computing the investment record of the standard
poor's
500
stock composite index for calendar
1971]
Quarterly ending—
Index value
1
Quarterly dividend yield-composite index
Annual percent
2
Quarterly percent
3
(
1/4
of annual)
Dec. 1970
92.15
Mar. 1971
100.31
3.10
0.78
June 1971
99.70
3.11
.78
Sept. 1971
98.34
3.14
.79
Dec. 1971
102.09
3.01
.75
1
Source: Standard
Poor's Trade and Securities Statistics, Jan. 1972, p. 33.
2
Id.
See Standard
Poor's Trade and Securities Statistics Security and Price Index Record—1970 Edition, p. 133 for explanation of quarterly dividend yield.
3
Quarterly percentages have been founded to two decimal places.
Change in index value for 1971: 102.09 − 92.15 = 9.94.
Accumulated value of dividends for 1971:
EC14NO91.094
Aggregate value of dividends paid, assuming quarterly reinvestment and computed consistently with the index:
(Percent yield as computed above) × (ending index value) = Aggregate value of dividends paid
For 1971:
.0314 × 102.09 = 3.21
Investment record of Standard
Poor's 500 stock composite index assuming quarterly reinvestment dividends:
EC14NO91.095
The same method can be extended to cases where an investment company's fiscal quarters do not coincide with the fiscal quarters of the S
P dividend record or to instances where a “rolling period” is used for performance comparisons as indicated by the following example of the calculation of the investment record of the Standard
Poor's 500 Stock Composite Index for the 12 months ended November 1971:
Index value Nov. 30, 1971
93.99
Index value Nov. 30, 1970
87.20
Change in index value
6.79
Quarter ending—
Dividend yield
Annual rate
1/4
of annual
Rate for each month of quarter (
1/12
of annual)
Dec. 1970
3.41
0.85
0.28
Mar. 1971
3.10
.78
.26
June 1971
3.11
.78
.26
Sept. 1971
3.14
.79
.26
Dec. 1971
3.01
.75
.25
Accumulated value of dividends reinvested:
December = 1.0028
January-March = 1.0078
April-June = 1.0078
July-September = 1.0079
October-November = 1.0053
4
4
The rate for October and November would be two-thirds of the yield for the quarter ended Sept. 30 (i.e. .667 × .79 = 5269) since the yield for the quarter ended Dec. 31 would not be available as of Nov. 30.
Dividend yield:

# (1.0028 × 1.0078 × 1.0078 × 1.0079 × 1.0053) − 1.00 = .0320
Aggregate value of dividends paid computed consistently with the index:
.0320 × 93.99 = 3.01
Investment record of the Standard
Poor's 500 Stock Composite Index for the 12 months ended November 30, 1971:
EC14NO91.096
Exhibit II
[
Method of Computing the Investment Record of the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index for Calendar
1971]
(1)—Quarter ending
(2)—Index value
1
(3)—Aggregate market value of shares listed on the NYSE as of end of quarter (billions of dollars)
2
(4)—Quarterly value of estimated cash payments of shares listed on the NYSE (millions of dollars)
3
(5)—Estimated yield
4
(quarterly percent)
Dec. 1970
50.23
Mar. 1971
55.44
$709
$5,106
0.72
June 1971
55.09
710
4,961
.70
Sept. 1971
54.33
709
5,006
.71
Dec. 1971
56.43
742
5,183
.70
1
Source: New York Stock Exchange Composite Index as reported daily by the New York Stock Exchange.
2
Source: Monthly Review, New York Stock Exchange.
3
Source: The Exchange, New York Stock Exchange magazine, May, Aug., Nov. 1971 and Feb. 1972 editions. Upon request the Statistics Division of the Research Department of the NYSE will make this figure available within 10 days of the end of each quarter.
4
The ratio of column 4 to column 3.
Change in NYSE Composite Index value for 1971: 56.43 − 50.23 = 6.20.
Accumulated Value of Dividends of NYSE Composite Index for 1971:
EC14NO91.097
Aggregate value of dividends paid on NYSE Composite Index assuming quarterly reinvestment:
For 1971:
.0286 × 56.43 = 1.61
Investment record of the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index assuming quarterly reinvestment of dividends:
EC14NO91.098
The same method can be extended to cases where an investment company's fiscal quarters do not coincide with the fiscal quarters of the NYSE dividend record or to instances where a “rolling period” is used for performance comparisons as indicated by the following example of the calculation of the investment record of the NYSE Composite Index for the 12 months ended November 1971:
Index value Nov. 30, 1971
51.84
Index value Nov. 30, 1970
47.41
Change in index value
4.43
Quarter ending
Dividend yield quarterly percent
Rate for each month of quarter (
1/12
of annual)
Dec. 1970
0.79
0.26
Mar. 1971
.72
.24
June 1971
.70
.23
Sept. 1971
.71
.24
Dec. 1971
.70
.23
Accumulated value of dividends reinvested:
December = 1.0026
January-March = 1.0072
April-June = 1.0070
July-September = 1.0071
October-November = 1.0047
4
4
The rate for October and November would be two thirds of the yield for the quarter ended September 30 (i.e. .667 × .71 = 4736), since the yield for the quarter ended December 31 would not be available as of November 30.
Dividend yield:

# (1.0026 × 1.0072 × 1.0070 × 1.0071 × 1.0047) − 1.00 = .0289
Aggregate value of dividends paid computed consistently with the index:
.0289 × 51.84 = 1.50
Investment record of the NYSE Composite Index for the 12 months ended November 30, 1971:
EC14NO91.099
(Secs. 205, 211, 54 Stat. 852, 74 Stat. 887, 15 U.S.C. 80b-205, 80b-211; sec. 25, 84 Stat. 1432, 1433, Pub. L. 91-547)
[37 FR 17468, Aug. 29, 1972]
§ 275.205-2
Definition of “specified period” over which the asset value of the company or fund under management is averaged.
(a) For purposes of this rule:
(1)
Fulcrum fee
shall mean the fee which is paid or earned when the investment company's performance is equivalent to that of the index or other measure of performance.
(2)
Rolling period
shall mean a period consisting of a specified number of subperiods of definite length in which the most recent subperiod is substituted for the earliest subperiod as time passes.
(b) The specified period over which the asset value of the company or fund under management is averaged shall mean the period over which the investment performance of the company or fund and the investment record of an appropriate index of securities prices or such other measure of investment performance are computed.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, the specified period over which the asset value of the company or fund is averaged for the purpose of computing the fulcrum fee may differ from the period over which the asset value is averaged for computing the performance related portion of the fee, only if:
(1) The performance related portion of the fee is computed over a rolling period and the total fee is payable at the end of each subperiod of the rolling period; and
(2) The fulcrum fee is computed on the basis of the asset value averaged over the most recent subperiod or subperiods of the rolling period.
(Secs. 205, 106A, 211; 54 Stat. 852, 855; 84 Stat. 1433, 15 U.S.C. 80b-5, 80b-6a, 80b-11)
[37 FR 24896, Nov. 22, 1972]
§ 275.205-3
Exemption from the compensation prohibition of section 205(a)(1) for investment advisers.
(a)
General.
The provisions of section 205(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-5(a)(1)) will not be deemed to prohibit an investment adviser from entering into, performing, renewing or extending an investment advisory contract that provides for compensation to the investment adviser on the basis of a share of the capital gains upon, or the capital appreciation of, the funds, or any portion of the funds, of a client,
Provided,
That the client entering into the contract subject to this section is a qualified client, as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(b)
Identification of the client.
In the case of a private investment company, as defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or a business development company, as defined in section 202(a)(22) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(22)), each equity owner of any such company (except for the investment adviser entering into the contract and any other equity owners not charged a fee on the basis of a share of capital gains or capital appreciation) will be considered a client for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Transition rules
—(1)
Registered investment advisers.
If a registered investment adviser entered into a contract and satisfied the conditions of this section that were in effect when the contract was entered into, the adviser will be considered to satisfy the conditions of this section;
Provided,
however, that if a natural person or company who was not a party to the contract becomes a party (including an equity owner of a private investment company advised by the adviser), the conditions of this section in effect at that time will apply with regard to that person or company.
(2)
Registered investment advisers that were previously not registered.
If an investment adviser was not required to register with the Commission pursuant to section 203 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3) and was not registered, section 205(a)(1) of the Act will not apply to an advisory contract entered into when the adviser was not required to register and was not registered, or to an account of an equity owner of a private investment company advised by the adviser if the account was established when the adviser was not required to register and was not registered;
Provided,
however, that section 205(a)(1) of the Act will apply with regard to a natural person or company who was not a party to the contract and becomes a party (including an equity owner of a private investment company advised by the adviser) when the adviser is required to register.
(3)
Certain transfers of interests.
Solely for purposes of paragraphs (c)(1) and
(c)(2) of this section, a transfer of an equity ownership interest in a private investment company by gift or bequest, or pursuant to an agreement related to a legal separation or divorce, will not cause the transferee to “become a party” to the contract and will not cause section 205(a)(1) of the Act to apply to such transferee.
(d)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term
qualified client
means:
(i) A natural person who, or a company that, immediately after entering into the contract has, under the management of the investment adviser, at least the applicable dollar amount specified in the most recent order;
(ii) A natural person who, or a company that, the investment adviser entering into the contract (and any person acting on his behalf) reasonably believes, immediately prior to entering into the contract, either:
(A) Has a net worth (together, in the case of a natural person, with assets held jointly with a spouse) of more than the applicable dollar amount specified in the most recent order. For purposes of calculating a natural person's net worth:
(
1
) The person's primary residence must not be included as an asset;
(
2
) Indebtedness secured by the person's primary residence, up to the estimated fair market value of the primary residence at the time the investment advisory contract is entered into may not be included as a liability (except that if the amount of such indebtedness outstanding at the time of calculation exceeds the amount outstanding 60 days before such time, other than as a result of the acquisition of the primary residence, the amount of such excess must be included as a liability); and
(
3
) Indebtedness that is secured by the person's primary residence in excess of the estimated fair market value of the residence must be included as a liability; or
(B) Is a qualified purchaser as defined in section 2(a)(51)(A) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)(A)) at the time the contract is entered into; or
(iii) A natural person who immediately prior to entering into the contract is:
(A) An executive officer, director, trustee, general partner, or person serving in a similar capacity, of the investment adviser; or
(B) An employee of the investment adviser (other than an employee performing solely clerical, secretarial or administrative functions with regard to the investment adviser) who, in connection with his or her regular functions or duties, participates in the investment activities of such investment adviser, provided that such employee has been performing such functions and duties for or on behalf of the investment adviser, or substantially similar functions or duties for or on behalf of another company for at least 12 months.
(2) The term
company
has the same meaning as in section 202(a)(5) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(5)), but does not include a company that is required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 but is not registered.
(3) The term
private investment company
means a company that would be defined as an investment company under section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)) but for the exception provided from that definition by section 3(c)(1) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)).
(4) The term
executive officer
means the president, any vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division or function (such as sales, administration or finance), any other officer who performs a policy-making function, or any other person who performs similar policy-making functions, for the investment adviser.
(5) The term
most recent order
means the most recently issued Commission order in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section and as published in the
Federal Register
.
(e)
Inflation adjustments.
Pursuant to section 205(e) of the Act, the dollar amounts referenced in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section shall be adjusted, by order of the Commission, issued on or about May 1, 2026, and approximately every five years thereafter. The adjusted dollar
amounts established in such orders shall be computed by:
(1) Dividing the year-end value of the Personal Consumption Expenditures Chain-Type Price Index (or any successor index thereto), as published by the United States Department of Commerce, for the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the order is being issued, by the year-end value of such index (or successor) for the calendar year 1997;
(2) For the dollar amount in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, multiplying $750,000 times the quotient obtained in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and rounding the product to the nearest multiple of $100,000; and
(3) For the dollar amount in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, multiplying $1,500,000 times the quotient obtained in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and rounding the product to the nearest multiple of $100,000.
[63 FR 39027, July 21, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 72088, Dec. 10, 2004; 77 FR 10368, Feb. 22, 2012; 86 FR 62475, Nov. 10, 2021
§ 275.206(3)-1
Exemption of investment advisers registered as broker-dealers in connection with the provision of certain investment advisory services.
(a) An investment adviser which is a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be exempt from section 206(3) in connection with any transaction in relation to which such broker or dealer is acting as an investment adviser solely (1) by means of publicly distributed written materials or publicly made oral statements; (2) by means of written materials or oral statements which do not purport to meet the objectives or needs of specific individuals or accounts; (3) through the issuance of statistical information containing no expressions of opinion as to the investment merits of a particular security; or (4) any combination of the foregoing services:
Provided, however,
That such materials and oral statements include a statement that if the purchaser of the advisory communication uses the services of the adviser in connection with a sale or purchase of a security which is a subject of such communication, the adviser may act as principal for its own account or as agent for another person.
(b) For the purpose of this Rule, publicly distributed written materials are those which are distributed to 35 or more persons who pay for such materials, and publicly made oral statements are those made simultaneously to 35 or more persons who pay for access to such statements.

# Note:
The requirement that the investment adviser disclose that it may act as principal or agent for another person in the sale or purchase of a security that is the subject of investment advice does not relieve the investment adviser of any disclosure obligation which, depending upon the nature of the relationship between the investment adviser and the client, may be imposed by subparagraphs (1) or (2) of section 206 or the other provisions of the federal securities laws.
[40 FR 38159, Aug. 27, 1975]
§ 275.206(3)-2
Agency cross transactions for advisory clients.
(a) An investment adviser, or a person registered as a broker-dealer under section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) and controlling, controlled by, or under common control with an investment adviser, shall be deemed in compliance with the provisions of sections 206(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(3)) in effecting an agency cross transaction for an advisory client, if:
(1) The advisory client has executed a written consent prospectively authorizing the investment adviser, or any other person relying on this rule, to effect agency cross transactions for such advisory client, provided that such written consent is obtained after full written disclosure that with respect to agency cross transactions the investment adviser or such other person will act as broker for, receive commissions from, and have a potentially conflicting division of loyalties and responsibilities regarding, both parties to such transactions;
(2) The investment adviser, or any other person relying on this rule, sends to each such client a written confirmation at or before the completion of each such transaction, which confirmation includes (i) a statement of the nature of such transaction, (ii) the date such transaction took place, (iii) an
offer to furnish upon request, the time when such transaction took place, and (iv) the source and amount of any other remuneration received or to be received by the investment adviser and any other person relying on this rule in connection with the transaction,
Provided, however,
That if, in the case of a purchase, neither the investment adviser nor any other person relying on this rule was participating in a distribution, or in the case of a sale, neither the investment adviser nor any other person relying on this rule was participating in a tender offer, the written confirmation may state whether any other remuneration has been or will be received and that the source and amount of such other remuneration will be furnished upon written request of such customer;
(3) The investment adviser, or any other person relying in this rule, sends to each such client, at least annually, and with or as part of any written statement or summary of such account from the investment adviser or such other person, a written disclosure statement identifying the total number of such transactions during the period since the date of the last such statement or summary, and the total amount of all commissions or other remuneration received or to be received by the investment adviser or any other person relying on this rule in connection with such transactions during such period;
(4) Each written disclosure statement and confirmation required by this rule includes a conspicuous statement that the written consent referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be revoked at any time by written notice to the investment adviser, or to any other person relying on this rule, from the advisory client; and
(5) No such transaction is effected in which the same investment adviser or an investment adviser and any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such investment adviser recommended the transaction to both any seller and any purchaser.
(b) For purposes of this rule the term
agency cross transaction for an advisory client
shall mean a transaction in which a person acts as an investment adviser in relation to a transaction in which such investment adviser, or any person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such investment adviser, acts as broker for both such advisory client and for another person on the other side of the transaction.
(c) This rule shall not be construed as relieving in any way the investment adviser or another person relying on this rule from acting in the best interests of the advisory client, including fulfilling the duty with respect to the best price and execution for the particular transaction for the advisory client; nor shall it relieve such person or persons from any disclosure obligation which may be imposed by subparagraphs (1) or (2) of section 206 of the Act or by other applicable provisions of the federal securities laws.
[42 FR 29301 June 8, 1977, as amended at 48 FR 41379, Sept. 15, 1983; 62 FR 28135, May 22, 1997]
§ 275.206(4)-1
Investment adviser marketing.
As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts, practices, or courses of business within the meaning of section 206(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(4)), it is unlawful for any investment adviser registered or required to be registered under section 203 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3), directly or indirectly, to disseminate any advertisement that violates any of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(a)
General prohibitions.
An advertisement may not:
(1) Include any untrue statement of a material fact, or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statement made, in the light of the circumstances under which it was made, not misleading;
(2) Include a material statement of fact that the adviser does not have a reasonable basis for believing it will be able to substantiate upon demand by the Commission;
(3) Include information that would reasonably be likely to cause an untrue or misleading implication or inference to be drawn concerning a material fact relating to the investment adviser;
(4) Discuss any potential benefits to clients or investors connected with or
resulting from the investment adviser's services or methods of operation without providing fair and balanced treatment of any material risks or material limitations associated with the potential benefits;
(5) Include a reference to specific investment advice provided by the investment adviser where such investment advice is not presented in a manner that is fair and balanced;
(6) Include or exclude performance results, or present performance time periods, in a manner that is not fair and balanced; or
(7) Otherwise be materially misleading.
(b)
Testimonials and endorsements.
An advertisement may not include any testimonial or endorsement, and an adviser may not provide compensation, directly or indirectly, for a testimonial or endorsement, unless the investment adviser complies with the conditions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, subject to the exemptions in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(1)
Required disclosures.
The investment adviser discloses, or reasonably believes that the person giving the testimonial or endorsement discloses, the following at the time the testimonial or endorsement is disseminated:
(i) Clearly and prominently:
(A) That the testimonial was given by a current client or investor, and the
endorsement
was given by a person other than a current client or investor, as applicable;
(B) That cash or non-cash compensation was provided for the
testimonial
or
endorsement,
if applicable; and
(C) A brief statement of any material conflicts of interest on the part of the person giving the testimonial or endorsement resulting from the investment adviser's relationship with such person;
(ii) The material terms of any compensation arrangement, including a description of the compensation provided or to be provided, directly or indirectly, to the person for the
testimonial
or
endorsement;
and
(iii) A description of any material conflicts of interest on the part of the person giving the
testimonial
or
endorsement
resulting from the investment adviser's relationship with such person and/or any compensation arrangement.
(2)
Adviser oversight and compliance.
The investment adviser must have:
(i) A reasonable basis for believing that the testimonial or endorsement complies with the requirements of this section; and
(ii) A written agreement with any person giving a testimonial or endorsement that describes the scope of the agreed-upon activities and the terms of compensation for those activities.
(3)
Disqualification.
An investment adviser may not compensate a person, directly or indirectly, for a testimonial or endorsement if the adviser knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the person giving the testimonial or endorsement is an ineligible person at the time the testimonial or endorsement is disseminated. This paragraph shall not disqualify any person for any matter(s) that occurred prior to May 4, 2021, if such matter(s) would not have disqualified such person under § 275.206(4)-3(a)(1)(ii) of this chapter, as in effect prior to May 4, 2021.
(4)
Exemptions.
(i) A testimonial or endorsement disseminated for no compensation or
de minimis compensation
is not required to comply with paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (3) of this section;
(ii) A testimonial or endorsement by the investment adviser's partners, officers, directors, or employees, or a person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the investment adviser, or is a partner, officer, director or employee of such a person is not required to comply with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2)(ii) of this section, provided that the affiliation between the investment adviser and such person is readily apparent to or is disclosed to the client or investor at the time the testimonial or endorsement is disseminated and the investment adviser documents such person's status at the time the testimonial or endorsement is disseminated;
(iii) A testimonial or endorsement by a broker or dealer registered with the Commission under section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(a)) is not required to comply with:
(A) Paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the testimonial or endorsement is a recommendation subject to § 240.15l-1 of this chapter (Regulation Best Interest) under that Act;
(B) Paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section if the testimonial or endorsement is provided to a person that is not a retail customer (as that term is defined in § 240.15l-1 of this chapter (Regulation Best Interest) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(a)); and
(C) Paragraph (b)(3) of this section if the broker or dealer is not subject to statutory disqualification, as defined under section 3(a)(39) of that Act; and
(iv) A testimonial or endorsement by a person that is covered by rule 506(d) of Regulation D under the Securities Act of 1933 (§ 230.506(d) of this chapter) with respect to a rule 506 securities offering under the Securities Act of 1933 (§ 230.506 of this chapter) and whose involvement would not disqualify the offering under that rule is not required to comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(c)
Third-party ratings.
An advertisement may not include any third-party rating, unless the investment adviser:
(1) Has a reasonable basis for believing that any questionnaire or survey used in the preparation of the third-party rating is structured to make it equally easy for a participant to provide favorable and unfavorable responses, and is not designed or prepared to produce any predetermined result; and
(2) Clearly and prominently discloses, or the investment adviser reasonably believes that the third-party rating clearly and prominently discloses:
(i) The date on which the rating was given and the period of time upon which the rating was based;
(ii) The identity of the third party that created and tabulated the rating; and
(iii) If applicable, that compensation has been provided directly or indirectly by the adviser in connection with obtaining or using the third-party rating.
(d)
Performance.
An investment adviser may not include in any advertisement:
(1) Any presentation of gross performance, unless the advertisement also presents net performance:
(i) With at least equal prominence to, and in a format designed to facilitate comparison with, the gross performance; and
(ii) Calculated over the same time period, and using the same type of return and methodology, as the gross performance.
(2) Any performance results, of any portfolio or any composite aggregation of related portfolios, in each case other than any private fund, unless the advertisement includes performance results of the same portfolio or composite aggregation for one-, five-, and ten-year periods, each presented with equal prominence and ending on a date that is no less recent than the most recent calendar year-end; except that if the relevant portfolio did not exist for a particular prescribed period, then the life of the portfolio must be substituted for that period.
(3) Any statement, express or implied, that the calculation or presentation of performance results in the advertisement has been approved or reviewed by the Commission.
(4) Any related performance, unless it includes all related portfolios; provided that related performance may exclude any related portfolios if:
(i) The advertised performance results are not materially higher than if all related portfolios had been included; and
(ii) The exclusion of any related portfolio does not alter the presentation of any applicable time periods prescribed by paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(5) Any extracted performance, unless the advertisement provides, or offers to provide promptly, the performance results of the total portfolio from which the performance was extracted.
(6) Any hypothetical performance unless the investment adviser:
(i) Adopts and implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that the hypothetical performance is relevant to the likely financial situation and investment objectives of the intended audience of the advertisement;
(ii) Provides sufficient information to enable the intended audience to understand the criteria used and assumptions made in calculating such hypothetical performance; and
(iii) Provides (or, if the intended audience is an investor in a private fund, provides, or offers to provide promptly) sufficient information to enable the intended audience to understand the risks and limitations of using such hypothetical performance in making investment decisions; Provided that the investment adviser need not comply with the other conditions on performance in paragraphs (d)(2), (4), and (5) of this section.
(7) Any predecessor performance unless:
(i) The person or persons who were primarily responsible for achieving the prior performance results manage accounts at the advertising adviser;
(ii) The accounts managed at the predecessor investment adviser are sufficiently similar to the accounts managed at the advertising investment adviser that the performance results would provide relevant information to clients or investors;
(iii) All accounts that were managed in a substantially similar manner are advertised unless the exclusion of any such account would not result in materially higher performance and the exclusion of any account does not alter the presentation of any applicable time periods prescribed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and
(iv) The advertisement clearly and prominently includes all relevant disclosures, including that the performance results were from accounts managed at another entity.
(e)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Advertisement
means:
(i) Any direct or indirect communication an investment adviser makes to more than one person, or to one or more persons if the communication includes hypothetical performance, that offers the investment adviser's investment advisory services with regard to securities to prospective clients or investors in a private fund advised by the investment adviser or offers new investment advisory services with regard to securities to current clients or investors in a private fund advised by the investment adviser, but does not include:
(A) Extemporaneous, live, oral communications;
(B) Information contained in a statutory or regulatory notice, filing, or other required communication, provided that such information is reasonably designed to satisfy the requirements of such notice, filing, or other required communication; or
(C) A communication that includes hypothetical performance that is provided:
(
1
) In response to an unsolicited request for such information from a prospective or current client or investor in a private fund advised by the investment adviser; or
(
2
) To a prospective or current investor in a private fund advised by the investment adviser in a one-on-one communication; and
(ii) Any endorsement or testimonial for which an investment adviser provides compensation, directly or indirectly, but does not include any information contained in a statutory or regulatory notice, filing, or other required communication, provided that such information is reasonably designed to satisfy the requirements of such notice, filing, or other required communication.
(2)
De minimis compensation
means compensation paid to a person for providing a
testimonial
or
endorsement
of a total of $1,000 or less (or the equivalent value in non-cash compensation) during the preceding 12 months.
(3) A
disqualifying Commission action
means a Commission opinion or order barring, suspending, or prohibiting the person from acting in any capacity under the Federal securities laws.
(4) A
disqualifying event
is any of the following events that occurred within ten years prior to the person disseminating an endorsement or testimonial:
(i) A conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction within the United States of any felony or misdemeanor involving conduct described in paragraph (2)(A) through (D) of section 203(e) of the Act;
(ii) A conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction within the United
States of engaging in, any of the conduct specified in paragraphs (1), (5), or (6) of section 203(e) of the Act;
(iii) The entry of any final order by any entity described in paragraph (9) of section 203(e) of the Act, or by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission or a self-regulatory organization (as defined in the Form ADV Glossary of Terms)), of the type described in paragraph (9) of section 203(e) of the Act;
(iv) The entry of an order, judgment or decree described in paragraph (4) of section 203(e) of the Act, and still in effect, by any court of competent jurisdiction within the United States; and
(v) A Commission order that a person cease and desist from committing or causing a violation or future violation of:
(A) Any scienter-based anti-fraud provision of the Federal securities laws, including without limitation section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77q(a)(1)), section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j(b)) and § 240.10b-5 of this chapter, section 15(c)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(c)(1)), and section 206(1) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(1)), or any other rule or regulation thereunder; or
(B) Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77e);
(vi) A disqualifying event does not include an event described in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (v) of this section with respect to a person that is also subject to:
(A) An order pursuant to section 9(c) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-9) with respect to such event; or
(B) A Commission opinion or order with respect to such event that is not a disqualifying Commission action; provided that for each applicable type of order or opinion described in paragraphs (e)(4)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section:
(
1
) The person is in compliance with the terms of the order or opinion, including, but not limited to, the payment of disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil or administrative penalties, and fines; and
(
2
) For a period of ten years following the date of each order or opinion, the advertisement containing the testimonial or endorsement must include a statement that the person providing the testimonial or endorsement is subject to a Commission order or opinion regarding one or more disciplinary action(s), and include the order or opinion or a link to the order or opinion on the Commission's website.
(5)
Endorsement
means any statement by a person other than a current client or investor in a private fund advised by the investment adviser that:
(i) Indicates approval, support, or recommendation of the investment adviser or its supervised persons or describes that person's experience with the investment adviser or its supervised persons;
(ii) Directly or indirectly solicits any current or prospective client or investor to be a client of, or an investor in a private fund advised by, the investment adviser; or
(iii) Refers any current or prospective client or investor to be a client of, or an investor in a private fund advised by, the investment adviser.
(6)
Extracted performance
means the performance results of a subset of investments extracted from a portfolio.
(7)
Gross performance
means the performance results of a portfolio (or portions of a
portfolio
that are included in extracted performance, if applicable) before the deduction of all fees and expenses that a client or investor has paid or would have paid in connection with the investment adviser's investment advisory services to the relevant portfolio.
(8)
Hypothetical performance
means performance results that were not actually achieved by any portfolio of the investment adviser.
(i) Hypothetical performance includes, but is not limited to;
(A) Performance derived from model portfolios;
(B) Performance that is backtested by the application of a strategy to data from prior time periods when the strategy was not actually used during those time periods; and
(C) Targeted or projected performance returns with respect to any portfolio or to the investment advisory
services with regard to securities offered in the advertisement, however:
(ii) Hypothetical performance does not include:
(A) An interactive analysis tool where a client or investor, or prospective client, or investor, uses the tool to produce simulations and statistical analyses that present the likelihood of various investment outcomes if certain investments are made or certain investment strategies or styles are undertaken, thereby serving as an additional resource to investors in the evaluation of the potential risks and returns of investment choices; provided that the investment adviser:
(
1
) Provides a description of the criteria and methodology used, including the investment analysis tool's limitations and key assumptions;
(
2
) Explains that the results may vary with each use and over time;
(
3
) If applicable, describes the universe of investments considered in the analysis, explains how the tool determines which investments to select, discloses if the tool favors certain investments and, if so, explains the reason for the selectivity, and states that other investments not considered may have characteristics similar or superior to those being analyzed; and
(
4
) Discloses that the tool generates outcomes that are hypothetical in nature; or
(B) Predecessor performance that is displayed in compliance with paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
(9)
Ineligible person
means a person who is subject to a disqualifying Commission action or is subject to any disqualifying event, and the following persons with respect to the ineligible person:
(i) Any employee, officer, or director of the ineligible person and any other individuals with similar status or functions within the scope of association with the ineligible person;
(ii) If the ineligible person is a partnership, all general partners; and
(iii) If the ineligible person is a limited liability company managed by elected managers, all elected managers.
(10)
Net performance
means the performance results of a portfolio (or portions of a portfolio that are included in extracted performance, if applicable) after the deduction of all fees and expenses that a client or investor has paid or would have paid in connection with the investment adviser's investment advisory services to the relevant portfolio, including, if applicable, advisory fees, advisory fees paid to underlying investment vehicles, and payments by the investment adviser for which the client or investor reimburses the investment adviser. For purposes of this rule, net performance:
(i) May reflect the exclusion of custodian fees paid to a bank or other third-party organization for safekeeping funds and securities; and/or
(ii) If using a model fee, must reflect one of the following:
(A) The deduction of a model fee when doing so would result in performance figures that are no higher than if the actual fee had been deducted; or
(B) The deduction of a model fee that is equal to the highest fee charged to the intended audience to whom the advertisement is disseminated.
(11)
Portfolio
means a group of investments managed by the investment adviser. A portfolio may be an account or a private fund and includes, but is not limited to, a portfolio for the account of the investment adviser or its advisory affiliate (as defined in the Form ADV Glossary of Terms).
(12)
Predecessor performance
means investment performance achieved by a group of investments consisting of an account or a private fund that was not advised at all times during the period shown by the investment adviser advertising the performance.
(13)
Private fund
has the same meaning as in section 202(a)(29) of the Act.
(14)
Related performance
means the performance results of one or more related portfolios, either on a portfolio-by-portfolio basis or as a composite aggregation of all portfolios falling within stated criteria.
(15)
Related portfolio
means a portfolio with substantially similar investment policies, objectives, and strategies as those of the services being offered in the advertisement.
(16)
Supervised person
has the same meaning as in section 202(a)(25) of the Act.
(17)
Testimonial
means any statement by a current client or investor in a private fund advised by the investment adviser:
(i) About the client or investor's experience with the investment adviser or its supervised persons;
(ii) That directly or indirectly solicits any current or prospective client or investor to be a client of, or an investor in a private fund advised by, the investment adviser; or
(iii) That refers any current or prospective client or investor to be a client of, or an investor in a private fund advised by, the investment adviser.
(18)
Third-party rating
means a rating or ranking of an investment adviser provided by a person who is not a related person (as defined in the Form ADV Glossary of Terms), and such person provides such ratings or rankings in the ordinary course of its business.
[86 FR 13024, Mar. 5, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 22447, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 275.206(4)-2
Custody of funds or securities of clients by investment advisers.
(a)
Safekeeping required.
If you are an investment adviser registered or required to be registered under section 203 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3), it is a fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act, practice or course of business within the meaning of section 206(4) of the
Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(4))
for you to have custody of client funds or securities unless:
(1)
Qualified custodian.
A qualified custodian maintains those funds and securities:
(i) In a separate account for each client under that client's name; or
(ii) In accounts that contain only your clients' funds and securities, under your name as agent or trustee for the clients.
(2)
Notice to clients.
If you open an account with a qualified custodian on your client's behalf, either under the client's name or under your name as agent, you notify the client in writing of the qualified custodian's name, address, and the manner in which the funds or securities are maintained, promptly when the account is opened and following any changes to this information. If you send account statements to a client to which you are required to provide this notice, include in the notification provided to that client and in any subsequent account statement you send that client a statement urging the client to compare the account statements from the custodian with those from the adviser.
(3)
Account statements to clients.
You have a reasonable basis, after due inquiry, for believing that the qualified custodian sends an account statement, at least quarterly, to each of your clients for which it maintains funds or securities, identifying the amount of funds and of each security in the account at the end of the period and setting forth all transactions in the account during that period.
(4)
Independent verification.
The client funds and securities of which you have custody are verified by actual examination at least once during each calendar year, except as provided below, by an independent public accountant, pursuant to a written agreement between you and the accountant, at a time that is chosen by the accountant without prior notice or announcement to you and that is irregular from year to year. The written agreement must provide for the first examination to occur within six months of becoming subject to this paragraph, except that, if you maintain client funds or securities pursuant to this section as a qualified custodian, the agreement must provide for the first examination to occur no later than six months after obtaining the internal control report. The written agreement must require the accountant to:
(i) File a certificate on Form ADV-E (17 CFR 279.8) with the Commission within 120 days of the time chosen by the accountant in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, stating that it has examined the funds and securities and describing the nature and extent of the examination;
(ii) Upon finding any material discrepancies during the course of the examination, notify the Commission within one business day of the finding, by means of a facsimile transmission or electronic mail, followed by first class mail, directed to the attention of
the Director of the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations; and
(iii) Upon resignation or dismissal from, or other termination of, the engagement, or upon removing itself or being removed from consideration for being reappointed, file within four business days Form ADV-E accompanied by a statement that includes:
(A) The date of such resignation, dismissal, removal, or other termination, and the name, address, and contact information of the accountant; and
(B) An explanation of any problems relating to examination scope or procedure that contributed to such resignation, dismissal, removal, or other termination.
(5)
Special rule for limited partnerships and limited liability companies.
If you or a related person is a general partner of a limited partnership (or managing member of a limited liability company, or hold a comparable position for another type of pooled investment vehicle), the account statements required under paragraph (a)(3) of this section must be sent to each limited partner (or member or other beneficial owner).
(6)
Investment advisers acting as qualified custodians.
If you maintain, or if you have custody because a related person maintains, client funds or securities pursuant to this section as a qualified custodian in connection with advisory services you provide to clients:
(i) The independent public accountant you retain to perform the independent verification required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section must be registered with, and subject to regular inspection as of the commencement of the professional engagement period, and as of each calendar year-end, by, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in accordance with its rules; and
(ii) You must obtain, or receive from your related person, within six months of becoming subject to this paragraph and thereafter no less frequently than once each calendar year a written internal control report prepared by an independent public accountant:
(A) The internal control report must include an opinion of an independent public accountant as to whether controls have been placed in operation as of a specific date, and are suitably designed and are operating effectively to meet control objectives relating to custodial services, including the safeguarding of funds and securities held by either you or a related person on behalf of your advisory clients, during the year;
(B) The independent public accountant must verify that the funds and securities are reconciled to a custodian other than you or your related person; and
(C) The independent public accountant must be registered with, and subject to regular inspection as of the commencement of the professional engagement period, and as of each calendar year-end, by, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in accordance with its rules.
(7)
Independent representatives.
A client may designate an independent representative to receive, on his behalf, notices and account statements as required under paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1)
Shares of mutual funds.
With respect to shares of an open-end company as defined in section 5(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-5(a)(1)) (“mutual fund”), you may use the mutual fund's transfer agent in lieu of a qualified custodian for purposes of complying with paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Certain privately offered securities.
(i) You are not required to comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section with respect to securities that are:
(A) Acquired from the issuer in a transaction or chain of transactions not involving any public offering;
(B) Uncertificated, and ownership thereof is recorded only on the books of the issuer or its transfer agent in the name of the client; and
(C) Transferable only with prior consent of the issuer or holders of the outstanding securities of the issuer.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the provisions of this paragraph (b)(2) are available with respect to securities held for the account of a limited partnership (or a limited liability company, or other type of pooled investment vehicle) only if the limited partnership is audited,
and the audited financial statements are distributed, as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(3)
Fee deduction.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(4) of this section, you are not required to obtain an independent verification of client funds and securities maintained by a qualified custodian if:
(i) you have custody of the funds and securities solely as a consequence of your authority to make withdrawals from client accounts to pay your advisory fee; and
(ii) if the qualified custodian is a related person, you can rely on paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(4)
Limited partnerships subject to annual audit.
You are not required to comply with paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section and you shall be deemed to have complied with paragraph (a)(4) of this section with respect to the account of a limited partnership (or limited liability company, or another type of pooled investment vehicle) that is subject to audit (as defined in rule 1-02(d) of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210.1-02(d))):
(i) At least annually and distributes its audited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles to all limited partners (or members or other beneficial owners) within 120 days of the end of its fiscal year;
(ii) By an independent public accountant that is registered with, and subject to regular inspection as of the commencement of the professional engagement period, and as of each calendar year-end, by, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in accordance with its rules; and
(iii) Upon liquidation and distributes its audited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles to all limited partners (or members or other beneficial owners) promptly after the completion of such audit.
(5)
Registered investment companies.
You are not required to comply with this section (17 CFR 275.206(4)-2) with respect to the account of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 to 80a-64).
(6)
Certain Related Persons.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(4) of this section, you are not required to obtain an independent verification of client funds and securities if:
(i) you have custody under this rule solely because a related person holds, directly or indirectly, client funds or securities, or has any authority to obtain possession of them, in connection with advisory services you provide to clients; and
(ii) your related person is operationally independent of you.
(c)
Delivery to Related Person.
Sending an account statement under paragraph (a)(5) of this section or distributing audited financial statements under paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall not satisfy the requirements of this section if such account statements or financial statements are sent solely to limited partners (or members or other beneficial owners) that themselves are limited partnerships (or limited liability companies, or another type of pooled investment vehicle) and are your related persons.
(d)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1)
Control
means the power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of a person, whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise. Control includes:
(i) Each of your firm's officers, partners, or directors exercising executive responsibility (or persons having similar status or functions) is presumed to control your firm;
(ii) A person is presumed to control a corporation if the person:
(A) Directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25 percent or more of a class of the corporation's voting securities; or
(B) Has the power to sell or direct the sale of 25 percent or more of a class of the corporation's voting securities;
(iii) A person is presumed to control a partnership if the person has the right to receive upon dissolution, or has contributed, 25 percent or more of the capital of the partnership;
(iv) A person is presumed to control a limited liability company if the person:
(A) Directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25 percent or more of a
class of the interests of the limited liability company;
(B) Has the right to receive upon dissolution, or has contributed, 25 percent or more of the capital of the limited liability company; or
(C) Is an elected manager of the limited liability company; or
(v) A person is presumed to control a trust if the person is a trustee or managing agent of the trust.
(2)
Custody
means holding, directly or indirectly, client funds or securities, or having any authority to obtain possession of them. You have custody if a related person holds, directly or indirectly, client funds or securities, or has any authority to obtain possession of them, in connection with advisory services you provide to clients. Custody includes:
(i) Possession of client funds or securities (but not of checks drawn by clients and made payable to third parties) unless you receive them inadvertently and you return them to the sender promptly but in any case within three business days of receiving them;
(ii) Any arrangement (including a general power of attorney) under which you are authorized or permitted to withdraw client funds or securities maintained with a custodian upon your instruction to the custodian; and
(iii) Any capacity (such as general partner of a limited partnership, managing member of a limited liability company or a comparable position for another type of pooled investment vehicle, or trustee of a trust) that gives you or your supervised person legal ownership of or access to client funds or securities.
(3)
Independent public accountant
means a public accountant that meets the standards of independence described in rule 2-01(b) and (c) of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210.2-01(b) and (c)).
(4)
Independent representative
means a person that:
(i) Acts as agent for an advisory client, including in the case of a pooled investment vehicle, for limited partners of a limited partnership (or members of a limited liability company, or other beneficial owners of another type of pooled investment vehicle) and by law or contract is obliged to act in the best interest of the advisory client or the limited partners (or members, or other beneficial owners);
(ii) Does not control, is not controlled by, and is not under common control with you; and
(iii) Does not have, and has not had within the past two years, a material business relationship with you.
(5)
Operationally independent:
for purposes of paragraph (b)(6) of this section, a related person is presumed not to be operationally independent unless each of the following conditions is met and no other circumstances can reasonably be expected to compromise the operational independence of the related person: (i) Client assets in the custody of the related person are not subject to claims of the adviser's creditors; (ii) advisory personnel do not have custody or possession of, or direct or indirect access to client assets of which the related person has custody, or the power to control the disposition of such client assets to third parties for the benefit of the adviser or its related persons, or otherwise have the opportunity to misappropriate such client assets; (iii) advisory personnel and personnel of the related person who have access to advisory client assets are not under common supervision; and (iv) advisory personnel do not hold any position with the related person or share premises with the related person.
(6)
Qualified custodian
means:
(i) A bank as defined in section 202(a)(2) of the Advisers Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(2)) or a savings association as defined in section 3(b)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(1)) that has deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811);
(ii) A broker-dealer registered under section 15(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(1)), holding the client assets in customer accounts;
(iii) A futures commission merchant registered under section 4f(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)), holding the client assets in customer accounts, but only with respect to clients' funds and security futures, or other securities incidental to transactions in contracts for the purchase or
sale of a commodity for future delivery and options thereon; and
(iv) A foreign financial institution that customarily holds financial assets for its customers, provided that the foreign financial institution keeps the advisory clients' assets in customer accounts segregated from its proprietary assets.
(7)
Related person
means any person, directly or indirectly, controlling or controlled by you, and any person that is under common control with you.
[75 FR 1484, Jan. 11, 2010]
§§ 275.206(4)-(3)—275.206(4)-4
[Reserved]
§ 275.206(4)-5
Political contributions by certain investment advisers.
(a)
Prohibitions.
As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative acts, practices, or courses of business within the meaning of section 206(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(4)), it shall be unlawful:
(1) For any investment adviser registered (or required to be registered) with the Commission, or unregistered in reliance on the exemption available under section 203(b)(3) of the Advisers Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(3)), or that is an exempt reporting adviser, as defined in section 275.204-4(a), to provide investment advisory services for compensation to a government entity within two years after a contribution to an official of the government entity is made by the investment adviser or any covered associate of the investment adviser (including a person who becomes a covered associate within two years after the contribution is made); and
(2) For any investment adviser registered (or required to be registered) with the Commission, or unregistered in reliance on the exemption available under section 203(b)(3) of the Advisers Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(3)), or that is an exempt reporting adviser, or any of the investment adviser's covered associates:
(i) To provide or agree to provide, directly or indirectly, payment to any person to solicit a government entity for investment advisory services on behalf of such investment adviser unless such person is:
(A) A regulated person; or
(B) An executive officer, general partner, managing member (or, in each case, a person with a similar status or function), or employee of the investment adviser; and
(ii) To coordinate, or to solicit any person or political action committee to make, any:
(A) Contribution to an official of a government entity to which the investment adviser is providing or seeking to provide investment advisory services; or
(B) Payment to a political party of a State or locality where the investment adviser is providing or seeking to provide investment advisory services to a government entity.
(b)
Exceptions
—(1)
De minimis exception.
Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to contributions made by a covered associate, if a natural person, to officials for whom the covered associate
was
entitled to vote at the time of the contributions and which in the aggregate do not exceed $350 to any one official, per election, or to officials for whom the covered associate was not entitled to vote at the time of the contributions and which in the aggregate do not exceed $150 to any one official, per election.
(2)
Exception for certain new covered associates.
The prohibitions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not apply to an investment adviser as a result of a contribution made by a natural person more than six months prior to becoming a covered associate of the investment adviser unless such person, after becoming a covered associate, solicits clients on behalf of the investment adviser.
(3)
Exception for certain returned contributions.
(i) An investment adviser that is prohibited from providing investment advisory services for compensation pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section as a result of a contribution made by a covered associate of the investment adviser is excepted from such prohibition, subject to paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (b)(3)(iii) of this section, upon satisfaction of the following requirements:
(A) The investment adviser must have discovered the contribution which resulted in the prohibition within four
months of the date of such contribution;
(B) Such contribution must not have exceeded $350; and
(C) The contributor must obtain a return of the contribution within 60 calendar days of the date of discovery of such contribution by the investment adviser.
(ii) In any calendar year, an investment adviser that has reported on its annual updating amendment to Form ADV (17 CFR 279.1) that it has more than 50 employees is entitled to no more than three exceptions pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, and an investment adviser that has reported on its annual updating amendment to Form ADV that it has 50 or fewer employees is entitled to no more than two exceptions pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(iii) An investment adviser may not rely on the exception provided in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section more than once with respect to contributions by the same covered associate of the investment adviser regardless of the time period.
(c)
Prohibitions as applied to covered investment pools.
For purposes of this section, an investment adviser to a covered investment pool in which a government entity invests or is solicited to invest shall be treated as though that investment adviser were providing or seeking to provide investment advisory services directly to the government entity.
(d)
Further prohibition.
As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative acts, practices, or courses of business within the meaning of section 206(4) of Advisers Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(4)), it shall be unlawful for any investment adviser registered (or required to be registered) with the Commission, or unregistered in reliance on the exemption available under section 203(b)(3) of the Advisers Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(3)), or that is an exempt reporting adviser, or any of the investment adviser's covered associates to do anything indirectly which, if done directly, would result in a violation of this section.
(e)
Exemptions.
The Commission, upon application, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt an investment adviser from the prohibition under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the Commission will consider, among other factors:
(1) Whether the exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Advisers Act (15 U.S.C. 80b);
(2) Whether the investment adviser:
(i) Before the contribution resulting in the prohibition was made, adopted and implemented policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of this section; and
(ii) Prior to or at the time the contribution which resulted in such prohibition was made, had no actual knowledge of the contribution; and
(iii) After learning of the contribution:
(A) Has taken all available steps to cause the contributor involved in making the contribution which resulted in such prohibition to obtain a return of the contribution; and
(B) Has taken such other remedial or preventive measures as may be appropriate under the circumstances;
(3) Whether, at the time of the contribution, the contributor was a covered associate or otherwise an employee of the investment adviser, or was seeking such employment;
(4) The timing and amount of the contribution which resulted in the prohibition;
(5) The nature of the election (
e.g,
Federal, State or local); and
(6) The contributor's apparent intent or motive in making the contribution which resulted in the prohibition, as evidenced by the facts and circumstances surrounding such contribution.
(f)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Contribution
means any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value made for:
(i) The purpose of influencing any election for Federal, State or local office;
(ii) Payment of debt incurred in connection with any such election; or
(iii) Transition or inaugural expenses of the successful candidate for State or local office.
(2)
Covered associate
of an investment adviser means:
(i) Any general partner, managing member or executive officer, or other individual with a similar status or function;
(ii) Any employee who solicits a government entity for the investment adviser and any person who supervises, directly or indirectly, such employee; and
(iii) Any political action committee controlled by the investment adviser or by any person described in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3)
Covered investment pool
means:
(i) An investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a) that is an investment option of a plan or program of a government entity; or
(ii) Any company that would be an investment company under section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)), but for the exclusion provided from that definition by either section 3(c)(1), section 3(c)(7) or section 3(c)(11) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1), (c)(7) or (c)(11)).
(4)
Executive officer
of an investment adviser means:
(i) The president;
(ii) Any vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division or function (such as sales, administration or finance);
(iii) Any other officer of the investment adviser who performs a policy-making function; or
(iv) Any other person who performs similar policy-making functions for the investment adviser.
(5)
Government entity
means any State or political subdivision of a State, including:
(i) Any agency, authority, or instrumentality of the State or political subdivision;
(ii) A pool of assets sponsored or established by the State or political subdivision or any agency, authority or instrumentality thereof, including, but not limited to a “defined benefit plan” as defined in section 414(j) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 414(j)), or a State general fund;
(iii) A plan or program of a government entity; and
(iv) Officers, agents, or employees of the State or political subdivision or any agency, authority or instrumentality thereof, acting in their official capacity.
(6)
Official
means any person (including any election committee for the person) who was, at the time of the contribution, an incumbent, candidate or successful candidate for elective office of a government entity, if the office:
(i) Is directly or indirectly responsible for, or can influence the outcome of, the hiring of an investment adviser by a government entity; or
(ii) Has authority to appoint any person who is directly or indirectly responsible for, or can influence the outcome of, the hiring of an investment adviser by a government entity.
(7)
Payment
means any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value.
(8)
Plan or program of a government entity
means any participant-directed investment program or plan sponsored or established by a State or political subdivision or any agency, authority or instrumentality thereof, including, but not limited to, a “qualified tuition plan” authorized by section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 529), a retirement plan authorized by section 403(b) or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 403(b) or 457), or any similar program or plan.
(9)
Regulated person
means:
(i) An investment adviser registered with the Commission that has not, and whose covered associates have not, within two years of soliciting a government entity:
(A) Made a contribution to an official of that government entity, other than as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(B) Coordinated or solicited any person or political action committee to make any contribution or payment described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section;
(ii) A “broker,” as defined in section 3(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)) or a “dealer,” as defined in section 3(a)(5) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)), that is registered with the Commission, and is a
member of a national securities association registered under 15A of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3), provided that:
(A) The rules of the association prohibit members from engaging in distribution or solicitation activities if certain political contributions have been made; and
(B) The Commission, by order, finds that such rules impose substantially equivalent or more stringent restrictions on broker-dealers than this section imposes on investment advisers and that such rules are consistent with the objectives of this section; and
(iii) A “municipal advisor” registered with the Commission under section 15B of the Exchange Act and subject to rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, provided that:
(A) Such rules prohibit municipal advisors from engaging in distribution or solicitation activities if certain political contributions have been made; and
(B) The Commission, by order, finds that such rules impose substantially equivalent or more stringent restrictions on municipal advisors than this section imposes on investment advisers and that such rules are consistent with the objectives of this section.
(10)
Solicit
means:
(i) With respect to investment advisory services, to communicate, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining a client for, or referring a client to, an investment adviser; and
(ii) With respect to a contribution or payment, to communicate, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of obtaining or arranging a contribution or payment.
[75 FR 41069, July 14, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43013, July 19, 2011; 77 FR 28477, May 15, 2012]
§ 275.206(4)-6
Proxy voting.
If you are an investment adviser registered or required to be registered under section 203 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3), it is a fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act, practice or course of business within the meaning of section 206(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(4)), for you to exercise voting authority with respect to client securities, unless you:
(a) Adopt and implement written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure that you vote client securities in the best interest of clients, which procedures must include how you address material conflicts that may arise between your interests and those of your clients;
(b) Disclose to clients how they may obtain information from you about how you voted with respect to their securities; and
(c) Describe to clients your proxy voting policies and procedures and, upon request, furnish a copy of the policies and procedures to the requesting client.
[68 FR 6593, Feb. 7, 2003]
§ 275.206(4)-7
Compliance procedures and practices.
If you are an investment adviser registered or required to be registered under section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3), it shall be unlawful within the meaning of section 206 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-6) for you to provide investment advice to clients unless you:
(a)
Policies and procedures.
Adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation, by you and your supervised persons, of the Act and the rules that the Commission has adopted under the Act;
(b)
Annual review.
Review, no less frequently than annually, the adequacy of the policies and procedures established pursuant to this section and the effectiveness of their implementation; and
(c)
Chief compliance officer.
Designate an individual (who is a supervised person) responsible for administering the policies and procedures that you adopt under paragraph (a) of this section.
[68 FR 74730, Dec. 24, 2003, as amended at 88 FR 63386, Sept. 14, 2023; 89 FR 91253, Nov. 19, 2024]
§ 275.206(4)-8
Pooled investment vehicles.
(a)
Prohibition.
It shall constitute a fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act, practice, or course of business within the meaning of section 206(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(4)) for any investment adviser to a pooled investment vehicle to:
(1) Make any untrue statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, to any investor or prospective investor in the pooled investment vehicle; or
(2) Otherwise engage in any act, practice, or course of business that is fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative with respect to any investor or prospective investor in the pooled investment vehicle.
(b)
Definition.
For purposes of this section “pooled investment vehicle” means any investment company as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)) or any company that would be an investment company under section 3(a) of that Act but for the exclusion provided from that definition by either section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) or (7)).
[72 FR 44761, Aug. 9, 2007]
§ 275.222-1
Definitions.
For purposes of section 222 (15 U.S.C. 80b-18a) of the Act:
(a)
Place of business.
“Place of business” of an investment adviser means:
(1) An office at which the investment adviser regularly provides investment advisory services, solicits, meets with, or otherwise communicates with clients; and
(2) Any other location that is held out to the general public as a location at which the investment adviser provides investment advisory services, solicits, meets with, or otherwise communicates with clients.
(b)
Principal office and place of business.
“Principal office and place of business” of an investment adviser means the executive office of the investment adviser from which the officers, partners, or managers of the investment adviser direct, control, and coordinate the activities of the investment adviser.
[62 FR 28135, May 22, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 43014, July 19, 2011]
§ 275.222-2
Definition of “client” for purposes of the national de minimis standard.
For purposes of section 222(d)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-18a(d)(2)), an investment adviser may rely upon the definition of “client” provided by § 275.202(a)(30)-1, without giving regard to paragraph (b)(4) of that section.
[76 FR 43014, July 19, 2011]
Pt. 276

# PART 276—INTERPRETATIVE RELEASES RELATING TO THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 AND GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS THEREUNDER

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 80b
et seq.
Subject
Release No.
Date
Fed. Reg. Vol. and Page
Opinion of General Counsel relating to section 202(a)(11)(C) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
2
Oct. 28, 1940
11 FR 10996.
Opinion of the General Counsel relating to the use of the name “investment counsel” under section 208(c) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
8
Dec. 12, 1940
Do.
Opinion of Director of Trading and Exchange Division, relating to section 206 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, and sections 10(b) and 15(c)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
40
Feb. 5, 1945
11 FR 10997.
Opinion of the General Counsel relating to the use of “hedge clauses” by brokers, dealers, investment advisers, and others
58
Apr. 10, 1951
16 FR 3387.
Statement of the Commission to clarify the meaning of “beneficial ownership of securities” as relates to beneficial ownership of securities held by family members
194
Jan. 25, 1966
31 FR 1005.
Statement of the Commission setting the date of May 1, 1966 after which filings must reflect beneficial ownership of securities held by family members
196
Feb. 14, 1966
31 FR 3175.
Statement of the Commission describing nature of examination required to be made of all funds and securities held by an investment adviser and the content of related accountant's certificate
201
June 1, 1966
31 FR 7821.
Publication of the Commission's procedure to be followed if requests are to be met for no action or interpretative letters and responses thereto to be made available for public use
281
Jan. 25, 1971
36 FR 2600.
Commission's statement of factors to be considered in connection with investment company advisory contracts containing incentive arrangements
315
Apr. 19, 1972
37 FR 7690.
Applicability of Commission's policy statement on the future structure of securities markets to selection of brokers and payment of commissions by institutional managers
318
May 18, 1972
37 FR 9988.
Commission's decisions on advisory committee recommendations regarding commencement of enforcement proceedings and termination of staff investigations
336
Mar. 1, 1973
38 FR 5457.
Commission's statement on obligations of underwriters with respect to discretionary accounts
377
June 29, 1973
38 FR 17201.
Applicability of investment advisers act to certain publications
563
Jan. 10, 1977
42 FR 2953;
42 FR 8140.
Contingent advisory compensation arrangements
721
May 16, 1980
45 FR 34876.
Applicability of investment advisers act to financial planners, pension consultants, and other persons who provide investment advisory services as an integral component of other financially related services
770
Aug. 13, 1981
46 FR 41771.
Statement of position of Commission's Division of Investment Management
969
Apr. 30, 1985
50 FR 19341.
Statement of staff interpretive position regarding certain rules and forms; uniform registration, disclolsure, and reporting requirements
1000
Dec. 3, 1985
50 FR 49835.
Applicability of the investment Advisers Act to financial planners, pension consultants, and other persons who provide investment advisory services as a component of other financial services
1092
Oct. 8, 1987
52 FR 38400.
Registration of Successors to Broker-Dealers and Investment Advisors
1357
Jan. 4, 1993
58 FR 11.
Use of electronic media for delivery purposes
1562
May 9, 1996
61 FR 24651.
Statement of the Commission Regarding Use of Internet Web Sites to Offer Securities, Solicit Securities Transactions or Advertise Investment Services Offshore
1710
Mar. 23, 1998
63 FR 14814
Interpretation of Section 206(3) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
1732
July 17, 1998
63 FR 39508
Statement of the Commission Regarding Disclosure of Year 2000 Issues and Consequences by Public Companies, Investment Advisers, Investment Companies, and Municipal Securities Issuers
1738
July 29, 1998
63 FR 41404
Release No. IA-2969
Dec. 30, 2009
75 FR 1494
Commission Guidance Regarding the Definition of the Terms “Spouse” and “Marriage” Following the Supreme Court's Decision in
United States
v.
Windsor
IA-4122
June 19, 2015
80 FR 37537
Commission Interpretation Regarding Standard of Conduct for Investment Advisers
IA-5248
June 5, 2019
84 FR 33681
Commission Interpretation Regarding the Solely Incidental Prong of the Broker-Dealer Exclusion from the Definition of Investment Adviser
IA-5249
June 5, 2019
84 FR 33689
Commission Guidance Regarding the Proxy Voting Responsibilities of Investment Advisers
IA-5325
Aug. 21, 2019
84 FR 47427
Supplement to Commission Guidance Regarding the Proxy Voting Responsibilities of Investment Advisers
IA-5547
Sept. 3, 2020
85 FR 55157
Supplement to Commission Guidance Regarding the Proxy Voting Responsibilities of Investment Advisers
IA-6068
July 19, 2022
87 FR 43197
Pt. 279

# PART 279—FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Sec.
279.0-1
Availability of forms.
279.1
Form ADV, for application for registration of investment adviser and for amendments to such registration statement.
279.2
Form ADV-W, notice of withdrawal from registration as investment adviser.
279.3
Form ADV-H, application for a temporary or continuing hardship exemption.
279.4
Form ADV-NR, appointment of agent for service of process by non-resident general partner and non-resident managing agent of an investment adviser.
279.5-279.7
[Reserved]
279.8
Form ADV-E, cover page for certificate of accounting of securities and funds in possession or custody of an investment adviser.
279.9
Form PF, reporting by investment advisers to private funds.

# Authority:
The Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80b-1,
et seq.,
Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.

# Source:
33 FR 19005, Dec. 20, 1968, unless otherwise noted.
§ 279.0-1
Availability of forms.
(a) This part identifies and describes the forms prescribed for use under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(b) Any person may obtain a copy of any form prescribed for use in this part by written request to the Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. Any person may inspect the forms at this address and at the Commission's regional offices. (See § 200.11 of this chapter for the addresses of SEC regional offices.)
[46 FR 17757, Mar. 20, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 26820, June 22, 1982; 59 FR 5946, Feb. 9, 1994; 73 FR 32229, June 5, 2008]
§ 279.1
Form ADV, for application for registration of investment adviser and for amendments to such registration statement.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 203-1 (§ 275.203-1 of this chapter) as an application for registration of an investment adviser pursuant to sections 203(c) or 203(g) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and also as an amendment to registration pursuant to Rule 204-1 (§ 275.204-1 of this chapter).
[44 FR 21008, Apr. 9, 1979]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ADV, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 279.2
Form ADV-W, notice of withdrawal from registration as investment adviser.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 203-2 (§ 275.203-2 of this chapter) by a registered investment adviser as a notice of withdrawal from registration as such under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ADV-W, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 279.3
Form ADV-H, application for a temporary or continuing hardship exemption.
An investment adviser must file this form under § 275.203-3 of this chapter to request a temporary hardship exemption or apply for a continuing hardship exemption.
[65 FR 57451, Sept. 22, 2000]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ADV-H, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 279.4
Form ADV-NR, appointment of agent for service of process by non-resident general partner and non-resident managing agent of an investment adviser.
This form shall be filed and amended pursuant to § 275.203-1 of this chapter (Rule 203-1) as an appointment of agent for service of process by non-resident general partners and non-resident managing agents of an investment adviser pursuant to section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
[87 FR 38978, June 30, 2022]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ADV-NR, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§§ 279.5-279.7
[Reserved]
§ 279.8
Form ADV-E, cover page for certificate of accounting of securities and funds in possession or custody of an investment adviser.
[54 FR 32049, Aug. 4, 1989]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ADV-E, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 279.9
Form PF, reporting by investment advisers to private funds.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 204(b)-1 (§ 275.204(b)-1 of this chapter) by certain investment advisers registered or required to register under section 203 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3) that act as an investment adviser to one or more private funds.
[76 FR 71175, Nov. 16, 2011]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form PF, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 281

# PART 281—INTERPRETATIVE RELEASES RELATING TO CORPORATE REORGANIZATIONS UNDER CHAPTER X OF THE BANKRUPTCY ACT
Subject
Release No.
Date
Fed. Reg. Vol. and Page
Letter of the Commission with respect to transmission to the Commission of all petitions, answers, orders, applications, reports and other papers filed under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act
1
Sept. 26, 1938
11 FR 10997.
Statement by the Commission summarizing Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act
2
......do
11 FR 10998.
Pt. 285

# PART 285—RULES AND REGULATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(a) OF THE BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENTS ACT
Sec.
285.1
Applicability of part.
285.2
Periodic reports.
285.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of primary obligations.
285.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
Schedule A to Part 285

# Authority:
Secs. 19, 23, 48 Stat. 85, as amended, 901, as amended, sec. 15, 63 Stat. 298; 15 U.S.C. 77s, 78w 22 U.S.C. 286k-1.
§ 285.1
Applicability of part.
This part (Regulation BW), prescribes the reports to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development pursuant to section 15(a) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act.
[Reg. BW, 15 FR 281, Jan. 17, 1950]
§ 285.2
Periodic reports.
(a) Within 45 days after the end of each of its fiscal quarters, the Bank shall file with the Commission the following information:
(1) Information as to any purchases or sales by the Bank of its primary obligations during such quarter.
(2) Copies of the Bank's regular quarterly financial statements.
(3) Copies of any material modifications or amendments during such quarter of any exhibits (other than (i) constituent documents defining the rights of holders of securities of other issuers guaranteed by the Bank and (ii) loan and guaranty agreements to which the Bank is a party) previously filed with the Commission under any statute.
(b) Copies of each annual report of the Bank to its Board of Governors shall be filed with the Commission within 10 days after the submission of such report to the Board of Governors.
[20 FR 588, Jan. 27, 1955]
§ 285.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of primary obligations.
The Bank shall file with the Commission, on or prior to the date on which it sells any of its primary obligations in connection with a distribution of such obligations in the United States, a report containing the information and documents specified in Schedule A below. The term “sell” as used in this section and in Schedule A means the making of a completed sale or a firm commitment to sell.
[46 FR 48179, Oct. 1, 1981]
§ 285.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
(a) Every report required by this part shall be filed under cover of a letter of transmittal which shall state the nature of the report and indicate the particular rule and subdivision thereof pursuant to which the report is filed. At least the original of every such letter shall be signed on behalf of the Bank by a duly authorized officer thereof.
(b) Two copies of every report, including the letter of transmittal, exhibits and other papers and documents comprising a part of the report, shall be filed with the Commission.
(c) The report shall be in the English language. If any exhibit or other paper or document filed with the report is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by a translation into the English language.
(d) Reports pursuant to § 285.3 (Rule 3) may be filed in the form of a prospectus to the extent that such prospectus contains the information specified in Schedule A.
[Reg. BW, 15 FR 281, Jan. 17, 1950]

# Schedule A to Part 285
This schedule specifies the information and documents to be furnished in a report pursuant to § 285.3 (Rule 3) with respect to a proposed distribution of primary obligations of the Bank. Information not available at the time of filing the report shall be filed as promptly thereafter as possible.
Item
1.
Description of obligations.
As to each issue of primary obligations of the Bank which is to be distributed, furnish the following information:
(a) The title and date of the issue.
(b) The interest rate and interest payment dates.
(c) The maturity date or if serial, the plan of serial maturities. If the maturity of the obligation may be accelerated, state the circumstances under which it may be so accelerated.
(d) A brief outline of (1) any redemption provisions and (2) any amortization, sinking fund or retirement provisions, stating the annual amount, if any, which the Bank will be under obligation to apply for the satisfaction of such provisions.
(e) If secured by any lien, the kind and priority thereof, and the nature of the property subject to the lien; if any other indebtedness is secured by an equal or prior lien on the same property, state the nature of such other liens.
(f) If any obligations issued or to be issued by the Bank will, as to the payment of interest or principal, rank prior to the obligations to be distributed, describe the nature and extent of such priority.
(g) Outline briefly any provisions of the governing instruments under which the terms of the obligations to be distributed may be amended or modified by the holders thereof or otherwise.
(h) Outline briefly any other material provisions of the governing instruments pertaining to the rights of the holders of the obligations to be distributed or pertaining to the duties of the Bank with respect thereto.
(i) The name and address of the fiscal or paying agent of the Bank, if any.
Item
2.
Distribution of obligations.
(a) Outline briefly the plan of distribution of the obligations and state the amount of the participation of each principal underwriter, if any.
(b) Describe any arrangements known to the Bank or to any principal underwriter named above designed to stabilize the market for the obligations for the account of the Bank or the principal underwriters as a group and indicate whether any transactions have already been effected to accomplish that purpose.
(c) Describe any arrangements for withholding commissions, or otherwise, to hold each underwriter or dealer responsible for the distribution of his participation.
Item
3.
Distribution spread.
The following information shall be given, in substantially the tabular form indicated, as to all obligations which are to be offered for cash (estimate, if necessary):
Price to the public
Selling discounts and commissions
Proceeds to the Bank
Per
Total
Item
4.
Discounts and commissions to subunderwriters and dealers.
State briefly the discounts and commissions to be allowed or paid to dealers. If any dealers are to act in the capacity of sub-underwriters and are to be allowed or paid any additional discounts or commissions for acting in such capacity, a general statement to that effect will suffice, without giving the additional amounts so paid or to be so paid.
Item
5.
Other expenses of distribution.
Furnish a reasonably itemized statement of all expenses of the Bank in connection with the issuance and distribution of the obligations, except underwriters' or dealers' discounts and commissions.
Instructions:
Insofar as practicable, the itemization shall include transfer agents' fees, cost of printing and engraving, and legal and accounting fees. The information may be given as subject to future contingencies. If the amounts of any items are not known, estimates, designated as such, shall be given.
Item
6.
Application of proceeds.
Make a reasonably itemized statement of the purposes, so far as determinable, for which the net proceeds to the Bank from the obligations are to be used, and state the approximate amount to be used for each such purpose.
Item
7.
Exhibits to be furnished.
The following documents shall be attached to or otherwise furnished as a part of the report:
(a) Copies of the constituent instruments defining the rights evidenced by the obligations.
(b) Copies of an opinion of counsel, in the English language, as to the legality of the obligations.
(c) Copies of all material contracts pertaining to the issuance or distribution of the obligations to which the Bank or any principal underwriter of the obligations is or is to be a party, except selling group agreements.
(d) Copies of any prospectus or other sales literature to be provided by the Bank or any of the principal underwriters for general use in connection with the initial distribution of the obligations to the public.
[Reg. BW, 15 FR 281, Jan. 17, 1950, as amended at 20 FR 588, Jan. 27, 1955]
Pt. 286

# PART 286—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 11(a) OF THE INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ACT
Sec.
286.1
Applicability of this part.
286.2
Periodic reports.
286.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of primary obligations.
286.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
Schedule A to Part 286

# Authority:
Secs. 3-9, 11, 12, 73 Stat. 299-301; 22 U.S.C. 283a-283i.

# Source:
25 FR 10452, Nov. 1, 1960, unless otherwise noted.
§ 286.1
Applicability of this part.
This part (Regulation IA) prescribes the reports to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Inter-American Development Bank pursuant to section 11(a) of the Inter-American Development Bank Act.
§ 286.2
Periodic reports.
(a) Within 45 days after the end of each of its fiscal quarters, the Bank shall file with the Commission the following information:
(1) Information as to any purchases or sales by the Bank of its primary obligations during such quarter.
(2) Copies of the Bank's regular quarterly financial statement.
(3) Copies of any material modifications or amendments during such quarter of any exhibits (other than (i) constituent documents defining the rights of holders of securities of other issuers guaranteed by the Bank, and (ii) loans and guaranty agreements to which the Bank is a party) previously filed with the Commission under any statute.
(b) Copies of each annual report of the Bank to its Board of Governors shall be filed with the Commission within 10 days after the submission of such report to the Board of Governors.
§ 286.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of primary obligations.
The Bank shall file with the Commission, on or prior to the date on which it sells any of its primary obligations in connection with a distribution of such obligations in the United States, a report containing the information and documents specified in Schedule A below. The term “sell” as used in this section and in Schedule A means the making of a completed sale or a firm commitment to sell.
[46 FR 48179, Oct. 2, 1981]
§ 286.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
(a) Every report required by this part shall be filed under cover of a letter of transmittal which shall state the nature of the report and indicate the particular rule and subdivision thereof pursuant to which the report is filed. At least the original of every such letter shall be signed on behalf of the Bank by a duly authorized officer thereof.
(b) Two copies of every report, including the letter of transmittal, exhibits and other papers and documents comprising a part of the report, shall be filed with the Commission.
(c) The report shall be in the English language. If any exhibit or other paper or document filed with the report is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by a translation into the English language.
(d) Reports pursuant to § 286.3 may be filed in the form of a prospectus to the extent that such prospectus contains the information specified in Schedule A.
Pt. 286, Sched. A

# Schedule A to Part 286
This schedule specifies the information and documents to be furnished in a report pursuant to § 286.3 with respect to a proposed distribution of primary obligations of the Bank. Information not available at the time of filing the report shall be filed as promptly thereafter as possible.

# Item 1. Description of obligations
As to each issue of primary obligations of the Bank which is to be distributed, furnish the following information:
(a) The title and date of the issue.
(b) The interest rate and interest payment dates.
(c) The maturity date or, if serial, the plan of serial maturities. If the maturity of the obligation may be accelerated, state the circumstances under which it may be so accelerated.
(d) A brief outline of (1) any redemption provisions and (2) any amortization, sinking fund or retirement provisions, stating the annual amount, if any, which the Bank will be under obligation to apply for the satisfaction of such provisions.
(e) If secured by any lien, the kind and priority thereof, and the nature of the property subject to the lien; if any other indebtedness is secured by an equal or prior lien on the same property, state the nature of such other liens.
(f) If any obligations issued or to be issued by the Bank will, as the payment of interest or principal, rank prior to the obligations to be distributed, describe the nature and extent of such priority.
(g) Outline briefly any provisions of the governing instruments under which the terms of the obligations to be distributed may be amended or modified by the holders thereof or otherwise.
(h) Outline briefly any other material provisions of the governing instruments pertaining to the rights of the holders of the obligations to be distributed or pertaining to the duties of the Bank with respect thereto.
(i) The name and address4 of the fiscal or paying agent of the Bank, if any.

# Item 2. Distribution of obligations
(a) Outline briefly the plan of distribution of the obligations and state the amount of the participation of each principal underwriter, if any.
(b) Describe any arrangements known to the Bank or to any principal underwriter named above designed to stabilize the market for the obligations for the account of the Bank or the principal underwriters as a group and indicate whether any transactions have already been effected to accomplish that purpose.
(c) Describe any arrangements for withholding commissions, or otherwise, to hold each underwriter or dealer responsible for the distribution of his participation.

# Item 3. Distribution spread
The following information shall be given, in substantially the tabular form indicated, as to all obligations which are to be offered for cash (estimate, if necessary):
Price to the public
Selling discounts and commissions
Proceeds to the bank
Per unit
Total

# Item 4. Discounts and commissions to sub-underwriters and dealers
State briefly the discounts and commissions to be allowed or paid to dealers. If any dealers are to act in the capacity of sub-underwriters and are to be allowed or paid any additional discounts or commissions for acting in such capacity, a general statement to that effect will suffice, without giving the additional amounts to be so paid.

# Item 5. Other expenses of distribution
Furnish a reasonably itemized statement of all expenses of the Bank in connection with the issuance and distribution of the obligations, except underwriters' or dealers' discounts and commissions.
Instruction.
Insofar as practicable, the itemization shall include transfer agents' fees, cost of printing and engraving, and legal and accounting fees. The information may be given as subject to future contingencies. If the amounts of any items are not known, estimates, designated as such, shall be given.

# Item 6. Application of proceeds
Make a reasonably itemized statement of the purposes, so far as determinable, for which the net proceeds to the Bank from the obligations are to be used, and state the approximate amount to be used for each such purpose.

# Item 7. Exhibits to be furnished
The following documents shall be attached to or otherwise furnished as a part of the report:
(a) Copies of the constituent instruments defining the rights evidenced by the obligations.
(b) Copies of an opinion of counsel, in the English language, as to the legality of the obligations.
(c) Copies of all material contracts pertaining to the issuance or distributions of the obligations, to which the Bank or any principal underwriter of the obligations is or is to be a party, except selling group agreements.
(d) Copies of any prospectus or other sales literature to be provided by the Bank or any of the principal underwriters for general use in connection with the initial distribution of the obligations to the public.
Pt. 287

# PART 287—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 11(a) OF THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ACT
Sec.
287.1
Applicability of this part.
287.2
Periodic reports.
287.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of primary obligations.
287.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
287.101
Schedule A—Information required in reports pursuant to § 287.3.

# Authority:
Sec. 11, 80 Stat. 73; 22 U.S.C. 285h.

# Source:
AD1, 33 FR 259, Jan. 9, 1968, unless otherwise noted.
§ 287.1
Applicability of this part.
This part (Regulation AD) prescribes the reports to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Asian Development Bank pursuant to section 11(a) of the Asian Development Bank Act.
§ 287.2
Periodic reports.
(a) Within 60 days after the end of each of its fiscal quarters, the Bank shall file with the Commission the following information:
(1) Information as to any purchases or sales by the Bank of its primary obligations during such quarter.
(2) Copies of the Bank's regular quarterly financial statement.
(3) Copies of any material modifications or amendments during such quarter of any exhibits (other than (i) constituent documents defining the rights of holders of securities of other issuers guaranteed by the Bank, and (ii) loans and guaranty agreements to which the Bank is a party) previously filed with the Commission under any statute.
(b) Copies of each annual report of the Bank to its Board of Governors shall be filed with the Commission within 10 days after the submission of such report to the Board of Governors.
§ 287.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of primary obligations.
The Bank shall file with the Commission, on or prior to the date on which it sells any of its primary obligations in connection with a distribution of such obligations in the United States, a report containing the information and documents specified in Schedule A below. The term “sell” as used in this section and in Schedule A means the making of a completed sale or a firm commitment to sell.
[46 FR 48179, Oct. 1, 1981]
§ 287.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
(a) Every report required by this regulation shall be filed under cover of a letter of transmittal which shall state the nature of the report and indicate the particular rule and subdivision thereof pursuant to which the report is filed. At least the original of every such letter shall be signed on behalf of the Bank by a duly authorized officer thereof.
(b) Two copies of every report, including the letter of transmittal, exhibits and other papers and documents comprising a part of the report, shall be filed with the Commission.
(c) The report shall be in the English language. If any exhibit or other paper or document filed with the report is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by a translation into the English language.
(d) Reports pursuant to Rule 3 (17 CFR 287.3) may be filed in the form of a prospectus to the extent that such prospectus contains the information specified in Schedule A (17 CFR 287.101).
§ 287.101
Schedule A—Information required in reports pursuant to § 287.3.
This schedule specifies the information and documents to be furnished in a report pursuant to Rule 3 (17 CFR 287.3) with respect to a proposed distribution of primary obligations of the Bank. Information not available at the time of filing the report shall be filed as promptly thereafter as possible.
Item 1. Description of obligations.
As to each issue of primary obligations of the Bank which is to be distributed, furnish the following information:
(a) The title and date of the issue.
(b) The interest rate and interest payment dates.
(c) The maturity date or, if serial, the plan of serial maturities. If the maturity of the
obligation may be accelerated, state the circumstances under which it may be so accelerated.
(d) A brief outline of (1) any redemption provisions and (2) any amortization, sinking fund or retirement provisions, stating the annual amount, if any, which the Bank will be under obligation to apply for the satisfaction of such provisions.
(e) If secured by any lien, the kind and priority thereof, and the nature of the property subject to the lien; if any other indebtedness is secured by an equal or prior lien on the same property, state the nature of such other liens.
(f) If any obligations issued or to be issued by the Bank will, as to the payment of interest or principal, rank prior to the obligations to be distributed, describe the nature and extent of such priority.
(g) Outline briefly any provisions of the governing instruments under which the terms of the obligations to be distributed may be amended or modified by the holders thereof or otherwise.
(h) Outline briefly any other material provisions of the governing instruments pertaining to the rights of the holders of the obligations to be distributed or pertaining to the duties of the Bank with respect thereto.
(i) The name and address of the fiscal or paying agent of the Bank, if any.
Item 2. Distribution of obligations.
(a) Outline briefly the plan of distribution of the obligations and state the amount of the participation of each principal underwriter, if any.
(b) Describe any arrangements known to the Bank or to any principal underwriter named above designed to stabilize the market for the obligations for the account of the Bank or the principal underwriters as a group and indicate whether any transactions have already been effected to accomplish that purpose.
(c) Describe any arrangements for withholding commissions, or otherwise, to hold each underwriter or dealer responsible for the distribution of his participation.
Item 3. Distribution spread.
The following information shall be given, in substantially the tabular form indicated, as to all obligations which are to be offered for cash (estimate, if necessary):
Price to the public
Selling discounts and commissions
Proceeds to the bank
Per unit
Total
Item 4. Discounts and commissions to subunderwriters and dealers.
State briefly the discounts and commission to be allowed or paid to dealers. If any dealers are to act in the capacity of subunderwriters and are to be allowed or paid any additional discounts or commissions for action in such capacity, a general statement to that effect will suffice, without giving the additional amounts to be so paid.
Item 5. Other expenses of distribution.
Furnish a reasonably itemized statement of all expenses of the Bank in connection with the issuance and distribution of the obligations, except underwriters' or dealers' discounts and commissions.
Instruction.
Insofar as practicable, the itemization shall include transfer agents' fees, cost of printing and engraving, and legal and accounting fees. The information may be given as subject to future contingencies. If the amounts of any items are not known, estimates, designated as such, shall be given.
Item 6. Application of proceeds.
Make a reasonably itemized statement of the purposes, so far as determinable, for which the net proceeds to the Bank from the obligations are to be used, and state the approximate amount to be used for each such purpose.
Item 7. Exhibits to be furnished.
The following documents shall be attached to or otherwise furnished as a part of the report:
(a) Copies of the constituent instruments defining the rights evidenced by the obligations.
(b) Copies of an opinion of counsel, in the English language, as to the legality of the obligations.
(c) Copies of all material contracts pertaining to the issuance or distributions of the obligations, to which the Bank or any principal underwriter of the obligations is or is to be a party, except selling group agreements.
(d) Copies of any prospectus or other sales literature to be provided by the Bank or any of the principal underwriters for general use in connection with the initial distribution of the obligations to the public.
Pt. 288

# PART 288—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 9(a) OF THE AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ACT
Sec.
288.1
Applicability of this part.
288.2
Periodic reports.
288.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of primary obligations.
288.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
288.101
Schedule A. Information required in reports pursuant to § 288.3

# Authority:
Sec. 9(a), 95 Stat. 743, 22 U.S.C. 290i-9a; sec. 19(a), 48 Stat. 85, 15 U.S.C. 77s(a).

# Source:
50 FR 26191, June 25, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 288.1
Applicability of this part.
This part (Regulation AFDB) prescribes the reports to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the African Development Bank pursuant to section 9(a) of the African Development Bank Act.
§ 288.2
Periodic reports.
(a) Within 60 days after the end of each of its fiscal quarters, the Bank shall file with the Commission the following information:
(1) Information as to any purchases or sales by the Bank of its primary obligations during such quarter;
(2) Two copies of the Bank's regular quarterly financial statement; and
(3) Two copies of any material modifications or amendments during such quarter of any exhibits (other than (i) constituent documents defining the rights of holders of securities of other issuers guaranteed by the Bank, and (ii) loans and guaranty agreements to which the Bank is a party) previously filed with the Commission under any statute.
(b) Two copies of each annual report of the Bank to its Board of Governors shall be filed with the Commission within 10 days after the submission of such report to the Board of Governors.
§ 288.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of primary obligations.
The Bank shall file with the Commission, on or prior to the date on which it sells any of its primary obligations in connection with a distribution of such obligations in the United States, a report containing the information and documents specified in Schedule A (17 CFR 288.101). The term “sell' as used in this section and in Schedule A means the making of a completed sale or a firm commitment to sell.
§ 288.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
(a) Every report required by this regulation shall be filed under cover of a letter of transmittal which shall state the nature of the report and indicate the particular rule and subdivision thereof pursuant to which the report is filed. At least the original of every such letter shall be signed on behalf of the Bank by a duly authorized officer thereof.
(b) Two copies of every report, including the letter of transmittal, exhibits and other papers and documents comprising a part of the report, shall be filed with the Commission.
(c) The report shall be in the English language. If any exhibit or other paper or document filed with the report is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by a translation into the English language.
(d) Reports pursuant to Rule 3 (17 CFR 288.3) may be filed in the form of prospectus to the extent that such prospectus contains the information specified in Schedule A (17 CFR 288.101).
§ 288.101
Schedule A. Information required in reports pursuant to § 288.3.
This schedule specifies the information and documents to be furnished in a report pursuant to Rule 3 (17 CFR 288.3) with respect to a proposed distribution of primary obligations of the Bank. Information not available at the time of filing the report shall be filed as promptly thereafter as possible.

# Item 1: Description of obligations.
As to each issue of primary obligations of the Bank which is to be distributed, furnish the following information:
(a) The title and date of the issue.
(b) The interest rate and interest payment dates.
(c) The maturity date or, if serial, the plan of serial maturities. If the maturity of the obligation may be accelerated, state the circumstances under which it may be so accelerated.
(d) A brief outline of (i) any redemption provisions and (ii) any amortization, sinking fund or retirement provisions, stating the annual amount, if any, which the Bank will be under obligation to apply for the satisfaction of such provisions.
(e) If secured by any lien, the kind and priority thereof, and the nature of the property subject to the lien; if any other indebtedness is secured by an equal or prior lien on the same property, state the nature of such other liens.
(f) If any obligations issued or to be issued by the Bank will, as to the payment of interest or principal, rank prior to the obligations to be distributed, describe the nature and extent of such priority.
(g) Outline briefly any provisions of the governing instruments under which the terms of the obligations to be distributed
may be amended or modified by the holders thereof or otherwise.
(h) Outline briefly any other material provisions of the governing instruments pertaining to the rights of the holders of the obligations to be distributed or pertaining to the duties of the Bank with respect thereto.
(i) The name and address of the fiscal or paying agent of the Bank, if any.

# Item 2. Distribution of obligations.
(a) Outline briefly the plan of distribution of the obligations and state the amount of the participation of each principal underwriter, if any.
(b) Describe any arrangements known to the Bank or to any principal underwriter named above designed to stabilize the market for the obligations for the acount of the Bank or the principal underwriters as a group and indicate whether any transactions have already been effected to accomplish that purpose.
(c) Describe any arrangements for withholding commissions, or otherwise, to hold each underwriter or dealer responsible for the distribution of his participation.

# Item 3. Distribution spread.
The following information shall be given, in substantially the tabular form indicated, as to all obligations which are to be offered for cash (estimate, if necessary):
Price to the public
Selling discounts and commissions
Proceeds to the bank
Per Unit
Total

# Item 4. Discounts and commissions to sub-underwriters and dealers.
State briefly the discounts and commissions to be allowed or paid to dealers. If any dealers are to act in the capacity of sub-underwriters and are to be allowed or paid any additional discounts or commissions for acting in such capacity, a general statement to that effect will suffice, without giving the additional amounts to be so paid.

# Item 5. Other expenses of the distribution.
Furnish a reasonably itemized statement of all expenses of the Bank in connection with the issuance and distribution of the obligations, except underwriters' or dealers' discounts and commissions.
Instruction.
Insofar as practicable, the itemization shall include transfer agents' fees, cost of printing and engraving, and legal and accounting fees. The information may be given as subject to future contingencies. If the amounts of any items are not known, estimates, designated as such, shall be given.

# Item 6. Application of proceeds.
Make a reasonable itemized statement of the purposes, so far as determinable, for which the net proceeds to the Bank from the obligations are to be used, and state the approximate amount to be used for each such purpose.

# Item 7. Exhibits to be furnished.
The following documents shall be attached to or otherwise furnished as a part of the report:
(a) Copies of the constituent instruments defining the rights evidenced by the obligations.
(b) Copies of an opinion of counsel, in the English language, as to the legality of the obligations.
(c) Copies of all material contracts pertaining to the issuance or distributions of the obligations, to which the Bank or any principal underwriter of the obligations is or is to be a party, except selling group agreements.
(d) Copies of any prospectus or other sales literature to be provided by the Bank or any of the principal underwriters for general use in connection with the initial distribution of the obligations to the public.
Pt. 289

# PART 289—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 13(a) OF THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION ACT
Sec.
289.1
Applicability of this part.
289.2
Periodic reports.
289.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of primary obligations.
289.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
289.101
Schedule A. Information required in reports pursuant to § 289.3.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77s(a); 22 U.S.C. 282m.

# Source:
56 FR 32079, July 15, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 289.1
Applicability of this part.
This part (Regulation IFC) prescribes the reports to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the International Finance Corporation (“IFC”) pursuant to section 13(a) of the International Finance Corporation Act.
§ 289.2
Periodic reports.
(a) Within 45 days after the end of each of its fiscal quarters the IFC shall file with the Commission the following information:
(1) Two copies of information as to any purchases or sales by the IFC of its primary obligations during such quarter;
(2) Two copies of the IFC's regular quarterly financial statement; and
(3) Two copies of any material modifications or amendments during such quarter of any exhibits (other than constituent documents defining the rights of holders of securities of other issuers guaranteed by the IFC, and loan and guaranty agreements to which the IFC is a party) previously filed with the Commission under any statute.
(b) Each annual report of the IFC to its Board of Governors shall be filed with the Commission within 10 days after the submission of such report to the Board of Governors.
§ 289.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of primary obligations.
The IFC shall file with the Commission, on or prior to the date on which it sells any of its primary obligations in connection with a distribution of such obligations in the United States, a report containing the information and documents specified in Schedule A of this part. The term “sell” as used in this section and in Schedule A of this Part means a completed sale, or a firm commitment to sell to an underwriter.
§ 289.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
(a) Every report required by this regulation shall be filed under cover of a letter of transmittal which shall state the nature of the report and indicate the particular rule and subdivision thereof pursuant to which the report is filed. At least the original of every such letter shall be signed on behalf of the IFC by a duly authorized officer thereof.
(b) Two copies of every report, including the letter of transmittal, exhibits and other papers and documents comprising a part of the report, shall be filed with the Commission.
(c) The report shall be in the English language. If any exhibit or other paper or document filed with the report is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by a translation into the English language.
(d) Reports pursuant to § 289.3 may be filed in the form of a prospectus to the extent that such prospectus contains the information specified in Schedule A of this Part.
§ 289.101
Schedule A. Information required in reports pursuant to § 289.3.
This schedule specifies the information and documents to be furnished in a report pursuant to § 289.3 with respect to a proposed distribution of primary obligations of the IFC. Information not available at the time of filing the report shall be filed as promptly thereafter as possible.
Item 1: Description of obligations.
As to each issue of primary obligations of the IFC that is to be distributed, furnish the following information:
(a) The title and date of the issue.
(b) The interest rate and interest payments dates.
(c) The maturity date or, if serial, the plan of serial maturities. If the maturity of the obligation may be accelerated, state the circumstances under which it may be so accelerated.
(d) A brief outline of:
(i) Any redemption provisions, and
(ii) Any amortization, sinking fund or retirement provisions, stating the annual amount, if any, which the IFC will be under obligation to apply for the satisfaction of such provisions.
(e) If secured by any lien, the kind and priority thereof, and the nature of the property subject to the lien; if any other indebtedness is secured by an equal or prior lien on the same property, state the nature of such other liens.
(f) If any obligations issued or to be issued by the IFC will, as to the payment of interest and principal, rank prior to the obligations to be distributed, describe the nature and extent of such priority, to the extent known.
(g) Outline briefly any provisions of the governing instruments under which the terms of the obligations to be distributed may be amended or modified by the holder thereof or otherwise.
(h) Outline briefly any other material provisions of the governing instruments pertaining to the rights of the holders of the obligations to be distributed or pertaining to the duties of the IFC with respect thereto.
(i) The name and address of the fiscal or paying agent of the IFC, if any.
Item 2: Distribution of obligations.
(a) Outline briefly the plan of distribution of the obligations and state the amount of the participation of each principal underwriter, if any.
(b) Describe any arrangements known to the IFC or to any principal underwriter named above designed to stabilize the market for the obligations for the account of the IFC or the principal underwriters as a group and indicate whether any transactions have already been effected to accomplish that purpose.
(c) Describe any arrangements for withholding commissions, or otherwise, to hold each underwriter or dealer responsible for the distribution of his participation.
Item 3: Distribution spread.
The following information shall be given, in substantially the tabular form indicated, as to all primary obligations that are to be offered for cash (estimate, if necessary):
Price to the public
Selling discounts
commissions
Proceeds to the IFC
Per Unit
____
____
____
Total
____
____
____
Item 4: Discounts and commissions to sub-underwriters and dealers.
State briefly the discounts and commissions to be allowed or paid to dealers. If any dealers are to act in the capacity of sub-underwriters and are to be allowed or paid any additional discounts or commissions for acting in such capacity, a general statement to that effect will suffice, without giving the additional amounts to be so paid.
Item 5: Other expenses of the distribution.
Furnish a reasonably itemized statement of all expenses of the IFC in connection with the issuance and distribution of the obligations, except underwriters' or dealers' discounts and commissions that are provided in Items 2, 3 and 4.

# Instruction
Insofar as practicable, the itemization shall include transfer agents' fees, cost of printing and engraving, and legal and accounting fees. The information may be given as subject to future contingencies. If the amounts of any items are not known, estimates, designated as such, shall be given.
Item 6: Application of proceeds.
Make a reasonably itemized statement of the purposes, so far as determinable, for which the net proceeds to the IFC from the obligations are to be used, and state the approximate amount to be used for each such purpose.
Item 7: Exhibits to be furnished.
A copy of each of the following documents shall be attached to or otherwise furnished as a part of the report:
(a) Each constituent instrument defining the rights evidenced by the obligations.
(b) An opinion of counsel, written in the English language, as to the legality of the obligations.
(c) Each material contract pertaining to the issuance or distribution of the obligations, to which the IFC or any principal underwriter of the obligations is or is to be party, except selling group agreements.
(d) Each prospectus or other sales literature to be provided by the IFC or any of the principal underwriters for general use in connection with the initial distribution of the obligations to the public.
Pt. 290

# PART 290—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 9(a) OF THE EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ACT
Sec.
290.1
Applicability of this part.
290.2
Periodic reports.
290.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of obligations.
290.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
290.101
Schedule A. Information required in reports pursuant to § 290.3.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77s(a); 22 U.S.C. 290
1
-9.

# Source:
56 FR 32082, July 15, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 290.1
Applicability of this part.
This part (Regulation EBRD) prescribes the reports to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (“EBRD”) pursuant to section 9(a) of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Act.
§ 290.2
Periodic reports.
(a) Within 45 days after the end of each of its fiscal quarters the EBRD shall file with the Commission the following information:
(1) Two copies of information as to any purchases or sales by the EBRD of its primary obligations during such quarter;
(2) Two copies of the EBRD's regular quarterly financial statement; and
(3) Two copies of any material modifications or amendments during such quarter of any exhibits (other than constituent documents defining the rights of holders of securities of other issuers guaranteed by the EBRD, and loan guaranty agreements to which the EBRD is a party) previously filed with the Commission under any statute.
(b) Each annual report of the EBRD to its Board of Governors shall be filed with the Commission within 10 days after the submission of such report to the Board of Governors.
§ 290.3
Reports with respect to proposed distribution of obligations.
The EBRD shall file with the Commission, on or prior to the date on which it sells any of its primary obligations in connection with a distribution of such obligations in the United States, a report containing the information and documents specified in Schedule A of this part. The term “sell” as used in this section and in Schedule A of this part means a completed sale, or a firm committment to sell to an underwriter.
§ 290.4
Preparation and filing of reports.
(a) Every report required by this regulation shall be filed under cover of a letter of transmittal which shall state the nature of the report and indicate the particular rule and subdivision thereof pursuant to which the report is filed. At least the original of every such letter shall be signed on behalf of the EBRD by a duly authorized officer thereof.
(b) Two copies of every report, including the letter of transmittal, exhibits and other papers and documents comprising a part of the report, shall be filed with the Commission.
(c) The report shall be in the English language. If any exhibit or other paper or document filed with the report is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by a translation into the English language.
(d) Reports pursuant to § 290.3 may be filed in the form of a prospectus to the extent that such prospectus contains the information specified in Schedule A of this Part.
§ 290.101
Schedule A. Information required in reports pursuant to § 290.3.
This schedule specifies the information and documents to be furnished in a report pursuant to § 290.3 with respect to a proposed distribution of primary obligations of the EBRD. Information not available at the time of filing the report shall be filed as promptly thereafter as possible.
Item 1: Description of obligations.
As to each issue of primary obligations of the EBRD that is to be distributed, furnish the following information:
(a) The title and date of the issue.
(b) The interest rate and interest payment dates.
(c) The maturity date or, if serial, the plan of serial maturities. If the maturity of the obligation may be accelerated, state the circumstances under which it may be so accelerated.
(d) A brief outline of:
(i) Any redemption provisions and
(ii) Any amortization, sinking fund or retirement provisions, stating the annual amount, if any, which the EBRD will be under obligation to apply for the satisfaction of such provisions.
(e) If secured by any lien, the kind and priority thereof, and the nature of the property subject to the lien; if any other indebtedness is secured by an
equal or prior lien on the same property, state the nature of such other liens.
(f) If any obligations issued or to be issued by the EBRD will, as to the payment of interest and principal, rank prior to the obligations to be distributed, describe the nature and extent of such priority, to the extent known.
(g) Outline briefly any provisions of the governing instruments under which the terms of the obligations to be distributed may be amended or modified by the holders thereof or otherwise.
(h) Outline briefly any other material provisions of the governing instruments pertaining to the rights of the holders of the obligations to be distributed or pertaining to the duties of the EBRD with respect thereto.
(i) The name and address of the fiscal or paying agent of the EBRD, if any.
Item 2: Distribution of obligations.
(a) Outline briefly the plan of distribution of obligations and state the amount of the participation of each principal underwriter, if any.
(b) Describe any arrangements known to the EBRD or to any principal underwriter named above designed to stabilize the market for the obligations for the account of the EBRD or the principal underwriters as a group and indicate whether any transactions have already been effected to accomplish that purpose.
(c) Describe any arrangements for withholding commissions, or otherwise, to hold each underwriter or dealer responsible for the distribution of his participation.
Item 3: Distribution spread.
The following information shall be given, in substantially the tabular form indicated, as to all primary obligations that are to be offered for cash (estimate, if necessary):
Price to the public
Selling discounts
commissions
Proceeds to the EBRD
Per Unit
____
____
____
Total
____
____
____
Item 4: Discounts and commissions to sub-underwriters and dealers.
State briefly the discounts and commissions to be allowed or paid to dealers. If any dealers are to act in the capacity of sub-underwriters and are to be allowed or paid any additional discounts or commissions for acting in such capacity, a general statement to that effect will suffice, without giving the additional amounts to be so paid.
Item 5: Other expenses of the distribution.
Furnish a reasonably itemized statement of all expenses of the EBRD in connection with the issuance and distribution of the obligations, except underwriters' or dealers' discounts and commissions that are provided in Items 2, 3 and 4.

# Instruction
Insofar as practicable, the itemization shall include transfer agents' fees, cost of printing and engraving, and legal and accounting fees. The information may be given as subject future contingencies. If the amounts of any items are not known, estimates, designated as such, shall be given.
Item 6: Application of proceeds.
Make a reasonably itemized statement of the purposes, so far as determinable, for which the net proceeds to the EBRD from the obligations are to be used, and state the approximate amount to be used for each such purpose.
Item 7: Exhibits to be furnished.
A copy of each of the following documents shall be attached to or otherwise furnished as a part of the report:
(a) Each constituent instrument defining the rights evidenced by the obligations.
(b) An opinion of counsel, written in the English language, as to the legality of the obligations.
(c) Each material contract pertaining to the issuance or distribution of the obligations, to which the EBRD or any principal underwriter of the obligations is or is to be a party, except selling group agreements.
(d) Any prospectus or other sales literature to be provided by the EBRD or any of the principal underwriters for general use in connection with the initial distribution of the obligations to the public.
Pt. 300

# PART 300—RULES OF THE SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION CORPORATION

# Accounts of “Separate” Customers of SIPC Members
Sec.
300.100
General.
300.101
Individual accounts.
300.102
Accounts held by executors, administrators, guardians, etc.
300.103
Accounts held by a corporation, partnership or unincorporated association.
300.104
Trust accounts.
300.105
Joint accounts.

# Accounts Introduced by Other Brokers or Dealers
300.200
General.
300.201
Accounts introduced by same or different broker or dealer.

# Closeout or Completion of Open Contractual Commitments
300.300
Definitions.
300.301
Contracts to be closed out or completed.
300.302
Mechanics of closeout or completion.
300.303
Report to trustee.
300.304
Retained rights of brokers or dealers.
300.305
Excluded contracts.
300.306
Completion or closeout pursuant to SIPC direction.
300.307
Completion with cash or securities of customer.
300.400
Satisfaction of customer claims for standardized options.

# Rules Relating to Satisfaction of a “Claim for Cash” or a “Claim for Securities”
300.500
General.
300.501
Claim for cash.
300.502
Claim for securities.
300.503
Voidable securities transactions.

# Rules Relating to Supplemental Report on SIPC Membership
300.600
Rules relating to supplemental report on SIPC membership.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78ccc.

# Source:
44 FR 5077, Jan. 25, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Note:
The numbers to the right of the decimal points correspond with the respective rule numbers of the rules of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (hereinafter referred to as “SIPC”).

# Explanatory Note:
Pursuant to section 3(e)(2)(D) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”), the Securities and Exchange Commission (hereinafter referred to as “the Commission”) shall approve a proposed rule change submitted by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation if it finds that such proposed rule change is in the public interest and is consistent with the purposes of the Act, and any proposed rule change so approved shall be given force and effect as if promulgated by the Commission. The rules of this part 300 have been so approved.

# Accounts of “Separate” Customers of SIPC Members
§ 300.100
General.
(a) For the purpose of sections 9(a)(2) and 16(12) of the Securities Investor Protection Act (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”), these rules will be applied in determining what accounts held by a person with a member of SIPC (hereinafter called a “member”) are to be deemed accounts held in a capacity other than his individual capacity.
(b) Accounts held by a customer in different capacities, as specified by these rules, shall be deemed to be accounts of “separate” customers.
(c) A “person” as used in these rules includes, but is not limited to, an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a joint stock company, a trust, an unincorporated organization, or a government or political subdivision thereof.
(d) The burden shall be upon the customer to establish each capacity in which he claims to hold accounts separate from his individual capacity.
§ 300.101
Individual accounts.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in these rules, all accounts held with a member by a person in his own name, and those which under these rules are deemed his individual accounts, shall be combined so as to constitute a single account of a separate customer.
(b) An account held with a member by an agent or nominee for another person as a principal or beneficial owner shall, except as otherwise provided in these rules, be deemed to be an individual account of such principal or beneficial owner.
§ 300.102
Accounts held by executors, administrators, guardians, etc.
(a) Accounts held with a member in the name of a decedent or in the name of his estate or in the name of the executor or administrator of the estate of the decedent shall be combined so as to constitute a single account of a separate customer.
(b) An account held with a member by a guardian, custodian, or conservator for the benefit of a ward or for the benefit of a minor under the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act or in a similar capacity shall be deemed to be held by such guardian, custodian, or conservator in a different capacity from any account or accounts maintained by such person in his individual capacity.
§ 300.103
Accounts held by a corporation, partnership or unincorporated association.
A corporation, partnership or unincorporated association holding an account with a member shall be deemed to be a separate customer distinct from the person or persons owning such corporation or comprising such partnership or unincorporated association if on the filing date it existed for a purpose other than primarily to obtain or increase protection under the Act.
§ 300.104
Trust accounts.
(a) A trust account held with a member shall be deemed a “qualifying trust account” if it is held on behalf of a valid and subsisting express trust created by a written instrument. No account held on behalf of a trust that on the filing date existed primarily to obtain or increase protection under the Act shall be deemed to be a qualifying trust account.
(b) A qualifying trust account held with a member shall be deemed held by a separate customer of the member, distinct from the trustee, the testator or his estate, the settlor, or any beneficiary of the trust.
(c) Any account held with a member on behalf of a trust which does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this rule shall be deemed to be an individual account of the settlor of the trust on behalf of which the account is held.
§ 300.105
Joint accounts.
(a) A joint account shall be deemed to be a “qualifying joint account” if it is owned jointly, whether by the owners thereof as joint tenants with the right of survivorship, as tenants by the entirety or as tenants in common, or by husband and wife as community property, but only if each co-owner possesses authority to act with respect to the entire account.
(b) Subject to paragraph (c) of this rule, each qualifying joint account with a member shall be deemed held by one separate customer of the member.
(c) All qualifying joint accounts with a member owned by the same persons shall be deemed held by the same customer so that the maximum protection afforded to such accounts in the aggregate shall be the protection afforded to one separate customer of the member
(d) A joint account with a member which does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this rule shall be deemed to be an individual or qualifying joint account of the co-owner or co-owners having the exclusive power to act with respect to it.

# Accounts Introduced by Other Brokers or Dealers
§ 300.200
General.
A person having one or more accounts cleared by the member on a fully disclosed basis for one or more introducing brokers or dealers is a customer of the member and shall be protected with respect to such account or accounts without regard to the protection available for any other account or accounts he may have with the member.
§ 300.201
Accounts introduced by same or different broker or dealer.
All accounts of a person which are introduced by the same broker or dealer shall be combined and protected as the single account of a separate customer, unless such accounts are maintained in different capacities as specified in §§ 300.100 through 300.105; accounts introduced by different brokers or dealers shall be protected separately.

# Closeout or Completion of Open Contractual Commitments

# Authority:
Sec. 3, 6(d), Pub. L. 91-598, 84 Stat. 1636 (15 U.S.C. 78ccc, 78fff(d)), as amended by secs. 3, 5, 9, Pub. L. 95-283, 92 Stat. 249.

# Source:
Sections 300.300 through 300.307 appear at 44 FR 21211, Apr. 9, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 300.300
Definitions.
For the purpose of these rules, adopted pursuant to section 8(e) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, as amended (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”):
(a) The term
failed to receive
shall mean a contractual commitment of the debtor made in the ordinary course of business to pay to another broker or dealer the contract price in cash upon receipt from such broker or dealer of securities purchased:
Provided,
That the respective obligations of the parties remained outstanding until the close of business on the filing date as defined in section 16(7) of the Act (hereinafter referred to as the “filing date”).
(b) The term
failed to deliver
shall mean a contractual commitment of the debtor, made in the ordinary course of business, to deliver securities to another broker or dealer against receipt from such broker or dealer of the contract price in cash:
Provided,
That the respective obligations of the parties remained outstanding until the close of business on the filing date.
(c) The term
open contractual commitment
shall mean a failed to receive or a failed to deliver which had a settlement date prior to the filing date and the respective obligations of the parties remained outstanding on the filing date or had a settlement date which occurs on or within three business days subsequent to the filing date:
Provided, however,
That the term “open contractual commitment” shall not include any contractual commitment for which the security which is the subject of the trade had not been issued by the issuer as of the trade date.
(d) The term
customer
shall mean a person (other than a broker or dealer) in whose behalf a broker or dealer has executed a transaction out of which arose an open contractual commitment with the debtor, but shall not include any person to the extent that such person at the filing date (1) had a claim for property which by contract, agreement of understanding, or by operation of law, was a part of the capital of the broker or dealer who executed such transaction or was subordinated to the claims of creditors of such broker or dealer, or (2) had a relationship with the debtor which is specified in section 9(a)(4) of the Act.
[44 FR 21211, Apr. 9, 1979, as amended at 62 FR 10451, Mar. 7, 1997]
§ 300.301
Contracts to be closed out or completed.
An open contractual commitment shall be closed out or completed if:
(a) The open contractual commitment:
(1) Arises from a transaction in which a customer (as defined in § 300.300) of the other broker or dealer had an interest. For the purposes of this rule a customer is deemed to have an interest in a transaction if (i) the other broker was acting as agent for the customer or (ii) the other dealer was not a market maker in the security involved, to the extent such other dealer held a firm order from the customer and in connection therewith: In the case of a buy order, prior to executing such customer's order purchased as principal the same number of shares or purchased shares to accumulate the number of shares necessary to complete the order; or in the case of a sell order, prior to executing such customer's order sold the same number of shares or a portion thereof; and
(2)(i) Had a settlement date on or within 30 calendar days prior to the filing date and the respective obligations of the parties remained outstanding on the filing date or had a settlement date which occurs on or within three business days subsequent to the filing date; and
(ii) Had a trade date on or within three business days prior to such settlement date; and
(b) The other broker or dealer can establish to the satisfaction of the trustee through appropriate documentation that:
(1) In the case of a broker or dealer who maintains his records on a specific identification basis:
(i) The open contractual commitment arose out of a transaction in which his customer had such an interest, and
(ii) In the case of a failed to deliver of the debtor, as of the filing date such broker's or dealer's customer's interest had not been sold to such broker or dealer; or
(2) In the case of a broker or dealer who maintains his records other than on a specific identification basis, he has determined that a customer had such an interest in a manner consistent with that used by such broker or dealer prior to the filing date to allocate fails to receive and fails to deliver in computing the special reserve bank account requirement pursuant to the provisions of Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (17 CFR 240.15c3-3); or
(3) In the case of a broker or dealer not described in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, he has made the determination in a manner which the trustee finds to be fair and equitable.
[44 FR 21211, Apr. 9, 1979, as amended at 62 FR 10451, Mar. 7, 1997]
§ 300.302
Mechanics of closeout or completion.
(a) The closeout or completion of an open contractual commitment meeting the requirements of § 300.301 shall be effected only:
(1) By the buy-in or sell-out of the commitment by the other broker or dealer in accordance with the usual trade practices initiated by the other broker or dealer within or promptly upon the expiration of a period of 30 calendar days after settlement date; or
(2) At the option of the trustee by the delivery of securities against receipt of the contract price or payment of the contract price against the receipt of the securities at any time within 30 calendar days after settlement date unless the commitment previously has been bought-in or sold-out in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or
(3) In the event of the refusal of the other broker or dealer to accept completion of an open contractual commitment in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or the failure of the other broker or dealer to promptly buy-in or sell-out a commitment in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or in the event of the failure of the other broker or dealer to provide the trustee with appropriate documentation as required by § 300.303, by delivery of securities against receipt of the contract price or payment of the contract price against receipt of securities, or the buy-in or sell-out of the commitment or cancellation of the commitment or otherwise, as may be appropriate, as the trustee in his discretion will most benefit the estate of the debtor.
(b) In the event of a close-out of an open contractual commitment pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the money differences resulting from such close-out shall be payable by the other broker or dealer to the trustee or by the trustee to the other broker or dealer, whichever would be entitled to receive such difference under the usual trade practices:
Provided, however,
(1) That prior to the payment of any such money difference by the trustee to such other broker or dealer with respect to transactions executed by such other broker or dealer for any separate customer account, all open contractual commitments with respect to such account which meet the requirements of § 300.301 must have been completed by delivery of securities against receipt of the contract price or by payment of the contract price against receipt of the securities in conformity with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or by buy-in or sell-out in conformity with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and (2) that the net amount so payable by the trustee to the other broker or dealer shall not exceed $40,000 with respect to any separate customer account.
§ 300.303
Report to trustee.
Promptly upon the expiration of 30 calendar days after the filing date, or if by the expiration of such 30-day period notice pursuant to section 8(a) of the Act of the commencement of proceedings has not been published, then as soon as practicable after publication of such notice, a broker or dealer who had executed transactions in securities out of which arose open contractual commitments with the debtor shall furnish to the trustee such information
with respect to the buy-in, sell-out or other status of open contractual commitments as called for by Forms 300-A, B and C (§§ 301.300a-301.300c of this chapter) including appropriate supporting documentation and schedules.
§ 300.304
Retained rights of brokers or dealers.
(a) Nothing stated in these rules shall be construed to prejudice the right of a broker or dealer to any claim against the debtor's estate, or the right of the trustee to make any claim against a broker or dealer, with respect to a commitment of the debtor which was outstanding on the filing date, but (1) which is not described in § 300.300(c), or (2) which, although described in § 300.300(c), does not meet the requirements specified in § 300.301 or was not closed out of completed in accordance with § 300.302 or was not reported to the trustee in conformity with § 300.303 or was not supported by appropriate documentation.
(b) Nothing stated in these rules shall be construed to prejudice the right of a broker or dealer to a claim against the debtor's estate for the amount by which the money difference due the broker or dealer upon a buy-in or sell-out may exceed the amount paid by the trustee to such broker or dealer.
§ 300.305
Excluded contracts.
Notwithstanding the fact that an open contractual commitment described in § 300.300(c) meets the requirements of § 300.301 and the other requirements of these rules, a court shall not be precluded from canceling such commitment, awarding damages, or granting such other remedy as it shall deem fair and equitable if, on application of the trustee or SIPC, it determines that such commitment was not entered into in the ordinary course of business or was entered into by the debtor, or the broker or dealer or his customer, for the purposes of creating a commitment in contemplation of a liquidation proceeding under the Act. Such a determination shall be made after notice and opportunity for hearing by the debtor, such broker or dealer, or such customer, and may be made before or after the delivery of securities or payment of the contract price or before or after any buy-in or sell-out of the open contractual commitment, or otherwise.
§ 300.306
Completion or closeout pursuant to SIPC direction.
In its discretion SIPC may, in order to prevent a substantial detrimental impact upon the finanical condition of one or more brokers or dealers, direct the closeout or completion of an open contractual commitment, irrespective of whether it is described in § 300.300(c) or meets the requirements of § 300.301 or has been reported in conformity with § 300.303 or is supported by appropriate documentation. SIPC shall consult with the Securities and Exchange Commission before SIPC makes any determinations under this section.
§ 300.307
Completion with cash or securities of customer.
The trustee may, if authorized by the court, complete an open contractual commitment of the debtor, regardless of whether it is described in § 300.300(c) or meets the requirements of § 300.301 or has been reported to the trustee in conformity with § 300.303, to the extent that such commitment is completed with customer name securities of the customer of the debtor for whose account the commitment was made, or with cash or securities paid or delivered by or for the account of such customer to the debtor or trustee after the filing date.
§ 300.400
Satisfaction of customer claims for standardized options.
(a) For the purpose of sections 7(b)(1), 8 (b) and (d), and 16(11) of the Securities Investor Protection Act (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”), this rule will be applied in determining what a customer will receive in either (1) a liquidation proceeding pursuant to the Act or (2) a direct payment procedure pursuant to section 10 of the Act, in satisfaction of a claim based upon Standardized Options positions.
(b) As promptly as practicable after the initiation of a liquidation proceeding or a direct payment procedure under the Act, the trustee in a liquidation proceeding, or SIPC in a direct payment procedure, shall liquidate or
cause to be liquidated, by sale or purchase, all Standardized Options positions held for the accounts of customers except to the extent that the trustee, with SIPC's consent, or SIPC as trustee, as the case may be, has arranged or is able promptly to arrange, a transfer of some or all of such positions to another SIPC member.
(c) A trustee in a liquidation proceeding, or SIPC in a direct payment procedure, shall calculate the dollar amount of all Standardized Options positions held for the account of a customer in accordance with section 16(11) of the Act, and credit or debit, as appropriate, the dollar amount so calculated to the account of such customer.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, neither the trustee in a liquidation proceeding nor SIPC in a direct payment procedure shall be required under this rule to liquidate any short position in Standardized Options covered by the deposit of (1) the underlying securities, in the case of a call option, or (2) treasury bills, in the case of a put option, by or on behalf of a customer with a bank or other depository. Any such positions that are not liquidated shall be excluded from the calculation provided for in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) In no event will Standardized Options positions be delivered to or on behalf of customers in satisfaction of claims pursuant to section 7(b)(1) of the Act except to the extent that such positions have been transferred as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) In no event will Standardized Options be purchased for delivery to customers pursuant to section 8(d) of the Act.
(g) This rule shall not be construed as limiting or restricting in any way the exercise of any right of a broker or registered clearing agency to liquidate or cause the liquidation of Standardized Options Positions.
(h) As used in this rule the term
Standardized Options
means options traded on a national securities exchange, an automated quotation system of a registered securities association, or a foreign securities exchange, and any other option that is a security under section 16(14) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78lll(14), and is issued by a securities clearing agency registered under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78q-1, or a foreign securities clearing agency.
[48 FR 49840, Oct. 28, 1983, as amended at 79 FR 2781, Jan. 16, 2014]

# Rules Relating to Satisfaction of a “Claim for Cash” or a “Claim for Securities”

# Source:
Sections 300.500 through 300.503 appear at 53 FR 10369, Mar. 31, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 300.500
General.
These rules will be applied in determining whether a securities transaction gives rise to a “claim for cash” or a “claim for securities” on the filing date of either a liquidation proceeding pursuant to the Securities Investor Protection Act (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”) or a direct payment procedure pursuant to section 10 of the Act.
§ 300.501
Claim for cash.
(a) Where a SIPC member (“Debtor”) held securities in an account for a customer, the customer has a “claim for cash” with respect to any authorized securities sale:
(1) If the Debtor has sent written confirmation to the customer that the securities in question have been sold for or purchased from the customer's account; or
(2) Whether or not such a written confirmation has been sent, if the securities in question have become the subject of a completed or executory contract for sale for or purchase from the account.
(b) Where the Debtor held cash in an account for a customer, the customer has a “claim for cash”, notwithstanding the fact that the customer has ordered securities purchased for the account, unless:
(1) The Debtor has sent written confirmation to the customer that the securities in question have been purchased for or sold to the customer's account; or
(2) Whether or not such a written confirmation has been sent, if the securities in question have become the subject of a completed or executory contract for purchase for or sale to the account.
§ 300.502
Claim for securities.
(a) Where the Debtor held cash in an account for a customer, the customer has a “claim for securities” with respect to any authorized securities purchase:
(1) If the Debtor has sent written confirmation to the customer that the securities in question have been purchased for or sold to the customer's account; or
(2) Whether or not such a written confirmation has been sent, if the securities in question have become the subject of completed or executory contract for sale for or purchase from the account.
(b) Where the Debtor held securities in an account for a customer, the customer has a “claim for securities”, notwithstanding the fact that the customer has ordered the securities sold for the account, unless:
(1) The Debtor has sent written confirmation to the customer that the securities in question have been sold for or purchased from the customer's account; or
(2) Whether or not written confirmation of the purchase has been sent, if the securities in question have become the subject of completed or executory contract for sale for or purchase form the account.
§ 300.503
Voidable securities transactions.
(a) Nothing in these Series 500 Rules shall be construed as limiting the rights of a trustee in a liquidation proceeding under the Act to avoid any securities transaction as fraudulent, preferential, or otherwise voidable under applicable law.
(b) Nothing in these Series 500 Rules shall be construed as limiting the right of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, in a direct payment procedure under section 10 of the Act, to reject a claim for cash or a claim for securities if such claim arose out of a securities transaction which could have been avoided in a liquidation proceeding under the Act.

# Rules Relating to Supplemental Report on SIPC Membership
§ 300.600
Rules relating to supplemental report on SIPC membership.
(a)(1)
Who must file the supplemental report.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a broker or dealer must file with SIPC, within 60 days after the end of its fiscal year, a supplemental report on the status of its membership in SIPC (commonly referred to as the “Independent Accountants' Report on Applying Agreed-Upon Procedures”) if a rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires the broker or dealer to file audited financial statements annually.
(2) If the broker or dealer is a member of SIPC, the broker or dealer is not required to file the supplemental report for any year in which it reports $500,000 or less in total revenues in its annual audited statement of income filed with the SEC.
(b)
Requirements of the supplemental report.
The supplemental report must cover the SIPC Annual General Assessment Reconciliation Form (Form SIPC-7) or the Certification of Exclusion From Membership Form (Form SIPC-3) for each year for which an SEC Rule requires audited financial statements to be filed. The supplemental report must include the following:
(1) A copy of the form filed or a schedule of assessment payments showing any overpayments applied and overpayments carried forward, including payment dates, amounts, and name of SIPC collection agent to whom mailed; or
(2) If exclusion from membership was claimed, a statement that the broker or dealer qualified for exclusion from membership under the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, as amended, and the date the Form SIPC-3 was filed with SIPC; and
(3) An independent public accountant's report. The independent public accountant, who must be independent in accordance with the provisions of 17 CFR 210.2-01, must be engaged to perform the following agreed-upon procedures in accordance with standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB):
(i) Compare assessment payments made in accordance with the General Assessment Payment Form (Form SIPC-6) and applied to the General Assessment calculation on the Form SIPC-7 with respective cash disbursements record entries;
(ii) For all or any portion of a fiscal year, compare amounts reflected in the audited financial statements required by an SEC rule with amounts reported in the Form SIPC-7;
(iii) Compare adjustments reported in the Form SIPC-7 with supporting schedules and working papers supporting the adjustments;
(iv) Verify the arithmetical accuracy of the calculations reflected in the Form SIPC-7 and in the schedules and working papers supporting any adjustments; and
(v) Compare the amount of any overpayment applied with the Form SIPC-7 on which it was computed; or
(vi) If exclusion from membership is claimed, compare the income or loss reported in the audited financial statements required by an SEC rule with the Form SIPC-3.
[81 FR 14374, Mar. 17, 2016]
Pt. 301

# PART 301—FORMS, SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION CORPORATION
Sec.
301.0-1
Availability of forms.

# Forms for Closeout or Completion of Open Contractual Commitments
301.300a
Form 300-A, for summary of buy-ins or sell-outs of all open contractual commitments.
301.300b
Form 300-B, for report of all fails to deliver.
301.300c
Form 300-C, for report of all fails to receive.

# Authority:
Sec. 3, 84 Stat. 1636 (15 U.S.C. 78ccc), as amended by sec. 3, Pub. L. 95-283, 92 Stat. 249.

# Source:
44 FR 21213, Apr. 9, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Note:
Pursuant to section 3(e)(2)(D) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (the “Act”), the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) shall approve a proposed rule change submitted by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”) if the Commission finds the rule change is in the public interest and is consistent with the purposes of the Act. Any rule change so approved shall be given force and effect as if promulgated by the Commission. The forms described in this part have been so approved.
§ 301.0-1
Availability of forms.
The forms prescribed for use under the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, as amended, (the “Act”) and under part 300 of this chapter are identified and described in this part. Copies of these forms may be obtained upon request to, as appropriate, the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”) at 900 Seventeenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20006, or the trustee appointed in a liquidation proceeding under section 5 of the Act.

# Forms for Closeout or Completion of Open Contractual Commitments
§ 301.300a
Form 300-A, for summary of buy-ins or sell-outs of all open contractual commitments.
This form shall be filed as required by § 300.303 of this chapter with the trustee in a proceeding under section 5 of the Act by a broker-dealer who executed transactions out of which arose open contractual commitments, as defined by § 300.300(c) of this chapter, with the debtor in the proceeding. The form shall be used to summarize the buy-ins and sell-outs of those open contractual commitments and shall be accompanied by the forms described in §§ 301.300b and 301.300c.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 300-A, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 301.300b
Form 300-B, for report of all fails to deliver.
This form shall be filed as required by § 300.303 of this chapter with the trustee in a proceeding under section 5 of the Act by a broker-dealer who executed transactions out of which arose open contractual commitments, as defined by § 300.300(c) of this chapter, with the debtor in the proceeding. The form shall be used to report all the fails to deliver, as defined by § 300.300(b) of this chapter, that were open on the
filing date, as well as any subsequent closeouts. This form shall accompany the form described in § 300.300a.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 300-B, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 301.300c
Form 300-C, for report of all fails to receive.
This form shall be filed as required by § 300.303 of this chapter with the trustee in a proceeding under section 5 of the Act by a broker-dealer who executed transactions out of which arose open contractual commitments, as defined by § 300.300(c) of this chapter, with the debtor in the proceeding. The form shall be used to report all the fails to receive, as defied by § 300.300(a) of this chapter, that were open on the filing date, as well as any subsequent closeouts. This form shall accompany the form described in § 300.300a.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 300-C, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# PART 302—ORDERLY LIQUIDATION OF COVERED BROKERS OR DEALERS
Sec.
302.100
Definitions.
302.101
Appointment of receiver and trustee for covered broker or dealer.
302.102
Notice and application for protective decree for covered broker or dealer.
302.103
Bridge broker or dealer.
302.104
Claims of customers and other creditors of a covered broker or dealer.
302.105
Priorities for unsecured claims against a covered broker or dealer.
302.106
Administrative expenses of SIPC.
302.107
Qualified Financial Contracts.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5385(h).

# Source:
85 FR 53668, Oct. 30, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 302.100
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 302.100 through 302.107, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
Appointment date.
The term
appointment date
means the date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company that is a covered broker or dealer. This date shall constitute the
filing date
as that term is used in SIPA.
(b)
Bridge broker or dealer.
The term
bridge broker or dealer
means a new financial company organized by the Corporation in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 5390(h) for the purpose of resolving a covered broker or dealer.
(c)
Commission.
The term
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(d)
Covered broker or dealer.
The term
covered broker or dealer
means a covered financial company that is a qualified broker or dealer.
(e)
Customer.
The term
customer
of a covered broker or dealer shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78
lll
(2)
provided that
the references therein to
debtor
shall mean the covered broker or dealer.
(f)
Customer name securities.
The term
customer name securities
shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78
lll
(3)
provided that
the references therein to
debtor
shall mean the covered broker or dealer and the references therein to
filing date
shall mean the appointment date.
(g)
Customer property.
The term
customer property
shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78
lll
(4)
provided that
the references therein to
debtor
shall mean the covered broker or dealer.
(h)
Net equity.
The term
net equity
shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78
lll
(11)
provided that
the references therein to
debtor
shall mean the covered broker or dealer and the references therein to
filing date
shall mean the appointment date.
(i)
Qualified broker or dealer.
The term
qualified broker or dealer
means a broker or dealer that (A) is registered with the Commission under Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)); and (B) is a member of SIPC.
(j)
SIPA.
The term
SIPA
means the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, 15 U.S.C. 78aaa-
lll.
(k)
SIPC.
The term
SIPC
means the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
(l)
Corporation.
The term
Corporation
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(m)
Dodd-Frank Act.
The term
Dodd-Frank Act
means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, enacted July 21, 2010.
§ 302.101
Appointment of receiver and trustee for covered broker or dealer.
Upon the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for a covered broker or dealer, the Corporation shall appoint SIPC to act as trustee for the covered broker or dealer.
§ 302.102
Notice and application for protective decree for covered broker or dealer.
(a) SIPC and the Corporation, upon consultation with the Commission, shall jointly determine the terms of a notice and application for a protective decree that will be filed promptly with the Federal district court for the district within which the principal place of business of the covered broker or dealer is located;
provided that
if a case or proceeding under SIPA with respect to such covered broker or dealer is then pending, then such notice and application for a protective decree will be filed promptly with the Federal district court in which such case or proceeding under SIPA is pending. If such notice and application for a protective decree is filed on a date other than the appointment date, such filing shall be deemed to have occurred on the appointment date for the purposes of §§ 302.100 through 302.107.
(b) A notice and application for a protective decree may, among other things, provide for notice—
(1) Of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver and the appointment of SIPC as trustee for the covered broker or dealer; and
(2) That the provisions of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act and any regulations promulgated thereunder may apply, including without limitation the following:
(i) Any existing case or proceeding with respect to a covered broker or dealer under the Bankruptcy Code or SIPA shall be dismissed effective as of the appointment date and no such case or proceeding may be commenced with respect to a covered broker or dealer at any time while the Corporation is receiver for such covered broker or dealer;
(ii) The revesting of assets in a covered broker or dealer to the extent that they have vested in any entity other than the covered broker or dealer as a result of any case or proceeding commenced with respect to the covered broker or dealer under the Bankruptcy Code, SIPA, or any similar provision of State liquidation or insolvency law applicable to the covered broker or dealer;
provided that
any such revesting shall not apply to assets held by the covered broker or dealer, including customer property, transferred prior to the appointment date pursuant to an order entered by the bankruptcy court presiding over the case or proceeding with respect to the covered broker or dealer;
(iii) The request of the Corporation as receiver for a stay in any judicial action or proceeding (other than actions dismissed in accordance with paragraph (b)(i) of this section) in which the covered broker or dealer is or becomes a party for a period of up to 90 days from the appointment date;
(iv) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(v) of this section with respect to qualified financial contracts, no person may exercise any right or power to terminate, accelerate or declare a default under any contract to which the covered broker or dealer is a party (and no provision in any such contract providing for such default, termination or acceleration shall be enforceable), or to obtain possession of or exercise control over any property of the covered broker or dealer or affect any contractual rights of the covered broker or dealer without the consent of the Corporation as receiver of the covered broker or dealer upon consultation with SIPC during the 90-day period beginning from the appointment date; and
(v) The exercise of rights and the performance of obligations by parties to qualified financial contracts with the covered broker or dealer may be affected, stayed, or delayed pursuant to the provisions of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act (including 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
§ 302.103
Bridge broker or dealer.
(a)
The Corporation, as receiver for one or more covered brokers or dealers or in anticipation of being appointed receiver for one or more covered broker or dealers, may organize one or more bridge brokers or dealers with respect to a covered broker or dealer.
(b) If the Corporation establishes one or more bridge brokers or dealers with respect to a covered broker or dealer, then, subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the Corporation as receiver for such covered broker or dealer shall transfer all customer accounts and all associated customer name securities and customer property to such bridge brokers or dealers unless the Corporation determines, after consultation with the Commission and SIPC, that:
(1) The customer accounts, customer name securities, and customer property are likely to be promptly transferred to one or more qualified brokers or dealers such that the use of a bridge broker or dealer would not facilitate such transfer to one or more qualified brokers or dealers; or
(2) The transfer of such customer accounts to a bridge broker or dealer would materially interfere with the ability of the Corporation to avoid or mitigate serious adverse effects on financial stability or economic conditions in the United States.
(c) The Corporation, as receiver for such covered broker or dealer, also may transfer any other assets and liabilities of the covered broker or dealer (including non-customer accounts and any associated property and any assets and liabilities associated with any trust or custody business) to such bridge brokers or dealers as the Corporation may, in its discretion, determine to be appropriate in accordance with, and subject to the requirements of, 12 U.S.C. 5390(h), including 12 U.S.C. 5390(h)(1) and 5390(h)(5), and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
(d) In connection with customer accounts transferred to the bridge broker or dealer pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, claims for net equity shall not be transferred but shall remain with the covered broker or dealer. Customer property transferred from the covered broker or dealer, along with advances from SIPC, shall be allocated to customer accounts at the bridge broker or dealer in accordance with § 302.104(a)(3). Such allocations initially may be based upon estimates, and such estimates may be based upon the books and records of the covered broker or dealer or any other information deemed relevant in the discretion of the Corporation, as receiver, in consultation with SIPC, as trustee. Such estimates may be adjusted from time to time as additional information becomes available. With respect to each account transferred to the bridge broker or dealer pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the bridge broker or dealer shall undertake the obligations of a broker or dealer only with respect to property transferred to and held by the bridge broker or dealer, and allocated to the account as provided in § 302.104(a)(3), including any customer property and any advances from SIPC. The bridge broker or dealer shall have no obligations with respect to any customer property or other property that is not transferred from the covered broker or dealer to the bridge broker or dealer. The transfer of customer property to such an account shall have no effect on calculation of the amount of the affected accountholder's net equity, but the value, as of the appointment date, of the customer property and advances from SIPC so transferred shall be deemed to satisfy any such claim, in whole or in part.
(e) The transfer of assets or liabilities held by a covered broker or dealer, including customer accounts and all associated customer name securities and customer property, assets and liabilities held by a covered broker or dealer for any non-customer creditor, and assets and liabilities associated with any trust or custody business, to a bridge broker or dealer, shall be effective without any consent, authorization, or approval of any person or entity, including but not limited to, any customer, contract party, governmental authority, or court.
(f) Any succession to or assumption by a bridge broker or dealer of rights, powers, authorities, or privileges of a
covered broker or dealer shall be effective without any consent, authorization, or approval of any person or entity, including but not limited to, any customer, contract party, governmental authority, or court, and any such bridge broker or dealer shall upon its organization by the Corporation immediately and by operation of law—
(1) Be established and deemed registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(2) Be deemed to be a member of SIPC; and
(3) Succeed to any and all registrations and memberships of the covered broker or dealer with or in any self-regulatory organizations.
(g) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the bridge broker or dealer shall be subject to applicable Federal securities laws and all requirements with respect to being a member of a self-regulatory organization and shall operate in accordance with all such laws and requirements and in accordance with its articles of association; provided, however, that the Commission may, in its discretion, exempt the bridge broker or dealer from any such requirements if the Commission deems such exemption to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(h) At the end of the term of existence of a bridge broker or dealer, any proceeds that remain after payment of all administrative expenses of such bridge broker or dealer and all other claims against such bridge broker or dealer shall be distributed to the receiver for the related covered broker or dealer.
§ 302.104
Claims of customers and other creditors of a covered broker or dealer.
(a)
Trustee's role.
(1) SIPC, as trustee for a covered broker or dealer, shall determine customer status, claims for net equity, claims for customer name securities, and whether property of the covered broker or dealer qualifies as customer property. SIPC, as trustee for a covered broker or dealer, shall make claims determinations in accordance with SIPA and with paragraph (a)(3) of this section, but such determinations, and any claims related thereto, shall be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) SIPC shall make advances in accordance with, and subject to the limitations imposed by, 15 U.S.C. 78fff-3. Where appropriate, SIPC shall make such advances by delivering cash or securities to the customer accounts established at the bridge broker or dealer.
(3) Customer property held by a covered broker or dealer shall be allocated as follows:
(i) First, to SIPC in repayment of advances made by SIPC pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5385(f) and 15 U.S.C. 78fff-3(c)(1), to the extent such advances effected the release of securities which then were apportioned to customer property pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78fff(d);
(ii) Second, to customers of such covered broker or dealer, or in the case that customer accounts are transferred to a bridge broker or dealer, then to such customer accounts at a bridge broker or dealer, who shall share ratably in such customer property on the basis and to the extent of their respective net equities;
(iii) Third, to SIPC as subrogee for the claims of customers; and
(iv) Fourth, to SIPC in repayment of advances made by SIPC pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78fff-3(c)(2).
(4) The determinations and advances made by SIPC as trustee for a covered broker or dealer under §§ 302.100 through 302.107 shall be made in a manner consistent with SIPC's customary practices under SIPA. The allocation of customer property, advances from SIPC, and delivery of customer name securities to each customer or to its customer account at a bridge broker or dealer, in partial or complete satisfaction of such customer's net equity claims as of the close of business on the appointment date, shall be in a manner, including form and timing, and in an amount at least as beneficial to such customer as would have been the case had the covered broker or dealer been liquidated under SIPA. Any claims related to determinations made by SIPC as trustee for a covered broker or dealer shall be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Receiver's role.
Any claim shall be determined in accordance with the procedures set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(2)-(5) and the regulations promulgated by the Corporation thereunder, provided however, that—
(1)
Notice requirements.
The notice of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for a covered broker or dealer shall also include notice of the appointment of SIPC as trustee. The Corporation as receiver shall coordinate with SIPC as trustee to post the notice on SIPC's public website in addition to the publication procedures set forth in 12 CFR 380.33.
(2)
Procedures for filing a claim.
The Corporation as receiver shall consult with SIPC, as trustee, regarding a claim form and filing instructions with respect to claims against the Corporation as receiver for a covered broker or dealer, and such information shall be provided on SIPC's public website in addition to the Corporation's public website. Any such claim form shall contain a provision permitting a claimant to claim status as a customer of the broker or dealer, if applicable.
(3)
Claims bar date.
The Corporation as receiver shall establish a claims bar date in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(2)(B)(i) and any regulations promulgated thereunder by which date creditors of a covered broker or dealer, including all customers of the covered broker or dealer, shall present their claims, together with proof. The claims bar date for a covered broker or dealer shall be the date following the expiration of the six-month period beginning on the date a notice to creditors to file their claims is first published in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(2)(B)(i) and any regulations promulgated thereunder. Any claim filed after the claims bar date shall be disallowed, and such disallowance shall be final, as provided by 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(C)(i) and any regulations promulgated thereunder, except that a claim filed after the claims bar date shall be considered by the receiver as provided by 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(C)(ii) and any regulations promulgated thereunder. In accordance with section 8(a)(3) of SIPA, 15 U.S.C. 78fff-2(a)(3), any claim for net equity filed more than sixty days after the date the notice to creditors to file claims is first published need not be paid or satisfied in whole or in part out of customer property and, to the extent such claim is paid by funds advanced by SIPC, it shall be satisfied in cash or securities, or both, as SIPC, as trustee, determines is most economical to the receivership estate.
(c)
Decision period.
The Corporation as receiver of a covered broker or dealer shall notify a claimant whether it allows or disallows the claim, or any portion of a claim or any claim of a security, preference, set-off, or priority, within the 180-day period set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(A) and any regulations promulgated thereunder (as such 180-day period may be extended by written agreement as provided therein) or within the 90-day period set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(5)(B) and any regulations promulgated thereunder, whichever is applicable. In accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the Corporation, as receiver, shall issue the notice required by this paragraph (c), which shall utilize the determination made by SIPC, as trustee, in a manner consistent with SIPC's customary practices in a liquidation under SIPA, with respect to any claim for net equity or customer name securities. The process established herein for the determination, within the 180-day period set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(A) and any regulations promulgated thereunder (as such 180-day period may be extended by written agreement as provided therein), of claims by customers of a covered broker or dealer for customer property or customer name securities shall constitute the exclusive process for the determination of such claims, and any procedure for expedited relief established pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(5) and any regulations promulgated thereunder shall be inapplicable to such claims.
(d)
Judicial review.
The claimant may seek a judicial determination of any claim disallowed, in whole or in part, by the Corporation as receiver, including any claim disallowed based upon any determination(s) of SIPC as trustee made pursuant to § 302.104(a), by the appropriate district or territorial court of the United States in accordance
with 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(4) or (5), whichever is applicable, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
§ 302.105
Priorities for unsecured claims against a covered broker or dealer.
Allowed claims not satisfied pursuant to § 302.103(d), including allowed claims for net equity to the extent not satisfied after final allocation of customer property in accordance with § 302.104(a)(3), shall be paid in accordance with the order of priority set forth in 12 CFR 380.21 subject to the following adjustments:
(a) Administrative expenses of SIPC incurred in performing its responsibilities as trustee for a covered broker or dealer shall be included as administrative expenses of the receiver as defined in 12 CFR 380.22 and shall be paid
pro rata
with such expenses in accordance with 12 CFR 380.21(c).
(b) Amounts paid by the Corporation to customers or SIPC shall be included as amounts owed to the United States as defined in 12 CFR 380.23 and shall be paid
pro rata
with such amounts in accordance with 12 CFR 380.21(c).
(c) Amounts advanced by SIPC for the purpose of satisfying customer claims for net equity shall be paid following the payment of all amounts owed to the United States pursuant to 12 CFR 380.21(a)(3) but prior to the payment of any other class or priority of claims described in 12 CFR 380.21(a)(4) through (11).
§ 302.106
Administrative expenses of SIPC.
(a) In carrying out its responsibilities, SIPC, as trustee for a covered broker or dealer, may utilize the services of third parties, including private attorneys, accountants, consultants, advisors, outside experts, and other third party professionals. SIPC shall have an allowed claim for administrative expenses for any amounts paid by SIPC for such services to the extent that such services are available in the private sector, and utilization of such services is practicable, efficient, and cost effective. The term
administrative expenses of SIPC
includes the costs and expenses of such attorneys, accountants, consultants, advisors, outside experts, and other third party professionals, and other expenses that would be allowable to a third party trustee under 15 U.S.C. 78eee(b)(5)(A), including the costs and expenses of SIPC employees that would be allowable pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78fff(e).
(b) The term
administrative expenses of SIPC
shall not include advances from SIPC to satisfy customer claims for net equity.
§ 302.107
Qualified Financial Contracts.
The rights and obligations of any party to a qualified financial contract to which a covered broker or dealer is a party shall be governed exclusively by 12 U.S.C. 5390, including the limitations and restrictions contained in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(10)(B), and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
PARTS 303-399 [RESERVED]
17 CFR Ch. IV (4-1-25 Edition)
Department of the Treasury

# CHAPTER IV—DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

# SUBCHAPTER A—REGULATIONS UNDER SECTION 15C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Part
Page
400
Rules of general application
649
401
Exemptions
655
402
Financial responsibility
660
403
Protection of customer securities and balances
684
404
Recordkeeping and preservation of records
692
405
Reports and audit
697
420
Large position reporting
702
449
Forms, Section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
715

# SUBCHAPTER B—REGULATIONS UNDER TITLE II OF THE GOVERNMENT SECURITIES ACT OF 1986
450
Custodial holdings of government securities by depository institutions
717
451-499
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—REGULATIONS UNDER SECTION 15C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Pt. 400

# PART 400—RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION
Sec.
400.1
Scope of regulations.
400.2
Office responsible for regulations; filing of requests for exemptions, for interpretations, and of other materials.
400.3
Definitions.
400.4
Information concerning associated persons of financial institutions that are government securities brokers or dealers.
400.5
Amendments to application for registration and to notice of status as a government securities broker or dealer.
400.6
Notice of withdrawal from business as a government securities broker or dealer by a financial institution.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78
o
-5.

# Source:
52 FR 27926, July 24, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 400.1
Scope of regulations.
(a) Title I of the Government Securities Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-571, 100 Stat. 3208) amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 881-905; 15 U.S.C. chapter 2B) (“Act”) by adding section 15C, authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to promulgate regulations concerning the financial responsibility, protection of customer securities and balances, recordkeeping and reporting of brokers and dealers in government securities. Those regulations constitute subchapter A of this chapter. Unless otherwise explicitly provided, all regulations in this subchapter apply to all government securities brokers or dealers, including registered brokers or dealers and financial institutions. Registered brokers or dealers include OTC derivatives dealers.
(b) Section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(A)) requires all government securities brokers and government securities dealers, except those who are brokers or dealers registered pursuant to section 15 or section 15B of the Act or financial institutions, to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”). Regulations concerning registration are at § 240.15Ca2-1
et seq.
of this title. The Commission is responsible for the interpretation of the definitions of government securities broker and government securities dealer and of the regulations at § 240.15Ca2-1
et seq.
(c) Section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(B)(i)) requires all government securities brokers or dealers that are also registered brokers or dealers to notify the Commission of their status as government securities brokers or dealers. Regulations concerning notice are at § 240.15Ca1-1 of this title.
(d) Section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act also requires all government securities brokers or dealers that are financial institutions to notify the appropriate regulatory agency, as defined in section 3(a)(34)(G) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)(G)), of their status as government securities brokers or dealers. The form of notice, Form G-FIN, is at § 449.1 of this chapter. Forms are available from the appropriate regulatory agency.
(e) Section 104 of the Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993 (Pub. L. 103-202, 107 Stat. 2344) amended Section 15C of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-5) by adding a new subsection (f), authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to adopt rules to require specified persons holding, maintaining or controlling a large position in to-be-issued or recently-issued Treasury securities to report such a position and make and keep records related to such a position. Part 420 of this subchapter contains the rules governing large position reporting.
[52 FR 27926, July 24, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 48348, Sept. 12, 1996; 71 FR 54410, Sept. 15, 2006]
§ 400.2
Office responsible for regulations; filing of requests for exemptions, for interpretations and of other materials.
(a)
Office responsible.
The regulations in this chapter are promulgated by the Assistant Secretary (Domestic Finance) pursuant to a delegation of authority from the Secretary of the
Treasury. The office responsible for implementing the regulations, including interpretations and action on requests for exemption, classification, or modification, is the Office of the Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
(b)(1)
Exemptions and classifications.
Section 15C(a)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(4)) authorizes the Secretary to exempt any government securities broker or dealer or class thereof, conditionally or unconditionally, from the requirements of registration or regulations promulgated under section 15C. In addition, section 15C(b)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(b)(3)) provides for classification, by the Secretary, of government securities brokers or dealers and authorizes the whole or partial exemption of classes from rules under section 15C or the application of different standards to different classes.
(2)
Interpretations.
Although the appropriate regulatory agencies, as defined in § 400.3, and the self-regulatory organizations, as defined in section 3(a)(26) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)), have enforcement responsibility under section 15C of the Act, Treasury is responsible for interpretation of section 15C(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(b)) and related sections and for interpretation and amendment of the regulations under this chapter (with the exception of Forms G-FIN and G-FINW, §§ 449.1 and 449.2 of this chapter, which are the responsibility of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System [“Board”]).
(c)
Requests for interpretations, exemptions, classifications.
(1) Interpretations under this chapter may be provided, at the discretion of the Department, to firms or individuals actually or potentially affected by the Act or regulations, or to their representatives.
(2) Exemptions and classifications under sections 15C (a), (b) and (d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (a), (b), and (d)) and related sections and Treasury regulations thereunder may be provided at the discretion of the Department and after consultation with the SEC and the Board, to firms or individuals actually or potentially affected by the Act or regulations, or to their representatives.
(3) All requests for exemptions and classifications, and all requests for binding interpretations, shall be in writing, and shall conform to the following procedures.
(i) The names of the company or companies and all other persons involved shall be stated. Letters pertaining to unnamed companies or persons or hypothetical situations will not be answered.
(ii) The letter must contain a concise but complete statement of all material facts, a complete and accurate description of the entire transaction if the request is transactional (even though a request may apply to only a portion of a transaction), and a concise and unambiguous statement of the request, including precise statutory and regulatory citations.
(iii) The letter shall indicate why the writer believes a problem exists or interpretation is needed, the writer's opinion on the matter, and the basis for such opinion.
(iv) In addition to requests for confidential treatment under paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section, a person may request confidential treatment of information that is submitted as part of, or in support of, a request for interpretation, exemption, or classification. A separate request for confidential treatment and the basis for such request shall be submitted at the time the information for which confidential treatment is requested is submitted. The request for confidential treatment must specifically identify the information for which such confidential treatment is requested. To the extent practicable, the information should be segregated from information for which confidential treatment is not requested and should be clearly marked as confidential.
(v) Information designated as confidential in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section shall not be disclosed to a person requesting such information other than in accordance with the procedures outlined in the Department's regulations published at 31 CFR 1.6.
(vi) An original and two copies of each request letter shall be submitted to the Office of the Commissioner, Government Securities Regulations Staff, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, 5th Floor, 401 14th Street SW., Washington, DC
20227. The envelope shall be marked “Government Securities Act Request.” The letter shall indicate in the upper right hand corner of the first page the particular sections of the Act and of the regulations at issue.
(4) A written response by the Department to a request filed as stated in paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall be binding, with respect to the requester, on the Department, but shall cease to be binding if the facts are not as stated in the request or, prospectively, if the Department issues a superseding interpretation. In responding to such a request, the Department will, where appropriate, consult with and may obtain the formal concurrence of the appropriate regulatory agencies or their staffs. The Department understands that even if formal concurrence is not received the appropriate regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations will give appropriate deference to binding interpretations of the Department. The Department also expects the SEC staff to reflect such interpretations in responding, pursuant to the established procedures of the Commission, to no-action requests concerning rules the SEC enforces.
(5) The Department may decline to issue an interpretation for any reason and, in particular, may require that a requester make inquiry of its appropriate regulatory agency, the Commission or designated examining authority before the Department responds to a request.
(6) The Department will also provide informal oral and written advice, but such advice is not binding on the Department or on any other agency or organization.
(7)(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(iv) and (c)(7)(ii) of this section, every letter or other written communication requesting the Department to provide interpretive legal advice under the Act or to grant, deny or modify an exemption, classification or modification of the regulations, together with any written response thereto, shall be made available for inspection and copying as soon as practicable after the response has been sent or given to the person requesting it. These documents will be made available at the following location: Treasury Department Library, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Annex, Room 1020, Washington, DC 20220.
(ii) Any person submitting a letter or communication may also simultaneously submit a request that the letter or communication and the Department's response be accorded confidential treatment for a specified period of time not to exceed 120 days from the date the response has been made or given to such person. The request shall state the basis upon which the request for confidential treatment has been made. If the Department determines that the request for confidential treatment should be denied, the requester will be given 30 days to withdraw either the request for confidential treatment or the letter or communication requesting an interpretation, classification, or exemption.
(d)
Effect of Commission interpretations.
Interpretations of the Commission and its staff (including no-action positions) and of the designated examining authorities, of any Commission regulation expressly adopted by reference in these regulations shall be of the same effect as if the regulation being interpreted were solely the Commission's regulation. However, in the event the Treasury has issued a formal interpretation on the subject, the Treasury understands that the Commission will give that interpretation appropriate deference, particularly with respect to both subsequent no-action positions and the continued validity of prior no-action positions.
[52 FR 27926, July 24, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 28984, Aug. 1, 1988; 72 FR 54410, Sept. 15, 2006; 79 FR 38454, July 8, 2014]
§ 400.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise explicitly provided, in this subchapter and for the purposes of these regulations:
Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 881, 15 U.S.C. chapter 2B, as amended);
Appropriate regulatory agency
has the meaning set out in section 3(a)(34)(G) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)(G)), and, with respect to a financial institution for which an appropriate regulatory agency is not explicitly designated, the appropriate regulatory agency is the SEC;
Associated person
means a person other than a person whose functions are solely clerical or ministerial:
(1) Directly engaged in any of the following activities in either a supervisory or non-supervisory capacity:
(i) Underwriting, trading or sales of government securities;
(ii) Financial advisory or consultant services for issuers in connection with the issuance of government securities;
(iii) Research or investment advice, other than general economic information or advice, with respect to government securities in connection with the activities described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section;
(iv) Activities other than those specifically mentioned which involve communication, directly or indirectly, with public investors in government securities in connection with the activities described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section; or
(2) Directly engaged in the following activities in a supervisory capacity:
(i) Processing and clearance activities with respect to government securities;
(ii) Maintenance of records involving any of the activities described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;

# Provided, however,
(3) That in the case of a financial institution,
(i) Persons whose government securities functions: (A) Consist solely of carrying out the financial institution's activities in a fiduciary capacity and (B) are subject to examination by the appropriate regulatory agency for compliance with requirements applicable to activities by the financial institution in a fiduciary capacity, shall not be considered “associated persons”;
(ii) Persons whose sole government securities activities are, without exercising any investment discretion and solely at the direction of customers, to receive and/or transmit customer orders to purchase or sell government securities, but who do not give investment advice or receive transaction-based compensation shall not be considered “associated persons”; and
(iii) Directors and senior officers of the financial institution who may from time to time set broad policy guidelines affecting the financial institution as a whole that are not directly related to the conduct of the financial institution's government securities business are not considered to be “directly engaged” in the activities described in this paragraph (c);
Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
Branch or agency of a foreign bank
means a Federal branch or Federal agency of a foreign bank or a State branch or State agency of a foreign bank as such terms are used in the International Banking Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-369, 92 Stat. 607;
CFTC
means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
Commission
or
SEC
means the Securities and Exchange Commission;
Designated examining authority
and
Examining Authority
mean (1) in the case of a registered government securities broker or dealer that belongs to only one self-regulatory organization, such self-regulatory organization, and (2) in the case of a registered government securities broker or dealer that belongs to more than one self-regulatory organization, the self-regulatory organization designated by the Commission pursuant to section 17(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q(d)) as the entity with responsibility for examining such registered government securities broker or dealer;
Fiduciary capacity
includes trustee, executor, administrator, registrar, transfer agent, guardian, assignee, receiver, managing agent, and any other similar capacity involving the sole or shared exercise of discretion by a financial institution having fiduciary powers that is supervised by a Federal or state financial institution regulatory agency;
Financial institution
has the meaning set out in section 3(a)(46) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(46)), and such term explicitly does not include a subsidiary or affiliate of an institution described in such section unless such subsidiary or affiliate is itself described in such section;
Government securities broker
has the meaning set out in section 3(a)(43) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(43)), and explicitly includes not only registered government securities brokers, but
also registered brokers and financial institutions;
Government securities dealer
has the meaning set out in section 3(a)(44) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(44)), and explicitly includes not only registered government securities dealers, but also registered dealers and financial institutions;
Government securities
has the meaning set out in section 3(a)(42) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(42));
OTC derivatives dealer
has the same meaning set out in 17 CFR 240.3b-12.
Registered broker or dealer
means a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15 or section 15B of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o, 78o-4)) but does not include a municipal securities dealer that is a bank or a separately identifiable department or division of a bank;
Registered government securities broker or dealer
means a government securities broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(A));
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury; and
Treasury
or
Department
means the Department of the Treasury, including in particular the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
[52 FR 27926, July 24, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 6604, Feb. 26, 1990; 71 FR 54410, Sept. 15, 2006; 79 FR 38455, July 8, 2014]
§ 400.4
Information concerning associated persons of financial institutions that are government securities brokers or dealers.
(a) Every associated person of a financial institution that is a government securities broker or dealer that is not exempt pursuant to Part 401 of this chapter shall file with such financial institution a completed Form G-FIN-4 (§ 449.4 of this chapter) unless such person has on file with such financial institution a completed and current Form U-4 (promulgated by a self-regulatory organization) or Form MSD-4 (as required for associated persons of bank municipal securities dealers).
(b) To the extent any information furnished by an associated person pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section (including information on a Form U-4 or Form MSD-4) is or becomes materially inaccurate or incomplete, such associated person shall promptly furnish in writing to such financial institution, in a form acceptable to the appropriate regulatory agency for such financial institution, a statement correcting such information.
(c) For the purpose of verifying the information furnished by an associated person pursuant to paragraph (a) of this rule, every government securities broker or dealer that is a financial institution shall make inquiry of all other employers of such associated person during the immediately preceding three years concerning the accuracy and completeness of such information.
(d) Every government securities broker or dealer that is a financial institution not exempt from this section pursuant to Part 401 of this chapter shall:
(1) Promptly obtain and, within 10 days thereafter, file with the appropriate regulatory agency, in a form acceptable to such appropriate regulatory agency, the information required by paragraph (a) of this section (which shall consist of all Forms G-FIN-4 filed and a list of all associated persons who have filed Forms MSD-4 or U-4 with the financial institution since the last such filing, designating whether the associated person is serving in a supervisory or non-supervisory capacity) and by paragraph (b) of this section; and
(2) File with the appropriate regulatory agency within 30 days after the termination of the status of an individual as an associated person a Form G-FIN-5 (§ 449.4 of this chapter), unless—
(i) The financial institution is required to and has filed a Form U-5 or Form MSD-5 with respect to such person; or
(ii) The financial institution notifies the appropriate regulatory agency that the individual will remain in the financial institution's employment and the financial institution will continue to update the information about such individual as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and will file a Form G-FIN-5 within 30 days after the termination of such individual's employment with the financial institution.
(e) Every notice and form filed pursuant to this section shall constitute a
“report” within the meaning of sections 15, 15C and 32(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o, 78o-5, 78ff(a)).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27926, July 24, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 11026, Mar. 1, 1995]
§ 400.5
Amendments to application for registration and to notice of status as a government securities broker or dealer.
(a)(1) If the information contained in any application for registration as a government securities broker or dealer (other than the statements required by § 240.15Ca2-2 of this title) or in any amendment thereto, becomes inaccurate for any reason, the registered government securities broker or dealer shall file within 30 days thereafter an amendment on Form BD (§ 249.501 of this title) correcting such information, in accordance with the instructions provided therein.
(2) If the information contained in any notice of status as a government securities broker or dealer filed by a registered broker or dealer, or in any amendment thereto, becomes inaccurate for any reason, the registered broker or dealer shall file within 30 days an amendment on Form BD (§ 249.501 of this title) correcting such information, in accordance with the instructions provided therein.
(b) If the information contained in any notice of status as a government securities broker or dealer filed by a financial institution, or any amendment thereto, becomes inaccurate for any reason, the financial institution shall file within 30 days an amendment on Form G-FIN (§ 449.1 of this chapter) correcting such information, in accordance with the instructions provided therein.
(c) Every amendment filed pursuant to this section shall constitute a “report” within the meaning of sections 15, 15C and 32(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o, 78o-5, 78ff(a)).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27926, July 24, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 11026, Mar. 1, 1995]
§ 400.6
Notice of withdrawal from business as a government securities broker or dealer by a financial institution.
(a) Whenever a financial institution that is a government securities broker or dealer that is not exempt from the notice requirements of section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(B)(i)) and of § 400.5 pursuant to part 401 of this chapter, ceases to act as a government securities broker or dealer, it shall file with the appropriate regulatory agency notice of such cessation on Form G-FINW (§ 449.2 of this chapter) in accordance with the instructions contained therein.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a notice that a financial institution has ceased to act as a government securities broker or dealer shall become effective for all purposes on the 60th day after the filing thereof with the appropriate regulatory agency or within such shorter period of time as the appropriate regulatory agency determines.
(c) If the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section is filed with the appropriate regulatory agency any time after the date of the issuance of a notice or order by the appropriate regulatory agency instituting proceedings pursuant to section 15C(c)(2)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(c)(2)(A)) to censure, suspend, limit, or bar from acting as a government securities broker or government securities dealer the entity filing such notice, or if the appropriate regulatory agency has instituted any action against the entity filing such notice pursuant to section 15C(2)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. § 78o-5(c)(2)(B)), the notice shall become effective pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section at such time and upon such terms and conditions as the appropriate regulatory agency deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest for the protection of investors.
(d) Every notice filed pursuant to this section shall constitute a “report” within the meaning of sections 15, 15C and 32(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o, 78o-5, 78ff(a)).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27926, July 24, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 18734, Apr. 13, 1995]
Pt. 401

# PART 401—EXEMPTIONS
Sec.
401.1
Exemption for organizations handling transactions in United States Savings Bonds.
401.2
Exemtion for depository institutions that submit tenders for the account of customers for purchase on original issue of United States Treasury securities.
401.3
Exemption for financial institutions that are engaged in limited government securities brokerage activities.
401.4
Exemption for financial institutions engaged in limited government securities dealer activities.
401.5
Exemption for corporate credit unions transacting limited government securities business with other credit unions.
401.6
Exemption for branches and agencies of foreign banks that deal solely with non-United States citizens resident offshore.
401.7
Exemption for certain foreign government securities brokers or dealers.

# Authority:
Sec. 101, Pub. L. 99-571, 100 Stat. 3209 (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(4)).

# Source:
52 FR 27930, July 24, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 401.1
Exemption for organizations handling transactions in United States Savings Bonds.
An organization that handles United States Savings Bond transactions, including a qualified issuing or paying agent or an organization that accommodates customers or employees by forwarding requested transactions to qualified issuing or paying agents or the Treasury and whose transactions in government securities are limited to these transactions and such other activities that are exempted by the regulations under this subchapter, shall be exempt from the provisions of section 15C (a), (b) and (d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (a), (b), (d)) and the regulations of this subchapter. For the purposes of this section, the term “United States Savings Bond” means any savings-type security offered by the Treasury, including all series of United States Savings Bonds, United States Savings Notes and United States Savings Stamps.
§ 401.2
Exemption for depository institutions that submit tenders for the account of customers for purchase on original issue of United States Treasury securities.
(a) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, a depository institution that submits tenders or subscriptions for purchase on original issue of United States Treasury securities for the account of customers on a fully disclosed basis, whose transactions in government securities are limited to such transactions and such other activities as have been exempted by regulation under this subchapter shall be exempt from the provisions of section 15C (a), (b) and (d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (a), (b), (d)) and the regulations of this subchapter.
(b) A depository institution that relies on the exemption contained in paragraph (a) of this section is required to comply with the regulations of part 450 of this chapter concerning custodial holdings of government securities.
(c) For the purposes of this section, “depository institution” has the meaning stated in clauses (i) through (vi) of section 19(b)(1)(A) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi)) and also includes a foreign bank, an agency or branch of a foreign bank and a commercial lending company owned or controlled by a foreign bank (as such terms are used in the International Banking Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-369, 92 Stat. 607).
§ 401.3
Exemption for financial institutions that are engaged in limited government securities brokerage activities.
(a)(1) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, a financial institution shall be exempt from the provisions of sections 15C (a), (b), and (d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (a), (b), (d)) and the regulations of this subchapter, unless it acts as a government securities broker by:
(i) Holding itself out as a government securities broker or interdealer broker; or
(ii) Actively soliciting purchases or sales of government securities on an agency basis;
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a financial institution shall not be regarded as acting as a government securities broker within the meaning of this section if it:
(i) Effects fewer than 500 government securities brokerage transactions (other than transactions described in §§ 401.1 or 401.2) per year; or
(ii) Effects all such transactions (other than transactions described in §§ 401.1 or 401.2) pursuant to a contractual or other arrangement with one or more government securities brokers or dealers each of which has registered or filed notice pursuant to section 15C(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)) (each referred to as the “transacting government securities broker or dealer”) under which the transacting government securities broker or dealer will offer securities services on or off the premises of the financial institution, provided that:
(A) The transacting government securities broker or dealer is clearly identified to customers as the person performing the securities services;
(B) Financial institution employees perform only clerical and ministerial or order-taking functions in connection with government securities transactions unless such employees are associated persons (as defined in § 400.3 of this chapter) or registered representatives of the transacting government securities broker or dealer;
(C) Financial institution employees do not receive compensation for government securities activities other than clerical or ministerial functions unless such employees are associated persons (as defined in § 400.3 of this chapter) or registered representatives of the transacting government securities broker or dealer; and
(D) Such services are provided on a fully disclosed basis by the transacting government securities broker or dealer, i.e., the transacting government securities broker or dealer receives and maintains all required information concerning each customer, its trading and account.
(b)(1) A financial institution that relies on the exemption contained in paragraph (a) of this section is required to comply with the regulations of part 450 of this chapter concerning custodial holdings of government securities for customers.
(2) A branch or agency of a foreign bank that relies on the exemption contained in paragraph (a) of this section is in addition required to comply with § 403.5(e) of this chapter.
(c) For the purposes of this section “financial institution” includes an insured credit union, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752(7).
[52 FR 27930, July 24, 1987, as amended at 71 FR 54411, Sept. 15, 2006]
§ 401.4
Exemption for financial institutions engaged in limited government securities dealer activities.
(a) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, a financial institution shall be exempt from the provisions of sections 15C (a), (b), and (d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (a), (b), (d)) and the regulations of this subchapter if its government securities dealer activities are limited to one or more of the following activities:
(1) Sales or purchases in a fiduciary capacity;
(2) The sale and subsequent repurchase and the purchase and subsequent resale of government securities pursuant to a repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement; and
(3) Such other activities as have been exempted by regulation under this subchapter.
(b)(1) A financial institution that relies on the exemption contained in paragraph (a) of this section is required to comply with:
(i) The regulations of part 450 of this chapter concerning custodial holdings of government securities for customers; and
(ii) Section 403.5(d) of this chapter concerning certain repurchase transactions with customers.
(2) A branch or agency of a foreign bank that relies on the exemption contained in paragraph (a) of this section is in addition required to comply with § 403.5(e) of this chapter.
(c) For the purposes of this section “financial institution” includes an insured credit union, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752(7).
§ 401.5
Exemption for corporate credit unions transacting limited government securities business with other credit unions.
(a)(1) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, a corporate credit union shall be exempt from the provisions of section 15C (a), (b) and (d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (a), (b), (d)) and the regulations thereunder if its government securities dealer activities are limited to the sale and subsequent repurchase and the purchase and subsequent resale, each pursuant to a repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement, of government securities to other credit unions and such other activities as have been exempted by regulation under this part.
(2) For the purposes of this section, “corporate credit union” means a credit union whose membership consists primarily of other credit unions and that is (i) a Federal credit union as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752(1), (ii) an insured credit union as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752(7), or (iii) a member of the National Credit Union Administration Central Liquidity Facility.
(b) A credit union that relies on the exemption contained in paragraph (a) of this section is required to comply with:
(1) The regulations of part 450 of this chapter concerning custodial holdings of government securities; and
(2) Section 403.5(d) concerning certain repurchase transactions with customers.
§ 401.6
Exemption for branches and agencies of foreign banks that deal solely with non-United States citizens resident offshore.
(a) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, a branch or agency of a foreign bank shall be exempt from the provisions of section 15C (a), (b), and (d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (a), (b), (d)) and the regulations of this subchapter, if all the customers with or on behalf of whom it engages in government securities transactions are limited to foreign governments, agencies of foreign governments and other persons and entities who are not citizens of the United States and who reside or, in the case of a corporation, partnership or other entity, have their principal place of business, outside of the United States.
(b) A branch or agency that relies on the exemption contained in paragraph (a) of this section is required to comply with the regulations of part 450 of this chapter concerning custodial holdings of government securities.
§ 401.7
Exemption for certain foreign government securities brokers or dealers.
A government securities broker or dealer (excluding a branch or agency of a foreign bank) that is a non-U.S. resident shall be exempt from the provisions of sections 15C(a), (b), and (d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a), (b) and (d)) and the regulations of this subchapter provided it complies with the provisions of 17 CFR 240.15a-6 (SEC Rule 15a-6) as modified in this section.
(a) For purposes of this section,
non-U.S. resident
means any person (including any U.S. person) engaged in business as a government securities broker or dealer entirely outside the U.S. that is not an office or branch of, or a natural person associated with, a registered broker or dealer, a registered government securities broker or dealer or a financial institution that has provided notice pursuant to § 400.1(d) of this chapter.
(b) Within § 240.15a-6 of this title, references to “security” and “securities” shall mean “government securities” as defined in § 400.3 of this chapter.
(c) Section 240.15a-6(a) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(a) A foreign broker or dealer shall be exempt from the registration or notice requirements of section 15C(a)(1) of the Act to the extent that the foreign broker or dealer:”
(d) Paragraph 240.15a-6(a)(2)(iii) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(iii) If the foreign broker or dealer has established a relationship with a registered broker or dealer for the purpose of compliance with paragraph (a)(3) of this rule, this relationship is disclosed in all research reports and all transactions with the foreign broker or dealer in securities discussed in the research reports are effected only through that registered broker or dealer, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a)(3); and”
(e) Paragraph 240.15a-6(a)(3)(i)(B) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(B) Provides its appropriate regulatory agency (upon request or pursuant to agreements reached between any foreign securities authority, including any foreign government as specified in section 3(a)(50) of the Act, and the Commission or the U.S. Government) with any information, documents, or records within the possession, custody, or control of the foreign broker or dealer, any testimony of foreign associated persons, and any assistance in taking the evidence of other persons, wherever located, that the appropriate regulatory agency requests and that relates to transactions under paragraph (a)(3) of this rule, except that if, after the foreign broker or dealer has exercised its best efforts to provide this information, including requesting the appropriate governmental body and, if legally necessary, its customers (with respect to customer information) to permit the foreign broker or dealer to provide this information to its appropriate regulatory agency, the foreign broker or dealer is prohibited from providing this information by applicable foreign law or regulations, then this paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B) shall not apply and the foreign broker or dealer will be subject to paragraph (c) of this rule;”
(f) Paragraphs 240.15a-6(a)(3)(iii)(A) (
4
), (
5
) and (
6
) of this title are modified to read as follows:
“(
4
) Maintaining required books and records relating to the transactions, including those required by § 404.1 of this title for registered brokers and dealers (excluding registered government securities brokers and dealers and noticed financial institutions), §§ 404.2 and 404.3 of this title for registered government securities brokers or dealers, and § 404.4 of this title for noticed financial institutions;
“(
5
) Complying with part 402 of this title with respect to the transactions; and
“(
6
) Receiving, delivering, and safeguarding funds and securities in connection with the transactions on behalf of the U.S. institutional investor or the major U.S. institutional investor in compliance with § 403.1 of this title for registered brokers and dealers (excluding registered government securities brokers and dealers and noticed financial institutions); §§ 403.2, 403.3, 403.4 and 403.6 of this title for registered government securities brokers and dealers, and § 403.5 of this title for noticed financial institutions.”
(g) Paragraph 240.15a-6(a)(3)(iii)(C) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(C) Has obtained from the foreign broker or dealer, with respect to each foreign associated person, the types of information specified in Rule 17a-3(a)(12) under the Act (17 CFR 240.17a-3(a)(12)), provided that the information required by paragraph (a)(12)(d) of that Rule shall include sanctions imposed by foreign securities authorities, exchanges, or associations, including, without limitation, those described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(B) of this rule. Notwithstanding the above, a registered broker or dealer that is a noticed financial institution shall comply with the provisions of paragraphs 404.4(a)(3)(i) (B) and (C) of this title, in lieu of Rule 17a-3(a)(12), provided that the information required by paragraphs 404.4(a)(3)(i) (B) and (C) of this title shall include sanctions imposed by foreign securities authorities, exchanges, or associations, including, without limitation, those described in (a)(3)(ii)(B) of this rule;”
(h) Paragraph 240.15a-6(a)(3)(iii)(D) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(D) Has obtained from the foreign broker or dealer and each foreign associated person written consent to service of process for any civil action brought by or proceeding before its appropriate regulatory agency or a self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a)(26) of the Act), providing that process may be served on them by service on the registered broker or dealer in the manner set forth on the registered broker's or dealer's current Form BD or other appropriate procedure as specified by the appropriate regulatory agency; and”
(i) Paragraph 240.15a-6(a)(3)(iii)(E) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(E) Maintains a written record of the information and consents required by paragraphs (a)(3)(iii) (C) and (D) of this rule, and all records in connection with trading activities of the U.S. institutional investor or the major U.S. institutional investor involving the
foreign broker or dealer conducted under paragraph (a)(3) of this rule, in an office of the registered broker or dealer located in the United States (with respect to nonresident registered brokers or dealers, pursuant to Rule 17a-7(a) under the Act (17 CFR 240.17a-7(a)), provided that in Rule 17a-7(a) references to broker or dealer shall include government securities brokers or dealers, as those terms are defined in §§ 400.3 of this title), and makes these records available to the appropriate regulatory agency upon request; or”
(j) Paragraph 240.15a-6(a)(4)(i) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(i) A registered broker or dealer, whether the registered broker or dealer is acting as principal for its own account or as agent for others, or a financial institution acting pursuant to §§ 401.3(a)(2)(ii) or 401.4(a)(1) of this title;”
(k) Paragraph 240.15a-6(b)(2) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(2) The term
foreign associated person
shall mean any natural person domiciled outside the United States who is an associated person (a person associated with a government securities broker or a government securities dealer as defined in section 3(a)(45) of the Act) of the foreign broker or dealer and who participates in the solicitation of a U.S. institutional investor or a major U.S. institutional investor under paragraph (a)(3) of this rule.”
(l) Paragraph 240.15a-6(b)(3) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(3) The term “foreign broker or dealer” shall mean any non-U.S. resident person (including any U.S. person engaged in business as a broker or dealer entirely outside the United States, except as otherwise permitted by this rule) that is not an office or branch of, or a natural person associated with, a registered broker or dealer, whose securities activities, if conducted in the United States, would be described by the definition of “government securities broker” or “government securities dealer” in sections 3(a)(43) and 3(a)(44) of the Act.”
(m) Paragraph 240.15a-6(b)(5) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(5) Only for the purposes of this rule, the term “registered broker or dealer” shall mean a person that is registered with the Commission under section 15C(a)(2) of the Act or a broker or dealer or a financial institution who has provided notice to its appropriate regulatory agency under section 15C(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act.”
(n) For the purposes of this section, § 240.15a-6(b) of this title shall include a new paragraph (8) to read as follows:
“(8) The term
registered government securities broker or dealer
has the meaning set out in § 400.3 of this title.”
(o) For the purposes of this section, 240.15a-6(b) of this title shall include a new paragraph (9) to read as follows:
“(9) The term
noticed financial institution
means a financial institution as defined at § 400.3 of this title that has provided notice to its appropriate regulatory agency pursuant to § 400.1(d) of this title.”
(p) For the purposes of this section, § 240.15a-6(b) of this title shall include a new paragraph (10) to read as follows:
“(10) The term
appropriate regulatory agency
has the meaning set out in § 400.3 of this title.”
(q) Section 240.15a-6(c) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(c) The Secretary of the Treasury, upon receiving notification from an appropriate regulatory agency that the laws or regulations of a foreign country have prohibited a foreign broker or dealer, or a class of foreign brokers or dealers, engaging in activities exempted by paragraph (a)(3) of this rule, from providing, in response to a request from an appropriate regulatory agency, information, documents, or records within its possession, custody, or control, testimony of foreign associated persons, or assistance in taking the evidence of other persons, wherever located, related to activities exempted by paragraph (a)(3) of this rule, may consider to be no longer applicable the exemption provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this rule with respect to the subsequent activities of the foreign broker or dealer or class of foreign brokers or dealers if the Secretary finds that continuation of the exemption is inconsistent with the public interest, the
protection of investors and the purposes of the Government Securities Act.”
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[55 FR 27462, July 3, 1990; 55 FR 29293, July 18, 1990, as amended at 60 FR 11026, Mar. 1, 1995; 71 FR 54411, Sept. 15, 2006. Redesignated at 79 FR 38455, July 8, 2014]
Pt. 402

# PART 402—FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Sec.
402.1
Application of part to registered brokers and dealers and financial institutions; special rules for futures commission merchants and government securities interdealer brokers; effective date.
402.2
Capital requirements for registered government securities brokers and dealers.
402.2a
Appendix A—Calculation of market risk haircut for purposes of § 402.2(g)(2).
402.2b
[Reserved]
402.2c
Appendix C—Consolidated computations of liquid capital and total haircuts for certain subsidiaries and affiliates.
402.2d
Appendix D—Modification of § 240.15c3-1d of this title, relating to satisfactory subordination agreements, for purposes of § 402.2.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78o-5(b)(1)(A), (b)(4), Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.

# Source:
52 FR 27931, July 24, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 402.1
Application of part to registered brokers and dealers and financial institutions; special rules for futures commission merchants and government securities interdealer brokers; effective date.
(a)
Application of part.
This part applies to all government securities brokers and dealers, except as otherwise provided herein.
(b)
Registered brokers or dealers.
This part does not apply to a registered broker or dealer (including an OTC derivatives dealer) that is subject to § 240.15c3-1 of this title (SEC Rule 15c3-1).
(c)
Financial institutions.
This part does not apply to a government securities broker or dealer that is a financial institution and that is:
(1) Subject to the rules and regulations of its appropriate regulatory agency concerning capital requirements, or
(2) A branch or agency of a foreign bank subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by state or Federal authorities having regulatory or supervisory authority over commercial bank and trust companies.
(d)
Futures commission merchants.
A futures commission merchant subject to § 1.17 of this title that is a government securities broker or dealer but is not a registered broker or dealer shall not be subject to the limitations of § 402.2 but rather to the capital requirement of § 1.17 or § 240.15c3-1, except paragraph (e)(3) thereof, of this title, whichever is greater.
(e)
Government securities interdealer broker.
(1) A government securities interdealer broker, as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, may, with the prior written consent of the Secretary, elect not to be subject to the limitations of § 402.2 but rather to be subject to the requirements of § 240.15c3-1 of this title (SEC Rule 15c3-1), except paragraphs (c)(2)(ix) and (e)(3) thereof, and paragraphs (e)(3) through (8) of this section by filing such election in writing with its designated examining authority. A government securities interdealer broker may not revoke such election without the written consent of its designated examining authority.
(2)(i)
Government securities interdealer broker
means an entity engaged exclusively in business as a broker that effects, on an initially fully disclosed or identified group basis, transactions in government securities for counterparties that are government securities brokers or dealers who have registered or given notice pursuant to section 15C(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)), and that promptly transmits all funds and delivers all securities received in connection with its activities as a government securities interdealer broker and does not otherwise hold funds or securities for or owe money or securities to its counterparties and, except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, does not have or maintain any government securities in its proprietary or other accounts. For the purpose of this paragraph (e)(2)(i), “identified group basis” means that a counterparty has consented to the
identity of the specific group of entities from which the other counterparty is chosen.
(ii) A government securities interdealer broker may have or maintain government securities in its proprietary or other accounts only as a result of:
(A) Engaging in overnight reverse repurchase or securities borrowed transactions solely for the purpose of facilitating the process of clearing government securities transactions;
(B) Engaging in overnight repurchase or securities loaned transactions solely for the purpose of reducing its financing expense in connection with the clearance of government securities transactions;
(C) Subordinated loans subject to satisfactory subordination agreements pursuant to § 240.l5c3-1(d) of this title;
(D) Collateral or depository requirements of a clearing corporation or association with which it participates in the clearance of government securities transactions; or
(E) The investment of its excess cash.
The maturities of any government securities held or maintained under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) (C), (D), or (E) of this section may not exceed one year.
(3) In order to qualify to operate under this paragraph (e), a government securities interdealer broker shall at all times have and maintain net capital, as defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2) of this title with the modifications of this paragraph (e), of not less than $1,000,000.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a government securities interdealer broker need not deduct loans to commercial banks for one business day of immediately available funds (commonly referred to as “sales of federal funds”) held by the government securities interdealer broker in connection with the clearance of securities on the day the loan is made.
(5) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a government securities interdealer broker need not deduct net pair-off receivables and money differences until the close of business of the third business day following the day the funds are due and give-up receivables outstanding no more than 30 days from the billing date, which shall be no later than the last day of the month in which they arise, as otherwise would be required under § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv)(B) of this title.
(6) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a government securities interdealer broker shall deduct from net worth
1/4
of 1 percent of the contract value of each government securities failed-to-deliver contract which is outstanding 5 business days or longer. Such deduction shall be increased by any excess of the contract price of the failed-to-deliver contract over the market value of the underlying security.
(7) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a government securities interdealer broker may exclude from its aggregate indebtedness computation indebtedness adequately collateralized by government securities outstanding for not more than one business day and offset by government securities failed to deliver of the same issue and quantity. In no event may a government securities interdealer broker exclude any overnight bank loan attributable to the same government securities failed-to-deliver contract for more than one business day. A government securities interdealer broker need not deduct from net worth the amount by which the market value of securities failed to receive outstanding longer than thirty (30) calendar days exceeds the contract value of those failed to receive as required by § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv)(E) of this title.
(8)(i) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a government securities interdealer broker shall deduct from net worth 5 percent of its net exposure to each counterparty.
(ii)
Net exposure.
For purposes of this paragraph (e), net exposure shall equal:
(A) The sum of the dollar amount of funds, debt instruments, other securities, and other inventory at risk, in the first instance, to the government securities interdealer broker in the event of the counterparty's default,
(B) Reduced, but not to less than zero, by the sum of:
(
1
) The dollar amount of funds, debt instruments, other securities, and other inventory at risk, in the first instance, to the counterparty in the event of the government securities interdealer broker's default;
(
2
) The deductions taken from net worth for unsecured receivables, repurchase and reverse repurchase deficits, aged fails to deliver, and aged fails to receive arising from transactions with the counterparty;
(
3
) Demand deposits in the case where the counterparty is a commercial bank;
(
4
) Loans for one business day of immediately available funds (commonly referred to as “sales of federal funds”) held by the government securities interdealer broker in connection with the clearance of securities on the day the loan is made in the case where the counterparty is a commercial bank;
(
5
) Custodial holdings of securities in the case where the counterparty is a clearing bank or clearing broker of the government securities interdealer broker; and
(
6
) Exposure to a counterparty due to holding marketable instruments subject to market risk haircuts under appendix A to this section (§ 402.2a) for which the counterparty is the obligor.
(9) On the application of the government securities interdealer broker, the designated examining authority may extend the periods of time in this paragraph (e) if it determines that the extension is warranted because of exceptional circumstances and that the government securities interdealer broker is acting in good faith.
(f) This part shall be effective July 25, 1987.
[52 FR 27931, July 24, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 11024, Mar. 1, 1995; 71 FR 54411, Sept. 15, 2006; 79 FR 38455, July 8, 2014]
§ 402.2
Capital requirements for registered government securities brokers and dealers.
(a)
General rule.
No government securities broker or dealer shall permit its liquid capital to be below an amount equal to 120 percent of total haircuts as defined in paragraph (g) of this section.
(b)(1)
Minimum liquid capital for brokers or dealers that carry customer accounts.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, a government securities broker or dealer that carries customer or broker or dealer accounts and receives or holds funds or securities for those persons within the meaning of § 240.15c3-1(a)(2)(i) of this title, shall have and maintain liquid capital in an amount not less than $250,000, after deducting total haircuts as defined in paragraph (g) of this section.
(2)
Minimum liquid capital for brokers or dealers that carry customer accounts, but do not generally hold customer funds or securities.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section, a government securities broker or dealer that carries customer or broker or dealer accounts and is exempt from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3 of this title, as made applicable to government securities brokers and dealers by § 403.4 of this part, pursuant to paragraph (k)(2)(i) thereof (17 CFR 240.15c3-3(k)(2)(i)), shall have and maintain liquid capital in an amount not less than $100,000, after deducting total haircuts as defined in paragraph (g) of this section.
(c)(1)
Minimum liquid capital for introducing brokers that receive securities.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a government securities broker or dealer that introduces on a fully disclosed basis transactions and accounts of customers to another registered or noticed government securities broker or dealer but does not receive, directly or indirectly, funds from or for, or owe funds to, customers, and does not carry the accounts of, or for, customers shall have and maintain liquid capital in an amount not less than $50,000, after deducting total haircuts as defined in paragraph (g) of this section. A government securities broker or dealer operating pursuant to this paragraph (c)(1) may receive, but shall not hold customer or other broker or dealer securities.
(2)
Minimum liquid capital for introducing brokers that do not receive or handle customer funds or securities.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c)(1) of this section, a government securities broker or dealer that does not receive, directly or indirectly, or hold funds or securities for, or owe funds or securities to, customers, and does not carry accounts of, or for, customers and that effects ten or fewer transactions in securities in
any one calendar year for its own investment account shall have and maintain liquid capital in an amount not less than $25,000, after deducting total haircuts as defined in paragraph (g) of this section.
(d)
Liquid capital.
“Liquid capital” means net capital as defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2) of this title with the following modifications:
(1) The percentages used to calculate the deductions for failed to deliver contracts required by § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(ix) of this title when the underlying instrument is a Treasury market risk instrument as defined in paragraph (e) of this section are the appropriate net position haircut factors specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section;
(2) The percentages used to calculate deductions required by § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv)(B) of this title for securities that are Treasury market risk instruments are the appropriate net position haircut factors specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section;
(3) The deduction required by § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv)(F)(
3
)(
i
) of this title relating to repurchase agreement deficits shall be determined without reference to § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv)(F)(
3
)(
i
)(
B
) or § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv)(F)(
3
)(
i
)(
C
);
(4) The deductions from net worth required by §§ 240.15c3-1 (c)(2)(vi) and (c)(2)(viii) of this title and the adjustments to net worth set forth in § 240.15c3-1a and § 240.15c3-1b of this title (Appendices A and B to SEC Rule 15c3-1) are omitted;
(5) Net pair-off receivables and money differences need not be deducted as otherwise would be required under § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv)(B) of this title until the close of business of the third business day following the day the funds are due;
(6) Give-up receivables outstanding no more than 30 days from the billing date, which shall be no later than the last day of the month in which they arise, need not be deducted as otherwise would be required under § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv)(B) of this title;
(7) Loans to commercial banks for one business day of immediately available funds (commonly referred to as “sales of federal funds”) held by the government securities broker or dealer in connection with the clearance of securities on the day the loan is made need not be deducted; and
(8) In determining net worth, all long and short positions in unlisted options that are Treasury market risk instruments shall be evaluated in the manner set forth in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(i)(B)(
1
) and not in the manner set forth in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(i)(B)(
2
) of this title.
(e)
Treasury market risk instruments.
(1) For purposes of this part, the term “Treasury market risk instrument” means the following dollar-denominated securities, debt instruments, and derivative instruments:
(i) Government securities, except equity securities and those mortgage-backed securities described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section;
(ii) Zero-coupon receipts or certificates based on marketable Treasury notes or bonds;
(iii) Marketable certificates of deposit of no more than one year to maturity;
(iv) Bankers acceptances;
(v) Commercial paper of no more than one year to maturity and which has only a minimal amount of credit risk as determined by the government securities broker or dealer pursuant to reasonably designed written policies and procedures the government securities broker or dealer establishes, maintains, and enforces to assess and monitor creditworthiness. These policies and procedures should result in creditworthiness assessments that typically are consistent with market data;
(vi) Securities, other than equity securities, issued by international organizations that have a statutory exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 provided their changes in yield are closely correlated to the changes in yield of similar Treasury securities, including STRIPS;
(vii) Futures, forwards, and listed options on Treasury market risk instruments described in paragraphs (e)(1)(i)-(vi) of this section or on time deposits whose changes in yield are closely correlated with the Treasury market risk instruments described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, settled on a cash or delivery basis;
(viii) Options on those futures contracts described in paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section, settled on a cash or delivery basis; and
(ix) Unlisted options on marketable Treasury bills, notes or bonds.
(2) “Treasury market risk instrument” does not include mortgage-backed securities that do not pass through to each security holder on a pro rata basis a distribution based on the monthly payments and prepayments of principal and interest on the underlying pool of mortgage collateral less fees and expenses.
(f)(1)
Haircut categories.
For purposes of this part, the applicable categories within which non-zero-coupon and zero-coupon Treasury market risk instruments are classified are:
Category
Term or type for non-zero-coupon instruments
Term for zero-coupon instruments
A
Less than 45 days
Less than 45 days.
B
At least 45 days but less than 135 days
At least 45 days but less than 135 days.
C
At least 135 days but less than 9 months
At least 135 days but less than 9 months.
D
At least 9 months but less than 1 year, 6 months
At least 9 months but less than 1 year, 6 months.
E
At least 1 year, 6 months but less than 3 years, 6 months
At least 1 year, 6 months but less than 3 years.
F
At least 3 years, 6 months but less than 7 years, 6 months
At least 3 years but less than 5 years, 6 months.
G
At least 7 years, 6 months but less than 15 years
At least 5 years, 6 months but less than 9 years.
H
15 years and over
At least 9 years but less than 12 years.
I
At least 12 years but less than 21 years
J
21 years and over.
MB
All fixed rate mortgage-backed securities that are Treasury market risk instruments.
AR
All adjustable rate mortgage-backed securities that are Treasury market risk instruments
(2)
Haircut factors.
For purposes of this part, the applicable net position and offset haircut factors to be used in the calculation of the Treasury market risk haircut are as follows:
Category
Haircut factors
Net position haircuts (percent)
Offsets (percent)
A
None
None
B
0.12
0.02
C
0.20
0.03
D
0.45
0.07
E
1.10
0.22
F
2.20
0.44
G
3.30
0.50
H
4.50
0.90
I
7.75
1.55
J
11.25
3.38
MB
3.30
0.66
AR
1.10
0.22
(3)
Category pair hedging disallowance haircut factors.
For purposes of this part, the applicable category pair hedging disallowance haircut factors to be used in the calculation of the Treasury market risk haircut are as follows:
Category
Percent disallowed
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
MB
B
30
40
C
20
30
D
20
30
40
E
20
30
40
F
20
30
40
30
G
20
30
30
H
20
40
40
I
40
(g)
Total haircuts.
“Total haircuts” equals the sum of the credit risk haircut and the market risk haircut.
(1)
Credit risk haircut.
The “credit risk haircut” equals the sum of the total counterparty exposure haircut, the total concentration of credit haircut and the credit volatility haircut.
(i)
Net credit exposure.
For purposes of this part, net credit exposure shall equal:
(A) The sum of the dollar amount of funds, debt instruments, other securities, and other inventory at risk to the government securities broker or dealer in the event of the counterparty's default and the market value of purchased unlisted options written by the counterparty that are Treasury market risk instruments,
(B) Reduced, but not to less than zero, by the sum of:
(
1
) The dollar amount of funds, debt instruments, other securities, and other inventory at risk to the counterparty in the event of the government securities broker's or dealer's default and the market value of unlisted options written by the government securities broker or dealer and held by the counterparty that are Treasury market risk instruments;
(
2
) The deductions taken from net worth for unsecured receivables, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreement deficits, aged fails to deliver, and aged fails to receive arising from transactions with the counterparty;
(
3
) Demand deposits in the case where the counterparty is a commercial bank;
(
4
) Loans for one business day of immediately available funds (commonly referred to as “sales of federal funds”) held by the government securities broker or dealer in connection with the clearance of securities on the day the loan is made in the case where the counterparty is a commercial bank;
(
5
) Custodial holdings of securities in the case where the counterparty is a clearing bank or clearing broker of the government securities broker or dealer; and
(
6
) Exposure to a counterparty due to holding marketable instruments subject to market risk haircuts under appendix A to this section (§ 402.2a) for which the counterparty is the obligor.
(ii)
Total counterparty exposure haircut.
The “total counterparty exposure haircut” equals the sum of the counterparty exposure haircuts taken for all counterparties except a Federal Reserve Bank, of the government securities broker or dealer. The “counterparty exposure haircut” equals the product of a counterparty exposure haircut factor of 5 percent and the net credit exposure to a single counterparty not in excess of 15 percent of the government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital.
(iii)
Total concentration of credit haircut.
The “total concentration of credit haircut” equals the sum of the concentration of credit haircuts taken for all counterparties of the government securities broker or dealer. The “concentration of credit haircut” equals the product of a concentration of credit haircut factor of 25 percent and the amount by which the net credit exposure to a single counterparty is in excess of 15 percent of the government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital.
(iv)
Credit volatility haircut.
The “credit volatility haircut” equals the product of a credit volatility haircut factor of 0.15 percent and the dollar amount of the larger of the gross long position or gross short position in those Treasury market risk instruments described in paragraphs (e)(1)(iii), (iv) and (v) of this section that have a term to maturity greater than 44 days, including futures and forwards thereon, settled on a cash or delivery basis, and futures and forwards on time deposits described in paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section, that have a term to maturity greater than 44 days, settled on a cash or delivery basis.
(2)
Market risk haircut.
The “market risk haircut” equals the sum of the Treasury market risk haircut and the other securities haircut, calculated in accordance with the provisions of appendix A of this section, § 402.2a.
(h)
Debt-equity requirements.
No government securities broker or dealer shall permit the total of outstanding principal amounts of its satisfactory subordination agreements as defined in § 240.15c3-1d of this title (appendix D to SEC Rule 15c3-1) modified as provided in appendix D to this section, § 402.2d, to exceed the allowable levels set forth in § 240.15c3-1(d) of this title.
(i)
Provisions relating to the withdrawal of equity capital
—(1)
Notice provisions.
No equity capital of the government securities broker or dealer or a subsidiary or affiliate consolidated pursuant to appendix C to this section, § 402.2c, may be withdrawn by action of a stockholder or partner, or by redemption or repurchase of shares of stock by any of the consolidated entities or through the payment of dividends or any similar distribution, nor may any unsecured advance or loan be made to a stockholder, partner, sole proprietor, employee or affiliate without providing written notice, given in accordance with paragraph (i)(1)(iv) of this section, when specified in paragraphs (i)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) Two business days prior to any withdrawals, advances or loans if those withdrawals, advances or loans on a net basis exceed in the aggregate in any 30 calendar day period, 30 percent of the government securities broker's or dealer's excess liquid capital. A government securities broker or dealer, in an emergency situation, may make withdrawals, advances or loans that on a net basis exceed 30 percent of the government securities broker's or dealer's excess liquid capital in any 30 calendar day period without giving the advance notice required by this paragraph, with the prior approval of its designated examining authority. When a government securities broker or dealer makes a withdrawal with the consent of its designated examining authority, it shall in any event comply with paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(ii) Two business days after any withdrawals, advances or loans if those withdrawals, advances or loans on a net basis exceed in the aggregate in any 30 calendar day period, 20 percent of the government securities broker's or dealer's excess liquid capital.
(iii) This paragraph (i)(1) of this section does not apply to:
(A) Securities or commodities transactions in the ordinary course of business between a government securities broker or dealer and an affiliate where the government securities broker or dealer makes payment to or on behalf of such affiliate for such transaction and then receives payment from such affiliate for the securities or commodities transaction within two business days from the date of the transaction; or
(B) Withdrawals, advances or loans which in the aggregate in any such 30 calendar day period, on a net basis, equal $500,000 or less.
(iv) Each required notice shall be effective when received by the Commission in Washington, DC, the regional or district office of the Commission for the area in which the government securities broker or dealer has its principal place of business, and the government securities broker's or dealer's designated examining authority.
(2)
Withdrawal limitations.
No equity capital of the government securities broker or dealer or a subsidiary or affiliate consolidated pursuant to appendix C to this section, § 402.2c, may be withdrawn by action of a stockholder or a partner, or by redemption or repurchase of shares of stock by any of the consolidated entities or through the payment of dividends or any similar distribution, nor may any unsecured advance or loan be made to a stockholder, partner, sole proprietor, employee or affiliate if, after giving effect thereto and to any other such withdrawals, advances or loans and any Payments of Payment Obligations (as defined in § 240.15c3-1d of this title, appendix D to SEC Rule 15c3-1, modified as provided in appendix D to this section, § 402.2d) under satisfactory subordination agreements which are scheduled to occur within 180 calendar days following such withdrawal, advance or loan, either:
(i) The ratio of liquid capital to total haircuts, determined as provided in § 402.2, would be less than 150 percent; or
(ii) Liquid capital minus total haircuts would be less than 120 percent of the minimum capital required by § 402.2(b) or § 402.2(c) as applicable; or
(iii) In the case of any government securities broker or dealer included in such consolidation, the total outstanding principal amounts of satisfactory subordination agreements of the government securities broker or dealer (other than such agreements which qualify as equity under § 240.15c3-1(d) of this title) would exceed 70% of the debt-equity total as defined in § 240.15c3-1(d).
(3)
Miscellaneous provisions.
(i) Excess liquid capital is that amount in excess of the amount required by the greater of § 402.2(a) or, §§ 402.2 (b) or (c), as applicable. For the purposes of paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section, a government securities broker or dealer may use the amount of excess liquid capital, liquid capital and total haircuts reported in its most recently required filed Form G-405 for the purposes of calculating the effect of a projected withdrawal, advance or loan relative to excess liquid capital or total haircuts. The government securities broker or dealer must assure itself that the excess liquid capital, liquid capital
or the total haircuts reported on the most recently required filed Form G-405 have not materially changed since the time such report was filed.
(ii) The term equity capital includes capital contributions by partners, par or stated value of capital stock, paid-in capital in excess of par, retained earnings or other capital accounts. The term equity capital does not include securities in the securities accounts of partners and balances in limited partners' capital accounts in excess of their stated capital contributions.
(iii) Paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section shall not preclude a government securities broker or dealer from making required tax payments or preclude the payment to partners of reasonable compensation, and such payments shall not be included in the calculation of withdrawals, advances or loans for purposes of paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section.
(iv) For the purposes of this subsection (i), any transaction between a government securities broker or dealer and a stockholder, partner, sole proprietor, employee or affiliate that results in a diminution of the government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital shall be deemed to be an advance or loan of liquid capital.
(j)
Modification of appendices to § 240.15c3-1 of this title.
For purposes of this section, appendix C to this section (§ 402.2c) is substituted for appendix C to Rule 15c3-1 (§ 240.15c3-1c of this title), and appendix D to Rule 15c3-1 (§ 240.15c3-1d of this title), relating to Satisfactory Subordination Agreements, is modified as provided in appendix D to this section (§ 402.2d).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27931, July 24, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 28984, Aug. 1, 1988; 60 FR 11024, Mar. 1, 1995; 79 FR 38455, July 8, 2014]
§ 402.2a
Appendix A—Calculation of market risk haircut for purposes of § 402.2(g)(2).
The market risk haircut is the sum of the Treasury market risk haircut and the other securities haircut, calculated as follows.
(a)
Treasury market risk haircut.
The “Treasury market risk haircut” equals the sum of the total governments offset portion haircut, the total futures and options offset haircut, the total hedging disallowance haircut, and the residual net position haircut, calculated with respect to financings and positions in Treasury market risk instruments, except to the extent that a permissible election is made pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section to include qualified positions in the calculation of the other securities haircut.
(1)
Total governments offset portion haircut.
The “total governments offset portion haircut” equals the sum of the governments offset portion haircuts calculated for each category in § 402.2(f)(1). The “governments offset portion haircuts” equal, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the product of the offset haircut factor for that category set out in § 402.2(f)(2) and the smaller of the absolute values of the gross long immediate position or gross short immediate position for that category. Schedules B and C in paragraph (c) of this section can be used to make this calculation.
(i)(A) The “gross long immediate position” for purposes of this part equals, for each category except categories MB and AR in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the market values of each long immediate position in Treasury market risk instruments with a term to maturity (or, in the case of a floating rate note, the time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment or the term to maturity, whichever is less) corresponding to such category, the contract values of each reverse repurchase agreement with a term to maturity or time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment, whichever is less, corresponding to that category, and the values of the cash collateral of each security borrowing with a term to maturity or time to next scheduled interest rate adjustment, whichever is less, corresponding to such category.
(B) In the case of category MB, the “gross long immediate position” equals the sum of the market values of all long immediate positions in fixed rate mortgage-backed securities which are Treasury market risk instruments.
(C) In the case of category AR, the “gross long immediate position” equals the sum of the market values of all long immediate positions in adjustable
rate mortgage-backed securities which are Treasury market risk instruments.
(ii)(A) The “gross short immediate position” for purposes of this section equals, for each category except categories MB and AR in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the market values of each short immediate position in Treasury market risk instruments with a term to maturity (or, in the case of a floating rate note, the time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment or the term to maturity, whichever is less) corresponding to such category, and the values of funds received from each financing transaction (including repurchase agreements, securities lending secured by cash collateral, and term financings, but excluding subordinated debt which meets the requirements of § 240.15c3-1d of this title modified as provided in § 402.2d) with a term to maturity or time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment, whichever is less, corresponding to that category.
(B) In the case of category MB, the “gross short immediate position” equals the sum of the market values of all short immediate positions in fixed rate mortgage-backed securities which are Treasury market risk instruments.
(C) In the case of category AR, the “gross short immediate position” equals the sum of the market values of all short immediate positions in adjustable rate mortgage-backed securities which are Treasury market risk instruments.
(iii) The term
long immediate position
in a Treasury market risk instrument means, for purposes of this part:
(A) The net long position in a Treasury market risk instrument as of the trade date, except when the settlement date, in the case of a Treasury market risk instrument except a mortgage-backed security, is scheduled more than five business days in the future, and, in the case of a mortgage-backed security, more than thirty calendar days in the future;
(B) The net long when-issued position in a marketable U.S. Treasury security between announcement and issue date;
(C) The net long when-issued position in a government agency or a government-sponsored agency debt security between release date and issue date; and
(D) The net long when-issued position in a security described in § 402.2(e)(1)(vi) between announcement date and issue date.
(iv) The term
short immediate position
on a Treasury market risk instrument means, for purposes of this part:
(A) The net short position in a Treasury market risk instrument as of the trade date, except when the settlement date, in the case of a Treasury market risk instrument except a mortgage-backed security, is scheduled more than five business days in the future, and, in the case of a mortgage-backed security, more than thirty calendar days in the future;
(B) The net short when-issued position in a marketable U.S. Treasury security between announcement and issue date;
(C) The net short when-issued position in a government agency or a government-sponsored agency debt security between release date and issue date; and
(D) The net short when-issued position in a security described in § 402.2(e)(1)(vi) between announcement date and issue date.
(2)
Net immediate position interim haircut.
The “net immediate position interim haircut” equals, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the product of the net position haircut factor for that category and the sum of the gross long immediate position and the gross short immediate position for that category. For purposes of this part, a gross long immediate position shall be a positive number and a gross short immediate position shall be a negative number. Schedules B and C in paragraph (c) of this section can be used to make this calculation.
(3)
Total futures and options offset haircut.
The “total futures and options offset haircut” equals the sum of the futures and options offset haircuts calculated for each category in § 402.2(f)(1). The “futures and options offset haircut” equals, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the product of a futures and options offset factor of 20 percent and the smaller of the absolute values of the positive and negative aggregate interim haircuts for that category.
Schedule D in paragraph (c) of this section can be used to make this calculation.
(i)
Positive aggregate interim haircut.
The “positive aggregate interim haircut” equals, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the positive net immediate position interim haircut (see paragraph (a)(2) of this section), the gross long futures and forward interim haircut, and the positive gross options interim haircut for that category. Schedule D in paragraph (c) of this section can be used to make this calculation.
(A)
Gross long futures and forward interim haircut.
The “gross long futures and forward interim haircut” equals, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the interim haircuts on each long futures position and long forward position placed, in the case of a futures or forward contract which is a Treasury market risk instrument except those on mortgage-backed securities, in the category corresponding to the sum of the term to maturity of the contract and the term to maturity of the underlying instrument at the time of the maturity of the contract or, in the case of a futures or forward contract on Treasury market risk mortgage-backed securities, in the category corresponding to the type of Treasury market risk mortgage-backed security.
(
1
) For purposes of this part, the
interim haircut on each long futures position and each long forward position
is the product of the net position haircut factor for the category corresponding to, in the case of a futures or forward contract which is a Treasury market risk instrument except those on mortgage-backed securities, the maturity of the underlying instrument at the time of the maturity of the contract or, in the case of a futures or forward contract on Treasury market risk mortgage-backed securities, the type of Treasury market risk mortgage-backed security and the value of the long futures position or long forward position evaluated at the current market price for such contract.
(
2
) For purposes of this part, the gross long futures and forward interim haircut shall be a positive number.
(B)
Positive gross options interim haircut.
The “positive gross options interim haircut” equals, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the interim haircuts on each purchased call and sold put placed in the category in which the underlying instrument would be placed.
(
1
) For purposes of this part, the “interim haircut on each purchased call and sold put” equals the lesser of the market value of the option or, (
i
) in the case of an option on a cash instrument, the product of the net position haircut factor for the category to which the underlying cash instrument corresponds and the market value of the underlying cash instrument or, (
ii
) in the case of an option on a futures contract, the interim haircut on the underlying futures contract.
(
2
) For purposes of this part, the positive gross options interim haircut is a positive number.
(ii)
Negative aggregate interim haircut.
The “negative aggregate interim haircut” equals, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the negative net immediate position interim haircut (see paragraph (a)(2) of this section), the gross short futures and forward interim haircut, and the negative gross options interim haircut for that category. Schedule D in paragraph (c) of this section can be used to make this calculation.
(A)
Gross short futures and forward interim haircut.
The “gross short futures and forward interim haircut” equals, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the interim haircuts on each short futures position and short forward position placed, in the case of a futures or forward contract which is a Treasury market risk instrument except those on mortgage-backed securities, in the category corresponding to the sum of the term to maturity of the contract and the term to maturity of the underlying instrument at the time of the maturity of the contract or, in the case of a futures or forward contract on Treasury market risk mortgage-backed securities, in the category corresponding to the type of Treasury market risk mortgage-backed security.
(
1
) For purposes of this part, the “interim haircut on each short futures position and each short forward position”
is the product of the net position haircut factor for the category corresponding to, in the case of a futures or forward contract which is a Treasury market risk instrument except those on mortgage-backed securities, the maturity of the underlying instrument at the time of the maturity of the contract or, in the case of a futures or forward contract on Treasury market risk mortgage-backed securities, the type of Treasury market risk mortgage-backed security and the value of the short futures position or short forward position evaluated at the current market price for such contract.
(
2
) For purposes of this part, the gross short futures and forward interim haircut is a negative number.
(B)
Negative gross options interim haircut.
The “negative gross options interim haircut” equals, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the interim haircuts on each sold call and purchased put placed in the category in which the underlying instrument would be placed.
(
1
) For purposes of this part, the “interim haircut on each sold call and purchased put” equals the lesser of the market value of the option or, (
i
) in the case of an option on a cash instrument, the product of the net position haircut factor for the category to which the underlying cash instrument corresponds and the market value of the underlying cash instrument or, (
ii
) in the case of an option on a futures contract, the interim haircut on the underlying futures contract.
(
2
) For purposes of this part, the negative gross options interim haircut is a negative number.
(4)
Total hedging disallowance haircut.
The “total hedging disallowance haircut” equals the sum of the hedging disallowance haircuts calculated pursuant to each netting of qualified netting interim haircuts. The “hedging disallowance haircut” equals the absolute value of the product of the applicable category pair hedging disallowance haircut factor specified in § 402.2(f)(3) and the smaller in absolute value of any two qualified netting interim haircuts, netted in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. Schedule E in paragraph (c) of this section can be used to make this calculation.
(i)
Qualified netting interim haircut.
The term “qualified netting interim haircut” means a residual position interim haircut or a net residual position interim haircut.
(A)
Residual position interim haircut.
The “residual position interim haircut” equals, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the positive aggregate interim haircut and the negative aggregate interim haircut corresponding to the category, calculated in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(B)(
1
)
Net residual position interim haircut.
The “net residual position interim haircut” equals, for any two categories between which netting is permitted, the sum of (
i
) the residual position interim haircuts calculated for those categories, in the case of the category of the larger in absolute value of the two residual position interim haircuts being netted, and (
ii
) zero, in the case of the category of the smaller in absolute value of the two residual position interim haircuts being netted.
(
2
) For the purposes of this paragraph (a)(4), netting is permitted only between categories for which a category pair hedging disallowance haircut factor has been specified in paragraph § 402.2(f)(3).
(ii) Net residual position interim haircuts shall be substituted for the residual position interim haircuts in the respective categories in which they have been placed and shall be considered as if they were residual position interim haircuts. New net residual position interim haircuts may continue to be calculated until for each category pair for which netting is permitted at least one of the two qualified netting interim haircuts is zero or both qualified netting interim haircuts are of the same sign.
(5)
Residual net position haircut.
The “residual net position haircut” equals the sum of the absolute values of all qualified netting interim haircuts remaining in each category after the completion of the calculation of permissible nettings described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. Schedule E in paragraph (c) of this section can be used to make this calculation.
(b)
Other securities haircut.
The “other securities haircut” equals the sum of
all deductions specified in § 240.15c3-1 (c)(2)(vi) and (c)(2)(viii) of this title and §§ 240.15c3-1a and 240.l5c3-1b of this title for long and short positions in securities, futures contracts, forward contracts, options, and other inventory which are not Treasury market risk instruments as defined in § 402.2(e).
(1) A registered government securities broker or dealer may elect to exclude from its calculation of the Treasury market risk haircut and include in its calculation of the other securities haircut long and short positions in Treasury market risk instruments if such positions form part of a hedge against long and short positions in securities, futures contracts, forward contracts, or options which are not Treasury market risk instruments. Only the portion of the total position in a Treasury market risk instrument that forms part of such hedge may be excluded from the calculation of the Treasury market risk haircut and included in the calculation of the other securities haircut.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (b), a gross long or short position in Treasury market risk instruments shall be considered part of a hedge if the inclusion of such position in the calculation of the other securities haircut would serve to reduce said haircut.
(3) For purposes of this paragraph (b) as it relates to § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(M) (“undue concentration”), references to “10 percent of the “net capital'” shall be understood to refer to 10 percent of the liquid capital and references to “Appendix (D) (17 CFR 240.15c3-1d)” shall be understood to refer to such section as modified by § 402.2d.
(c)
Schedules.
This paragraph sets forth schedules which may be used by government securities brokers or dealers in the calculation of total haircuts as required by this part 402. The appropriate regulatory agency or designated examining authority may specify other substantially similar forms required to be used by government securities brokers or dealers in the calculation of such haircuts.
Schedule A—Liquid Capital Requirement, Summary Computation
[In thousands of dollars]
1. Liquid capital
1
______
2. Haircuts on security and financing positions including contractual commitments:
a. Total governments offset portion haircut (Schedule C)
______
b. Total futures and options offset haircut (Schedule D)
______
c. Total hedging disallowance haircut (Schedule E)
______
d. Residual net position haircut (Schedule E)
______
e. Other securities haircut (use SEC factors)
______
3. Haircuts on credit exposure:
a. Total counterparty exposure haircut
______
b. Total concentration of credit haircut
______
c. Credit volatility haircut
______
4. Total haircuts (sum of lines 2 a through e, 3 a, b, and c)
______
5. Capital-to-risk ratio (line 1 divided by line 4)
______
1
Identical to the amount reported on line 3640 of the Report on Finances and Operations of Government Securities Brokers and Dealers, Form G-405.
EC11OC91.008
EC11OC91.009
EC11OC91.010
EC11OC91.011

# Instructions to Schedules A through E
Schedules A through E may be used by government securities brokers or dealers subject to 17 CFR 402 to determine the firm's capital-to-risk ratio. Section 402.2 provides that a government securities broker or dealer must meet the applicable minimum dollar liquid capital requirement and that the firm's ratio of liquid capital to risk (total haircuts) must be at least 1.2:1; liquid capital must exceed risk by at least 20 percent. Total haircuts is the risk measure used in the ratio; it is made up of measures of market risk and measures of credit risk. The market risk of a government securities broker's or dealer's positions is accounted for
through the Treasury market risk haircut and the other securities haircut. Credit risk is accounted for in the counterparty exposure, concentration of credit, and credit volatility haircuts and in the computation of liquid capital through the various deductions and charges.
Only positions in Treasury market risk instruments and financings may be used in the calculation of the Treasury market risk haircut. Treasury market risk instruments and financings are described in 17 CFR 402.2 and in the instructions to the schedule where they are to be first entered. All other types of financial instruments are to be included in the calculation of the other securities haircut. Calculation of the other securities haircut is based on the SEC's Rule 15c3-1 (17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
Treasury market risk instruments may be excluded from the calculation of the Treasury market risk haircut if they are included in the calculation of the other securities haircut as part of a hedge against long and short positions in securities, futures contracts, forward contracts, or options that are not Treasury market risk instruments. Only the portion of the total position in a Treasury market risk instrument that forms part of such a hedge may be excluded, and the result of this transfer of the Treasury market risk instruments must be a reduction in the other securities haircut.
The categories for classifying Treasury market risk instruments are designated in 17 CFR 402.2(f)(1). The categories, which are designated by a maturity range, contain all securities with remaining terms to maturity greater than or equal to the lower end of the range but less than the higher. A half year is always considered to be 6 months. In categories A through D, zero-coupon instruments are to be treated in the same manner as all other instruments. In categories E through J, the maturity designations in parentheses give the maturities of the zero-coupon instruments to be placed in that category. All mortgage-backed securities that are Treasury market risk instruments are to be placed in category MB or category AR, depending on whether they are backed by conventional or adjustable-rate mortgages.
All haircuts may be calculated to the nearest hundred dollars, unless such rounding would materially affect the liquid capital calculation.
Appendix A to the Preamble published with the temporary regulations for 17 CFR part 402 (52 FR 19669, May 26, 1987) contains an example of the capital calculation. It may also be used as an aid in completing these schedules.

# Schedule A—Liquid Capital Requirement Summary Computation
Schedule A is used to determine the capital-to-risk ratio by comparing liquid capital to total haircuts. Schedule A will be the last schedule completed as many of the haircuts entered on Schedule A are calculated on Schedules B through E.
Line 1—Enter liquid capital, which is identical to the amount reported on line 3640 of the Report on Finances and Operations of Government Securities Brokers and Dealers, Form G-405.
Line 2—Haircuts on “Security and Financing Positions” including contractual commitments:
a. Enter the Total Governments Offset Portion Haircut from column 10 of Schedule C.
b. Enter the Total Futures and Options Offset Haircut from column 19 of Schedule D.
c. Enter the Total Hedging Disallowance Haircut as calculated in Schedule E, column 27.
d. Enter the Residual Net Position Haircut as given in column 28 of Schedule E.
e. Enter the other securities haircut as determined by applying the SEC haircut factors to securities, futures contracts, forward contracts, options and other inventory that are not Treasury market risk instruments as defined in 17 CFR 402.2(e). The other securities haircut is the sum of all applicable deductions as specified in 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 (c)(2)(vi) and (c)(2)(viii) and in 17 CFR 240.15c3-1a and 240.15c3-1b. Any position(s) in Treasury market risk instruments that have been excluded from the calculation of the Treasury market risk haircut because they are part of a hedge with these other instruments are to be included in the calculation of this haircut.
Line 3—Haircuts on credit exposure:
a. Enter the total counterparty exposure haircut which is the sum of the counterparty exposure haircut with each counterparty, except a Federal Reserve Bank. A counterparty exposure haircut is equal to 5 percent of the net credit exposure to a single counterparty which is not in excess of 15 percent of the government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital. If the net credit exposure to a counterparty does exceed 15 percent of liquid capital, the excess will be used in calculating the total concentration of credit haircut on line 3b.
Net credit exposure equals the difference between the government securities broker's or dealer's credit exposure to a single counterparty and that counterparty's credit exposure to the government securities broker or dealer. The government securities broker's or dealer's credit exposure to a counterparty is equal to the sum of the dollar amount of funds, debt instruments, other securities, and other inventory at risk to the government securities broker or dealer in the event of the counterparty's default and the market value of purchased unlisted options that are Treasury market risk instruments and were written by the counterparty.
It does not include, however, (1) the deduction taken from net worth for unsecured receivables, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreement deficits, aged fails to deliver, and aged fails to receive arising from transactions with the counterparty; (2) demand deposits in the case where the counterparty is a commercial bank; (3) loans of immediately available funds (commonly referred to as “sales of federal funds”) held by the government securities broker or dealer in connection with the clearance of securities on the day the loan is made in the case where the counterparty is a commercial bank; (4) custodial holdings of securities in the case where the counterparty is a clearing bank or clearing broker of the government securities broker or dealer; or (5) credit exposure to the counterparty due to holding marketable instruments for which the counterparty is the obligor.
The counterparty's credit exposure to the government securities broker or dealer equals the dollar amount of funds, debt instruments, other securities, and other inventory at risk to the counterparty in the event of the government security broker's or dealer's default and any unlisted options written by the government securities broker or dealer and held by the counterparty.
b. Enter the total concentration of credit haircut which is the sum of all concentration of credit haircuts applied in cases where the net credit exposure (as defined above) to a single counterparty is in excess of 15 percent of the government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital. The concentration of credit haircut is 25 percent of the amount of net credit exposure in excess of 15 percent of the government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital.
c. Enter the credit volatility haircut which equals a factor of 0.15 percent applied to the larger of the gross long or gross short position in money market instruments qualifying as Treasury market risk instruments which mature in 45 days or more, in futures and forwards on these instruments that are settled on a cash or delivery basis, and in futures and forwards on time deposits described in § 402.2(e)(1)(vii), that mature in 45 days or more, settled on a cash or delivery basis. Money market instruments qualifying as Treasury market risk instruments are (1) marketable certificates of deposit with no more than one year to maturity, (2) bankers acceptances, and (3) commercial paper of no more than one year to maturity and which has only a minimal amount of credit risk as determined by the government securities broker or dealer pursuant to reasonably designed written policies and procedures the government securities broker or government securities dealer establishes, maintains, and enforces to assess and monitor creditworthiness. These policies and procedures should result in creditworthiness assessments that typically are consistent with market data.
Line 4—Enter total haircuts which is the sum of lines 2 a through e, and 3 a, b, and c.
Line 5—Enter the capital-to-risk ratio which is found by dividing line 1, “Liquid capital,” by line 4, “Total haircuts.” The capital-to-risk ratio must be at least equal to 1.2:1.

# Schedule B—Calculation of Net Immediate Position in Securities and Financings
Schedule B is used to calculate the net immediate position in and offset portion of securities and financings. The results are then carried over to Schedule C for initial haircut calculations. Futures, forwards, and options which are Treasury market risk instruments are to be entered on Schedule D.
Positions in and financings on debt instruments other than mortgage-backed or adjustable rate mortgage-backed securities should be placed in the category corresponding to their remaining term to maturity. In the case of a floating rate note, however, the note should be placed in the category corresponding to the time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment or remaining term to maturity, whichever is less.
Column 1—Under “Financings-Long” report in the appropriate category the contract value of reverse repurchase agreements and the value(s) of cash collateral on security borrowings. Financings so reported should be placed in the category corresponding to the remaining term to maturity or time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment, whichever is less.
Column 2—Under “Financings-Short” report in the appropriate category as a negative number the values of funds received from financing transactions. Include repurchase agreements, securities lending secured by cash collateral, and term financings, but exclude subordinated debt which meets the requirements of 17 CFR 240.15c3-1d as modified by 17 CFR 402.2d. Financings so reported should be placed in the category corresponding to the remaining term to maturity or time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment, whichever is less.
Columns 3 and 4—Report in the appropriate column by maturity or type of mortgage-backed security under “Securities Positions” the sum of the market values of immediate positions in Treasury market risk instruments. The net position in each individual Treasury market risk instrument is to be appropriately reported as a long (+) or short (−) position in summation with all other positions of the same category (long/short). Short positions are assigned a negative value. Treasury market risk instruments are defined in 17 CFR 402.2(e). Those to be reported in Schedule B are:
(1) Government securities as defined in 17 CFR 400.3 except equity securities and mortgage-backed securities which do not pass through to the security holder on a pro rata basis a distribution based on the monthly payments and prepayments of principal and interest on the underlying pool of mortgage collateral less fees and expenses;
(2) Zero-coupon receipts or certificates based on marketable Treasury notes or bonds;
(3) Marketable certificates of deposit of no more than one year to maturity;
(4) Bankers acceptances;
(5) Commercial paper of no more than one year to maturity and which has only a minimal amount of credit risk as determined by the government securities broker or dealer pursuant to reasonably designed written policies and procedures the government securities broker or dealer establishes, maintains, and enforces to assess and monitor creditworthiness. These policies and procedures should result in creditworthiness assessments that typically are consistent with market data; and
(6) Securities described in § 402.2(e)(1)(vi).
Report all positions as of the trade date. If the settlement date is scheduled for more than five business days in the future (or, in the case of a mortgage-backed security, more than thirty calendar days in the future), then report the position as a forward contract on Schedule D. Also, under “Securities Positions” in the appropriate column and category, report any when-issued position in a marketable Treasury security between announcement and issue date, any when-issued position in a government agency or a government-sponsored agency debt security between release date and issue date, and any when-issued position in a security described in § 402.2(e)(1)(vi) between announcement date and issue date.
Exclude positions in Treasury market risk instruments which form part of a hedge against long and short positions in securities, futures contracts, forward contracts, or options that are not Treasury market risk instruments and are to be included in the calculation of the other securities haircut. Only that portion of the total position in a Treasury market risk instrument that forms part of such a hedge may be excluded, and the inclusion of the Treasury market risk instruments must reduce the other securities haircut.
Column 5—Under “Total Securities and Financing Positions (+)” report in the appropriate category the sum of the long financings (column 1) and long securities positions (column 3).
Column 6—Under “Total Securities and Financing Positions (−)” report in the appropriate category the sum of the short financings (column 2) and short securities positions (column 4).
Column 7—Under “Offset Portions” report in the appropriate category the lesser of the absolute values of the positive (column 5) or negative (column 6) total securities and financing positions.
Column 8—Under “Net Immediate Positions” report in the appropriate category the sum, or net value, of the positive (column 5) and negative (column 6) total securities and financing positions.
Columns 7, “Offset Portions,” and 8, “Net Immediate Positions,” are to be carried to Schedule C.

# Schedule C—Governments Offset Portion and Net Immediate Position Interim Haircuts Calculation
Schedule C is used to calculate the total governments offset portion haircut and net immediate position interim haircuts by applying offset and net position haircut factors to the offset portions and net immediate positions in Treasury market risk instruments and financings. The total governments offset portion haircut is then carried to Schedule A, and the net immediate position interim haircuts are carried to Schedule D or E.
Column 7—Transfer to column 7, “Governments Offset Portion—$ Amounts,” column seven from Schedule B, “Offset Portions.”
Column 9—These are the governments offset portion haircut factors given at 17 CFR 402.2(f)(2). They may be updated from time to time.
Column 10—Under “Governments Offset Portion—Haircuts” report in the appropriate category the product of the corresponding values in column 7, “$ Amounts,” and in column 9, “Factors.”
To determine the total governments offset portion haircut, sum the values under “Governments Offset Portion—Haircuts” in column 10, and enter this number in the appropriate space. Carry this value to Schedule A, line 2a, converting, if necessary, to thousands of dollars.
Column 8—Transfer to column 8, “Net Immediate Positions—$ Amounts,” column eight from Schedule B, “Net Immediate Positions.”
Column 11—These are the net immediate position haircut factors given at 17 CFR 402.2(f)(2). They may be updated from time to time.
Column 12—Under “Net Immediate Positions—Interim Haircuts” place in the appropriate category the product of the corresponding values in column 8, “$ Amounts,” and in column 11, “Factors.” A haircut on a short position remains negative.
Carry column 12 to Schedule D, or, if there are no futures, forwards, or options positions, to Schedule E.

# Schedule D—Consolidation of Net Immediate Position Interim Haircuts with Gross Futures and Options Interim Haircuts
Schedule D is used to enter haircuts on futures, forwards and options positions and to calculate the total futures and options offset haircut and the residual position interim haircuts as needed for Schedules A and E respectively. If there are no futures and options positions, it is not necessary to fill out Schedule D.
Report on Schedule D futures, forwards, and options which are Treasury market risk instruments as defined in § 402.2(e). These futures, forwards, and listed option contracts may be based on any of the Treasury market risk instruments described in the instructions to columns 3 and 4 on Schedule B or on time deposits whose changes in yield are closely correlated with marketable certificates of deposit which are Treasury market risk instruments, as described in § 402.2(e)(1)(vii). Options on Treasury market risk futures contracts and unlisted options on marketable Treasury bills, notes, and bonds are also to be included. Futures contracts may settle on a cash or delivery basis. Any of these contracts which are being included as part of a hedge in the calculation of the other securities haircut must be excluded from Schedule D.
Report as a forward contract any position for which the time between trade date and settlement date is more than five business days (30 calendar days for a mortgage-backed security). Any when-issued position in a marketable Treasury security established between announcement and issue date, any when-issued position in a government agency or a government-sponsored agency debt security established between release date and issue date, and any when-issued position in a security described in § 402.2(e)(1)(vi) between announcement date and issue date is reported in the appropriate category on Schedule B under “Securities Positions.”
Column 12—Transfer to column 12, “Net Immediate Position Interim Haircuts,” column 12 from Schedule C, “Net Immediate Positions—Interim Haircuts,” converting, if necessary, to thousands of dollars.
Columns 13 and 14—Under “Gross Interim Haircuts—Futures and Forward” enter in the appropriate category the sum of the interim haircuts on the futures or forward positions belonging to that category. The interim haircut on a futures or forward position equals the product of the value of the position evaluated at the current market price for such contract and the net position haircut factor that corresponds to either the term to maturity of the underlying instrument or, for mortgage-backed securities, the type of security. The term to maturity of the underlying instrument is the term to maturity of the deliverable security at the time of the maturity of the futures or forward contract. The haircut on a futures or forward position on a non-mortgaged-backed instrument is to be entered in the category corresponding to the sum of the remaining time to maturity of the futures or forward contract and the maturity of the underlying instrument. Haircuts on futures and forwards on mortgage-backed securities are to be entered in the appropriate mortgage-backed securities category. The interim haircuts on long futures and forwards are positive (column 13), and on short futures and forwards, negative (column 14).
Columns 15 and 16—Under “Gross Interim Haircuts—Options” enter, in the category in which the instrument directly underlying the contract would be entered, the lesser of (1) the market value of the option or (2) the net immediate position interim haircut on the underlying cash instrument or gross futures interim haircut on the underlying futures contract. Note that in the case of an option on a futures contract the category in which the option contract is to be entered is the sum of the remaining time to maturity of the futures or forward contract and the maturity of the instrument underlying the futures or forward contract. The haircut factor used to determine the gross futures interim haircut is that factor corresponding to the term to maturity of the deliverable security at the time of the maturity of the futures or forward contract. Gross option haircuts on purchased calls and sold puts are positive, those on sold calls and purchased puts are negative.
Column 17—Under “Aggregate Interim Haircuts (+)” enter in the appropriate category, the sum of any positive net immediate position interim haircut (column 12) and the positive gross option (column 15) and gross futures and forward (column 13) interim haircuts for that category.
Column 18—Under “Aggregate Interim Haircuts (−)” enter in the appropriate category, the sum of any negative net immediate position interim haircut (column 12) and the negative gross option (column 16) and gross futures and forward (column 14) interim haircuts for that category.
Column 19—Under “Futures and Options Offset Portions” enter, in the appropriate category, the lesser of the absolute values of the positive and negative aggregate interim haircuts (columns 17 and 18) for that category.
The total futures and options offset portion is the sum of the values in column 19 under “Futures and Options Offset Portions.”
The total futures and options offset haircut is the total futures and options offset portion multiplied by a factor of 20 percent and is carried to line 2b, Schedule A.
Column 20—Enter in the appropriate category under “Residual Position Interim
Haircuts” the sum, or net value, of the positive and negative aggregate interim haircuts. Carry this to column 20 on Schedule E.

# Schedule E—Calculation of Hedging Disallowance Haircuts When Netting Haircuts Across Categories
Schedule E is used to calculate the hedging disallowance and residual net position haircuts which are then carried to Schedule A. The purpose of Schedule E is to hedge positions in different categories in order to reduce total haircuts. Netting the residual position interim haircuts reflects the risk reduction inherent in hedges between positions in different categories where the price volatility is reasonably well correlated.
Section 402.2(f)(3) of the rule specifies the hedging disallowance haircut factors for the category pairs. Netting of residual position interim haircuts is permitted only between any two categories for which a hedging disallowance haircut factor is specified. Hedging disallowance haircuts are similar to offset haircuts in that they are applied to the smaller of the two residual position interim haircuts and represent the portion of the hedge being “disallowed.” A hedging disallowance haircut is determined each time two residual position interim haircuts are netted.
There are three levels of permissible netting corresponding to the three hedging disallowance haircut factors: The 20 percent, 30 percent, and 40 percent levels. It is not necessary to net all possible pairs at any one level. A greater reduction in total haircuts can sometimes be obtained by choosing not to net a pair at one level (e.g., the 20 percent level) so that one element of the pair can be netted against a third category at another level (e.g., the 30 percent level).
Column 20—Transfer column 20, “Residual Position Interim Haircuts,” from Schedule D. If there are no futures or options positions, transfer instead column 12, “Net Immediate Positions—Interim Haircuts,” from Schedule C.
Column 21—Use the matrix at 17 CFR 402.2(f)(3) to determine the categories from which the residual position interim haircuts may be paired at the 20 percent level. For each pair multiply the smaller of the absolute values of the two residual position interim haircuts by the hedging disallowance haircut factor of 20 percent, and, in the category of the smaller, enter the resulting hedging disallowance haircut.
Column 22—For each pair being netted at this level, enter under “Net Residual Position Interim Haircuts” (1) the sum, or net value, of the two residual position interim haircuts (and/or net residual position interim haircuts) in the category of the larger (in absolute value) of the two interim haircuts that were netted, and (2) a zero in the category of the smaller.
These net residual position interim haircuts replace the residual position interim haircuts (or net residual position interim haircuts) from which they were derived. Net residual position interim haircuts can in turn be used in any other allowable netting exactly as residual position interim haircuts would be. If further netting of that category at the same level is permissible and possible, it will be necessary to replace the net residual position interim haircut involved with a new (and smaller) net residual position interim haircut in column 22.
Since the net residual position interim haircut in any category containing a hedging disallowance haircut is zero, further netting with any such category is impossible.
After all netting has been completed for category pairs with a 20 percent hedging disallowance haircut factor, move on to column 23.
Column 23—Use the matrix at 17 CFR 402.2(f)(3) to determine the categories from which the residual position interim haircuts and/or net residual position interim haircuts may be paired at the 30 percent level. In each category, the newest (and smallest) net residual position interim haircut determined by netting at the 20 percent level replaces the old value and must be used in hedging in that category at higher levels. For each pair being netted, multiply the smaller of the absolute values of the two (net) residual position interim haircuts by the hedging disallowance haircut factor of 30 percent, and in the category of the smaller, enter the resulting hedging disallowance haircut.
Column 24—For each pair being netted at this level, enter under “Net Residual Position Interim Haircuts” (1) the sum, or net value, of the two residual position interim haircuts and/or net residual position interim haircuts in the category of the larger (in absolute value) of the two interim haircuts that were netted, and (2) a zero in the category of the smaller.
These net residual position interim haircuts replace the residual position interim haircuts (or net residual position interim haircuts) from which they were derived. Net residual position interim haircuts can in turn be used in any other allowable netting exactly as residual position interim haircuts would be. If further netting of that category at the same level is permissible and possible, it will be necessary to replace the net residual position interim haircut involved with a new (and smaller) net residual position interim haircut.
After all netting has been completed for category pairs with a 30 percent hedging disallowance haircut factor, continue to column 25.
Column 25—Use the matrix at 17 CFR 402.2(f)(3) to determine the categories from which the residual position interim haircuts and/or net residual position interim haircuts
may be paired at the 40 percent level. In each category, any new net residual position interim haircut determined by netting at the 20 or 30 percent level replaces the old value and must be used in hedging with that category at the 40 percent level. For each pair being netted, multiply the smaller of the absolute values of the two (net) residual position interim haircuts by the hedging disallowance haircut factor of 40 percent and, in the category of the smaller, enter the resulting hedging disallowance haircut.
Column 26—For each pair being netted at this level, enter under “Net Residual Position Interim Haircuts” (1) the sum, or net value, of the two (net) residual position interim haircuts in the category of the larger (in absolute value) of the two interim haircuts that were netted, and (2) a zero in the category of the smaller. If further netting of that category at the same level is permissible and possible, it will be necessary to replace the net residual position interim haircut involved with a new (and smaller) net residua1 position interim haircut.
Column 27—When all possible (net) residual position interim haircuts have been netted, enter under “Hedging Disallowance Haircuts” all hedging disallowance haircuts calculated in the netting procedures, each in its appropriate category.
Enter under “Total Hedging Disallowance Haircut” the sum of all the hedging disallowance haircuts entered in column 27. Carry to Schedule A, line 2c.
Column 28—Under “Qualified Netting Interim Haircuts” enter in the appropriate category the absolute value of the haircut given under “Net Residual Position Interim Haircut” at the highest hedging disallowance factor used for that category (columns 26, 24, or 22). This value will also be the smallest of the net residual position interim haircuts in that category. If the position in a given category was not used in hedging then enter the absolute value of the residual position interim haircut from column 20.
Sum the qualified netting interim haircuts, enter this value under “Residual Net Position Haircut,” and carry to Schedule A, line 2d.
[52 FR 27931, July 24, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 28985, Aug. 1, 1988; 71 FR 54411, Sept. 15, 2006; 79 FR 38455, July 8, 2014]
§ 402.2b
[Reserved]
§ 402.2c
Appendix C—Consolidated computations of liquid capital and total haircuts for certain subsidiaries and affiliates.
(a)
Consolidation.
(1) A government securities broker or dealer (the “parent broker or dealer”), in computing its liquid capital and total haircuts pursuant to § 402.2:
(i) Shall consolidate in a single computation of liquid capital the assets and liabilities of any subsidiary or affiliate for which the parent broker or dealer guarantees, endorses, or assumes directly or indirectly the obligations or liabilities if the parent broker or dealer has obtained the opinion of counsel described in paragraph (b) of this section with respect to such subsidiary or affiliate;
(ii) May not consolidate in a single computation of liquid capital the assets and liabilities of any subsidiary or affiliate for which the parent broker or dealer guarantees, endorses, or assumes directly or indirectly the obligations or liabilities if the parent broker or dealer has not obtained the opinion of counsel described in paragraph (b) of this section with respect to such subsidiary or affiliate, but in that event, the parent broker or dealer shall compute its total haircuts by adding the total haircuts of each such subsidiary or affiliate computed in accordance with the provisions of § 402.2 to the haircuts of the parent broker or dealer computed separately in accordance with the provisions of § 402.2; and
(iii) May consolidate in its computation of liquid capital the assets and liabilities of any majority owned and controlled subsidiary or affiliate for which the parent broker or dealer does not guarantee, endorse or assume directly or indirectly the obligations or liabilities if the parent broker or dealer has obtained the opinion of counsel described in paragraph (b) of this section with respect to such subsidiary or affiliate.
(2) With respect to any subsidiary or affiliate whose assets and liabilities are consolidated in the parent broker's or dealer's computation of liquid capital according to the provisions of paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the parent broker or dealer shall compute its haircuts in accordance with the provisions of § 402.2 as if the consolidated entity were one firm, or, in the alternative, shall add the total haircuts of each consolidated subsidiary or affiliate computed in accordance with the provisions of § 402.2 to the haircuts of the parent broker or
dealer computed separately in accordance with the provisions of § 402.2.
(b)
Required counsel opinion.
The opinion of counsel referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission, through the Designated Examining Authority, that net asset values, or the portion thereof related to the parent broker's or dealer's ownership interest in a majority owned and controlled subsidiary or affiliate, may be caused by the parent broker or dealer or an appointed trustee to be distributed to the parent broker or dealer within 30 calendar days. Such opinion shall also set forth the actions necessary to cause such a distribution to be made, identify the parties having the authority to take such actions, identify and describe the rights of other parties or classes of parties, including but not limited to customers, general creditors, subordinated lenders, minority shareholder employees, litigants and governmental or regulatory authorities, who may delay or prevent such a distribution and such other assurances as the Commission or the Designated Examining Authority by rule or interpretation may require. Such opinion shall be current and periodically renewed in connection with the parent broker's or dealer's annual audit pursuant to § 240.17a-5 of this title, as made applicable to government securities brokers or dealers by § 405.2 of this chapter, or upon any material change in circumstances.
(c)
Principles of consolidation.
The following minimum and non-exclusive requirements shall govern the consolidation of a subsidiary or affiliate in the computation of total liquid capital and total haircuts of a government securities broker or dealer pursuant to this section:
(1) The total liquid capital of the government securities broker or dealer shall be reduced by the estimated amount of any taxes reasonably anticipated to be incurred upon distribution of the assets of the subsidiary or affiliate.
(2) Liabilities of a consolidated subsidiary or affiliate that are subordinated to the claims of present and future creditors pursuant to a satisfactory subordination agreement shall not be added to consolidated net worth unless such subordination extends also to the claims of present or future creditors of the parent broker or dealer and all consolidated subsidiaries.
(3) Subordinated liabilities of a consolidated subsidiary or affiliate that are consolidated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section may not be prepaid, repaid or accelerated if any of the entities included in such consolidation would otherwise be unable to comply with the provision of § 240.15c3-1d of this title, as modified by § 402.2d.
(4) Each government securities broker or dealer included within the consolidation shall at all times be in compliance with the liquid capital or net capital requirement to which it is subject.
(d)
Certain Precluded Acts.
Even if consolidation is not required or allowed under paragraph (a) of this section, no parent broker or dealer shall guarantee, endorse or assume directly or indirectly any obligation or liability of a subsidiary or affiliate unless the obligation or liability is reflected in the parent broker's or dealer's computation of liquid capital.
§ 402.2d
Appendix D—Modification of § 240.15c3-1d of this title, relating to satisfactory subordination agreements, for purposes of § 402.2.
Section 240.15c3-1d of this title shall apply to government securities brokers and dealers subject to the requirements of § 402.2 with the following modifications.
(a) References to “broker or dealer” include government securities brokers and dealers.
(b) References to “17 CFR 240.15c3-1” mean § 402.2.
(c) Section 240.15c3-1d(a)(2)(iii) is modified to read as follows:
“(iii) The term “Collateral Value” of any securities pledged to secure a secured demand note shall mean the market value of such securities after giving effect to the haircuts specified in § 402.2a of this title.”
(d) References to “17 CFR 240.15c3-1d” mean that section as modified by this section.
(e) Section 240.15c3-1d(b)(6)(iii) is modified to read as follows:
“(iii) The secured demand note agreement may also provide that, in lieu of
the procedures specified in the provisions required by paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, the lender, with the prior written consent of the government securities broker or dealer and the Examining Authority for such broker or dealer, may reduce the unpaid principal amount of the secured demand note. After giving effect to such reduction, the liquid capital, as defined in § 402.2(d) of this title, of the government securities broker or dealer may not be less than 150% of the government securities broker's or dealer's total haircuts, as defined in § 402.2(g) of this title. No single secured demand note shall be permitted to be reduced by more than 15% of its original principal amount and after such reduction no excess collateral may be withdrawn. No Examining Authority shall consent to a reduction of the principal amount of a secured demand note if, after giving effect to such reduction, liquid capital after deducting total haircuts would be less than 120% of the minimum dollar amount required by § 402.2(b) or § 402.2(c) of this title as applicable.”
(f) Section 240.15c3-1d(b)(7) is modified to read as follows:
“(7) A government securities broker or dealer at its option but not at the option of the lender may, if the subordination agreement so provides, make a Payment of all or any portion of the Payment Obligation thereunder prior to the scheduled maturity date of such Payment Obligation (hereinafter referred to as a “Prepayment”), but in no event may any Prepayment be made before the expiration of one year from the date such subordination agreement became effective. This restriction shall not apply to temporary subordination agreements which comply with the provisions of paragraph (c)(5) of this section. No Prepayment shall be made if, after giving effect thereto (and to all Payments of Payment Obligations under any other subordinated agreements then outstanding the maturities or accelerated maturities of which are scheduled to fall due within six months after the date such Prepayment is to occur pursuant to this provision or on or prior to the date on which the Payment Obligation in respect of such Prepayment is scheduled to mature disregarding this provision, whichever date is earlier) without reference to any projected profit or loss of the government securities broker or dealer, the liquid capital, as defined in § 402.2(d) of this title, of the government securities broker or dealer would be less than 150% of the government securities broker's or dealer's total haircuts, as defined in § 402.2(g) of this title. Notwithstanding the above, no Prepayment shall occur without the prior written approval of the Examining Authority for such government securities broker or dealer.”.
(g) Section 240.15c3-1d(b)(8) is modified to read as follows:
“(i) The Payment Obligation of the government securities broker or dealer in respect of any subordination agreement shall be suspended and shall not mature if, after giving effect to Payment of such Payment Obligation (and to all Payments of Payment Obligations of such broker or dealer under any other subordination agreement(s) then outstanding which are scheduled to mature on or before such Payment Obligation), either the liquid capital, as defined in § 402.2(d) of this title, of the government securities broker or dealer would be less than 150% of the government securities broker's or dealer's total haircuts, as defined in § 402.2(g) of this title, or the government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital after deducting total haircuts would be less than 120% of the minimum dollar amount required by § 402.2(b) or § 402.2(c) of this title, as applicable. The subordination agreement may provide that if the Payment Obligation of the government securities broker or dealer thereunder does not mature and is suspended as a result of the requirement of this paragraph (b)(8) for a period of not less than six months, the government securities broker or dealer shall thereupon commence the rapid and orderly liquidation of its business but the right of the lender to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 and 240.15c3-1d.”.
(h) Section 240.15c3-1d(b)(10)(ii)(B) is modified to read as follows:
“(B) The liquid capital, as defined in § 402.2(d) of this title, of the government securities broker or dealer being less than 120% of total haircuts, as defined in § 402.2(g) of this title, throughout a period of 15 consecutive business days, commencing on the day the broker or dealer first determines and notifies the Examining Authority for the government securities broker or dealer, or the Examining Authority or the Commission first determines and notifies the government securities broker or dealer of such fact;”.
(i) Section 240.15c3-1d(c)(2) is modified to read as follows:
“(2)
Notice of Maturity or Accelerated Maturity.
Every government securities broker or dealer shall immediately notify the Examining Authority for such broker or dealer if, after giving effect to all Payments of Payment Obligations subordination agreements then outstanding which are then due or mature within the following six months without reference to any projected profit or loss of the broker or dealer, the liquid capital, as defined in § 402.2(d) of this title, of such government securities broker or dealer, would be less than 150% of total haircuts, as defined in § 402.2(g) of this title.”.
(j) Section 240.15c3-1d(c)(5)(i) is modified to read as follows:
“(i) For the purpose of enabling a government securities broker or dealer to participate as an underwriter of securities or other extraordinary activities in compliance with the capital requirements of § 402.2 of this title, a government securities broker or dealer shall be permitted, on no more than three occasions in any 12 month period, to enter into a subordination agreement on a temporary basis which has a stated term of no more than 45 days from the date such subordination agreement became effective. This temporary relief shall not apply to a government securities broker or dealer if, within the preceding thirty calendar days, it has given notice pursuant to § 405.3, or if immediately prior to entering into such subordination agreement, the liquid capital, as defined in § 402.2(d) of this title, of such broker or dealer would be less than 150% of total haircuts, as defined in § 402.2(g) of this title, or the amount of its then outstanding subordination agreements exceeds the limits specified in § 240.15c3-1(d). Such temporary subordination agreement shall be subject to all other provisions of this appendix D.”.
(k) Section 240.15c3-1d(c)(5)(ii)(A) is modified to read as follows:
“(A) After giving effect thereto (and to all Payments of Payment Obligations under any other subordinated agreements then outstanding the maturity or accelerated maturities of which are scheduled to fall due within six months after the date such prepayment is to occur pursuant to this provision or on or prior to the date on which the Payment Obligation in respect of such prepayment is schedu1ed to mature disregarding this provision, whichever date is earlier) without reference to any projected profit or loss of the government securities broker or dealer, the liquid capital, as defined in § 402.2(d) of this title, of such broker or dealer, would be less than 180% of total haircuts, as defined in § 402.2(g) of this title.”.
[52 FR 27931, July 24, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 53731, Oct. 26, 1994]
Pt. 403

# PART 403—PROTECTION OF CUSTOMER SECURITIES AND BALANCES
Sec.
403.1
Application of part to registered brokers and dealers.
403.2
Hypothecation of customer securities.
403.3
Use of customers' free credit balances.
403.4
Customer protection—reserves and custody of securities.
403.5
Custody of securities held by financial institutions that are government securities brokers or dealers.
403.6
Compliance with part by futures commission merchants.
403.7
Effective dates.

# Authority:
Sec. 101, Pub. L. 99-571, 100 Stat. 3209; sec. 4(b), Pub. L. 101-432, 104 Stat. 963; sec. 102, sec. 106, Pub. L. 103-202, 107 Stat. 2344 (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(5), (b)(1)(A), (b)(4)).

# Source:
52 FR 27947, July 24, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 403.1
Application of part to registered brokers and dealers.
With respect to their activities in government securities, compliance by registered brokers or dealers with § 240.8c-1 of this title (SEC Rule 8c-1),
as modified by § 403.2 (a), (b) and (c), with § 240.15c2-1 of this title (SEC Rule 15c2-1), with § 240.15c3-2 of this title (SEC Rule 15c3-2), as modified by § 403.3, and with § 240.15c3-3 of this title (SEC Rule 15c3-3), as modified by § 403.4 (a) through (d), (f)(2) through (3), (g) through (j), and (m), including provisions in those rules relating to OTC derivatives dealers, constitutes compliance with this part.
[71 FR 54411, Sept. 15, 2006]
§ 403.2
Hypothecation of customer securities.
Every registered government securities broker or dealer shall comply with the requirements of § 240.8c-1 of this title concerning hypothecation of customer securities with the following modifications:
(a) In § 240.8c-1(a), the words “no government securities broker or dealer” shall be substituted for the words “no member of a national securities exchange, and no broker or dealer who transacts a business in securities through the medium of such member.”
(b) Section 240.8c-1(d) is modified to read as follows:
“(d)
Exemption for clearing liens.
The provisions of paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3) and (f) of this section shall not apply to any lien or claim of a clearing bank, or the clearing corporation (or similar department or association) of a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association, for a loan made to acquire any securities subject to said lien and to be repaid on the same calendar day, which loan is incidental to the clearing of transactions in securities or loans through such bank, corporation, department or association;
provided, however,
that for the purpose of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, ‘aggregate indebtedness of all customers in respect of securities carried for their accounts’ shall not include indebtedness in respect of any securities subject to any lien or claim exempted by this paragraph.”
(c) References to “member, broker or dealer” mean “government securities broker or dealer.”
§ 403.3
Use of customers' free credit balances.
Every registered government securities broker or dealer shall comply with the requirement of § 240.15c3-2 of this title concerning the use of customer free credit balances. For purposes of this section, all references to “broker or dealer” in § 240.15c3-2 shall include government securities brokers and dealers.
§ 403.4
Customer protection—reserves and custody of securities.
Every registered government securities broker or dealer shall comply with the requirements of §§ 240.15c3-3 and 240.15c3-3a of this title (SEC Rule 15c3-3 and Exhibit A thereto), with the following modifications:
(a) References to “broker or dealer” include government securities brokers and dealers.
(b) “Fully paid securities,” as defined in § 240.15c3-3(a)(3) of this title, includes all securities held by a government securities broker or a government securities dealer for the account of a customer who has made full payment for such securities.
(c) “Margin securities,” as defined in § 240.15c3-3(a)(4) of this title, includes any securities for which a customer has not made full payment and for which the customer has received an extension of credit by a government securities broker or government securities dealer for a portion of the purchase price.
(d) “Excess margin securities,” as defined in § 240.15c3-3(a)(5) of this title, includes margin securities carried for the account of a customer having a market value in excess of 140 percent of the total of the debit balances in the customer's account or accounts with the broker or dealer.
(e) For purposes of this section, § 240.15c3-3(b)(3)(iii)(A) of this title is modified to read as follows:
(A) Must provide to the lender upon the execution of the agreement, or by the close of the business day of the loan if the loan occurs subsequent to the execution of the agreement, collateral that fully secures the loan of securities, consisting exclusively of cash or United States Treasury bills or Treasury notes or an irrevocable letter of
credit issued by a bank as defined in § 3(a)(6)(A)-(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)(A)-(C)) or such other collateral as the Secretary designates as permissible by order as consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors, and the purposes of the Act, after giving consideration to the collateral's liquidity,
(f)(1) For purposes of this section, § 240.15c3-3(b)(4)(i)(C) is modified to read as follows:
“(C) Advise the counterparty in the repurchase agreement that the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 will not provide protection to the counterparty with respect to the repurchase agreement.”
(2) For purposes of this section, § 240.15c3-3(b)(4)(ii) is modified to read as follows:
“(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (4), securities are in the broker's or dealer's control only if they are in the control of the broker or dealer within the meaning of § 240.15c3-3(c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), or § 403.4(f) of this title.”
(3) For purposes of this section, § 240.15c3-3(b)(4)(iv) is redesignated § 240.15c3-3(b)(4)(iv)(A) and paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(B) is added to read as follows:
“(B) A person that is a non-U.S. citizen residing outside of the United States or a foreign corporation, partnership, or trust may waive, but only in writing, the right to receive the confirmation required by paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section.”
(g)(1) Securities under the control of a broker or dealer, as described in § 240.15c3-3(c) of this title, shall include securities maintained by a broker or dealer in an account at a depository institution, as defined in section 19(b)(A)(i)-(vi) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi)), which depository institution has a book-entry securities account at a Federal Reserve Bank through which it provides clearing services (“clearing bank”), provided the securities are maintained in a Segregated Account of the government securities broker or dealer. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(1) and paragraph (h) of this section, a Segregated Account is an account (other than a clearing account) of the government securities broker or dealer maintained on the books of a clearing bank pursuant to a written clearing agreement with such clearing bank which provides that:
(i) Such account is established for the purpose of segregating securities of counterparties or customers of such broker or dealer from proprietary securities of the broker or dealer;
(ii) The broker or dealer is entitled to direct the disposition of the securities; and
(iii) The clearing bank does not have, and will not assert, any claim or lien against such securities nor will the clearing bank grant any third party, including any Federal Reserve Bank, any interest in such securities so long as they are maintained in the segregated account.
(2) For purposes of this section, § 240.15c3-3(c)(2) of this title is redesignated as paragraph (c)(2)(i) and new paragraph (c)(2)(ii) is added to read as follows:
“(ii) Are carried for the account of any customer by a government securities broker or dealer in an account designated exclusively for customers of the government securities broker or dealer with a registered broker or dealer or another registered government securities broker or dealer (the “carrying broker or dealer”) in compliance with instructions of the registered government securities broker or dealer to the carrying broker or dealer that the securities are to be maintained free of any charge, lien or claim of any kind in favor of the carrying broker or dealer or any persons claiming through such carrying broker or dealer; or”.
(h) For the purposes of this section, § 240.15c3-3(d)(2) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(2) Securities included on its books or records as failed to receive more than 30 calendar days, or in the case of mortgage-backed securities, more than 60 calendar days, then the government securities broker or government securities dealer shall, not later than the business day following the day on which such determination is made, take prompt steps to obtain possession or control of securities so failed to receive through a buy-in procedure or otherwise; or”
(i) In addition to the notification required by § 240.15c3-3(i) of this title, whenever any government securities broker or dealer instructs its clearing bank to place securities in a Segregated Account (as defined in paragraph (f)(1) of this section), and the clearing bank refuses to do so as of the close of business on that day, the broker or dealer shall, in accordance with § 240.17a-11(f) of this title, give telegraphic notice of the notification by the clearing bank within 24 hours and within 48 hours of the telegraphic notice, file a report stating what steps are being taken to correct the situation.
(j) For purposes of this section, § 240.15c3-3(l) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(l)
Delivery or disposition of securities.
Nothing stated in this section shall be construed as affecting the absolute right of a customer of a government securities broker or dealer, unless otherwise agreed in writing, in the normal course of business operations following demand made on the broker or dealer, to receive the physical delivery of certificates if the securities are issued in certificated form, or to direct a transfer of or otherwise to exercise control over any securities if they are:
“(1) Fully-paid securities to which the customer is entitled;
“(2) Margin securities upon full payment by such customer to the broker or dealer of the customer's indebtedness to the broker or dealer; or
“(3) Excess margin securities not reasonably required to collateralize such customer's indebtedness to the broker or dealer.”.
(k) Except with respect to a government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility requirements of § 402.1(e) and a registered government securities broker or dealer that is a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC, § 240.15c3-3(e)(3) is modified for purposes of this section to read as follows:
“(3) Computations necessary to determine the amount required to be deposited as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be made weekly, as of the close of the last business day of the week, and the deposit so computed shall be made no later than 1 hour after the opening of banking business on the second following business day; provided, however, a government securities broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (a)(1)(A)) which has a ratio of liquid capital to total haircuts (calculated in accordance with part 402 of this chapter) of 1.8 or greater and which carries aggregate customer funds (as defined in paragraph (a)(10) of this section), as computed at the last required computation pursuant to this section, not exceeding $1 million, may in the alternative make the computation monthly, as of the close of the last business day of the month, and, in such event, shall deposit not less than 105 percent of the amount so computed no later than 1 hour after the opening of banking business on the second following business day. If a registered government securities broker or dealer, computing on a monthly basis, has, at the time of any required computation, a ratio of liquid capital to total haircuts of less than 1.8, such broker or dealer shall thereafter compute weekly as aforesaid until four successive weekly computations are made, none of which were made at a time when its ratio of liquid capital to total haircuts was less than 1.8. Computations in addition to the computation required in this paragraph (3), may be made as of the close of any other business day, and the deposits so computed shall be made no later than 1 hour after the opening of banking business on the second following business day. The registered government securities broker or dealer shall make and maintain a record of each such computation made pursuant to this paragraph (3) or otherwise and preserve such record in accordance with § 240.17a-4.”.
(l) Except with respect to a government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility requirements of § 402.1(e) and a registered government securities broker or dealer that is a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC, Note E(5) of § 240.15c3-3a of this title is modified for purposes of this section to read as follows:
“(5) Debit balances in margin accounts (other than omnibus accounts) shall be reduced by the amount by which any single customer's debit balance exceeds 25% (to the extent such amount is greater than $50,000) of the government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital unless such broker or dealer can demonstrate that the debit balance is directly related to credit items in the Reserve Formula. Related accounts (e.g., the separate accounts of an individual, accounts under common control or subject to cross guarantees) shall be deemed to be a single customer's accounts for purposes of this provision.”.
(m) For purposes of this section, the suspension of § 240.15c3-3(m) of this title (38 FR 12103, May 9, 1973) is no longer effective and the paragraph is modified to read as follows: “(m) If a government securities broker or government securities dealer executes a sell order of a customer (other than an order to execute a sale of securities which the seller does not own, which for the purposes of this paragraph shall mean that the customer placing the sell order has identified the sale as a short sale to the government securities broker or dealer) and if for any reason whatever the government securities broker or government securities dealer has not obtained possession of the government securities, other than mortgage-backed securities, from the customer within 30 calendar days, or in the case of mortgage-backed securities within 60 calendar days, after the settlement date, the government securities broker or government securities dealer shall immediately thereafter close the transaction with the customer by purchasing, or otherwise obtaining, securities of like kind and quantity. For purposes of this paragraph (m), the term “customer” shall not include a broker or dealer who maintains a special omnibus account with another broker or dealer in compliance with section 4(b) of Regulation T (12 CFR 220.4(b)).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27947, July 24, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 28986, Aug. 1, 1988; 59 FR 9406, Feb. 28, 1994; 60 FR 18734, Apr. 13, 1995; 69 FR 33259, June 14, 2004]
§ 403.5
Custody of securities held by financial institutions that are government securities brokers or dealers.
(a) A government securities broker or dealer that is a financial institution shall:
(1) Comply with part 450 with respect to all government securities held for the account of customers of the financial institution in its capacity as a fiduciary or custodian (unless otherwise exempt pursuant to § 450.3); and
(2) Comply with part 450 and with paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section with respect to all fully paid and excess margin government securities held for customers of the financial institution in its capacity as government securities broker or dealer, and government securities that are the subject of a repurchase agreement between the financial institution and certain counterparties as described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) A financial institution shall not be in violation of the possession or control requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section if, solely as the result of normal business operations, temporary lags occur between the time when a security is first required to be in the financial institution's possession or control and the time when it is actually placed in possession or control, provided that the financial institution takes timely steps in good faith to establish prompt possession or control. In the event that a financial institution has accepted funds from a customer for the purchase of securities and the financial institution does not initiate the purchase of the specified securities by the close of the next business day after receipt of such customer's funds, the financial institution shall immediately deposit or redeposit the funds in an account belonging to such customer and send the customer notice of such deposit or redeposit.
(c)(1) On each business day a financial institution shall determine the quantity and issue of such securities, if any, that are required to be but are not in the financial institution's possession or control. As appropriate to bring such securities into possession or control, the financial institution shall:
(i) Promptly obtain the release of any lien, charge, or other encumbrance against such securities;
(ii) Promptly obtain the return of any securities loaned;
(iii) Take prompt steps to obtain possession or control of securities failed to receive for more than 30 calendar days, or in the case of mortgage-backed securities, for more than 60 calendar days; or
(iv) Take prompt steps to buy in securities as necessary to the extent any shortage of securities in possession or control cannot be resolved as required by any of the above procedures.
(2) The financial institution shall prepare and maintain a current and detailed description of the procedures and internal controls that it utilizes to comply with the possession or control requirements of this paragraph (c), which shall be made available upon request to its appropriate regulatory agency.
(3) Nothing stated in this section shall be construed as affecting the absolute right of a customer of a government securities broker or dealer, unless otherwise agreed in writing, in the normal course of business operations following demand made on the broker or dealer, to receive the physical delivery of certificates if the securities are issued in certificated form, or to direct a transfer of or otherwise to exercise control over any securities if they are:
(i) Fully-paid securities to which the customer is entitled;
(ii) Margin securities upon full payment by such customer to the broker or dealer of the customer's indebtedness to the broker or dealer; or
(iii) Excess margin securities not reasonably required to collateralize such customer's indebtedness to the broker or dealer.
(d)(1) A financial institution that retains custody of securities that are the subject of a repurchase agreement between the financial institution and a counterparty shall:
(i) Obtain the repurchase agreement in writing;
(ii) Confirm in writing the specific securities that are the subject of a repurchase transaction pursuant to such agreement at the end of the day of initiation of the transaction and at the end of any other day during which other securities are substituted if the substitution results in a change to issuer, maturity date, par amount or coupon rate specified in the previous confirmation;
(iii) Advise the counterparty in the repurchase agreement that the funds held by the financial institution pursuant to a repurchase transaction are not a deposit and therefore are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, as applicable;
(iv) If the counterparty agrees to grant the financial institution the right to substitute securities, include in the written repurchase agreement the provision by which the financial institution retains the right to substitute securities;
(v) If the counterparty agrees to grant the financial institution the right to substitute securities, include in the written repurchase agreement the following disclosure statement, which must be prominently displayed in the written repurchase agreement immediately preceding the provision governing the right to substitution:

# “Required Disclosure
The [seller] is not permitted to substitute other securities for those subject to this agreement and therefore must keep the [buyer's] securities segregated at all times, unless in this agreement the [buyer] grants the [seller] the right to substitute other securities. If the [buyer] grants the right to substitute, this means that the [buyer's] securities will likely be commingled with the [seller's] own securities during the trading day. The [buyer] is advised that, during any trading day that the [buyer's] securities are commingled with the [seller's] securities, they may be subject to liens granted by the [seller] to third parties and may be used by the [seller] for deliveries on other securities transactions. Whenever the securities are commingled, the [seller's] ability to resegregate substitute securities for the [buyer]
will be subject to the [seller's] ability to satisfy any lien or to obtain substitute securities.”; and
(vi) Maintain possession or control of securities that are the subject of the agreement in accordance with § 450.4(a) of this chapter, except when exercising its right of substitution in accordance with the provisions of the agreement and paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.
(2)(i) A confirmation issued in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section shall specify the issuer, maturity date, coupon rate, par amount and market value of the security and shall further identify a CUSIP or mortgage-backed security pool number, as appropriate, except that a CUSIP or a pool number is not required on the confirmation if it is identified in internal records of the broker or dealer that designate the specific security of the counterparty. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2), the market value of any security that is the subject of the repurchase transaction shall be the most recently available bid price plus accrued interest, obtained by any reasonable and consistent methodology.
(ii) A person that is a non-U.S. citizen residing outside of the United States or a foreign corporation, partnership, or trust may waive, but only in writing, the right to receive the confirmation required by paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
(3) This paragraph (d) shall not apply to a repurchase agreement between the financial institution and a broker or dealer (including a government securities broker or dealer), a registered municipal securities dealer, or a director or principal officer of the financial institution or any person to the extent that his claim is explicitly subordinated to the claims of creditors of the financial institution.
(e)(1) A government securities broker or dealer that is a branch or agency of a foreign bank shall keep on deposit with an insured bank (as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(h)) an amount equal to the amount that would be required to be set aside pursuant to § 240.15c3-3(e)(1) of this title with respect to government securities of customers of such branch or agency that are citizens or residents of the United States. The amount required to be deposited pursuant to this § 403.5(e)(1) may be reduced by the amount of assets pledged or deposited by the branch or agency pursuant to regulations promulgated by a Federal or State banking regulatory agency that are attributable to liabilities to customers which are included both in the calculation of the required pledge or deposit of assets and in the calculation of the amount to be set aside pursuant to § 240.15c3-3(e)(1) of this title.
(2) The amount deposited in accordance with this section shall be pledged to the appropriate regulatory agency of the branch or agency making the deposit for the exclusive benefit of the customers to whom the credit balances are owed.
(3) For purposes of making the calculation pursuant to § 240.15c3-3(e)(1) of this title, the terms “free credit balances,” “other credit balances” and “credit balances” shall not include any funds placed in deposits or accounts enumerated at 12 CFR 204.2.
(4) For purposes of making the calculation pursuant to § 240.15c3-3(e)(1) of this title, the formula set forth at § 240.15c3-3a of this title shall be modified as follows:
(i) For purposes of this section, references to “securities account,” “cash account,” “margin account”, or other customer accounts for purposes of this section shall not include any deposits or accounts enumerated at 12 CFR 204.2;
(ii) References to “security or “securities shall mean U.S. government securities;
(iii) References to net capital shall be inapplicable;
(iv) Item 2 is modified to read as follows:
“2. Monies borrowed by the branch or agency collateralized by securities carried for the account of customers. (See Note B.)”;
(v) Item 4 is modified to read as follows:
“4. Customers' securities failed to receive only with respect to transactions for which payment has been received by and is under the control of the branch or agency. (See Note D.)”;
(vi) Note B is modified to read as follows:
“
Note B.
Item 2 shall include the principal amount of Restricted Letters of Credit obtained by members of Options Clearing Corporation which are collateralized by customers' securities. Item 2 shall not include bank loans to customers in the ordinary course collateralized by the customers' U.S. government securities.”; and
(vii) Note C is modified to read as follows:
“
Note C.
Item 3 shall include in addition to monies payable against customers' securities loaned the amount by which the market value of securities loaned exceeds the collateral value received from the lending of such securities. Item 3 shall exclude cash collateral received pursuant to a written securities lending agreement that complies fully with the supervisory guidelines of its appropriate regulatory agency that expressly govern securities lending practices.”.
(5) Computations necessary to determine the amount required to be deposited as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be made weekly, as of the close of the last business day of this week, and the deposit so computed shall be made no later than one hour after the opening of banking business on the second following business day.
(6) A government securities broker or dealer that is a branch or agency of a foreign bank shall make and maintain a record of each computation made pursuant to paragraph (e)(5) of this section and preserve each such record for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place.
(f)(1) For purposes of this section, the terms “fully paid securities,” “margin securities,” and “excess margin securities” shall have the meanings described in § 403.4 (b), (c) and (d).
(2) For purposes of this section, the term “customer” shall include any person from whom or on whose behalf a financial institution that is a government securities broker or dealer has received or acquired or holds securities for the account of that person or funds resulting from transactions in securities for or with such person or that represent principal, interest, or other proceeds of such securities. The term shall not include a broker or dealer that is registered pursuant to section 15, 15B or 15C (a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o, 78o-4, 78o-5(a)(1)(A)) or that has filed notice of its status as a government securities broker or dealer pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(B)) except with respect to securities maintained by such broker or dealer in a Segregated Account as defined in § 403.4(f)(1) and with respect to securities otherwise identified by such broker or dealer as customer securities for purposes of maintaining possession or control of such securities as required by this part. The term “customer” shall not include a director or principal officer of the financial institution or any other person to the extent that that person has a claim for property or funds, which by contract, agreement or understanding, or by operation of law, is part of the capital of the financial institution or is subordinated to the claims of creditors of the financial institution.
(g) If a financial institution executes a sell order of a customer (other than an order to execute a sale of securities which the seller does not own, which for the purposes of this paragraph shall mean that the customer placing the sell order has identified the sale as a short sale to the financial institution) and if for any reason whatever the financial institution has not obtained possession of the government securities, except mortgage-backed securities, from the customer within 30 calendar days, or in the case of mortgage-backed securities within 60 calendar days, after the settlement date, the financial institution shall immediately thereafter close the transaction with the customer by purchasing, or otherwise obtaining, securities of like kind and quantity.
(h) The appropriate regulatory agency of a financial institution that is a government securities broker or dealer may extend the period specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (g) of this section on application of the financial institution for one or more limited periods commensurate with the circumstances, provided the appropriate regulatory agency is satisfied that the financial institution is acting in good faith in making the application and
that exceptional circumstances warrant such action. Each appropriate regulatory agency should make and preserve for a period of not less than three years a record of each extension granted pursuant to this paragraph, which contains a summary of the justification for the granting of the extension.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27947, July 24, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 28986, Aug. 1, 1988; 55 FR 6604, Feb. 26, 1990; 59 FR 9406, Feb. 28, 1994; 60 FR 11026, Mar. 1, 1995]
§ 403.6
Compliance with part by futures commission merchants.
A registered government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC shall comply with the provisions of this part with respect to all customer funds and securities except those that are incidental to the broker's or dealer's futures-related business, as defined in § 240.3a43-1(b) of this title. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term “customer” shall have the meaning set forth in § 240.15c3-3(a)(1) of this title.
§ 403.7
Effective dates.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, this part shall be effective on the last business day in October 1987.
(b)
Confirmations.
The requirements of §§ 403.4 and 403.5(d) to describe the specific securities that are the subject of a repurchase transaction, including the market value of such securities, on a confirmation at the initiation of a repurchase transaction or on substitution of other securities shall be effective January 31, 1988.
(c)
Written repurchase agreements.
The requirement to obtain a repurchase agreement in writing with the provisions described in §§ 403.4 and 403.5(d) shall be effective October 31, 1987, in the case of new customers of a government securities broker or dealer and shall be effective January 31, 1988, in the case of existing customers of a government securities broker or dealer. For purposes of this paragraph, an “existing customer” of a government securities broker or dealer is any counterparty with whom the government securities broker or dealer has entered into a repurchase transaction on or after January 1, 1986, but before July 25, 1987. For purposes of this paragraph, a “new customer” of a government securities broker or dealer is any counterparty other than an existing customer.
[52 FR 27947, July 24, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 28986, Aug. 1, 1988; 79 FR 38456, July 8, 2014]
Pt. 404

# PART 404—RECORDKEEPING AND PRESERVATION OF RECORDS
Sec.
404.1
Application of part to registered brokers and dealers.
404.2
Records to be made and kept current by registered government securities brokers and dealers; records of non-resident registered government securities brokers and dealers.
404.3
Records to be preserved by registered government securities brokers and dealers.
404.4
Records to be made and preserved by government securities brokers and dealers that are financial institutions.
404.5
Securities counts by registered government securities brokers and dealers.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (b)(1)(B), (b)(1)(C), (b)(2), (b)(4).

# Source:
52 FR 27952, July 24, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 404.1
Application of part to registered brokers and dealers.
Compliance by a registered broker or dealer with § 240.17a-3 of this title (pertaining to records to be made), § 240.17a-4 of this title (pertaining to preservation of records), § 240.17a-13 of this title (pertaining to quarterly securities counts) and § 240.17a-7 of this title (pertaining to records of non-resident brokers or dealers), including provisions in those rules relating to OTC derivatives dealers, constitutes compliance with this part.
[71 FR 54411, Sept. 15, 2006]
§ 404.2
Records to be made and kept current by registered government securities brokers and dealers; records of non-resident registered government securities brokers and dealers.
(a) Every registered government securities broker or dealer shall comply
with the requirements of § 240.17a-3 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-3), with the following modifications:
(1) References to “broker or dealer” and “broker or dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the Act” include registered government securities brokers or dealers.
(2) References to §§ 240.17a-3, 240.17a-4, 240.17a-5, and 240.17a-13 mean such sections as modified by this part and part 405 of this chapter.
(3) (i) Except in the case of a government securities interdealer broker who is subject to the financial responsibility rules of § 402.1(e) of this chapter and a registered government securities broker or dealer that is a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC, paragraph 240.17a-3(a)(1l) is modified to read as follows:
“(11) A record of the proof of money balances of all ledger accounts in the form of trial balances, and a record of the computation of liquid capital and total haircuts, as of the trial date, determined as provided in § 402.2 of this title;
provided however,
that such computation need not be made by any registered government securities broker or dealer unconditionally exempt from part 402 of this title. Such trial balances and computations shall be prepared current1y at least once a month.”.
(ii) For a government securities interdealer broker who is subject to the financial responsibility rules of § 402.1(e) of this chapter, references to § 240.15c3-1 include modifications contained in § 402.1(e) of this chapter.
(4) Paragraph 240.17a-3(b)(1) is modified to read as follows:
“(1) This section shall not be deemed to require a government securities broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(A)) to make or keep such records of transactions cleared for such government securities broker or dealer as are customarily made and kept by a clearing broker or dealer pursuant to the requirements of §§ 240.17a-3 and 240.17a-4:
Provided,
that the clearing broker or dealer has and maintains net capital of not less than $250,000 (or, in the case of a clearing broker or dealer that is a registered government securities broker or dealer, liquid capital less total haircuts, determined as provided in § 402.2 of this title, of not less than $250,000) and is otherwise in compliance with § 240.15c3-1, § 402.2 of this title, or the capital rules of the exchange of which such clearing broker or dealer is a member if the members of such exchange are exempt from § 240.15c3-1 by paragraph (b)(2) thereof.”
(5) The undertaking in § 240.17a-3(b)(2) is modified to read as follows:
“The undersigned hereby undertakes to maintain and preserve on behalf of [registered government securities broker or dealer] the books and records required to be maintained by [registered government securities broker or dealer] pursuant to 17 CFR 404.2 and 404.3 and Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and to permit examination of such books and records at any time or from time to time during business hours by examiners or other representatives of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and to furnish to said Commission at its principal office in Washington, DC, or at any regional office of said Commission specified in a demand made by or on behalf of said Commission for copies of books and records, true, correct, complete, and current copies of any or all, or any part, of such books and records. This undertaking shall be binding upon the undersigned, and the successors and assigns of the undersigned.”.
(6) Section 240.17a-3(c) is modified to read as follows:
“(c) This section shall not be deemed to require a government securities broker or dealer to make or keep such records as are required by paragraph (a) reflecting the sale and redemption of United States Savings Bonds, United States Savings Notes and United States Savings Stamps.”.
(b) Every registered government securities broker or dealer shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17h-1T of this title (SEC Rule 17h-1T), with the following modifications:
(1) For the purposes of this section, references to “broker or dealer” and “broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 15 of the Act” mean registered government securities brokers or dealers.
(2) For the purposes of this section, references to §§ 240.17h-1T and 240.17h-2T of this title mean those sections as modified by §§ 404.2(b) and 405.5, respectively.
(3) For the purposes of this section, “associated person” has the meaning set out in Section 3(a)(18) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(18)), except that natural persons are excluded.
(4) Paragraphs 240.17h-1T(a)(1)(iii) through (vi) of this title are modified to read as follows:
“(iii) A description of all material pending legal or arbitration proceedings involving a Material Associated Person or the registered government securities broker or dealer that are required to be disclosed, under generally accepted accounting principles on a consolidated basis, by the highest level holding company that is a Material Associated Person.
“(iv) Consolidated and consolidating balance sheets, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which may be unaudited and which shall include the notes to the financial statements, as of quarter-end for the registered government securities broker or dealer and its highest level holding company that is a Material Associated Person;
“(v) Quarterly consolidated and consolidating income statements and consolidated cash flow statements, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which may be unaudited and which shall include the notes to the financial statements, for the registered government securities broker or dealer and its highest level holding company that is a Material Associated Person;

# Note 1 to paragraph
240.17h-1T(a)(1)(v)

# .
Statements of comprehensive income (as defined in 17 CFR 210.1-02) must be included in place of income statements, if required by the applicable generally accepted accounting principles.
“(vi) The amount as of quarter-end, and at month-end if greater than quarter-end, of the aggregate long and short securities and commodities positions held by each Material Associated Person, including a separate listing of each single unhedged securities or commodities position, other than U.S. Treasury securities, that exceeds the Materiality Threshold at any month-end;”
(5) Paragraphs 240.17h-1T(a)(3) and (a)(4) of this title are modified to read as follows:
“(3) The information, reports and records required by the provisions of this section shall be maintained and preserved in accordance with the provisions of § 404.3 of this title and shall be kept for a period of not less than three years in an easily accessible place.
“(4) For the purposes of this section and § 405.5 of this title, the term “Materiality Threshold” shall mean the greater of:
“(i) $100 million; or
“(ii) 10 percent of the registered government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital based on the most recently filed Form G-405 (or, in the case of futures commission merchants and interdealer brokers subject to the capital rules in §§ 402.1(d) and 402.1(e), respectively, tentative net capital based on the most recently filed Form X-17A-5) or 10 percent of the Material Associated Person's tangible net worth, whichever is greater.”
(6) Paragraph 240.17h-1T(b) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(b)
Special provisions with respect to Material Associated Persons subject to the supervision of certain domestic regulators.
A registered government securities broker or dealer shall be deemed to be in compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) through (x) of this section with respect to a Material Associated Person if: * * * ”
(7) Paragraph 240.17h-1T(c) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(c)
Special provisions with respect to Material Associated Persons subject to the supervision of a foreign financial regulatory authority.
A registered government securities broker or dealer shall be deemed to be in compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) through (x) of this section with respect to a Material Associated Person if such registered government securities broker or dealer maintains in accordance with the provisions of this section copies of the reports filed by such Material Associated Person with a Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority. The registered government securities broker or dealer shall maintain a copy of the original report and a copy translated into the English language. For the purposes of this section, the term Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority shall have the meaning set forth in section 3(a)(52) of the Act.”
(8) Paragraph 240.17h-1T(d) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(d)
Exemptions.
(1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any registered government securities broker or dealer:
“(i) Which is exempt from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3 of this title, as made applicable by § 403.4, pursuant to paragraph (k)(2) of § 240.15c3-3 of this title; or
“(ii) If the registered government securities broker or dealer does not qualify for an exemption from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3 of this title, as made applicable by § 403.4, and such registered government securities broker or dealer does not hold funds or securities for, or owe money or securities to, customers and does not carry the accounts of, or for, customers; unless
“(iii) In the case of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, the registered government securities broker or dealer maintains capital of at least $20,000,000, including debt
subordinated in accordance with Appendix D of § 240.15c3-1 of this title, as modified by Appendix D of § 402.2.
“(2) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any registered government securities broker or dealer which maintains capital of less than $250,000, including debt subordinated in accordance with Appendix D of § 240.15c3-1 of this title, as modified by Appendix D of § 402.2, even if the registered government securities broker or dealer holds funds or securities for, or owes money or securities to, customers or carries the accounts of, or for, customers.
“(3) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any registered government securities broker or dealer which has an associated person that is a registered broker or dealer, provided that:
“(i) The registered broker or dealer is subject to, and in compliance with, the provisions of § 240.17h-1T and § 240.17h-2T of this title, and
“(ii) All of the Material Associated Persons of the registered government securities broker or dealer are Material Associated Persons of the registered broker or dealer subject to § 240.17h-1T and § 240.17h-2T of this title.
“(4) In calculating capital for the purposes of this paragraph, a registered government securities broker or dealer shall include with its equity capital and subordinated debt the equity capital and subordinated debt of any other registered government securities brokers or dealers or registered brokers or dealers that are associated persons of such registered government securities broker or dealer, except that the equity capital and subordinated debt of registered brokers and dealers that are exempt from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3 of this title, pursuant to paragraph (k)(1) of § 240.15c3-3, shall not be included in the capital computation.
“(5) The Secretary may, upon written application by a Reporting Registered Government Securities Broker or Dealer, exempt from the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any registered government securities brokers or dealers that are associated persons of such Reporting Registered Government Securities Broker or Dealer. The term “Reporting Registered Government Securities Broker or Dealer” shall mean any registered government securities broker or dealer that submits such application to the Secretary on behalf of its associated registered government securities brokers or dealers.”
(9) Paragraph 240.17h-1T(g) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(g)
Implementation schedule.
Every registered government securities broker or dealer subject to the requirements of this section shall maintain and preserve the information required by paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section commencing June 30, 1995. Commencing September 30, 1995, the provisions of this section shall apply in their entirety.”
(c)(1) Every non-resident government securities broker or dealer registered or applying for registration pursuant to Section 15C of the Act shall comply with § 240.17a-7 of this title, provided that:
(i) For the purposes of this section, references to “broker or dealer” and “broker or dealer registered or applying for registration pursuant to Section 15 of the Act” mean registered government securities brokers or dealers; and
(ii) For the purposes of this section, references to “any rule or regulation of the Commission” and “any rule or regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission” mean any rule or regulation of the Secretary.
(2) For the purposes of this section, the term “non-resident government securities broker or dealer” means:
(i) In the case of an individual, one who resides in or has his principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States;
(ii) In the case of a corporation, one incorporated in or having its principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; and
(iii) In the case of a partnership or other unincorporated organization or association, one having its principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(d)
Effective date.
Paragraph (a) of this section shall be effective on October 31, 1987,
except that
registered government securities brokers and dealers are required to maintain the records specified in § 240.17a-3(a) (12), (13), (14) and (15) beginning July 25, 1987.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27952, July 24, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 11026, Mar. 1, 1995; 60 FR 20399, Apr. 26, 1995; 83 FR 66616, Dec. 27, 2018]
§ 404.3
Records to be preserved by registered government securities brokers and dealers.
(a) Every registered government securities broker or dealer, except a government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility rules of § 402.1(e) and a registered government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC, shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-4 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-4), with the following modifications:
(1) References to “broker or dealer” and “broker and dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the Act” include registered government securities brokers or dealers.
(2) References to §§ 240.17a-3, .17a-4, and .17a-5 mean such sections as modified by this part and part 405 of this chapter.
(3) References to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, and “Computation for Net Capital” thereunder mean § 402.2 of this chapter and the computation of the ratio of liquid capital to total haircuts required thereunder.
(4) References to § 240.15c3-3, relating to possession or control of customer securities and balances, mean § 403.4 of this chapter.
(5) References to Form X-17A-5 mean Form G-405 (§ 449.5 of this chapter).
(6) The computation described in § 240.17a-4(b)(8)(x) is not required.
(b) A government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility rules of § 402.1(e) and a registered government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC, shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-4 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-4), with the following modifications:
(1) References to “broker or dealer” and “broker and dealer” include registered government securities brokers or dealers.
(2) References to §§ 240.17a-3, 240.17a-4, and 240.17a-5 mean such sections as modified by this part and part 405 of this chapter.
(3) With respect to a government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility rules of § 402.1(e) of this chapter, references to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, and “Computation for Net Capital” thereunder include the modifications contained in § 402.1(e) of this chapter.
(4) References to § 240.15c3-3, relating to possession or control of customer securities and balances, mean § 403.4 of this chapter.
(c) This section shall be effective on July 25, 1987.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27952, July 24, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 11026, Mar. 1, 1995]
§ 404.4
Records to be made and preserved by government securities brokers and dealers that are financial institutions.
(a)
Records to be made and kept.
Every financial institution that is a government securities broker or dealer and that is not exempt from this part pursuant to part 401 of this chapter shall comply with the requirements of §§ 404.2 and 404.3 unless such financial institution:
(1) Is subject to 12 CFR part 12 (relating to national banks), 12 CFR part 208 (relating to state member banks of the Federal Reserve System) or 12 CFR part 344 (relating to state banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System), or is a United States branch or agency of a foreign bank and complies with 12 CFR part 12 (for federally licensed branches and agencies of foreign banks) or 12 CFR part 208 (for uninsured state-licensed branches and agencies of foreign banks) or 12 CFR part 344 (for insured state licensed branches and agencies of foreign banks);
(2) Complies with the recordkeeping requirements of § 450.4(c), (d) and (f) of this chapter; and
(3) Makes and keeps current:
(i)(A) A securities record or ledger reflecting separately for each government security as of the settlement dates all “long” or “short” positions (including government securities that are the subjects of repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements) carried by such financial institution for its own account or for the account of its customers or others (except securities
held in a fiduciary capacity) and showing the location of all government securities long and the offsetting position to all government securities short, including long security count differences and short security count differences classified by the date of the count and verification in which they were discovered, and in all cases the name or designation of the account in which each position is carried;
(B) A complete and current Form G-FIN-4 (§ 449.3 of this chapter) or Form U-4 (promulgated by a self-regulatory organization) or Form MSD-4 (as required for associated persons of bank municipal securities dealers) for each associated person as defined in § 400.3 of this chapter;
(C) A Form G-FIN-5 (§ 449.4 of this chapter) or Form U-5 (promulgated by a self-regulatory organization) or Form MSD-5 (as required for associated persons of bank municipal securities dealers) for each associated person whose association has been terminated as provided in § 400.4(d)(2) of this chapter; and
(D) A complete and current Form G-FIN (§ 449.1 of this chapter) and, if applicable, a Form G-FINW (§ 449.2 of this chapter).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section, “safekeeping” may be shown as a location of any securities long as long as the financial institution complies with the requirements of part 450 of this chapter with respect to such securities.
(b)
Preservation of records.
(1) The records required by paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section shall be preserved for not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place.
(2) The records required by paragraphs (a)(3)(i) (B) and (C) of this section shall be preserved for at least three years after the person who is the subject of the record has terminated his employment and any other association with the government securities broker or dealer function of the financial institution.
(3) The records required by paragraph (a)(3)(i)(D) of this section shall be preserved for at least three years after the financial institution has notified the appropriate regulatory agency that it has ceased to function as a government securities broker or dealer.
(c)
Effective date.
This section shall be effective on July 25, 1987,
except that
until October 31, 1987, a financial institution government securities broker or dealer is not required to make and keep current the securities position record required by paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27952, July 24, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 28987, Aug. 1, 1988; 60 FR 11026, Mar. 1, 1995; 62 FR 7155, Feb. 18, 1997; 72 FR 54411, Sept. 15, 2006]
§ 404.5
Securities counts by registered government securities brokers and dealers.
(a)
Securities counts.
Every registered government securities broker or dealer shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-13 of this title (Commission Rule 17a-13), with the modification that references to “broker or dealer” and “broker and dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the Act” include registered government securities brokers or dealers.
(b)
Effective date.
This section shall be effective on October 31, 1987.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27952, July 24, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 11026, Mar. 1, 1995]
Pt. 405

# PART 405—REPORTS AND AUDIT
Sec.
405.1
Application of part to registered brokers and dealers and to financial institutions; transition rule.
405.2
Reports to be made by registered government securities brokers and dealers.
405.3
Notification provisions for certain registered government securities brokers and dealers.
405.4
Financial recordkeeping and reporting of currency and foreign transactions by registered government securities brokers and dealers.
405.5
Risk assessment reporting requirements for registered government securities brokers and dealers.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (b)(1)(B), (b)(1)(C), (b)(2), (b)(4).

# Source:
52 FR 27954, July 24, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 405.1
Application of part to registered brokers and dealers and to financial institutions; transition rule.
(a) Compliance by registered brokers or dealers with §§ 240.17a-5, 240.17a-8, and 240.17a-11 of this title (Commission Rules 17a-5, 17a-8 and 17a-11), including provisions of those rules relating to OTC derivatives dealers, constitutes compliance with this part.
(b) A government securities broker or dealer that is a financial institution and is subject to financial reporting rules of its appropriate regulatory agency is exempt from the provisions of §§ 405.2 and 405.3.
(c) This part shall be effective July 25, 1987,
Provided however,
(1) That registered government securities brokers or dealers shall first be required to file the reports required by § 240.17a-5(a), by virtue of § 405.2, for the month and the quarter during which they were first required to comply with part 402 of this chapter other than the interim liquid capital requirements of § 402.1(f); but that
(2) For any quarter ending prior to the quarter during which they were first required to comply with part 402 of this chapter other than the interim liquid capital requirements of § 402.1(f), registered government securities brokers or dealers shall file with the designated examining authority for such registered broker or dealer, within 17 business days after the close of the quarter, an unaudited balance sheet (with appropriate notes) for such quarter, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
[52 FR 27954, July 24, 1987, as amended at 71 FR 54411, Sept. 15, 2006]
§ 405.2
Reports to be made by registered government securities brokers and dealers.
(a) Every registered government securities broker or dealer, except a government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility requirements of § 402.1(e) of this chapter and a government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC, shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-5 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-5), with the following modifications:
(1) References to “broker or dealer” include registered government securities brokers and dealers.
(2) References to “rules of the Commission” or words of similar import include, where appropriate, the regulations contained in this subchapter.
(3) References to Form X-17A-5 mean Form G-405 (§ 449.5 of this chapter).
(4) For the purposes of § 240.17a-5(a)(4) of this title, the Commission may, on the terms and conditions stated in that subparagraph, declare effective a plan with respect to Form G-405, in which case, that plan shall be treated the same as a plan approved with respect to Form X-17A-5.
(5) References to “net capital” mean “liquid capital” as defined in § 402.2(d) of this chapter.
(6) References to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, mean § 402.2 of this chapter.
(7) Paragraph 240.17a-5(c)(2)(ii) is modified to read as follows:
“(ii) A footnote containing a statement of the registered government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital, total haircuts, and ratio of liquid capital to total haircuts, determined in accordance with § 402.2 of this title. Such statement shall include summary financial statements of subsidiaries consolidated pursuant to § 402.2c of this title, where material, and the effect thereof on the liquid capital, total haircuts and ratio of liquid capital to total haircuts of the registered government securities broker or dealer.”.
(8) References to § 240.15c3-3 and the exhibits thereto, relating to possession or control of customer securities and reserve requirements, mean § 403.4 of this chapter.
(9) The reference to § 240.15b1-2 of this title, relating to financial statements to be filed upon registration, means § 240.15Ca2-2.
(10) The supplemental report described in § 240.17a-5(e)(4) of this title, concerning the Securities Investor Protection Act, is not required.
(11) The statement described in § 240.17a-5(f)(2) of this title shall be headed “Notice Pursuant to Section 405.2,” and shall be filed within 30 days
following the effective date of registration as a government securities broker or dealer.
(12) References in § 240.17a-5(h)(2) of this title to § 240.17a-11 mean § 405.3(a) of this chapter.
(b) A government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility requirements of § 402.1(e) of this chapter shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-5 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-5), with the following modifications:
(1) References to “broker or dealer” include government securities interdealer brokers;
(2) References to “rules of the Commission” or words of similar import include, where appropriate, the regulations contained in this subchapter.
(3) References to “net capital” mean net capital calculated as provided in § 402.1(e) of this chapter.
(4) References to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, include the modifications contained in § 402.1(e) of this chapter.
(5) References to § 240.15c3-3 and the exhibits thereto, relating to possession or control of customer securities and reserve requirements, mean § 403.4 of this chapter.
(6) The reference to § 240.15b1-2 of this title, relating to financial statements to be filed upon registration, means § 240.15Ca2-2.
(7) The supplemental report described in § 240.17a-5(e)(4) of this title, concerning the Securities Investor Protection Act, is not required.
(8) The statement described in § 240.17a-5(f)(2) of this title shall be headed “Notice Pursuant to Section 405.2” and shall be filed within 30 days following the effective date of registration as a government securities broker.
(9) References in § 240.17a-5(h)(2) of this title to § 240.17a-11 mean § 405.3(b) of this chapter.
(c) A registered government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-5 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-5), with the following modifications:
(1) References to “broker or dealer” include registered government securities brokers and dealers.
(2) References to “rules of the Commission” or words of similar import include, where appropriate, the regulations contained in this subchapter.
(3) References to § 240.15c3-3 and the exhibits thereto, relating to possession or control of customer securities and reserve requirements, mean § 403.4 of this chapter.
(4) The reference to § 240.15b1-2 of this title, relating to financial statements to be filed upon registration, means § 240.15Ca2-2.
(5) The supplemental report described in § 240.17a-5(e)(4) of this title, concerning the Securities Investor Protection Act, is not required.
(6) The statement described in § 240.17a-5(f)(2) of this title shall be headed “Notice Pursuant to § 405.2,” and shall be filed within 30 days following the effective date of registration as a government securities broker or dealer.
(7) References in § 240.17a-5(h)(2) of this title to § 240.17a-11 mean § 405.3(c) of this chapter.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27954, July 24, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 11026, Mar. 1, 1995; 64 FR 1737, Jan. 12, 1999; 79 FR 38456, July 8, 2014]
§ 405.3
Notification provisions for certain registered government securities brokers and dealers.
(a) Every registered government securities broker or dealer, other than a government securities interdealer broker that is subject to the financial responsibility requirements of § 402.1(e) and a government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC, shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-11 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-11), with the following modifications:
(1) References to “broker or dealer” include registered government securities brokers and dealers.
(2) References to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, mean § 402.2 of this chapter.
(3) References to “net capital” mean “liquid capital” as defined in § 402.2 of this chapter.
(4) References to § 240.17a-5, relating to reports and audit, mean § 405.2(a) of this chapter.
(5) Section 240.17a-11(c), for the purposes of this section, is modified to read as follows:
“(c) Every registered government securities broker or dealer shall send notice promptly (but within 24 hours) in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section if a computation made pursuant to the requirements of § 402.2 of this title shows, at any time during the month, that its liquid capital is less than 150 percent of total haircuts, determined in accordance with § 402.2 of this title, or that its capital after deducting total haircuts from liquid capital is less than 120 percent of the registered government securities broker or dealer's minimum capital requirement specified in § 402.2 (b) or (c) of this title as applicable.”
(6) References to § 240.17a-3, relating to records, mean § 404.2 of this chapter.
(b) A government securities interdealer broker that is subject to the financial responsibility requirements of § 402.1(e) of this chapter shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-11 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-11), with the following modifications:
(1) References to “broker or dealer” include government securities interdealer brokers;
(2) References to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, include the modifications contained in § 402.1(e) of this chapter.
(3) References to “net capital” mean net capital calculated as provided in § 402.1(e) of this chapter.
(4) References to § 240.17a-5, relating to reports and audit, mean § 405.2(b) of this chapter.
(5) References to § 240.17a-3, relating to records, mean § 404.2 of this chapter.
(c) A registered government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-11 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-11), with the following modifications:
(1) References to “broker or dealer” include government securities brokers and dealers.
(2) References to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, mean either § 240.15c3-1 or § 1.17 of this title, depending on which computation results in the higher net capital requirement.
(3) References to “net capital” mean the higher of net capital calculated under § 240.15c3-1 or § 1.17 of this title.
(4) References to § 240.17a-5, relating to reports and audit, mean § 405.2(c) of this chapter.
(5) Section 240.17a-11(c) for the purposes of this section is modified to read as follows:
“(c) Every broker or dealer shall send notice promptly (but within 24 hours) after the occurrence of the events specified in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), or (c)(4) of this section in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section:”
(6) A new paragraph 240.17a-11(c)(4) is added to read as follows:
“(4) If a computation made by a government securities broker or dealer that is not a registered broker or dealer but that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shows that:
“(i) The adjusted net capital of such entity is less than the greater of:
“(A) 150 percent of the appropriate minimum dollar amount required by § 1.17(a)(1)(i), or
“(B) 6 percent of the following amount: The customer funds required to be segregated pursuant to § 4d(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act and § 1.17 of this title, less the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers on or subject to the rules of a contract market, provided, however, the deduction for each option customer shall be limited to the amount of customer funds in such option customer's account; or
“(ii) At any point during the month, aggregate indebtedness is in excess of 1200 percent of net capital or total net capital is less than 120 percent of the minimum net capital required.”
(7) References to § 240.17a-3, relating to records, mean § 404.2 of this chapter.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27954, July 24, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 53731, Oct. 26, 1994; 59 FR 55910, Nov. 9, 1994; 60 FR 18734, Apr. 13, 1995]
§ 405.4
Financial recordkeeping and reporting of currency and foreign transactions by registered government securities brokers and dealers.
Every registered government securities broker or dealer who is subject to the requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970 shall comply with the reporting, recordkeeping and record retention requirements of 31 CFR part 103. Where 31 CFR part 103 and § 404.3 of this chapter require the same records to be preserved for different periods of time, such records or reports shall be preserved for the longer period of time.
§ 405.5
Risk assessment reporting requirements for registered government securities brokers and dealers.
(a) Every registered government securities broker or dealer shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17h-2T of this title (SEC Rule 17h-2T), with the following modifications:
(1) For the purposes of this section, references to “broker or dealer” and “broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 15 of the Act” mean registered government securities brokers or dealers.
(2) For the purposes of this section, references to §§ 240.17h-1T and 240.17h-2T of this title mean those sections as modified by §§ 404.2(b) and 405.5, respectively.
(3) For the purposes of this section, “associated person” has the meaning set out in Section 3(a)(18) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(18)), except that natural persons are excluded.
(4) Paragraph 240.17h-2T(b) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(b)
Exemptions.
(1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any registered government securities broker or dealer:
“(i) Which is exempt from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3 of this title, as made applicable by § 403.4, pursuant to paragraph (k)(2) of § 240.15c3-3 of this title; or
“(ii) If the registered government securities broker or dealer does not qualify for exemption from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3 of this title, as made applicable by § 403.4, and such registered government securities broker or dealer does not hold funds or securities for, or owe money or securities to, customers and does not carry the accounts of, or for, customers; unless
“(iii) In the case of paragraphs (b)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section, the registered government securities broker or dealer maintains capital of at least $20,000,000, including debt subordinated in accordance with appendix D of § 240.15c3-1 of this title, as modified by appendix D of § 402.2.
“(2) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any registered government securities broker or dealer which maintains capital of less than $250,000, including debt subordinated in accordance with appendix D of § 240.15c3-1 of this title, as modified by appendix D of § 402.2, even if the registered government securities broker or dealer holds funds or securities for, or owes money or securities to, customers or carries the accounts of, or for, customers.
“(3) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any registered government securities broker or dealer which has an associated person that is a registered broker or dealer, provided that:
“(i) The registered broker or dealer is subject to, and in compliance with, the provisions of § 240.17h-1T and § 240.17h-2T of this title, and
“(ii) All of the Material Associated Persons of the registered government securities broker or dealer are Material Associated Persons of the registered broker or dealer subject to § 240.17h-1T and § 240.17h-2T of this title.
“(4) In calculating capital for the purposes of this paragraph, a registered government securities broker or dealer shall include with its equity capital and subordinated debt the equity capital and subordinated debt of any other registered government securities brokers or dealers or registered brokers or dealers that are associated persons of such registered government securities broker or dealer, except that the equity capital and subordinated debt of registered brokers and dealers that are exempt from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3 of this title, pursuant to paragraph (k)(1) of § 240.15c3-3, shall
not be included in the capital computation.
“(5) The Secretary may, upon written application by a Reporting Registered Government Securities Broker or Dealer, exempt from the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any registered government securities brokers or dealers that are associated persons of such Reporting Registered Government Securities Broker or Dealer. The term “Reporting Registered Government Securities Broker or Dealer” shall mean any registered government securities broker or dealer that submits such application to the Secretary on behalf of its associated registered government securities brokers or dealers.”
(5) Paragraph 240.17h-2T(c) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(c)
Special provisions with respect to Material Associated Persons subject to the supervision of certain domestic regulators.
A registered government securities broker or dealer shall be deemed to be in compliance with the reporting requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a Material Associated Person if such registered government securities broker or dealer files Items 1, 2, and 3 (in Part I) of Form 17-H in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, provided that:
“(1) Such Material Associated Person is subject to examination by or the reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency and the registered government securities broker or dealer or such Material Associated Person furnishes in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section copies of reports filed by the Material Associated Person with the Federal banking agency pursuant to section 5211 of the Revised Statutes, section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, section 7(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section 10(b) of the Home Owners' Loan Act, or section 5 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956; or * * * ”
(6) Paragraph 240.17h-2T(d) of this title is modified to read as follows:
“(d)
Special provisions with respect to Material Associated Persons subject to the supervision of a foreign financial regulatory authority.
A registered government securities broker or dealer shall be deemed to be in compliance with the reporting requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a Material Associated Person if such registered government securities broker or dealer furnishes, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, Items 1, 2, and 3 (in Part I) of Form 17-H and copies of the reports filed by such Material Associated Person with a Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority. The registered government securities broker or dealer shall file a copy of the original Foreign Financial Regulatory report and a copy translated into the English language. For the purposes of this section, the term Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority shall have the meaning set forth in section 3(a)(52) of the Act.”
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[60 FR 20401, Apr. 26, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 38456, July 8, 2014]
Pt. 420

# PART 420—LARGE POSITION REPORTING
Sec.
420.1
Applicability.
420.2
Definitions.
420.3
Reporting.
420.4
Recordkeeping.
420.5
Applicability date.
Appendix A to Part 420—Separate Reporting Entity
Appendix B to Part 420—Sample Large Position Report

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78o-5(f).

# Source:
79 FR 73414, Dec. 10, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 420.1
Applicability.
(a) This part is applicable to all persons that participate in the government securities market, including, but not limited to: Government securities brokers and dealers, depository institutions that exercise investment discretion, registered investment companies, registered investment advisers, pension funds, hedge funds, and insurance companies that may control a position in a recently-issued marketable Treasury bill, note, or bond as those terms are defined in § 420.2.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, Treasury requests that central banks (including U.S. Federal
Reserve Banks for their own account), foreign governments, and international monetary authorities voluntarily submit large position reports when they meet or exceed a reporting threshold.
§ 420.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Aggregating entity
means a single entity (
e.g.,
a parent company, affiliate, or organizational component) that is combined with other entities, as specified in the definition of “reporting entity” of this section, to form a reporting entity. In those cases where an entity has no affiliates, the aggregating entity is the same as the reporting entity.
Control
means having the authority to exercise investment discretion over the purchase, sale, retention, or financing of specific Treasury securities.
Large position threshold
means the minimum dollar par amount of the specified Treasury security that a reporting entity must control in order for the entity to be required to submit a large position report. It also means the minimum number of futures, options on futures, and exchange-traded options contracts for which the specified Treasury security is deliverable that the reporting entity must control in order for the entity to be required to submit a large position report. Treasury will announce the large position thresholds, which may vary with each notice of request to report large position information and with each specified Treasury security. Treasury may announce different thresholds for certain reporting criteria. Under no circumstances will a large position threshold be less than 10 percent of the amount outstanding of the specified Treasury security.
Recently-issued
means:
(1) With respect to Treasury securities that are issued quarterly or more frequently, the three most recent issues of the security.
(2) With respect to Treasury securities that are issued less frequently than quarterly, the two most recent issues of the security.
(3) With respect to a reopened security, the entire issue of a reopened security (older and newer portions) based on the date the new portion of the reopened security is issued by Treasury (or for when-issued securities, the scheduled issue date).
(4) For all Treasury securities, a security announced to be issued or auctioned but unissued (when-issued), starting from the date of the issuance announcement. The most recent issue of the security is the one most recently announced.
(5) Treasury security issues other than those specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition, provided that such large position information is necessary and appropriate for monitoring the impact of concentrations of positions in Treasury securities.
Reporting entity
means any corporation, partnership, person, or other entity and its affiliates, as further provided herein. For the purposes of this definition, an affiliate is any: Entity that is more than 50% owned, directly or indirectly, by the aggregating entity or by any other affiliate of the aggregating entity; person or entity that owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the aggregating entity; person or entity that owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of any other affiliate of the aggregating entity; or entity, a majority of whose board of directors or a majority of whose general partners are directors or officers of the aggregating entity or any affiliate of the aggregating entity.
(1) Subject to the conditions prescribed in appendix A to this part, one aggregating entity, or a combination of aggregating entities, may be recognized as a separate reporting entity.
(2) Notwithstanding this definition, any persons or entities that intentionally act together with respect to the investing in, retention of, or financing of Treasury securities are considered, collectively, to be one reporting entity.
Reporting requirement
means that an entity must file a large position report when it meets any one of eight criteria contained in appendix B to this part.
§ 420.3
Reporting.
(a) A reporting entity must file a large position report if it meets the reporting requirement as defined in § 420.2. Treasury will provide notice of the large position thresholds by issuing
a public announcement and subsequently publishing the notice in the
Federal Register.
Such notice will identify the Treasury security issue(s) to be reported (including, where applicable, identifying the related STRIPS principal component); the date or dates for which the large position information must be reported; and the large position thresholds for that issue. A reporting entity is responsible for taking reasonable actions to be aware of such a notice.
(b) A reporting entity shall select one entity from among its aggregating entities (
i.e.,
the designated filing entity) as the entity designated to compile and file a report on behalf of the reporting entity. The designated filing entity shall be responsible for filing any large position reports in response to a notice issued by Treasury and for maintaining the additional records prescribed in § 420.4.
(c)(1) In response to a notice issued under paragraph (a) of this section requesting large position information, a reporting entity that controls an amount of the specified Treasury security that equals or exceeds one of the specified large position thresholds stated in the notice shall compile and report the amounts of the reporting entity's positions in the order specified, as follows:
(i)
Part I.
Positions in the Security Being Reported as of the Opening of Business on the Report Date, including positions:
(A) In book-entry accounts of the reporting entity;
(B) As collateral against borrowings of funds on general collateral finance repurchase agreements;
(C) As collateral against borrowings of funds on tri-party repurchase agreements;
(D) As collateral or margin to secure other contractual obligations of the reporting entity; and
(E) Otherwise available to the reporting entity.
(ii)
Part II.
Settlement Obligations Attributable to Outright Purchase and Sale Contracts Negotiated Prior to or on the Report Date (excluding settlement fails), including:
(A) Obligations to receive or deliver, on the report date, the security being reported attributable to contracts for cash settlement (T + 0);
(B) Obligations to receive or deliver, on the report date, the security being reported attributable to contracts for regular settlement (T + 1);
(C) Obligations to receive or deliver, on the report date, the security being reported attributable to contracts, including when-issued contracts, for forward settlement (T + n, n
1);
(D) Obligations to receive, on the report date, the security being reported attributable to Treasury auction awards; and
(E) Obligations to receive or deliver, on the report date, principal STRIPS derived from the security being reported attributable to contracts for cash settlement, regular settlement, when-issued settlement, and forward settlement.
(iii)
Part III.
Settlement Obligations Attributable to Delivery-versus-Payment Financing Contracts (including repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements) Negotiated Prior to or on the Report Date (excluding settlement fails), including:
(A) Obligations to receive or deliver, on the report date, the security being reported, and principal STRIPS derived from the security being reported, attributable to overnight agreements;
(B) Obligations to receive or deliver, on the report date, the security being reported, and principal STRIPS derived from the security being reported, attributable to term agreements due to open on, or due to close on, the report date; and
(C) Obligations to receive or deliver, on the report date, the security being reported, and principal STRIPS derived from the security being reported, attributable to open agreements due to open on, or due to close on, the report date.
(iv)
Part IV.
Settlement Fails from Days Prior to the Report Date (Legacy Obligations), including obligations to receive or deliver, on the report date, the security being reported, and principal STRIPS derived from the security being reported, arising out of settlement fails on days prior to the report date.
(v)
Part V.
Settlement Fails as of the Close of Business on the Report Date,
including obligations to receive or deliver, on the business day following the report date, the security being reported, and principal STRIPS derived from the security being reported, arising out of settlement fails on the report date.
(vi)
Part VI.
Positions in the Security Being Reported as of the Close of Business on the Report Date, including positions:
(A) In book-entry accounts of the reporting entity;
(B) As collateral against borrowings of funds on general collateral finance repurchase agreements;
(C) As collateral against borrowings of funds on tri-party repurchase agreements;
(D) As collateral or margin to secure other contractual obligations of the reporting entity; and
(E) Otherwise available to the reporting entity.
(vii)
Part VII.
Quantity of Continuing Delivery-versus-Payment Financing Contracts for the Security Being Reported, including the gross amount of security being reported borrowed or lent out on term delivery-versus-payment repurchase agreements opened before the report date and not due to close until after the report date, and on open delivery-versus-payment repurchase agreements opened before the report date and not closed on the report date.
(viii)
Part VIII.
Futures and Options Contracts, including:
(A)(
1
) Net position, as of the close of market on the business day prior to the report date, in futures, options on futures, and exchange-traded options contracts on which the security being reported is deliverable (report number of contracts); and
(
2
) Net position, as of the close of market on the report date, in futures, options on futures, and exchange-traded options contracts on which the security being reported is deliverable (report number of contracts).
(B)(
1
) Net position, as of the close of market on the business day prior to the report date, in over-the-counter options contracts on which the security being reported is deliverable (report notional amount of contracts regardless of option delta); and
(
2
) Net position, as of the close of market on the report date, in over-the-counter options contracts on which the security being reported is deliverable (report notional amount of contracts regardless of option delta).
(d) An illustration of a sample report is contained in appendix B of this part.
(e) Each of the components of Part I-Part VIII of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be reported as a positive number or zero. All reportable amounts should be reported in the order specified above and at par in millions of dollars, except futures, options on futures, and exchange-traded options contracts, which should be reported as the number of contracts. Over-the-counter options contracts should be reported as the notional dollar amount of contracts regardless of option delta.
(f) Each submitted large position report must include the following administrative information: Name of the reporting entity; address of the principal place of business; name and address of the designated filing entity; the Treasury security that is being reported; the CUSIP number for the security being reported; the report date or dates for which information is being reported; the date the report was submitted; name and telephone number of the person to contact regarding information reported; and name and position of the authorized individual submitting this report.
(1) Reporting entities have the option to identify the type(s) of business engaged in by the reporting entity and its aggregating entities with positions in the specified Treasury security by checking the appropriate box. The types of businesses include: Broker or dealer, government securities broker or dealer, municipal securities broker or dealer, futures commission merchant, bank holding company, non-bank holding company, bank, investment adviser, commodity pool operator, pension trustee, non-pension trustee, and insurance company. Reporting entities may select as many business types as applicable. If the reporting entity is engaged in a business that is not listed, it could select “other” and provide a description of its business with respect to positions in the specified Treasury security.
(2) Reporting entities also have the option to identify their overall investment strategy with respect to positions in the specified Treasury security by checking the appropriate box. Active investment strategies include those that involve purchasing, selling, borrowing, lending, and financing positions in the security prior to maturity. Passive investment strategies include those that involve holding the security until maturity. A combination of active and passive strategies would involve applying the aforementioned active and passive strategies to all or a portion of a reporting entity's positions in the specified Treasury security. Reporting entities may select the most applicable investment strategy.
(g) The large position report must be signed by one of the following: The chief compliance officer; chief legal officer; chief financial officer; chief operating officer; chief executive officer; or managing partner or equivalent of the designated filing entity. The designated filing entity must also include in the report, immediately preceding the signature, a statement of certification as follows:
By signing below, I certify that the information contained in this report with regard to the designated filing entity is accurate and complete. Further, after reasonable inquiry and to the best of my knowledge and belief, I certify that: (i) The information contained in this report with regard to any other aggregating entities is accurate and complete; and (ii) the reporting entity, including all aggregating entities, is in compliance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 420.
(h) The report must be filed before noon Eastern Time on the fourth business day following issuance of a public announcement.
(i) A report to be filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section will be considered filed when received by Treasury or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York according to the instructions provided in the public announcement.
(j) A reporting entity that has filed a report pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall, at the request of Treasury, or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at the direction of Treasury, timely provide any supplemental information pertaining to such report.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[79 FR 73414, Dec. 10, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 52768, Oct. 18, 2018]
§ 420.4
Recordkeeping.
(a)
Recordkeeping responsibility of aggregating entities.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, an aggregating entity that controls a portion of its reporting entity's position in a recently-issued Treasury security, when such position of the reporting entity equals or exceeds $2 billion, shall be responsible for making and maintaining the records prescribed in this section.
(b)
Records to be made and preserved by entities that are subject to the recordkeeping provisions of the SEC, Treasury, or the appropriate regulatory agencies for financial institutions.
As an aggregating entity, compliance by a registered broker or dealer, registered government securities broker or dealer, noticed financial institution, depository institution that exercises investment discretion, registered investment adviser, or registered investment company with the applicable recordkeeping provisions of the SEC, Treasury, or the appropriate regulatory agencies for financial institutions shall constitute compliance with this section, provided that, if such entity is also the designated filing entity, it:
(1) Makes and keeps copies of all large position reports filed pursuant to this part;
(2) Makes and keeps supporting documents or schedules used to compute data for the large position reports filed pursuant to this part, including any certifications or schedules it receives from aggregating entities pertaining to their holdings of the reporting entity's position;
(3) Makes and keeps a chart showing the organizational entities that are aggregated (if applicable) in determining the reporting entity's position; and
(4) With respect to recordkeeping preservation requirements that contain more than one retention period, preserves records required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section for the
longest record retention period of applicable recordkeeping provisions.
(c)
Records to be made and preserved by other entities.
(1) An aggregating entity that is not subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section shall make and preserve a journal, blotter, or other record of original entry containing an itemized record of all transactions that contribute to a reporting entity's position, including information showing the account for which such transactions were effected and the following information pertaining to the identification of each instrument: The type of security, the par amount, the CUSIP number, the trade date, the maturity date, the type of transaction (
e.g.
, a reverse repurchase agreement), and the name or other designation of the person from whom sold or purchased.
(2) If such aggregating entity is also the designated filing entity, then in addition it shall make and preserve the following records:
(i) Copies of all large position reports filed pursuant to this part;
(ii) Supporting documents or schedules used to compute data for the large position reports filed pursuant to this part, including any certifications or schedules it receives from aggregating entities pertaining to their holdings of the reporting entity's position; and
(iii) A chart showing the organizational entities that are aggregated (if applicable) in determining the reporting entity's position.
(3) With respect to the records required by paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, each such aggregating entity shall preserve such records for a period of not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place. If an aggregating entity maintains its records at a location other than its principal place of business, the aggregating entity must maintain an index that states the location of the records, and such index must be easily accessible at all times.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
§ 420.5
Applicability date.
The provisions of this part shall be first applicable beginning March 31, 1997.
Pt. 420, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 420—Separate Reporting Entity
Subject to the following conditions, one or more aggregating entity(ies) (
e.g.,
parent, subsidiary, or organizational component) in a reporting entity, either separately or together with one or more other aggregating entity(ies), may be recognized as a separate reporting entity. All of the following conditions must be met for such entity(ies) to qualify for recognition as a separate reporting entity:
(1) Such entity(ies) must be prohibited by law or regulation from exchanging, or must have established written internal procedures designed to prevent the exchange of information related to transactions in Treasury securities with any other aggregating entity;
(2) Such entity(ies) must not be created for the purpose of circumventing these large position reporting rules;
(3) Decisions related to the purchase, sale or retention of Treasury securities must be made by employees of such entity(ies). Employees of such entity(ies) who make decisions to purchase or dispose of Treasury securities must not perform the same function for other aggregating entities; and
(4) The records of such entity(ies) related to the ownership, financing, purchase and sale of Treasury securities must be maintained by such entity(ies). Those records must be identifiable—separate and apart from similar records for other aggregating entities.
To obtain recognition as a separate reporting entity, each aggregating entity or group of aggregating entities must request such recognition from Treasury pursuant to the procedures outlined in § 400.2(c) of this chapter. Such request must provide a description of the entity or group and its position within the reporting entity, and provide the following certification:
[Name of the entity(ies)] hereby certifies that to the best of its knowledge and belief it meets the conditions for a separate reporting entity as described in appendix A to 17 CFR part 420. The above named entity also certifies that it has established written policies or procedures, including ongoing compliance monitoring processes, that are designed to prevent the entity or group of entities from:
(1) Exchanging any of the following information with any other aggregating entity (a) positions that it holds or plans to trade in a Treasury security; (b) investment strategies that it plans to follow regarding Treasury securities; and (c) financing strategies that it plans to follow regarding Treasury securities, or
(2) In any way intentionally acting together with any other aggregating entity with respect to the purchase, sale, retention or financing of Treasury securities.
The above-named entity agrees that it will promptly notify Treasury in writing when any of the information provided to obtain separate reporting entity status changes or when this certification is no longer valid.
Any entity, including any organizational component thereof, that previously has received recognition as a separate bidder in Treasury auctions from Treasury pursuant to 31 CFR part 356 is also recognized as a separate reporting entity without the need to request such status, provided such entity continues to be in compliance with the conditions set forth in appendix A to 31 CFR part 356.
Pt. 420, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 420—Sample Large Position Report

# Formula for Determining Whether To Submit a Large Position Report
(Report all components as a positive number or zero in millions of dollars at par value)
ER10DE14.003
ER10DE14.004
ER10DE14.005
ER10DE14.006
ER10DE14.007
ER10DE14.008
Pt. 449

# PART 449—FORMS, SECTION 15C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Sec.
449.1
Form G-FIN, notification by financial institutions of status as government securities broker or dealer pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
449.2
Form G-FINW, notification by financial institutions of cessation of status as government securities broker or dealer pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 400.6 of this chapter.
449.3
Form G-FIN-4, notification by persons associated with financial institutions that are government securities brokers and dealers pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 400.4 of this chapter.
449.4
Form G-FIN-5, notification of termination of association with a financial institution that is a government securities broker or dealer pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 400.4 of this chapter.
449.5
Form G-405, information required of registered government securities brokers and dealers pursuant to section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and §§ 405.2 and 405.3 of this chapter.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a), (b)(1)(B), (b)(4).

# Source:
52 FR 27956, July 24, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 449.1
Form G-FIN, notification by financial institutions of status as government securities broker or dealer pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This form is to be used by financial institutions that are government securities brokers or dealers not exempt under part 401 of this chapter to notify their appropriate regulatory agency of their status. The form is promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and is available from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the SEC.
[52 FR 27956, July 24, 1987, as amended at 79 FR 38456, July 8, 2014]
§ 449.2
Form G-FINW, notification by financial institutions of cessation of status as government securities broker or dealer pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 400.6 of this chapter.
This form is to be used by financial institutions that are government securities brokers or dealers to notify their appropriate regulatory agency that they have ceased to function as a government securities broker or dealer. The form is promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and is available from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the SEC.
[52 FR 27956, July 24, 1987, as amended at 79 FR 38456, July 8, 2014]
§ 449.3
Form G-FIN-4, notification by persons associated with financial institutions that are government securities brokers and dealers pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 400.4 of this chapter.
This form is to be used by associated persons of financial institutions that are government securities brokers or dealers to provide certain information to the financial institution and the appropriate regulatory agency concerning employment, residence, and statutory disqualification. The form is promulgated by the Department of the Treasury and is available from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the SEC.
[52 FR 27956, July 24, 1987, as amended at 79 FR 38456, July 8, 2014]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form G-FIN-4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 449.4
Form G-FIN-5, notification of termination of association with a financial institution that is a government securities broker or dealer pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 400.4 of this chapter.
This form is to be used by financial institutions that are government securities brokers or dealers to notify the appropriate regulatory agency of the fact that an associated person is no longer associated with the government securities broker or dealer function of the financial institution. The form is promulgated by the Department of the Treasury and is available from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the SEC.
[52 FR 27956, July 24, 1987, as amended at 79 FR 38456, July 8, 2014]
§ 449.5
Form G-405, information required of registered government securities brokers and dealers pursuant to section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and §§ 405.2 and 405.3 of this chapter.
This form is to be used by registered government securities brokers and dealers to make the monthly, quarterly and annual financial reports required by part 405 of this chapter. The form is promulgated by the Department of the Treasury and is available from the SEC and the designated examining authorities.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form G-405, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# SUBCHAPTER B—REGULATIONS UNDER TITLE II OF THE GOVERNMENT SECURITIES ACT OF 1986
Pt. 450

# PART 450—CUSTODIAL HOLDINGS OF GOVERNMENT SECURITIES BY DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS
Sec.
450.1
Scope of regulations; office responsible.
450.2
Definitions.
450.3
Exemption for holdings subject to fiduciary standards.
450.4
Custodial holdings of government securities.
450.5
Effective date.

# Authority:
Sec. 201, Pub. L. 99-571, 100 Stat. 3222-23 (31 U.S.C. 3121, 9110); Sec. 101, Pub. L. 99-571, 100 Stat. 3208 (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(b)(1)(A), (b)(4), (b)(5)(B)).

# Source:
52 FR 27957, July 24, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 450.1
Scope of regulations; office responsible.
(a) This part applies to depository institutions that hold government securities as fiduciary, custodian, or otherwise for the account of a customer, and that are not government securities brokers or dealers, as defined in sections 3(a)(43) and 3(a)(44) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(43)-(44)). Depository institutions exempt under part 401 of this chapter from the requirements of Subchapter A of this chapter must comply with this part. Certain depository institutions that are government securities brokers or dealers must also comply with this part, as well as with additional requirements set forth in § 403.5.
(b) The regulations in this subchapter are promulgated by the Assistant Secretary (Domestic Finance) pursuant to a delegation of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury. The office responsible for the regulations is the Office of the Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Procedures for obtaining interpretations of the regulations are set forth at § 400.2.
[52 FR 27957, July 24, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 28987, Aug. 1, 1988; 79 FR 38456, July 8, 2014]
§ 450.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this subchapter:
(a)
Appropriate regulatory agency
has the meaning set out in section 3(a)(34)(G) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)(G)), except that the appropriate regulatory agency for—
(1) A Federal credit union as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752(1) and an insured credit union as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752(7) is the National Credit Union Administration; and
(2) Any depository institution for whom an appropriate regulatory agency is not explicitly specified by either section 3(a)(34)(G) or this paragraph, is the SEC;
(b)
Customer
includes, but is not limited to, the counterparty to a transaction pursuant to a repurchase agreement for whom the depository institution retains possession of the security sold subject to repurchase, but does not include a broker or dealer that is registered pursuant to section 15, 15B or 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o, 78o-4, 78o-5(a)(l)(A)) or that has filed notice of its status as a government securities broker or dealer pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(B)) except as provided in § 450.4.
(c)
Depository institution
has the meaning stated in clauses (i) through (vi) of section 19(b)(1)(A) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A) (i)-(vi)) and also includes a foreign bank, an agency or branch of a foreign bank and a commercial lending company owned or controlled by a foreign bank (as such terms are defined in the International Banking Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-369, 92 Stat. 607);
(d)
Fiduciary capacity
includes trustee, executor, administrator, registrar, transfer agent, guardian, assignee, receiver, managing agent, and any other similar capacity involving the sole or shared exercise of discretion by a depository institution having fiduciary powers that is supervised by a Federal or state financial institution regulatory agency; and
(e)
Government securities
means:
If . . .
Then . . .
(1)(i) A depository institution is a government securities broker or dealer as defined in sections 3(a)(43) and 3(a)(44) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(43)-(44))
“Government securities” means those obligations described in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), or (E) of section 3(a)(42) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(42)(A)-(C), (E))
(ii) A depository institution is exempt under Part 401 of this chapter from the requirements of Subchapter A
“Government securities” means those obligations described in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), or (E) of section 3(a)(42) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(42)(A)-(C), (E))
(2) A depository institution is not a government securities broker or dealer as defined in sections 3(a)(43) and 3(a)(44) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(43)-(44))
“Government securities” means those obligations described in subparagraphs (A), (B), or (C) of section 3(a)(42) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(42)(A)-(C))
[52 FR 27957, July 24, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 6604, Feb. 26, 1990; 66 FR 28655, May 24, 2001; 66 FR 29888, June 1, 2001]
§ 450.3
Exemption for holdings subject to fiduciary standards.
(a) The Secretary has determined that the rules and standards of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation governing the holding of government securities in a fiduciary capacity by depository institutions subject thereto are adequate. Accordingly, such depository institutions are exempt from this part with respect to their holdings of government securities in a fiduciary capacity and their holdings of government securities in a custodial capacity provided that:
(1) Such institution has adopted policies and procedures that would apply to such custodial holdings all the requirements imposed by its appropriate regulatory agency that are applicable to government securities held in a fiduciary capacity, and
(2) Such custodial holdings are subject to examination by the appropriate regulatory agency for compliance with such fiduciary requirements.
(b) The Secretary expects that each appropriate regulatory agency will notify the Department if it materially revises its rules and standards governing the holding of government securities in a fiduciary capacity.
[52 FR 27957, July 24, 1987, as amended at 70 FR 29446, May 23, 2005; 79 FR 38456, July 8, 2014]
§ 450.4
Custodial holdings of government securities.
Depository institutions that are subject to this part shall observe the following requirements with respect to their holdings of government securities for customer accounts:
(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a depository institution shall maintain possession or control of all government securities held for the account of customers by segregating such securities from the assets of the depository institution and keeping them free of any lien, charge or claim of any third party granted or created by such depository institution.
(2)(i) Where customer securities are maintained by a depository institution at another depository institution, including but not limited to a correspondent bank or a trust company (“custodian institution”), the depository institution shall be in compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section if:
(A) The depository institution notifies the custodian institution that such securities are customer securities;
(B) The custodian institution maintains such securities in an account that is designated for customers of the depository institution and that does not contain proprietary securities of the depository institution; and
(C) The depository institution instructs the custodian institution to maintain such securities free of any lien, charge, or claim of any kind in favor of such custodian institution or any persons claiming through it.
(ii) To the extent that a custodian institution holds securities that have been identified as customer securities by a depository institution in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, the custodian institution shall treat such securities as customer securities separate from any other securities held for the account of the depository institution.
(3)(i) Where securities that a depository institution is required, pursuant to this part 450, to keep free of all liens, charges, or other claims (“customer securities”) are maintained by a depository institution at a Federal Reserve Bank, the depository institution shall be in compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section if any lien, charge or other claim of such Federal Reserve Bank or any person claiming through it against securities of the depository institution expressly excludes customer securities.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, a depository institution described in that paragraph shall be in compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section if a Federal Reserve Bank retains a lien on securities received during the day that are subsequently determined to be customer securities,
provided that,
(A) On that day, the depository institution:
(
1
) Because of extraordinary circumstances, at the end of that day either requests a discount window advance or is unable to eliminate an overdraft with its Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Reserve Bank extends credit to the depository institution in order to assure the safety and soundness or liquidity of the depository institution; and
(
2
) After reasonable efforts, is unable to provide the Federal Reserve Bank with an adequate security interest in other collateral that is clearly identifiable as pledgeable by the depository institution sufficient to fully collateralize such extension of credit; and
(B) The depository institution diligently pursues with the Federal Reserve Bank the substitution of other collateral for securities determined to be customer securities; and
(C) The Federal Reserve Bank agrees that to the extent the lien extends to collateral of a value greater than the outstanding balance on the loan, customer securities will be the first collateral released from the lien.
(4)(i) To the extent that a depository institution holds securities that have been identified to such depository institution as customer securities by a government securities broker or dealer, or that the government securities broker or dealer has instructed the depository institution to place in a segregated account, in accordance with part 403 of subchapter A of this chapter, the depository institution shall treat such securities as customer securities separate from any other securities held for the account of the government securities broker or dealer and shall comply with all of the provisions of this section with respect to such customer securities, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section.
(ii) A clearing bank that provides clearing services for a government securities broker or dealer and that maintains a segregated account as described in § 403.4 of this chapter shall not be required to transfer securities to such account upon the instruction of the broker or dealer for whom such account is maintained if the clearing bank determines that such securities continue to be required as collateral for an extension of clearing credit to such dealer. Whenever a clearing bank does not segregate securities as of the close of business upon the instruction of such broker or dealer, it shall send a notification to the appropriate regulatory agency of the broker or dealer for whom such account is maintained. Such securities shall thereafter be segregated pursuant to the instruction of the broker or dealer as soon as they are no longer required by the clearing bank as collateral for the extension of clearing credit.
(5) A depository institution that is subject to part 403 is not required to maintain possession or control of margin securities as that term is defined in § 403.5(f)(1).
(6) Notwithstanding the requirement of paragraph (a)(1) to maintain possession or control of customer securities, a depository institution may lend such
securities to a third party pursuant to the written agreement of the customer, if such loan of securities is carried out in full compliance with supervisory guidelines of its appropriate regulatory agency that expressly govern securities lending practices.
(b)(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a depository institution shall issue a confirmation or a safekeeping receipt for each security held for a customer in accordance with this section with the exception of securities that are the subject of repurchase transactions which are subject to the requirements of § 403.5(d) of this chapter. The confirmation or safekeeping receipt shall identify the issuer, maturity date, par amount and coupon rate of the security being confirmed. The confirmation may be supplied to the customer in any manner that complies with applicable Federal banking regulations.
(2) A depository institution shall not be required to send the confirmation or safekeeping receipt required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section to a customer that is a non-U.S. citizen residing outside the United States or a foreign corporation, partnership, or trust, if such customer expressly waives in writing the right to receive such confirmation or safekeeping receipt.
(c) Records of government securities held for customers shall be maintained and shall be kept separate and distinct from other records of the depository institution. Such records shall:
(1) Provide a system for identifying each customer, and each government security (or the amount of each issue of a government security issued in book-entry form) held for the customer;
(2) Describe the customer's interest in the government security;
(3) Indicate all receipts and deliveries of government securities and all receipts and disbursements of cash by the depository institution in connection with such securities;
(4) Include a copy of the safekeeping receipt or a confirmation issued for each government security held; and
(5) Provide an adequate basis for audit of such information.
(d) Counts of government securities held for customers in both definitive and book-entry form shall be conducted at least annually and such counts shall be reconciled with customer account records.
(1) Counts of book-entry securities and of definitive securities held outside the possession of the depository institution shall be made by reconciliation of the records of the depository institution with those of any depository, depository institution, or Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the depository institution has securities accounts.
(2) The depository institution conducting the count shall also verify any such securities in transfer, in transit, pledged, loaned, borrowed, deposited, failed to receive, failed to deliver, subject to repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements or otherwise subject to the depository institution's control or direction that are not in its physical possession, where the securities have been in such status for longer than thirty days.
(3) The dates and results of such counts and reconciliations shall be documented with differences noted in a security count difference account not later than seven business days after the date of each required count and verification as provided in this paragraph (d).
(e) For purposes of this section, a depository institution shall treat a government securities broker or dealer as a customer with respect to securities maintained by such government securities broker or dealer in a Segregated Account as defined in § 403.4(f)(1) of this chapter and with respect to securities otherwise identified to the depository institution as customer securities for purposes of maintaining possession or control of such securities as required by part 403 of this chapter. The recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (c) of this section require the depository institution to treat such securities as customer securities separate from any other securities held for the account of the government securities broker or dealer, but do not require the depository institution to keep records identifying individual customers of the government securities broker or dealer.
(f) The records required by paragraphs (c) and (d)(3) of this section
shall be preserved for not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0089)
[52 FR 27957, July 24, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 11026, Mar. 1, 1995]
§ 450.5
Effective date.
This part shall be effective October 31, 1987.
PARTS 451-499 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
Table of OMB Control Numbers
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
17 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
OMB Control Numbers

# Table of OMB Control Numbers
The OMB control numbers for chapter II of title 17 appear in § 200.800. For the convenience of the user, § 200.800 is reprinted below.
§ 200.800
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart collects and displays the control numbers assigned to information collection requirements of the Commission by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3500
et seq.
This subpart displays current OMB control numbers for those information collection requirements of the Commission that are rules and regulations and codified in this title either in full text or incorporated by reference with the approval of the Director of the Office of the Federal Register.
(b)
Display.
Information collection requirement
17 CFR part or section where identified and described
Current OMB control No.
Rule 139b
230.139b
3235-0769
Rule 147(f)(1)(iii)
230.147(f)(1)(iii)
3235-0756
Rule 147A(f)(1)(iii)
230.147A(f)(1)(iii)
3235-0757
Rule 154
230.154
3235-0495
Rule 163
230.163
3235-0619
Rule 173
230.173
3235-0618
Rule 192
230.192
3235-0807
Rule 236
230.236
3235-0095
Rule 237
230.237
3235-0528
Rule 239
230.239
3235-0687
Regulation A
230.251 through 230.263
3235-0286
Rule 425
230.425
3235-0521
Rule 433
230.433
3235-0617
Rule 477
230.477
3235-0550
Rule 482
230.482
3235-0565
Rule 489
230.489
3235-0411
Rule 498
230.498
3235-0648
Rule 498A
230.498A
3235-0765
Regulation D
230.500 through 230.508
3235-0076
Regulation E
230.601 through 230.610a
3235-0232
Rule 604
230.604
3235-0232
Rule 605
230.605
3235-0232
Rule 607
230.607
3235-0747
Rule 609
230.609
3235-0233
Rule 701
230.701
3235-0522
Regulation S
230.901 through 230.905
3235-0357
Rule 405
232.405
3235-0645
Form S-1
239.11
3235-0065
Form S-2
239.12
3235-0072
Form S-3
239.13
3235-0073
Form N-2
239.14
3235-0026
Form N-1A
239.15A
3235-0307
Form S-6
239.16
3235-0184
Form S-8
239.16b
3235-0066
Form N-3
239.17a
3235-0316
Form N-4
239.17b
3235-0318
Form S-11
239.18
3235-0067
Form N-14
239.23
3235-0336
Form N-5
239.24
3235-0169
Form S-4
239.25
3235-0324
Form F-1
239.31
3235-0258
Form F-3
239.33
3235-0256
Form F-4
239.34
3235-0325
Form F-6
239.36
3235-0292
Form F-7
239.37
3235-0383
Form F-8
239.38
3235-0378
Form F-10
239.40
3235-0380
Form F-80
239.41
3235-0404
Form F-X
239.42
3235-0379
Form F-N
239.43
3235-0411
Form SF-1
239.44
3235-0707
Form SF-3
239.45
3235-0690
Form ID
239.63
3235-0328
Form SE
239.64
3235-0327
Form TH
239.65
3235-0425
Form 1-A
239.90
3235-0286
Form 1-K
239.91
3235-0720
Form 1-SA
239.92
3235-0721
Form 1-U
239.93
3235-0722
Form 1-Z
239.94
3235-0723
Form 144
239.144
3235-0101
Form 1-E
239.200
3235-0232
Form CB
239.800
3235-0518
Form C
239.900
3235-0716
Rule 6a-1
240.6a-1
3235-0017
Rule 6a-3
240.6a-3
3235-0021
Rule 6a-4
240.6a-4
3235-0554
Rule 6h-1
240.6h-1
3235-0555
Rule 8c-1
240.8c-1
3235-0514
Rule 9b-1
240.9b-1
3235-0480
Rule 10a-1
240.10a-1
3235-0475
Rule 10b5-1
240.10b5-1
3235-0801
Rule 10b-10
240.10b-10
3235-0444
Rule 10b-17
240.10b-17
3235-0476
Rule 10b-18
240.10b-18
3235-0474
Rule 10A-1
240.10A-1
3235-0468
Rule 11a1-1(T)
240.11a1-1(T)
3235-0478
Rule 12a-5
240.12a-5
3235-0079
Rule 12d1-3
240.12d1-3
3235-0109
Rule 12d2-1
240.12d2-1
3235-0081
Rule 12d2-2
240.12d2-2
3235-0080
Rule 12f-1
240.12f-1
3235-0128
Rule 12g3-2
240.12g3-2
3235-0119
Rule 12h-1(f)
240.12h-1(f)
3235-0632
Rule 13a-16
240.13a-16
3235-0116
Regulation 13D/G
240.13d-1 through 240.13d-7
3235-0145
Schedule 13D
240.13d-101
3235-0145
Schedule 13G
240.13d-102
3235-0145
Rule 13e-1
240.13e-1
3235-0305
Rule 13e-3
240.13e-3
3235-0007
Schedule 13E-3
240.13e-100
3235-0007
Schedule 13e-4F
240.13e-101
3235-0375
Regulation 14A
240.14a-1 through 240.14a-12
3235-0059
Schedule 14A
240.14a-101
3235-0059
Rule 14a-103
240.14a-103
3235-0452
Rule 14a-104
240.14a-104
3235-0452
Regulation 14C
240.14c-1
3235-0057
Schedule 14C
240.14c-101
3235-0057
Regulation 14D
240.14d-1 through 240.14d-9
3235-0102
Schedule TO
240.14d-100
3235-0515
Schedule 14D-1
240.14d-101
3235-0102
Schedule 14D-9
240.14d-101
3235-0102
Schedule 14D-1F
240.14d-102
3235-0376
Schedule 14D-9F
240.14d-103
3235-0382
Regulation 14E
240.14e-1 through 240.14e-2
3235-0102
Rule 14f-1
240.14f-1
3235-0108
Regulation 14N
240.14n-1 through 240.14n-101
3235-0655
Schedule 14N
240.14n-101
3235-0655
Rule 15a-4
240.15a-4
3235-0010
Rule 15a-6
240.15a-6
3235-0371
Rule 15b1-1
240.15b1-1
3235-0012
Rule 15b6-1(a)
240.15b6-1(a)
3235-0018
Rule 15c1-5
240.15c1-5
3235-0471
Rule 15c1-6
240.15c1-6
3235-0472
Rule 15c1-7
240.15c1-7
3235-0134
Rule 15c2-1
240.15c2-1
3235-0485
Rule 15c2-5
240.15c2-5
3235-0198
Rule 15c2-7
240.15c2-7
3235-0479
Rule 15c2-8
240.15c2-8
3235-0481
Rule 15c2-11
240.15c2-11
3235-0202
Rule 15c2-12
240.15c2-12
3235-0372
Rule 15c3-1
240.15c3-1
3235-0200
Rule 15c3-1(c)(13)
240.15c3-1(c)(13)
3235-0499
Appendix F to Rule 15c3-1
240.15c-1f
3235-0496
Rule 15c3-3
240.15c3-3
3235-0078
Rule 15c3-4
240.15c3-4
3235-0497
Rule 15d-16
240.15d-16
3235-0116
Rule 15g-2
240.15g-2
3235-0434
Rule 15g-3
240.15g-3
3235-0392
Rule 15g-4
240.15g-4
3235-0393
Rule 15g-5
240.15g-5
3235-0394
Rule 15g-6
240.15g-6
3235-0395
Rule 15g-9
240.15g-9
3235-0385
Rule 15Aj-1
240.15Aj-1
3235-0044
Rule 15Ba2-1
240.15Ba2-1
3235-0083
Rule 15Ba2-5
240.15Ba2-5
3235-0088
Rule 15Bc3-1
240.15Bc3-1
3235-0087
Rule 15Ga-2
240.15Ga-2
3235-0675
Rule 17a-1
240.17a-1
3235-0208
Rule 17a-2
240.17a-2
3235-0201
Rule 17a-3
240.17a-3
3235-0033
Rule 17a-3(a)(16)
240.17a-3(a)(16)
3235-0508
Rule 17a-4
240.17a-4
3235-0279
Rule 17a-4(b)(10)
240.17a-4(b)(10)
3235-0506
Rule 17a-5
240.17a-5
3235-0123
Rule 17a-5(c)
240.17a-5(c)
3235-0199
Rule 17a-6
240.17a-6
3235-0489
Rule 17a-7
240.17a-7
3235-0131
Rule 17a-8
240.17a-8
3235-0092
Rule 17a-9T
240.17a-9T
3235-0524
Rule 17a-10
240.17a-10
3235-0122
Rule 17a-11
240.17a-11
32350085
Rule 17a-12
240.17a-12
3235-0498
Rule 17a-13
240.17a-13
3235-035
Rule 17a-19
240.17a-19
3235-0133
Rule 17a-22
240.17a-22
3235-0196
Rule 17a-25
240.17a-25
3235-0540
Rule 17f-1(b)
240.17f-1(b)
3235-0032
Rule 17f-1(c)
240.17f-1(c)
3235-0037
Rule 17f-1(g)
240.17f-1(g)
3235-0290
Rule 17f-2(a)
240.17f-2(a)
3235-0034
Rule 17f-2(c)
240.17f-2(c)
3235-0029
Rule 17f-2(d)
240.17f-2(d)
3235-0028
Rule 17f-2(e)
240.17f-2(e)
3235-0031
Rule 17f-5
240.17f-5
3235-0269
Rule 17h-1T
240.17h-1T
3235-0410
Rule 17h-2T
240.17h-2T
3235-0410
Rule 17Ab2-1
240.17Ab2-1
3235-0195
Rule 17Ac2-1
240.17Ac2-1
3235-0084
Rule 17Ad-2(c), (d), and (h)
240.17Ad-2(c), (d), and (h)
3235-0130
Rule 17Ad-3(b)
240.17Ad-3(b)
3235-0473
Rule 17Ad-4(b) and (c)
240.17Ad-4(b) and (c)
3235-0341
Rule 17Ad-6
240.17Ad-6
3235-0291
Rule 17Ad-7
240.17Ad-7
3235-0291
Rule 17Ad-10
240.17Ad-10
3235-0273
Rule 17Ad-11
240.17Ad-11
3235-0274
Rule 17Ad-13
240.17Ad-13
3235-0275
Rule 17Ad-15
240.17Ad-15
3235-0409
Rule 17Ad-16
240.17Ad-16
3235-0413
Rule 17Ad-17
240.17Ad-17
3235-0469
Rule 19b-1
240.19b-1
3235-0354
Rule 19b-4
240.19b-4
3235-0045
Rule 19b-4(e)
240.19b-4(e)
3235-0504
Rule 19b-5
240.19b-5
3235-0507
Rule 19b-7
240.19b-7
3235-0553
Rule 19d-1
240.19d-1
3235-0206
Rule 19d-2
240.19d-2
3235-0205
Rule 19d-3
240.19d-3
3235-0204
Rule 19h-1
240.19h-1
3235-0259
Rule 24b-1
240.24b-1
3235-0194
Rule 101
242.101
3235-0464
Rule 102
242.102
3235-0467
Rule 103
242.103
3235-0466
Rule 104
242.104
3235-0465
Rule 301
242.301
3235-0509
Rule 302
242.302
3235-0510
Rule 303
242.303
3235-0505
Rule 604
242.604
3235-0462
Rule 605
242.605
3235-0542
Rule 606
242.606
3235-0541
Rule 607
242.607
3235-0435
Rule 608
242.608
3235-0500
Rule 609
242.609
3235-0043
Rule 611
242.611
3235-0600
Regulation FD
243.100 through 243.103
3235-0536
Regulation RR
244.1 through 244.22
3235-0712
Regulation G
244.100 through 244.102
3235-0576
Regulation BTR
245.100 through 245.104
3235-0579
Regulation S-P
Part 248
3235-0537
Rule 248.30
248.30
3235-0610
Regulation S-ID
248.201
3235-0692
Form 1
249.1
3235-0017
Form 1-N
249.10
3235-0554
Form 25
249.25
3235-0080
Form 26
249.26
3235-0079
Form 3
249.103
3235-0104
Form 4
249.104
3235-0287
Form 5
249.105
3235-0362
Form 8-A
249.208a
3235-0056
Form 10
249.210
3235-0064
Form 18
249.218
3235-0121
Form 20-F
249.220f
3235-0288
Form 40-F
249.240f
3235-0381
Form 6-K
249.306
3235-0116
Form 8-K
249.308
3235-0060
Form 10-Q
249.308a
3235-0070
Form 10-K
249.310
3235-0063
Form 11-K
249.311
3235-0082
Form 10-D
249.312
3235-0604
Form 18-K
249.318
3235-0120
Form 12B-25
249.322
3235-0058
Form 15
249.323
3235-0167
Form 15F
249.324
3235-0621
Form 13F
249.325
3235-0006
Form SE
249.444
3235-0327
Form ID
249.446
3235-0328
Form DF
249.448
3235-0482
Form BD
249.501
3235-0012
Form BDW
249.501a
3235-0018
Form BD-N
249.501b
3235-0556
Form X-17A-5
249.617
3235-0123
Form X-17A-19
249.635
3235-0133
Form ATS
249.637
3235-0509
Form ATS-R
249.638
3235-0509
Form CRS
249.640
3235-0766
Form X-15AJ-1
249.802
3235-0044
Form X-15AJ-2
249.803
3235-0044
Form 19b-4
249.819
3235-0045
Form 19b-4(e)
249.820
3235-0504
Form Pilot
249.821
3235-0507
Form SIP
249.1001
3235-0043
Form MSD
249.1100
3235-0083
Form MSDW
249.1110
3235-0087
Form X-17F-1A
249.1200
3235-0037
Form ABS-15G
249.1400
3235-0675
Form ABS-EE
249.1401
3235-0706
Form TA-1
249b.100
3235-0084
Form TA-W
249b.101
3235-0151
Form TA-2
249b.102
3235-0337
Form CA-1
249b.200
3235-0195
Form SD
249b.400
3235-0697
Rules 7a-15 through 7a-37
260.7a-15 through 260.7a-37
3235-0132
Form T-1
269.1
3235-0110
Form T-2
269.2
3235-0111
Form T-3
269.3
3235-0105
Form T-4
269.4
3235-0107
Form ID
269.7
3235-0328
Form SE
269.8
3235-0327
Form T-6
269.9
3235-0391
Rule 0-1
270.0-1
3235-0531
Rule 0-2
270.0-2
3235-0636
Rule 0-4
270.0-4
3235-0633
Rule 0-5
270.0-5
3235-0780
Rule 2a-5
270.2a-5
3235-0779
Rule 2a-7
270.2a-7
3235-0268
Rule 2a19-1
270.2a19-1
3235-0332
Rule 3a-4
270.3a-4
3235-0459
Rule 3a-8
270.3a-8
3235-0574
Rule 6c-7
270.6c-7
3235-0276
Rule 6e-2
270.6e-2
3235-0177
Rule 6c-11
270.6c-11
3235-0764
Rule 7d-1
270.7d-1
3235-0311
Rule 7d-2
270.7d-2
3235-0527
Section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940
270.8b-1 through 270.8b-32
3235-0176
Rule 10f-3
270.10f-3
3235-0226
Rule 11a-2
270.11a-2
3235-0272
Rule 11a-3
270.11a-3
3235-0358
Rule 12b-1
270.12b-1
3235-0212
Rule 12d1-1
270.12d1-1
3235-0584
Rule 12d1-4
270.12d1-4
3235-0639
Rule 12d3-1
270.12d3-1
3235-0561
Rule 17a-6
270.17a-6
3235-0564
Rule 17a-7
270.17a-7
3235-0214
Rule 17a-8
270.17a-8
3235-0235
Rule 17a-10
270.17a-10
3235-0563
Rule 17d-1
270.17d-1
3235-0562
Rule 17e-1
270.17e-1
3235-0217
Rule 17f-1
270.17f-1
3235-0222
Rule 17f-2
270.17f-2
3235-0223
Rule 17f-4
270.17f-4
3235-0225
Rule 17f-6
270.17f-6
3235-0447
Rule 17f-7
270.17f-7
3235-0529
Rule 17g-1(g)
270.17g-1(g)
3235-0213
Rule 17j-1
270.17j-1
3235-0224
Rule 18f-1
270.18f-1
3235-0211
Rule 18f-3
270.18f-3
3235-0441
Rule 18f-4
270.18f-4
3235-0776
Rule 19a-1
270.19a-1
3235-0216
Rule 20a-1
270.20a-1
3235-0158
Rule 22c-1
270.22c-1
3235-0734
Rule 22c-2
270.22c-2
3235-0620
Rule 22d-1
270.22d-1
3235-0310
Rule 22e-3
270.22e-3
3235-0658
Rule 22e-4
270.22e-4
3235-0737
Rule 23c-1
270.23c-1
3235-0260
Rule 23c-3
270.23c-3
3235-0422
Rule 27e-1
270.27e-1
3235-0545
Rule 30b2-1
270.30b2-1
3235-0220
Rule 30e-2
270.30e-2
3235-0494
Rule 30e-1
270.30e-1
3235-0025
Rule 30e-3
270.30e-3
3235-0758
Rule 31a-1
270.31a-1
3235-0178
Rule 31a-2
270.31a-2
3235-0179
Rule 31a-4
270.31a-4
3235-0783
Rule 32a-4
270.32a-4
3235-0530
Rule 34b-1
270.34b-1
3235-0346
Rule 35d-1
270.35d-1
3235-0548
Rule 38a-1
270.38a-1
3235-0586
Investment Company Interactive Data
Part 274
3235-0642
Form N-5
274.5
3235-0169
Form N-8A
274.10
3235-0175
Form N-2
274.11a-1
3235-0026
Form N-3
274.11b
3235-0316
Form N-4
274.11c
3235-0318
Form N-6
274.11d
3235-0503
Form N-8B-2
274.12
3235-0186
Form N-8B-4
274.14
3235-0247
Form N-6F
274.15
3235-0238
Form 24F-2
274.24
3235-0456
Form N-18F-1
274.51
3235-0211
Form N-54A
274.53
3235-0237
Form N-54C
274.54
3235-0236
Form N-CEN
274.101
3235-0729
Form N-27E-1
274.127e-1
3235-0545
Form N-27F-1
274.127f-1
3235-0546
Form N-CSR
274.128
3235-0570
Form N-PX
274.129
3235-0582
Form N-PORT
274.150
3235-0730
Form N-17D-1
274.200
3235-0229
Form N-MFP
274.201
3235-0657
Form N-8F
274.218
3235-0157
Form N-17F-1
274.219
3235-0359
Form N-17F-2
274.220
3235-0360
Form N-23c-3
274.221
3235-0422
Form N-CR
274.222
3235-0705
Form N-RN
274.223
3235-0754
Form ID
274.402
3235-0328
Form SE
274.403
3235-0327
Rule 0-2
275.0-2
3235-0240
Rule 203-3
275.203-3
3235-0538
Rule 203A-2(d)
275.203A-2(d)
3235-0689
Rule 203A-2(e)
275.203A-2(e)
3235-0559
Rule 204-2
275.204-2
3235-0278
Rule 204-3
275.204-3
3235-0047
Rule 204-5
275.204-5
3235-0767
Rule 204A-1
275.204A-1
3235-0596
Rule 206(3)-2
275.206(3)-2
3235-0243
Rule 206(4)-1
275.206(4)-1
3235-0784
Rule 206(4)-2
275.206(4)-2
3235-0241
Rule 206(4)-3
275.206(4)-3
3235-0242
Rule 206(4)-6
275.206(4)-6
3235-0571
Rule 206(4)-7
275.206(4)-7
3235-0585
Form ADV
279.1
3235-0049
Schedule I to Form ADV
279.1
3235-0490
Form ADV-W
279.2
3235-0313
Form ADV-H
279.3
3235-0538
Form 4-R
279.4
3235-0240
Form 5-R
279.5
3235-0240
Form 6-R
279.6
3235-0240
Form 7-R
279.7
3235-0240
Form ADV-E
279.8
3235-0361
Form PF
279.9
3235-0679
[67 FR 14634, Mar. 27, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 37611, June 29, 2005; 76 FR 46616, Aug. 3, 2011; 77 FR 18684, Mar. 28, 2012; 80 FR 6902, Feb. 9, 2015; 81 FR 82009, Nov. 18, 2016; 83 FR 29203, June 22, 2018; 84 FR 33629, July 12, 2019; 85 FR 26092, May 1, 2020; 89 FR 90590, Nov. 18, 2024; 90 FR 9685, Feb. 18, 2025]
17 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
17 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter II
241 Table amended
10571
242.403 (b)(1) revised
75146
242.608 (a)(1), (8), and (b)(2) revised; (b)(1)(i) through (iv) added; (b)(3)(i) removed
65497
243.103 (a) revised
33360
249 Technical correction
19884
249.220 Form 20-F amended
17242
249.220 Form 20-F amended
22007
249.220f Form 20-F amended
66142
249.240 Form 40-F amended
17242
249.308 Form 8-K amended
54072
249.310 Form 10-K amended
17242
249.310 Form 10-K amended
54073
249.330 Form N-CEN amended
83295
249.331 Form N-CSR amended
33394
249.480 Form CB amended
78230
249.1800—249.1801 (Subpart S) Removed
70948
255.6 (f) added
46522
255.10 (c)(1), (3)(i), (8), (10) heading, (i), (11), and (d)(6) revised; (c)(15) through (18), and (d)(11) added
46523
255.10 Correction: amended
60356
255.12 (b)(1)(ii), (4), (c)(1), (d), and (e) revised; (b)(5) added
46527
255.13 (d) added
46528
255.14 (a)(2)(i), (ii)(C), and (c) revised; (a)(2)(iii) through (v), and (3) added
46528
255.20 (a), (d) heading, (1), and (e) introductory text revised
46529
255.20 Correction: instruction amended
60356
270 Authority citation amended
26101
270 Technical correction
28484
270.0-1 (e) introductory text and (2) revised
26101
270.0-5 (d) through (g) added; eff. 6-14-21
57107
270.6c-7 Introductory text revised; authority citation removed
26102
270.6c-8 (b) and (c) revised; authority citation removed
26102
270.6c-11 (c)(4) revised
83291
270.6e-2 Revised
26102
270.6e-3 Redesignated from 270.6e-3 (T) and revised
26105
270.6e-3(T) Redesignated as 270.6e-3
26105
270.8b-1 Amended
26109
270.8b-2 (k) revised
54073
270.8b-11 (e) revised
78230
270.8b-16 (b)(2) and (4) revised; (e) added
33360
270.11a-2 (c) and (d) revised; authority citation removed
26109
270.12d1-1 (a) revised
74005
270.12d1-2 Removed
74005
270.12d1-4 Added
74005
270.14a-2 Revised
26109
270.18f-4 Added
83291
270.22e-4 (b)(1)(ii)(C) and (iii)(B) revised
83295
270.23c-3 (e) added; eff. 8-1-21
33360
270.24f-2emsp;(a) amended; eff. 8-1-21
33360
270.26a-1 Revised
26110
270.26a-2 Removed
26110
270.27a-1 Removed
26110
270.27a-2 Removed
26110
270.27a-3 Removed
26110
270.27c-1 Removed
26110
270.27d-2 Removed
26110
270.27e-1 Removed
26110
270.27f-1 Removed
26110
270.27g-1 Removed
26110
270.27h-1 Removed
26110
270.27i-1 Added
26110
270.30b1-10 Revised
83295
274 Technical correction
28484
274.11 Removed
26110
274.11a-1 Form N-2 amended
33361, 54074, 83295
274.11b Form N-3 revised
26110
274.11b Form N-3 amended
26204
274.11c Form N-4 revised
26204
274.11c Correction: Form N-4 amended
29614
274.11d Correction: Form N-6 revisedPG
29614
274.11d Form N-6 amended
26309
274.24—Form 24f-2 amended
33394
274.101 Form N-CEN amended
74007, 83295
274.127e-1 Removed
26309
274.127f-1 Removed
26309
274.128 Form N-CSR amended
33394
274.150 Form N-PORT amended
83295
274.223 Revised
83296
274.223 Form N-LIQUID amended
83297
274.302 Removed
26309
274.303 Removed
26309
275.203(l)-1 (a) introductory text revised
13741
275.203(m)-1 (d)(1) revised
13741
276 Table amended
55157
302 Added
53668
2021
17 CFR
86 FR
Page
241 Policy statement
44604
242.105 (b)(1)(i)(C) and (ii) amended
18809
242.201 (a)(1) through (7), (9), (b)(1)(ii), and (3) amended
18809
242.204 (g)(2) amended
18809
242.600 (b)(2) through (87) redesignated as (b)(3), (4), (6) through (15), (17), (18), (22) through (25), (27) through (58), (60) through (67), (69) through (77), (79) through (81), (84), and (86) through (100); new (b)(2), new (5), new (16), new (19), new (20) new (21), new (26), new (59), new (68), new (78), new (82), new (83), and new (85) added; new (b)(50) and new (70) revised
18809
242.600 Correction: (b)(7)(i) amended
29196
242.602 (a)(5)(i) and (ii) amended
18811
242.603 (b) revised
18811
242.611 (c) amended
18811
242.614 Added
18811
242.1000 Amended
18814
246 Determination
71810
249 Authority citation amended
17541
249.220 Form 20-F amended
2131
249.220f Form 20-F amended
3601, 70043
249.220f Form 20-F amended; interim
17541
249.240 Form 40-F amended
2133
249.240f Form 40-F amended; interim
17541
249.240f Form 40-F amended
70044
249.308 Form 8-K amended
2133, 3602
249.310 Form 10 amended
2134
249.310 Form 10-K amended
2134, 70044
249.310 Form 10-K amended; interim
17542
249.331 Form N-CSR amended; interim
17542
249.331 Form N-CSR amended
70044
249.446 Introductory text amended
25805
249.446 Form ID amended
25806
249.617 Correction: Form X-17A-5 amended
31116, 31117
249.1002 Added
18814
249.1900 Form SCI amended
18825
249b.400 Form SD amended
4715
259.602 Form ID amended
25806
269.7 Introductory text amended
25806
269.7 Form ID amended
25806
270.0-8 Revised; eff. 5-31-22
70262
270.2a-5 Added
807
270.3a-9 Added
3602
270.31a-4 Added
808
274 Authority citation revised
70262
274.5 Form N-5 amended
3603
274.11a-1 Form N-2 amended
2134, 3603, 70262
274.11A Form N-1A
3603
274.11b Form N-3 amended
3604
274.11c Form N-4 amended
3604
274.11d Form N-6 amended
3604
274.12 Form N-8B-2 amended
3605
274.24 Form 24F-2 amended
70268
274.128 Form N-CSR amended; interim
17542, 70044
274.402 Introductory text amended
25806
274.402 Form ID amended
25806
275.204-2 (a)(7)(iv), (11), (15), and (16) revised; (a)(19) added; eff. 5-4-21
13138
275.205-3 (d)(1)(i), (ii)(A) introductory text, and (e) introductory text revised; (d)(5) added
62475
275.206(4)-1 Revised; eff. 5-4-21
13139
275.206(4)-3 Removed; eff. 5-4-21
13142
279.1 Form ADV amended; eff. 5-4-21
13142
2022
17 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter II
249.104 Form 4 amended
80431
249.105 Form 5 amended
80431
249.220f Form 20-F amended
35413, 73140, 80431
249.240f Form 40-F amended
35413, 73141
249.306 Form 6-K amended
35414
249.306—249.447 (Subpart D) Heading revised; eff. 7-1-24
78808
249.308a Form 10-Q amended
80432
249.310 Form 10-K amended
35414, 73141, 80432
249.311 Form 11-K amended
35414
249.325 Form 13F revised
38965
249.326 Added; eff. 7-1-24
78808
249.326 Form N-PX revised
78811
249.331 Form N-CSR amended
72857
249.444 Form SE amended
35412
249.480 Form CB amended
35414
249.617 Correction: Form X-17A-5 amended
7934, 7935
269.8 Form SE amended
35412
270.0-2 (a) and (b) amended
38976
270.0-2 Correction: Instruction amended
41060
270.0-4 (a)(1) amended; (b), (d), and (i) removed; (g) removed
38976
270.18f-4 (a) amended
22446
270.20a-1 (a) amended
22446
270.22c-1 (b)(1) amended
22446
270.22e-3 (a)(1) amended
22446
270.30a-2 (a) and (b) amended
72847
270.30a-2 Revised
73141
270.30e-1 (d) removed; (b) and (c) redesignated as (c) and new (d); new (b) added; new (c), new (d), and (f)(2)(ii)(F) revised
72847
270.30e-3 Revised
72848
270.30b1-4 Amended; eff. 7-1-24
78809
270.31a-2 (a)(5) and (6) amended; (a)(7) added
72850
270.32a-1 Introductory text amended
22446
270.34b-1 Introductory text and (b)(3) revised; (c) added
72850
274 Authority citation revised
73142, 78809
274.5 Form N-5 amended
22446
274.5 Form N-PX amended
22447
274.11A Form N-1A amended
22446, 78809
274.11a-1 Form N-2 amended
78809
274.11b Form N-3 amended
78810
274.11A Amended; Form N-1A amended
72850
274.11a-1 Form N-2 amended
22446
274.11b Form N-3 amended
22447
274.101 Form N-CEN amended
22447
274.128 Form N-CSR amended
72857, 73142
274.129 Heading revised; eff. 7-1-24
78811
274.129 Form N-PX revised
78811
274.201 Form N-MFP amended
22447
274.403 Form SE amended
35412
275.203-1 (d) added
38977
275.204-2 (a)(15)(ii) amended
22447
275.204-3 (b) amended
22447
275.204-5 (e)(1) amended
22447
275.206(4)-1 (b)(2)(i) amended
22447
276 Table amended
43197
279.1 Form ADV amended
22447, 38977
279.4 Revised
38978
279.4 Form ADV-NR amended
38978
2023
17 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter II
242 Authority citation and heading revised
87285
242.100 (b) amended
39994
242.101 (c)(2) revised
39994
242.102 (d)(2) revised
39994
242.800 Added
87285
242.801 Added
87285
242.802 Added
87285
242.803 Added
87285
242.804 Added
87285
242.805 Added
87285
242.806 Added
87285
242.807 Added
87285
242.808 Added
87285
242.809 Added
87285
242.810 Added
87285
242.811 Added
87285
242.812 Added
87285
242.813 Added
87285
242.814 Added
87285
242.815 Added
87285
242.816 Added
87285
242.817 Added
87285
242.818 Added
87285
242.819 Added
87285
242.820 Added
87285
242.821 Added
87285
242.822 Added
87285
242.823 Added
87285
242.824 Added
87285
242.825 Added
87285
242.826 Added
87285
242.827 Added
87285
242.828 Added
87285
242.829 Added
87285
242.830 Added
87285
242.831 Added
87285
242.832 Added
87285
242.833 Added
87285
242.834 Added
87285
242.835 Added
87285
249.220f Form 20-F amended
36058, 51943
249.306 Form 6-K amended
51943
249.308 Form 8-K amended
51944
249.308a Form 10-Q amended
36058
249.310 Form 10-K amended
36058, 51944
249.325 Form 13F amended
37987
249.331 Form N-CSR amended
36059, 51523
249.332 Added
75185
249.333 Form F-SR and section added
36058
249.501 Form BD amended
32964
249.501a Form BDW amended
32965
249.1701—249.1702 (Subpart R) Added
87316
249.1701 Form SBSEF added
87316
249.1702 Amended
87316
260.0-5 (c) revised
12209
270.2a-7 (c)(2), (d)(1)(ii), (iii), (4)(ii), (iii), (h)(10) introductory text, (i)(B)(
2
), (iii) through (v), and (j) revised; (g)(8)(i) introductory text and (ii)(A) amended; (c)(3) and (f)(4) added
51521
270.12d1-1 (b)(1) amended
37987
270.12d1-3 Amended
37987
270.27i-1 Amended
37987
270.31a-2 (a)(2) revised
51523
270.35d-1 Revised
70509
274.11A Form N-1A amended
51523, 70511
274.11a-1 Form N-2 amended
37988, 70511
274.12 Form N-8B-2 amended
70511
274.128 Form N-CSR amended
36059, 51523
274.150 Form N-PORT amended
70511
274.201 Form N-MFP revised; eff. 6-11-24
51523
274.222 Form N-CR amended; eff. 6-11-24
51523
275.204(b)-1 (f)(2)(i) and (3) revised; eff. 6-11-24
38202
275.204-2 (a)(7)(iii) revised; eff. 5-5-23
13954
275.204-2 (a)(7)(iv)(B) amended; (a)(7)(v) and (20) through (24) added
63386
275.206(4)-7 (b) revised
63386
275.206(4)-9 Added
63386
275.206(4)-10 Added
63386
275.211(h)(1)-1 Added
63387
275.211(h)(1)-2 Added
63387
275.211(h)(2)-1 Added
63387
275.211(h)(2)-2 Added
63387
275.211(h)(2)-3 Added
63387
279.9 Form PF revised
38202
279.9 Form PF amended; eff. 6-11-24
51523
2024
17 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter II
242.105 (b)(1)(i)(C) and (ii) amended
26608
242.201 (a)(1) through (7) and (9) amended
26608
242.204 (g)(2) amended
26608
242.600 (b) revised
26608
242.600 (b)(69)(i), (ii), (89)(i)(D), and (E) amended; (b)(69)(iii), (89)(i)(F), and (iv) added; (b)(93) revised
81772
242.602 (a)(5)(i) and (ii) amended
26614
242.603 Heading and (b) revised
81773
242.605 (a) introductory text revised
26614
242.610 (c) revised; (d) and (e) redesignated as (e) and (f); new (d) added
81773
242.611 (c) amended
26616
242.612 Revised
81774
242.614 (d)(1) through (3) amended
26617
242.1000 Amended
26617
248.5 (a)(1) revised; (e) added
47786
248.17 (b) amended
47786
248.30 Revised
47786
249.210 Form 10 amended; eff. 5-28-24
21919
249.210 Regulation at 89 FR 21919 delayed indefinitely
25804
249.220f Form 20-F amended; eff. 5-28-24
21919
249.220f Form 20-F amended; eff. 7-1-24
14324
249.220f Form 20-F amended; eff. 4-8-24
24375
249.220f Regulation at 89 FR 21919 delayed indefinitely
25804
249.308a Form 8-K amended; eff. 7-1-24
14324
249.308a Form 10-Q amended; eff. 5-28-24
21920
249.308a Form 10-Q amended; eff. 4-8-24
24376
249.308a Regulation at 89 FR 21920 delayed indefinitely
25804
249.310 Form 10-K amended; eff. 5-28-24
21920
249.310 Form 10-K amended; eff. 4-8-24
24376
249.310 Regulation at 89 FR 21920 delayed indefinitely
25804
249.331 Form N-CSR revised; eff. 4-8-24
24376
249.331 Form N-CSR amended
90591
249.333 Section and Form F-SR removed; eff. 4-8-24
24376
249.446 Revised; Form ID amended; eff. 3-24-25
106223
269.7 Revised; Form ID amended; eff. 3-24-25
106223
270 Authority citation revised
47789
270 Correction: Amended
53487
270.3c-7 Added
70483
270.30b1-9 Revised; eff. 11-17-25
73797
270.30b1-9 Amended; eff. 5-18-26
73797
270.31a-1 (b)(13) added
47789
270.31a-2 (a)(7) amended; (a)(8) added
47789
274.11A Form N-1A amended
90591
274.11a-1 Form N-2A amended
90591
274.11b Form N-3 revised
60091
274.11c Form N-4 revised
60091
274.11d Form N-6 revised
60092
274.24 Section and Form 24F-2 revised
60092
274.101 Form N-CEN amended
73797
274.128 Form N-CSR revised; eff. 4-8-24
24376
274.128 Form N-CSR amended
90591
274.150 (a) revised
73797
274.150 Form N-PORT amended
73798
274.201 Form N-MFP amended
90591
274.402 Revised; Form ID amended; eff. 3-24-25
106223
275 Authority citation revised
47789
275 Correction: Amended
53487
275 Technical correction
96095
275.204(b)-1 (f)(2)(i) amended; (f)(4) redesignated as (f)(5); new (f)(4) added
18060
275.204-2 (a)(25) added
47789
275.204-2 (j)(4) revised
90591
275.204-2 (a)(7)(iv)(B) amended; (a)(7)(v) and (20) through (24) removed
91253
275.206(4)-7 (b) revised
91253
275.206(4)-9 Removed
91253
275.206(4)-10 Removed
91253
275.211(h)(1)-1 Removed
91253
275.211(h)(1)-2 Removed
91253
275.211(h)(2)-1 Removed
91253
275.211(h)(2)-2 Removed
91253
275.211(h)(2)-3 Removed
91253
279.1 Form ADV amended
24712
279.9 Form PF revised
18060
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
17 CFR
90 FR
Page
249.1 Form 1 revised
7371
249.10 Form 1-N revised
7371
249.104 Form 4 amended
9690
249.218 Form 18 amended
9690
249.240f Form 40-F amended
9690
249.306 Form 6-K amended
9690
249.308 Form 8-K amended
9690
249.308 Form 10-Q amended
9690
249.310 Form 10-K amended
9690
249.617 Form X-17A-5 amended
2837, 7371
249.635 Form X-17A-19 revised
7372
249.801 Revised
7372
249.801 Form X-15AA-1 redesignated as Form 15A and revised
7372
249.802 Removed
7372
249.803 Removed
7372
249.819 Form 19b-4 revised
7372
249b.200 Form CA-1 revised
7372
270 Compliance date extended
13076
274 Compliance date extended
13076
279 Order
9007
○
