7.3.4 Internal standard responses—Verify that detector sensitivity has not changed by comparing the response of each internal standard in the calibration verification standard (section 7.3) to the response of the respective internal standard in the midpoint calibration standard (section 7.2.1). The peak areas or heights of the internal standards in the calibration verification standard must be within 50% to 200% (1/2 to 2x) of their respective peak areas or heights in the mid-point calibration standard. If not, repeat the calibration verification test using a fresh calibration verification standard (7.3), or perform and document system repair. Subsequent to repair, repeat the calibration verification test (section 7.3.1). If the responses are still not within 50% to 200%, re-calibrate the instrument (section 7.2.2) and repeat the calibration verification test.

# 8. Quality Control
8.1 Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality assurance program. The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability and ongoing analysis of spiked samples and blanks to evaluate and document data quality (40 CFR 136.7). The laboratory must maintain records to document the quality of data generated. Results of ongoing performance tests are compared with established QC acceptance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet performance requirements of this method. When results of spiked samples do not meet the QC acceptance criteria in this method, a quality control check sample (laboratory control sample; LCS) must be analyzed to confirm that the measurements were performed in an in-control mode of operation. A laboratory may develop its own performance criteria (as QC acceptance criteria), provided such criteria are as or more restrictive than the criteria in this method.
8.1.1 The laboratory must make an initial demonstration of capability (DOC) to generate acceptable precision and recovery with this method. This demonstration is detailed in Section 8.2.
8.1.2 In recognition of advances that are occurring in analytical technology, and to overcome matrix interferences, the laboratory is permitted certain options (section 1.6 and 40 CFR 136.6(b)) to improve separations or lower the costs of measurements. These options may include alternate extraction, concentration, and cleanup procedures (e.g., solid-phase extraction; rotary-evaporator concentration; column chromatography cleanup), changes in column and type of mass spectrometer (40 CFR 136.6(b)(4)(xvi)). Alternate determinative techniques, such as substitution of spectroscopic or immunoassay techniques, and changes that degrade method performance, are not allowed. If an analytical technique other than GC/MS is used, that technique must have a specificity equal to or greater than the specificity of GC/MS for the analytes of interest. The laboratory is also encouraged to participate in inter-comparison and performance evaluation studies (see section 8.10).
8.1.2.1 Each time a modification is made to this method, the laboratory is required to repeat the procedure in section 8.2. If the detection limit of the method will be affected by the change, the laboratory must demonstrate that the MDLs (40 CFR part 136, appendix B) are lower than one-third the regulatory compliance limit or the MDLs in this method, whichever are greater. If calibration will be affected by the change, the instrument must be recalibrated per section 7. Once the modification is demonstrated to produce results equivalent or superior to results produced by this method, that modification may be used routinely thereafter, so long as the other requirements in this method are met (e.g., matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate recovery and relative percent difference).
8.1.2.1.1 If SPE, or another allowed method modification, is to be applied to a specific discharge, the laboratory must prepare and analyze matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate (MS/MSD) samples (section 8.3) and LCS samples (section 8.4). The laboratory must include surrogates (section 8.7) in each of the samples. The MS/MSD and LCS samples must be fortified with the analytes of interest (Section 1.3). If the modification is for nationwide use, MS/MSD samples must be prepared from a minimum of nine different discharges (See section 8.1.2.1.2), and all QC acceptance criteria in this method must be met. This evaluation only needs to be performed once other than for the routine QC required by this method (for example it could be performed by the vendor of the SPE materials) but any laboratory using that specific material must have the results of the study available. This includes a full data package with the raw data that will allow an independent reviewer to verify each determination and calculation performed by the laboratory (see section 8.1.2.2.5, items (a)-(q)).
8.1.2.1.2 Sample matrices on which MS/MSD tests must be performed for nationwide use of an allowed modification:
(a) Effluent from a POTW.
(b) ASTM D5905 Standard Specification for Substitute Wastewater.
(c) Sewage sludge, if sewage sludge will be in the permit.
(d) ASTM D1141 Standard Specification for Substitute Ocean Water, if ocean water will be in the permit.
(e) Untreated and treated wastewaters up to a total of nine matrix types (see
https://www.epa.gov/eg/industrial-effluent-guidelines
for a list of industrial categories with existing effluent guidelines).
(i) At least one of the above wastewater matrix types must have at least one of the following characteristics:
(A) Total suspended solids greater than 40 mg/L.
(B) Total dissolved solids greater than 100 mg/L.
(C) Oil and grease greater than 20 mg/L.
(D) NaCl greater than 120 mg/L.
(E) CaCO
3
greater than 140 mg/L.
(ii) Results of MS/MSD tests must meet QC acceptance criteria in Section 8.3.
(f) A proficiency testing (PT) sample from a recognized provider, in addition to tests of the nine matrices (section 8.1.2.1.1).
8.1.2.2 The laboratory is required to maintain records of modifications made to this method. These records include the following, at a minimum:
8.1.2.2.1 The names, titles, and business street addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses, of the analyst(s) that performed the analyses and modification, and of the quality control officer that witnessed and will verify the analyses and modifications.
8.1.2.2.2 A list of analytes, by name and CAS Registry Number.
8.1.2.2.3 A narrative stating reason(s) for the modifications.
8.1.2.2.4 Results from all quality control (QC) tests comparing the modified method to this method, including:
(a) Calibration (section 7).
(b) Calibration verification (section 7).
(c) Initial demonstration of capability (section 8.2).
(d) Analysis of blanks (section 8.5).
(e) Matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate analysis (section 8.3).
(f) Laboratory control sample analysis (section 8.4).
8.1.2.2.5 Data that will allow an independent reviewer to validate each determination by tracing the instrument output (peak height, area, or other signal) to the final result. These data are to include:
(a) Sample numbers and other identifiers.
(b) Extraction dates.
(c) Analysis dates and times.
(d) Analysis sequence/run chronology.
(e) Sample weight or volume (ssection 10).
(f) Extract volume prior to each cleanup step (sections 10 and 11).
(g) Extract volume after each cleanup step (section 11).
(h) Final extract volume prior to injection (sections 10 and 12).
(i) Injection volume (section 12.2.3).
(j) Sample or extract dilution (section 12.2.3.2).
(k) Instrument and operating conditions.
(l) Column (dimensions, material, etc).
(m) Operating conditions (temperature program, flow rate, etc).
(n) Detector (type, operating conditions, etc).
(o) Chromatograms, mass spectra, and other recordings of raw data.
(p) Quantitation reports, data system outputs, and other data to link the raw data to the results reported.
(q) A written Standard Operating Procedure (SOP).
8.1.2.2.6 Each individual laboratory wishing to use a given modification must perform the start-up tests in section 8.1.2 (e.g., DOC, MDL), with the modification as an integral part of this method prior to applying the modification to specific discharges. Results of the DOC must meet the QC acceptance criteria in Table 6 for the analytes of interest (section 1.3), and the MDLs must be equal to or lower than the MDLs in Tables 1, 2, or 3 for the analytes of interest.
8.1.3 Before analyzing samples, the laboratory must analyze a blank to demonstrate that interferences from the analytical system, labware, and reagents, are under control. Each time a batch of samples is extracted or reagents are changed, a blank must be extracted and analyzed as a safeguard against laboratory contamination. Requirements for the blank are given in section 8.5.
8.1.4 The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, spike and analyze to monitor and evaluate method and laboratory performance on the sample matrix. The procedure for spiking and analysis is given in section 8.3.
8.1.5 The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, demonstrate through analysis of a quality control check sample (laboratory control sample, LCS; on-going precision and recovery sample, OPR) that the measurement system is in control. This procedure is given in section 8.4.
8.1.6 The laboratory must maintain performance records to document the quality of data that is generated. This procedure is given in section 8.9.
8.1.7 The large number of analytes tested in performance tests in this method present a substantial probability that one or more will fail acceptance criteria when many analytes are tested simultaneously, and a re-test is allowed if this situation should occur. If, however, continued re-testing results in further repeated failures, the laboratory must document and report the failures (e.g., as qualifiers on results), unless the failures are not required to be reported as determined by the regulatory/control authority. Results associated with a QC failure for an analyte regulated in a discharge cannot be used to demonstrate regulatory compliance. QC failures do not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting timely results.
8.2 Initial demonstration of capability (DOC)—To establish the ability to generate acceptable recovery and precision, the laboratory must perform the DOC in sections
8.2.1 through 8.2.6 for the analytes of interest. The laboratory must also establish MDLs for the analytes of interest using the MDL procedure at 40 CFR part 136, appendix B. The laboratory's MDLs must be equal to or lower than those listed in Tables 1, 2, or 3 or lower than one third the regulatory compliance limit, whichever is greater. For MDLs not listed in Tables 4 and 5, the laboratory must determine the MDLs using the MDL procedure at 40 CFR part 136, appendix B under the same conditions used to determine the MDLs for the analytes listed in Tables 1, 2, and 3. All procedures used in the analysis, including cleanup procedures, must be included in the DOC.
8.2.1 For the DOC, a QC check sample concentrate (LCS concentrate) containing each analyte of interest (section 1.3) is prepared in a water-miscible solvent. The QC check sample concentrate must be prepared independently from those used for calibration, but may be from the same source as the second-source standard used for calibration verification (Section 7.3). The concentrate should produce concentrations of the analytes of interest in water at the mid-point of the calibration range, and may be at the same concentration as the LCS (section 8.4). Multiple solutions may be required.

# Note:
QC check sample concentrates are no longer available from EPA.
8.2.2 Using a pipet or micro-syringe, prepare four LCSs by adding an appropriate volume of the concentrate to each of four aliquots of reagent water, and mix well. The volume of reagent water must be the same as the volume that will be used for the sample, blank (section 8.5), and MS/MSD (section 8.3). A volume of 1-L and a concentration of 100 µg/L were used to develop the QC acceptance criteria in Table 6. Also add an aliquot of the surrogate spiking solution (section 6.8) to the reagent-water aliquots.
8.2.3 Extract and analyze the four LCSs according to the method beginning in Section 10.
8.2.4 Calculate the average percent recovery (
X
) and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (s) for each analyte using the four results.
8.2.5 For each analyte, compare s and (
X
) with the corresponding acceptance criteria for precision and recovery in Table 6. For analytes in Table 3 not listed in Table 6, DOC QC acceptance criteria must be developed by the laboratory. EPA has provided guidance for development of QC acceptance criteria (References 12 and 13). Alternatively, acceptance criteria for analytes not listed in Table 6 may be based on laboratory control charts. If s and (
X
) for all analytes of interest meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may begin. If any individual s exceeds the precision limit or any individual (
X
) falls outside the range for recovery, system performance is unacceptable for that analyte.

# Note:
The large number of analytes in Tables 1-3 present a substantial probability that one or more will fail at least one of the acceptance criteria when many or all analytes are determined simultaneously. Therefore, the analyst is permitted to conduct a “re-test” as described in section 8.2.6.
8.2.6 When one or more of the analytes tested fail at least one of the acceptance criteria, repeat the test for only the analytes that failed. If results for these analytes pass, system performance is acceptable and analysis of samples and blanks may proceed. If one or more of the analytes again fail, system performance is unacceptable for the analytes that failed the acceptance criteria. Correct the problem and repeat the test (section 8.2). See section 8.1.7 for disposition of repeated failures.

# Note:
To maintain the validity of the test and re-test, system maintenance and/or adjustment is not permitted between this pair of tests.
8.3 Matrix spike and matrix spike duplicate (MS/MSD)—The purpose of the MS/MSD requirement is to provide data that demonstrate the effectiveness of the method as applied to the samples in question by a given laboratory, and both the data user (discharger, permittee, regulated entity, regulatory/control authority, customer, other) and the laboratory share responsibility for provision of such data. The data user should identify the sample and the analytes of interest (section 1.3) to be spiked and provide sufficient sample volume to perform MS/MSD analyses. The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, spike at least 5% of the samples in duplicate from each discharge being monitored to assess accuracy (recovery and precision). If direction cannot be obtained from the data user, the laboratory must spike at least one sample in duplicate per extraction batch of up to 20 samples with the analytes in Table 1. Spiked sample results should be reported only to the data user whose sample was spiked, or as requested or required by a regulatory/control authority, or in a permit.
8.3.1 If, as in compliance monitoring, the concentration of a specific analyte will be checked against a regulatory concentration limit, the concentration of the spike should be at that limit; otherwise, the concentration of the spike should be one to five times higher than the background concentration determined in section 8.3.2, at or near the midpoint of the calibration range, or at the concentration in the LCS (section 8.4) whichever concentration would be larger.
8.3.2 Analyze one sample aliquot to determine the background concentration (B) of the each analyte of interest. If necessary, prepare a new check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1) appropriate for the background
concentration. Spike and analyze two additional sample aliquots, and determine the concentration after spiking (A
1
and A
2
) of each analyte. Calculate the percent recoveries (P
1
and P
2
) as 100 (A
1
− B)/T and 100 (A
2
− B)/T, where T is the known true value of the spike. Also calculate the relative percent difference (RPD) between the concentrations (A
1
and A
2
) as 200 |A
1
− A
2
|/(A
1
+ A
2
). If necessary, adjust the concentrations used to calculate the RPD to account for differences in the volumes of the spiked aliquots.
8.3.3 Compare the percent recoveries (P
1
and P
2
) and the RPD for each analyte in the MS/MSD aliquots with the corresponding QC acceptance criteria in Table 6. A laboratory may develop and apply QC acceptance criteria more restrictive than the criteria in Table 6, if desired.
8.3.3.1 If any individual P falls outside the designated range for recovery in either aliquot, or the RPD limit is exceeded, the result for the analyte in the unspiked sample is suspect. See Section 8.1.7 for disposition of failures.
8.3.3.2 The acceptance criteria in Table 6 were calculated to include an allowance for error in measurement of both the background and spike concentrations, assuming a spike to background ratio of 5:1. This error will be accounted for to the extent that the spike to background ratio approaches 5:1 (Reference 14) and is applied to spike concentrations of 100 µg/L and higher. If spiking is performed at a concentration lower than 100 µg/L, the laboratory must use the QC acceptance criteria in Table 6, the optional QC acceptance criteria calculated for the specific spike concentration in Table 7, or optional in-house criteria (section 8.3.4). To use the acceptance criteria in Table 7: (1) Calculate recovery (X′) using the equation in Table 7, substituting the spike concentration (T) for C; (2) Calculate overall precision (S′) using the equation in Table 7, substituting X′ for
X
; (3) Calculate the range for recovery at the spike concentration as (100 X′/T) ± 2.44(100 S′/T)% (Reference 14). For analytes in Table 3 not listed in Table 6, QC acceptance criteria must be developed by the laboratory. EPA has provided guidance for development of QC acceptance criteria (References 12 and 13). Alternatively, acceptance criteria may be based on laboratory control charts.
8.3.4 After analysis of a minimum of 20 MS/MSD samples for each target analyte and surrogate, and if the laboratory chooses to develop and apply the optional in-house QC limits (Section 8.3.3), the laboratory should calculate and apply the optional in-house QC limits for recovery and RPD of future MS/MSD samples (Section 8.3). The QC limits for recovery are calculated as the mean observed recovery ±3 standard deviations, and the upper QC limit for RPD is calculated as the mean RPD plus 3 standard deviations of the RPDs. The in-house QC limits must be updated at least every two years and re-established after any major change in the analytical instrumentation or process. If in-house QC limits are developed, at least 80% of the analytes tested in the MS/MSD must have in-house QC acceptance criteria that are tighter than those in Table 6, and the remaining analytes (those other than the analytes included in the 80%) must meet the acceptance criteria in Table 6. If an in-house QC limit for the RPD is greater than the limit in Table 6, then the limit in Table 6 must be used. Similarly, if an in-house lower limit for recovery is below the lower limit in Table 6, then the lower limit in Table 6 must be used, and if an in-house upper limit for recovery is above the upper limit in Table 6, then the upper limit in Table 6 must be used.
8.4 Laboratory control sample (LCS)—A QC check sample (laboratory control sample, LCS; on-going precision and recovery sample, OPR) containing each analyte of interest (Section 1.3) and surrogate must be prepared and analyzed with each extraction batch of up to 20 samples to demonstrate acceptable recovery of the analytes of interest from a clean sample matrix.
8.4.1 Prepare the LCS by adding QC check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1) to reagent water. Include all analytes of interest (section 1.3) in the LCS. The LCS may be the same sample prepared for the DOC (section 8.2.1). The volume of reagent water must be the same as the volume used for the sample, blank (section 8.5), and MS/MSD (Section 8.3). Also add an aliquot of the surrogate spiking solution (section 6.8). The concentration of the analytes in reagent water should be the same as the concentration in the DOC (section 8.2.2).
8.4.2 Analyze the LCS prior to analysis of field samples in the extraction batch. Determine the concentration (A) of each analyte. Calculate the percent recovery (PS) as 100 (A/T)%, where T is the true value of the concentration in the LCS.
8.4.3 Compare the percent recovery (PS) for each analyte with its corresponding QC acceptance criterion in Table 6. For analytes of interest in Table 3 not listed in Table 6, use the QC acceptance criteria developed for the LCS (section 8.4.5), or limits based on laboratory control charts. If the recoveries for all analytes of interest fall within their respective QC acceptance criteria, analysis of blanks and field samples may proceed. If any individual PS falls outside the range, proceed according to section 8.4.4.

# Note:
The large number of analytes in Tables 1-3 present a substantial probability that one or more will fail the acceptance criteria when all analytes are tested simultaneously. Because a re-test is allowed in event of failure (sections 8.1.7 and 8.4.3), it may be prudent to extract and analyze two LCSs together and evaluate results of the second
analysis against the QC acceptance criteria only if an analyte fails the first test.
8.4.4 Repeat the test only for those analytes that failed to meet the acceptance criteria (PS). If these analytes now pass, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may proceed. Repeated failure, however, will confirm a general problem with the measurement system. If this occurs, repeat the test using a fresh LCS (section 8.2.2) or an LCS prepared with a fresh QC check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1), or perform and document system repair. Subsequent to analysis of the LCS prepared with a fresh sample concentrate, or to system repair, repeat the LCS test (section 8.4). If failure of the LCS indicates a systemic problem with samples in the batch, re-extract and re-analyze the samples in the batch. See section 8.1.7 for disposition of repeated failures.

# Note:
To maintain the validity of the test and re-test, system maintenance and/or adjustment is not permitted between the pair of tests.
8.4.5 After analysis of 20 LCS samples, and if the laboratory chooses to develop and apply in-house QC limits, the laboratory should calculate and apply in-house QC limits for recovery to future LCS samples (section 8.4). Limits for recovery in the LCS should be calculated as the mean recovery ±3 standard deviations. A minimum of 80% of the analytes tested for in the LCS must have QC acceptance criteria tighter than those in Table 6, and the remaining analytes (those other than the analytes included in the 80%) must meet the acceptance criteria in Table 6. If an in-house lower limit for recovery is lower than the lower limit in Table 6, the lower limit in Table 6 must be used, and if an in-house upper limit for recovery is higher than the upper limit in Table 6, the upper limit in Table 6 must be used. Many of the analytes and surrogates do not contain acceptance criteria. The laboratory should use 60-140% as interim acceptance criteria for recoveries of spiked analytes and surrogates that do not have recovery limits specified in Table 8, and at least 80% of the surrogates must meet the 60-140% interim criteria until in-house LCS and surrogate limits are developed. Alternatively, acceptance criteria for analytes that do not have recovery limits in Table 6 may be based on laboratory control charts. In-house QC acceptance criteria must be updated at least every two years.
8.5 Blank—A blank must be extracted and analyzed with each extraction batch to demonstrate that the reagents and equipment used for preparation and analysis are free from contamination.
8.5.1 Spike the surrogates into the blank. Extract and concentrate the blank using the same procedures and reagents used for the samples, LCS, and MS/MSD in the batch. Analyze the blank immediately after analysis of the LCS (section 8.4) and prior to analysis of the MS/MSD and samples to demonstrate freedom from contamination.
8.5.2 If an analyte of interest is found in the blank: At a concentration greater than the MDL for the analyte, at a concentration greater than one-third the regulatory compliance limit, or at a concentration greater than one-tenth the concentration in a sample in the extraction batch,
whichever is greater,
analysis of samples must be halted, and the problem corrected. If the contamination is traceable to the extraction batch, samples affected by the blank must be re-extracted and the extracts re-analyzed. If, however, continued re-testing results in repeated blank contamination, the laboratory must document and report the failures (e.g., as qualifiers on results), unless the failures are not required to be reported as determined by the regulatory/control authority. Results associated with blank contamination for an analyte regulated in a discharge cannot be used to demonstrate regulatory compliance. QC failures do not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting timely results.
8.6 Internal standards responses.
8.6.1 Calibration verification—The responses (GC peak heights or areas) of the internal standards in the calibration verification must be within 50% to 200% (1/2 to 2x) of their respective responses in the mid-point calibration standard. If they are not, repeat the calibration verification (Section 7.4) test or perform and document system repair. Subsequent to repair, repeat the calibration verification. If the responses are still not within 50% to 200%, re-calibrate the instrument (Section 7) and repeat the calibration verification test.
8.6.2 Samples, blanks, LCSs, and MS/MSDs—The responses (GC peak heights or areas) of each internal standard in each sample, blank, and MS/MSD must be within 50% to 200% (1/2 to 2x) of its respective response in the LCS for the extraction batch. If, as a group, all internal standards are not within this range, perform and document system repair, repeat the calibration verification (section 8.4), and re-analyze the affected samples. If a single internal standard is not within the 50% to 200% range, use an alternate internal standard for quantitation of the analyte referenced to the affected internal standard. It may be necessary to use the data system to calculate a new response factor from calibration data for the alternate internal standard/analyte pair. If an internal standard fails the 50-200% criteria and no analytes are detected in the sample, ignore the failure or report it if required by the regulatory/control authority.
8.7 Surrogate recoveries—The laboratory must evaluate surrogate recovery data in each sample against its in-house surrogate recovery limits. The laboratory may use 60-
140% as interim acceptance criteria for recoveries for surrogates not listed in Table 8. At least 80% of the surrogates must meet the 60-140% interim criteria until in-house limits are developed. Alternatively, surrogate recovery limits may be developed from laboratory control charts, but such limits must be at least as restrictive as those in Table 8. Spike the surrogates into all samples, blanks, LCSs, and MS/MSDs. Compare surrogate recoveries against the QC acceptance criteria in Table 8 and/or those developed in section 7.3.3 or 8.4.5. If any recovery fails its criteria, attempt to find and correct the cause of the failure. See section 8.1.7 for disposition of failures.
8.8 DDT and endrin decomposition (breakdown)—If DDT and/or endrin are to be analyzed using this method, the DDT/endrin decomposition test in section 13.8 must be performed to reliably quantify these two pesticides.
8.9 As part of the QC program for the laboratory, control charts or statements of accuracy for wastewater samples must be assessed and records maintained (40 CFR 136.7(c)(1)(viii)). After analysis of five or more spiked wastewater samples as in section 8.3, calculate the average percent recovery (P
X
) and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (sp). Express the accuracy assessment as a percent interval from P
X
−2sp to P
X
+2sp. For example, if P
X
= 90% and sp = 10%, the accuracy interval is expressed as 70-110%. Update the accuracy assessment for each analyte on a regular basis (e.g., after each 5-10 new accuracy measurements). If desired, statements of accuracy for laboratory performance, independent of performance on samples, may be developed using LCSs.
8.10 It is recommended that the laboratory adopt additional quality assurance practices for use with this method. The specific practices that are most productive depend upon the needs of the laboratory and the nature of the samples. Field duplicates may be analyzed to assess the precision of environmental measurements. Whenever possible, the laboratory should analyze standard reference materials and participate in relevant performance evaluation studies.

# 9. Sample Collection, Preservation, and Handling
9.1 Collect samples as grab samples in amber or clear glass bottles, or in refrigerated bottles using automatic sampling equipment. If clear glass is used, protect samples from light. Collect 1-L of ambient waters, effluents, and other aqueous samples. If the sensitivity of the analytical system is sufficient, a smaller volume (e.g., 250 mL), but no less than 100 mL, may be used. Conventional sampling practices (Reference 15) should be followed, except that the bottle must not be pre-rinsed with sample before collection. Automatic sampling equipment must be as free as possible of polyvinyl chloride or other tubing or other potential sources of contamination. If needed, collect additional sample(s) for the MS/MSD (section 8.3).
9.2 Ice or refrigerate samples at ≤6 °C from the time of collection until extraction, but do not freeze. If residual chlorine is present, add 80 mg of sodium thiosulfate per liter of sample and mix well. Any method suitable for field use may be employed to test for residual chlorine (Reference 16). Add more sodium sulfate if 80 mg/L is insufficient but do not add excess sodium thiosulfate. If sodium thiosulfate interferes in the determination of the analytes, an alternate preservative (e.g., ascorbic acid or sodium sulfite) may be used. If preservative has been added, shake the sample vigorously for one minute. Maintain the hermetic seal on the sample bottle until time of analysis.
9.3 All samples must be extracted within 7 days of collection and sample extracts must be analyzed within 40 days of extraction.

# 10. Extraction
10.1 This section contains procedures for separatory funnel liquid-liquid extraction (SFLLE) and continuous liquid-liquid extraction (CLLE). SFLLE is faster, but may not be as effective as CLLE for recovery of polar analytes such as phenol. SFLLE is labor intensive and may result in formation of emulsions that are difficult to break. CLLE is less labor intensive, avoids emulsion formation, but requires more time (18-24 hours) and more hood space, and may require more solvent. The procedures assume base-neutral extraction followed by acid extraction. For some matrices and analytes of interest, improved results may be obtained by acid-neutral extraction followed by base extraction. A single acid or base extraction may also be performed. If an extraction scheme alternate to base-neutral followed by acid extraction is used, all QC tests must be performed and all QC acceptance criteria must be met with that extraction scheme as an integral part of this method. Solid-phase extraction (SPE) may be used provided requirements in section 8.1.2 are met.
10.2 Separatory funnel liquid-liquid extraction (SFLLE) and extract concentration.
10.2.1 The SFLLE procedure below assumes a sample volume of 1 L. When a different sample volume is extracted, adjust the volume of methylene chloride accordingly.
10.2.2 Mark the water meniscus on the side of the sample bottle for later determination of sample volume. Pour the entire sample into the separatory funnel. Pipet the surrogate standard spiking solution (section 6.8) into the separatory funnel. If the sample will be used for the LCS or MS or MSD, pipet the
appropriate check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1 or 8.3.2) into the separatory funnel. Mix well. Check the pH of the sample with wide-range pH paper and adjust to pH 11-13 with sodium hydroxide solution.
10.2.3 Add 60 mL of methylene chloride to the sample bottle, seal, and shake for approximately 30 seconds to rinse the inner surface. Transfer the solvent to the separatory funnel and extract the sample by shaking the funnel for two minutes with periodic venting to release excess pressure. Allow the organic layer to separate from the water phase for a minimum of 10 minutes. If the emulsion interface between layers is more than one-third the volume of the solvent layer, the analyst must employ mechanical techniques to complete the phase separation. The optimum technique depends upon the sample, but may include stirring, filtration of the emulsion through glass wool or phase-separation paper, salting, centrifugation, or other physical methods. Collect the methylene chloride extract in a flask. If the emulsion cannot be broken (recovery of
80% of the methylene chloride), transfer the sample, solvent, and emulsion into a continuous extractor and proceed as described in section 10.3.
10.2.4 Add a second 60-mL volume of methylene chloride to the sample bottle and repeat the extraction procedure a second time, combining the extracts in the Erlenmeyer flask. Perform a third extraction in the same manner.
10.2.5 Adjust the pH of the aqueous phase to less than 2 using sulfuric acid. Serially extract the acidified aqueous phase three times with 60 mL aliquots of methylene chloride. Collect and combine the extracts in a flask in the same manner as the base/neutral extracts.

# Note:
Base/neutral and acid extracts may be combined for concentration and analysis provided all QC tests are performed and all QC acceptance criteria met for the analytes of interest with the combined extract as an integral part of this method, and provided that the analytes of interest are as reliably identified and quantified as when the extracts are analyzed separately. If doubt exists as to whether identification and quantitation will be affected by use of a combined extract, the fractions must be analyzed separately.
10.2.6 For each fraction or the combined fractions, assemble a Kuderna-Danish (K-D) concentrator by attaching a 10-mL concentrator tube to a 500-mL evaporative flask. Other concentration devices or techniques may be used in place of the K-D concentrator so long as the requirements in section 8.2 are met.
10.2.7 For each fraction or the combined fractions, pour the extract through a solvent-rinsed drying column containing about 10 cm of anhydrous sodium sulfate, and collect the extract in the K-D concentrator. Rinse the Erlenmeyer flask and column with 20-30 mL of methylene chloride to complete the quantitative transfer.
10.2.8 Add one or two clean boiling chips and attach a three-ball Snyder column to the evaporative flask for each fraction (section 10.2.7). Pre-wet the Snyder column by adding about 1 mL of methylene chloride to the top. Place the K-D apparatus on a hot water bath (60-65 °C) so that the concentrator tube is partially immersed in the hot water, and the entire lower rounded surface of the flask is bathed with hot vapor. Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 15-20 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation, the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood with condensed solvent. When the apparent volume of liquid reaches 1 mL or other determined amount, remove the K-D apparatus from the water bath and allow to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with 1-2 mL of methylene chloride. A 5-mL syringe is recommended for this operation. If the sample will be cleaned up, reserve the K-D apparatus for concentration of the cleaned up extract. Adjust the volume to 5 mL with methylene chloride and proceed to section 11 for cleanup; otherwise, further concentrate the extract for GC/MS analysis per section 10.2.9 or 10.2.10.
10.2.9 Micro Kuderna-Danish concentration—Add another one or two clean boiling chips to the concentrator tube for each fraction and attach a two-ball micro-Snyder column. Pre-wet the Snyder column by adding about 0.5 mL of methylene chloride to the top. Place the K-D apparatus on a hot water bath (60-65 °C) so that the concentrator tube is partially immersed in hot water. Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 5-10 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood with condensed solvent. When the apparent volume of liquid reaches about 1 mL or other determined amount, remove the K-D apparatus from the water bath and allow it to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with approximately 0.2 mL of or methylene chloride. Adjust the final volume to 1.0 mL or a volume appropriate to the sensitivity desired (e.g., to meet lower MDLs or for selected ion monitoring). Record the volume, stopper the concentrator tube and store refrigerated if further processing will not be performed immediately. If the extracts will be stored longer than two days, they should be transferred to
fluoropolymer-lined screw-cap vials and labeled base/neutral or acid fraction as appropriate. Mark the level of the extract on the vial so that solvent loss can be detected.
10.2.10 Nitrogen evaporation and solvent exchange—Extracts may be concentrated for analysis using nitrogen evaporation in place of micro K-D concentration (section 10.2.9). Extracts that have been cleaned up using sulfur removal (section 11.2) and are ready for analysis are exchanged into methylene chloride.
10.2.10.1 Transfer the vial containing the sample extract to the nitrogen evaporation (blowdown) device (section 5.8). Lower the vial into the water bath and begin concentrating. If the more volatile analytes (section 1.2) are to be concentrated, use room temperature for concentration; otherwise, a slightly elevated (e.g., 30-45 °C) may be used. During the solvent evaporation process, keep the solvent level below the water level of the bath and do not allow the extract to become dry. Adjust the flow of nitrogen so that the surface of the solvent is just visibly disturbed. A large vortex in the solvent may cause analyte loss.
10.2.10.2 Extracts to be solvent exchanged—When the volume of the liquid is approximately 200 µL, add 2 to 3 mL of methylene chloride and continue concentrating to approximately 100 µL. Repeat the addition of solvent and concentrate once more. Adjust the final extract volume to be consistent with the volume extracted and the sensitivity desired.
10.2.10.3 For extracts that have been cleaned up by GPC and that are to be concentrated to a nominal volume of 1 mL, adjust the final volume to compensate the GPC loss. For a 50% GPC loss, concentrate the extract to 1/2000 of the volume extracted. For example, if the volume extracted is 950 mL, adjust the final volume to 0.48 mL. For extracts that have not been cleaned up by GPC and are to be concentrated to a nominal volume of 1.0 mL, adjust the final extract volume to 1/1000 of the volume extracted. For example, if the volume extracted is 950 mL, adjust the final extract volume to 0.95 mL. Alternative means of compensating the loss during GPC are acceptable so long as they produce results as accurate as results produced using the procedure detailed in this Section. An alternative final volume may be used, if desired, and the calculations adjusted accordingly.

# Note:
The difference in the volume fraction for an extract cleaned up by GPC accounts for the loss in GPC cleanup. Also, by preserving the ratio between the volume extracted and the final extract volume, the concentrations and detection limits do not need to be adjusted for differences in the volume extracted and the extract volume.
10.2.11 Transfer the concentrated extract to a vial with fluoropolymer-lined cap. Seal the vial and label with the sample number. Store in the dark at room temperature until ready for GC analysis. If GC analysis will not be performed on the same day, store the vial in the dark at ≤6 °C. Analyze the extract by GC/MS per the procedure in section 12.
10.2.12 Determine the original sample volume by refilling the sample bottle to the mark and transferring the liquid to an appropriately sized graduated cylinder. For sample volumes on the order of 1000 mL, record the sample volume to the nearest 10 mL; for sample volumes on the order of 100 mL, record the volume to the nearest 1 mL. Sample volumes may also be determined by weighing the container before and after filling to the mark with water.
10.3 Continuous liquid/liquid extraction (CLLE).

# Note:
With CLLE, phenol, 2,4-dimethyl phenol, and some other analytes may be preferentially extracted into the base-neutral fraction. Determine an analyte in the fraction in which it is identified and quantified most reliably. Also, the short-chain phthalate esters (e.g., dimethyl phthalate, diethyl phthalate) and some other compounds may hydrolyze during prolonged exposure to basic conditions required for continuous extraction, resulting in low recovery of these analytes. When these analytes are of interest, their recovery may be improved by performing the acid extraction first.
10.3.1 Use CLLE when experience with a sample from a given source indicates an emulsion problem, or when an emulsion is encountered during SFLLE. CLLE may be used for all samples, if desired.
10.3.2 Mark the water meniscus on the side of the sample bottle for later determination of sample volume. Check the pH of the sample with wide-range pH paper and adjust to pH 11-13 with sodium hydroxide solution. Transfer the sample to the continuous extractor. Pipet surrogate standard spiking solution (section 6.8) into the sample. If the sample will be used for the LCS or MS or MSD, pipet the appropriate check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1 or 8.3.2) into the extractor. Mix well. Add 60 mL of methylene chloride to the sample bottle, seal, and shake for 30 seconds to rinse the inner surface. Transfer the solvent to the extractor.
10.3.3 Repeat the sample bottle rinse with an additional 50-100 mL portion of methylene chloride and add the rinse to the extractor.
10.3.4 Add a suitable volume of methylene chloride to the distilling flask (generally 200-500 mL), add sufficient reagent water to ensure proper operation, and extract for 18-24 hours. A shorter or longer extraction time may be used if all QC acceptance criteria are met. Test and, if necessary, adjust the pH of the water during the second or third hour of the extraction. After extraction, allow the apparatus to cool, then detach the distilling flask. Dry, concentrate, and seal the extract
per sections 10.2.6 through 10.2.11. See the note at section 10.2.5 regarding combining extracts of the base/neutral and acid fractions.
10.3.5 Charge the distilling flask with methylene chloride and attach it to the continuous extractor. Carefully, while stirring, adjust the pH of the aqueous phase to less than 2 using sulfuric acid. Extract for 18-24 hours. A shorter or longer extraction time may be used if all QC acceptance criteria are met. Test and, if necessary, adjust the pH of the water during the second or third hour of the extraction. After extraction, allow the apparatus to cool, then detach the distilling flask. Dry, concentrate, and seal the extract per sections 10.2.6 through 10.2.11. Determine the sample volume per section 10.2.12.

# 11. Extract Cleanup

# Note:
Cleanup may not be necessary for relatively clean samples (e.g., treated effluents, groundwater, drinking water). If particular circumstances require the use of a cleanup procedure, the laboratory may use any or all of the procedures below or any other appropriate procedure. Before using a cleanup procedure, the laboratory must demonstrate that the requirements of section 8.1.2 can be met using the cleanup procedure as an integral part of this method.
11.1 Gel permeation chromatography (GPC).
11.1.1 Calibration.
11.1.1.1 Load the calibration solution (section 6.12) into the sample loop.
11.1.1.2 Inject the calibration solution and record the signal from the detector. The elution pattern will be corn oil, bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, pentachlorophenol, perylene, and sulfur.
11.1.1.3 Set the “dump time” to allow
85% removal of the corn oil and
85% collection of the phthalate.
11.1.1.4 Set the “collect time” to the peak minimum between perylene and sulfur.
11.1.1.5 Verify calibration with the calibration solution after every 20 or fewer extracts. Calibration is verified if the recovery of the pentachlorophenol is greater than 85%. If calibration is not verified, recalibrate using the calibration solution, and re-extract and clean up the preceding extracts using the calibrated GPC system.
11.1.2 Extract cleanup—GPC requires that the column not be overloaded. The column specified in this method is designed to handle a maximum of 0.5 g of high molecular weight material in a 5-mL extract. If the extract is known or expected to contain more than 0.5 g, the extract is split into fractions for GPC and the fractions are combined after elution from the column. The solids content of the extract may be obtained gravimetrically by evaporating the solvent from a 50-µL aliquot.
11.1.2.1 Filter the extract or load through the filter holder to remove particulates. Load the extract into the sample loop. The maximum capacity of the column is 0.5-1.0 g. If necessary, split the extract into multiple aliquots to prevent column overload.
11.1.2.2 Elute the extract using the calibration data determined in Section 11.1.1. Collect the eluate in the K-D apparatus reserved in section 10.2.8.
11.1.3 Concentrate the cleaned up extract per sections 10.2.8 and 10.2.9 or 10.2.10.
11.1.4 Rinse the sample loading tube thoroughly with methylene chloride between extracts to prepare for the next sample.
11.1.5 If a particularly dirty extract is encountered, run a methylene chloride blank through the system to check for carry-over.
11.2 Sulfur removal.

# Note:
Separate procedures using copper or TBA sulfite are provided in this section for sulfur removal. They may be used separately or in combination, if desired.
11.2.1 Removal with copper (Reference 17).

# Note:
If an additional compound (Table 3) is to be determined; sulfur is to be removed; copper will be used for sulfur removal; and a sulfur matrix is known or suspected to be present, the laboratory must demonstrate that the additional compound can be successfully extracted and treated with copper in the sulfur matrix. Some of the additional compounds (Table 3) are known not to be amenable to sulfur removal with copper (e.g., Atrazine and Diazinon).
11.2.1.1 Quantitatively transfer the extract from section 10.2.8 to a 40- to 50-mL flask or bottle. If there is evidence of water in the concentrator tube after the transfer, rinse the tube with small portions of hexane:acetone (40:60) and add to the flask or bottle. Mark and set aside the concentrator tube for use in re-concentrating the extract.
11.2.1.2 Add 10-20 g of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate to the flask. Swirl to dry the extract.
11.2.1.3 Add activated copper (section 6.13.1.4) and allow to stand for 30—60 minutes, swirling occasionally. If the copper does not remain bright, add more and swirl occasionally for another 30-60 minutes.
11.2.1.4 After drying and sulfur removal, quantitatively transfer the extract to a nitrogen-evaporation vial or tube and proceed to section 10.2.10 for nitrogen evaporation and solvent exchange, taking care to leave the sodium sulfate and copper in the flask.
11.2.2 Removal with TBA sulfite.
11.2.2.1 Using small volumes of hexane, quantitatively transfer the extract to a 40- to 50-mL centrifuge tube with fluoropolymer-lined screw cap.
11.2.2.2 Add 1-2 mL of TBA sulfite reagent (section 6.13.2.4), 2-3 mL of 2-propanol, and approximately 0.7 g of sodium sulfite (section 6.13.2.2) crystals to the tube. Cap and
shake for 1-2 minutes. If the sample is colorless or if the initial color is unchanged, and if clear crystals (precipitated sodium sulfite) are observed, sufficient sodium sulfite is present. If the precipitated sodium sulfite disappears, add more crystalline sodium sulfite in approximately 0.5 g portions until a solid residue remains after repeated shaking.
11.2.2.3 Add 5-10 mL of reagent water and shake for 1-2 minutes. Centrifuge to settle the solids.
11.2.2.4 Quantitatively transfer the hexane (top) layer through a small funnel containing a few grams of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate to a nitrogen-evaporation vial or tube and proceed to section 10.2.10 for nitrogen evaporation and solvent exchange.

# 12. Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
12.1 Establish the operating conditions in Table 4 or 5 for analysis of a base/neutral or acid extract, respectively. For analysis of a combined extract (section 10.2.5, note), use the operating conditions in Table 4 MDLs and MLs for the analytes are given in Tables 1, 2, and 3. Retention times for many of the analytes are given in Tables 4 and 5. Examples of the separations achieved are shown in Figure 2 for the combined extract. Alternative columns or chromatographic conditions may be used if the requirements of section 8.2 are met. Verify system performance per section 13.
12.2 Analysis of a standard or extract.
12.2.1 Bring the standard or concentrated extract (section 10.2.9 or 10.2.11) to room temperature and verify that any precipitate has redissolved. Verify the level on the extract and bring to the mark with solvent if required.
12.2.2 Add the internal standard solution (section 6.9) to the extract. Mix thoroughly.
12.2.3 Inject an appropriate volume of the sample extract or standard solution using split, splitless, solvent purge, large-volume, or on-column injection. If the sample is injected manually the solvent-flush technique should be used. The injection volume depends upon the technique used and the ability to meet MDLs or reporting limits for regulatory compliance. Injected volumes must be the same for standards and sample extracts. Record the volume injected to two significant figures.
12.2.3.1 Start the GC column oven program upon injection. Start MS data collection after the solvent peak elutes. Stop data collection after benzo(ghi)perylene elutes for the base/neutral or combined fractions, or after pentachlorophenol elutes for the acid fraction. Return the column to the initial temperature for analysis of the next standard solution or extract.
12.2.3.2 If the concentration of any analyte of interest exceeds the calibration range, either extract and analyze a smaller sample volume, or dilute and analyze the diluted extract after bringing the concentrations of the internal standards to the levels in the undiluted extract.
12.2.4 Perform all qualitative and quantitative measurements as described in Sections 14 and 15. When standards and extracts are not being used for analyses, store them refrigerated at ≤6 °C protected from light in screw-cap vials equipped with un-pierced fluoropolymer-lined septa.

# 13. Performance Tests
13.1 At the beginning of each 12-hour shift during which standards or extracts will be analyzed, perform the tests in sections 13.2-13.4 to verify system performance. If an extract is concentrated for greater sensitivity (e.g., by SIM), all tests must be performed at levels consistent with the reduced extract volume.
13.2 DFTPP—Inject the DFTPP standard (section 6.10) and verify that the criteria for DFTPP in section 7.2.1.1 and Table 9A (Reference 18) for a quadrupole MS, or Table 9B (Reference 19) for a time-of-flight MS, are met.
13.3 GC resolution—The resolution should be verified on the mid-point concentration of the initial calibration as well as the laboratory designated continuing calibration verification level if closely eluting isomers are to be reported (e.g., benzo(b)fluoranthene and benzo(k)fluoranthene). Sufficient gas chromatographic resolution is achieved if the height of the valley between two isomer peaks is less than 50% of the average of the two peak heights.
13.4 Calibration verification—Verify calibration per sections 7.3 and Table 6.
13.5 Peak tailing—Verify the tailing factor specifications are met per Section 7.2.1.1.
13.6 Laboratory control sample and blank—Analyze the extracts of the LCS and blank at the beginning of analyses of samples in the extraction batch (section 3.1). The LCS must meet the requirements in section 8.4, and the blank must meet the requirements in section 8.5 before sample extracts may be analyzed.
13.7 Analysis of DFTPP, the DDT/Endrin decomposition test (if used), the LCS, and the blank are outside of the 12-hour analysis shift (section 3.1). The total time for DFTPP, DDT/Endrin, the LCS, the blank, and the 12-hour shift must not exceed 15 hours.
13.8 Decomposition of DDT and endrin—If DDT and/or endrin are to be determined, this test must be performed prior to calibration verification (section 13.4). The QC acceptance criteria (section 13.8.3) must be met before analyzing samples for DDE and/or Endrin. DDT decomposes to DDE and DDD. Endrin decomposes to endrin aldehyde and endrin ketone.
13.8.1 Inject 1 µL of the DDT and endrin decomposition solution (section 6.14). As
noted in section 6.14, other injection volumes may be used as long as the concentrations of DDT and endrin in the solution are adjusted to introduce the masses of the two analytes into the instrument that are listed in section 6.14.
13.8.2 Measure the areas of the peaks for DDT, DDE, DDD, Endrin, Endrin aldehyde, and Endrin ketone. Calculate the percent breakdown as shown in the equations below:
ER28AU17.015
13.8.3 Both the % breakdown of DDT and of Endrin must be less than 20%, otherwise the system is not performing acceptably for DDT and endrin. In this case, repair the GC column system that failed and repeat the performance tests (sections 13.2 to 13.6) until the specification is met.

# Note:
DDT and endrin decomposition are usually caused by accumulation of particulates in the injector and in the front end of the column. Cleaning and silanizing the injection port liner, and breaking off a short section of the front end of the column will usually eliminate the decomposition problem. Either of these corrective actions may affect retention times, GC resolution, and calibration linearity.

# 14. Qualitative Identification
14.1 Identification is accomplished by comparison of data from analysis of a sample or blank with data stored in the GC/MS data system (sections 5.6.5 and 7.2.1.2). Identification of an analyte is confirmed per sections 14.1.1 through 14.1.4.
14.1.1 The signals for the quantitation and secondary m/z's stored in the data system for each analyte of interest must be present and must maximize within the same two consecutive scans.
14.1.2 The retention time for the analyte should be within ± 10 seconds of the analyte in the calibration verification run at the beginning of the shift (section 7.3 or 13.4).

# Note:
Retention time windows other than ± 10 seconds may be appropriate depending on the performance of the gas chromatograph or observed retention time drifts due to certain types of matrix effects. Relative retention time (RRT) may be used as an alternative to absolute retention times if retention time drift is a concern. RRT is a unitless quantity (see Sec. 22.2), although some procedures refer to “RRT units” in providing the specification for the agreement between the RRT values in the sample and the calibration verification or other standard. When significant retention time drifts are observed, dilutions or spiked samples may help the analyst determine the effects of the matrix on elution of the target analytes and to assist in qualitative identification.
14.1.3 Either the background corrected EICP areas, or the corrected relative intensities of the mass spectral peaks at the GC peak maximum, must agree within 50% to 200% (1/2 to 2 times) for the quantitation and secondary m/z's in the reference mass spectrum stored in the data system (section 7.2.1.2), or from a reference library. For example, if a peak has an intensity of 20% relative to the base peak, the analyte is identified if the intensity of the peak in the sample is in the range of 10% to 40% of the base peak. If identification is ambiguous, an experienced spectrometrist (section 1.7) must determine the presence or absence of the compound.
14.2 Structural isomers that produce very similar mass spectra should be identified as individual isomers if they have sufficiently different gas chromatographic retention times. Sufficient gas chromatographic resolution is achieved if the height of the valley between two isomer peaks is less than 50% of the average of the two peak heights. Otherwise, structural isomers are identified as isomeric pairs.

# 15. Calculations
15.1 When an analyte has been identified, quantitation of that analyte is based on the integrated abundance from the EICP of the primary characteristic m/z in Table 4 or 5. Calculate the concentration in the extract
using the response factor (RF) determined in Section 7.2.2 and Equation 2. If the concentration of an analyte exceeds the calibration range, dilute the extract by the minimum amount to bring the concentration into the calibration range, and re-analyze the extract. Determine a dilution factor (DF) from the amount of the dilution. For example, if the extract is diluted by a factor of 2, DF = 2.
ER28AU17.016
where:
C
ex
= Concentration of the analyte in the extract, in µg/mL, and the other terms are as defined in section 7.2.2.
Calculate the concentration of the analyte in the sample using the concentration in the extract, the extract volume, the sample volume, and the dilution factor, per Equation 3:
ER28AU17.017
where:
C
samp
= Concentration of the analyte in the sample
C
ex
= Concentration of the analyte in the extract, in µg/mL
V
ex
= Volume of extract (mL)
V
s
= Volume of sample (L)
DF = Dilution factor
15.2 Reporting of results. As noted in section 1.4.1, EPA has promulgated this method at 40 CFR part 136 for use in wastewater compliance monitoring under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). The data reporting practices described here are focused on such monitoring needs and may not be relevant to other uses of the method.
15.2.1 Report results for wastewater samples in µg/L without correction for recovery. (Other units may be used if required by in a permit.) Report all QC data with the sample results.
15.2.2 Reporting level. Unless specified otherwise by a regulatory authority or in a discharge permit, results for analytes that meet the identification criteria are reported down to the concentration of the ML established by the laboratory through calibration of the instrument (see section 7.3.2 and the glossary for the derivation of the ML). EPA considers the terms “reporting limit,” “quantitation limit,” “limit of quantitation,” and “minimum level” to be synonymous.
15.2.2.1 Report a result for each analyte in each field sample or QC standard at or above the ML to 3 significant figures. Report a result for each analyte found in each field sample or QC standard below the ML as “ML” where ML is the concentration of the analyte at the ML, or as required by the regulatory/control authority or permit. Report a result for each analyte in a blank at or above the MDL to 2 significant figures. Report a result for each analyte found in a blank below the MDL as “MDL,” where MDL is the concentration of the analyte at the MDL, or as required by the regulatory/control authority or permit.
15.2.2.2 In addition to reporting results for samples and blanks separately, the concentration of each analyte in a blank associated with the sample may be subtracted from the result for that sample, but only if requested or required by a regulatory authority or in a permit. In this case, both the sample result and the blank results must be reported together.
15.2.2.3 Report a result for an analyte found in a sample or extract that has been diluted at the least dilute level at which the area at the quantitation m/z is within the calibration range (
i.e.,
above the ML for the analyte) and the MS/MSD recovery and RPD are within their respective QC acceptance criteria (Table 6). This may require reporting results for some analytes from different analyses.
15.2.3 Results from tests performed with an analytical system that is not in control (
i.e.,
that does not meet acceptance criteria for any QC test in this method) must be documented and reported (e.g., as a qualifier on results), unless the failure is not required to be reported as determined by the regulatory/control authority. Results associated with a QC failure cannot be used to demonstrate regulatory compliance. QC failures do not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting
timely results. If the holding time would be exceeded for a re-analysis of the sample, the regulatory/control authority should be consulted for disposition.

# 16. Method Performance
16.1 The basic version of this method was tested by 15 laboratories using reagent water, drinking water, surface water, and industrial wastewaters spiked at six concentrations over the range 5-1300 µg/L (Reference 2). Single operator precision, overall precision, and method accuracy were found to be directly related to the concentration of the analyte and essentially independent of the sample matrix. Linear equations to describe these relationships are presented in Table 7.
16.2 As noted in section 1.1, this method was validated through an interlaboratory study in the early 1980s. However, the fundamental chemistry principles used in this method remain sound and continue to apply.
16.3 A chromatogram of the combined acid/base/neutral calibration standard is shown in Figure 2.

# 17. Pollution Prevention
17.1 Pollution prevention encompasses any technique that reduces or eliminates the quantity or toxicity of waste at the point of generation. Many opportunities for pollution prevention exist in laboratory operations. EPA has established a preferred hierarchy of environmental management techniques that places pollution prevention as the management option of first choice. Whenever feasible, the laboratory should use pollution prevention techniques to address waste generation. When wastes cannot be reduced at the source, the Agency recommends recycling as the next best option.
17.2 The analytes in this method are used in extremely small amounts and pose little threat to the environment when managed properly. Standards should be prepared in volumes consistent with laboratory use to minimize the disposal of excess volumes of expired standards. This method utilizes significant quantities of methylene chloride. Laboratories are encouraged to recover and recycle this and other solvents during extract concentration.
17.3 For information about pollution prevention that may be applied to laboratories and research institutions, consult Less is Better: Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction, available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Governmental Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW., Washington DC 20036, 202-872-4477.

# 18. Waste Management
18.1 The laboratory is responsible for complying with all Federal, State, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions, and to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any sewage discharge permits and regulations. An overview of requirements can be found in Environmental Management Guide for Small Laboratories (EPA 233-B-98-001).
18.2 Samples at pH
2, or pH
12, are hazardous and must be handled and disposed of as hazardous waste, or neutralized and disposed of in accordance with all federal, state, and local regulations. It is the laboratory's responsibility to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions. The laboratory using this method has the responsibility to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any sewage discharge permits and regulations. For further information on waste management, see “The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel,” also available from the American Chemical Society at the address in section 17.3.
18.3 Many analytes in this method decompose above 500 ºC. Low-level waste such as absorbent paper, tissues, and plastic gloves may be burned in an appropriate incinerator. Gross quantities of neat or highly concentrated solutions of toxic or hazardous chemicals should be packaged securely and disposed of through commercial or governmental channels that are capable of handling these types of wastes.
18.4 For further information on waste management, consult The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel and Less is Better-Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction, available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW., Washington, DC 20036, 202-872-4477.

# 19. References
1. “Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for Priority Pollutants,” U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio 45268, March 1977, Revised April 1977.
2. “EPA Method Study 30, Method 625, Base/Neutrals, Acids, and Pesticides,” EPA 600/4-84-053, National Technical Information Service, PB84-206572, Springfield, Virginia 22161, June 1984.
3. 40 CFR part 136, appendix B.
4. Olynyk, P., Budde, W.L. and Eichelberger, J.W. “Method Detection Limit for Methods 624 and 625,” Unpublished report, May 14, 1980.
5. Annual Book of ASTM Standards, Volume 11.02, D3694-96, “Standard Practices for Preparation of Sample Containers and for Preservation of Organic Constituents,” American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia.
6. Solutions to Analytical Chemistry Problems with Clean Water Act Methods, EPA 821-R-07-002, March 2007.
7. “Carcinogens-Working With Carcinogens,” Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service, Center for Disease Control, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Publication No. 77-206, August 1977.
8. “OSHA Safety and Health Standards, General Industry,” (29 CFR part 1910), Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA 2206 (Revised, January 1976).
9. “Safety in Academic Chemistry Laboratories,” American Chemical Society Publication, Committee on Chemical Safety, 7th Edition, 2003.
10. Johnson, R.A., and Wichern, D.W., “Applied Multivariate Statistical Analysis,” 3rd edition, Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1992.
11. 40 CFR 136.6(b)(4)(x).
12. 40 CFR 136.6(b)(2)(i).
13. Protocol for EPA Approval of New Methods for Organic and Inorganic Analytes in Wastewater and Drinking Water (EPA-821-B-98-003) March 1999.
14. Provost, L.P. and Elder, R.S. “Interpretation of Percent Recovery Data,” American Laboratory, 15, 58-63 (1983). (The value 2.44 used in the equation in section 8.3.3 is two times the value 1.22 derived in this report.)
15. ASTM Annual Book of Standards, Part 31, D3370-76. “Standard Practices for Sampling Water,” American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia.
16. 40 CFR 136.3(a), Table IB, Chlorine—Total Residual.
17. “Manual of Analytical Methods for the Analysis of Pesticides in Human and Environmental Samples,” EPA-600/8-80-038, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Health Effects Research Laboratory, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.
18. Eichelberger, J.W., Harris, L.E., and Budde, W.L. “Reference Compound to Calibrate Ion Abundance Measurement in Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry,” Analytical Chemistry, 47, 995 (1975).
19. Letter of approval of acceptance criteria for DFTPP for time-of-flight mass spectrometers from William A. Telliard and Herb Brass of EPA to Jack Cochran of LECO Corporation, February 9, 2005.

# 20. Tables
Table 1—Non Pesticide/PCB Base/Neutral Extractables
1
Analyte
CAS registry
MDL
4
(ug/L)
ML
5
(ug/L)
Acenaphthene
83-32-9
1.9
5.7
Acenaphthylene
208-96-8
3.5
10.5
Anthracene
120-12-7
1.9
5.7
Benzidine
2
92-87-5
44
132
Benzo(a)anthracene
56-55-3
7.8
23.4
Benzo(a)pyrene
50-32-8
2.5
7.5
Benzo(b)fluoranthene
205-99-2
4.8
14.4
Benzo(k)fluoranthene
207-08-9
2.5
7.5
Benzo(ghi)perylene
191-24-2
4.1
12.3
Benzyl butyl phthalate
85-68-7
2.5
7.5
bis(2-Chloroethoxy)methane
111-91-1
5.3
15.9
bis(2-Ethylhexyl)phthalate
117-81-7
2.5
7.5
bis(2-Chloroisopropyl) ether (2,2'-Oxybis[1-chloropropane])
108-60-1
5.7
17.1
4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether
101-55-3
1.9
5.7
2-Chloronaphthalene
91-58-7
1.9
5.7
4-Chlorophenyl phenyl ether
7005-72-3
4.2
12.6
Chrysene
218-01-9
2.5
7.5
Dibenz(a,h)anthracene
53-70-3
2.5
7.5
Di-
n
-butylphthalate
84-74-2
2.5
7.5
3,3'-Dichlorobenzidine
91-94-1
16.5
49.5
Diethyl phthalate
84-66-2
1.9
5.7
Dimethyl phthalate
131-11-3
1.6
4.8
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
121-14-2
5.7
17.1
2,6-Dinitrotoluene
606-20-2
1.9
5.7
Di-n-octylphthalate
117-84-0
2.5
7.5
Fluoranthene
206-44-0
2.2
6.6
Fluorene
86-73-7
1.9
5.7
Hexachlorobenzene
118-74-1
1.9
5.7
Hexachlorobutadiene
87-68-3
0.9
2.7
Hexachloroethane
67-72-1
1.6
4.8
Indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene
193-39-5
3.7
11.1
Isophorone
78-59-1
2.2
6.6
Naphthalene
91-20-3
1.6
4.8
Nitrobenzene
98-95-3
1.9
5.7
N-Nitrosodi-
n
-propylamine
3
621-64-7
—
—
Phenanthrene
85-01-8
5.4
16.2
Pyrene
129-00-0
1.9
5.7
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
120-82-1
1.9
5.7
1
All analytes in this table are Priority Pollutants (40 CFR part 423, appendix A).
2
Included for tailing factor testing.
3
See section 1.2.
4
MDL values from the 1984 promulgated version of Method 625.
5
ML = Minimum Level—see Glossary for definition and derivation.
Table 2—Acid Extractables
1
Analyte
CAS registry
MDL
3
(ug/L)
ML
4
(ug/L)
4-Chloro-3-methylphenol
59-50-7
3.0
9.0
2-Chlorophenol
95-57-8
3.3
9.9
2,4-Dichlorophenol
120-83-2
2.7
8.1
2,4-Dimethylphenol
105-67-9
2.7
8.1
2,4-Dinitrophenol
51-28-5
42
126
2-Methyl-4,6-dinitrophenol
534-52-1
24
72
2-Nitrophenol
88-75-5
3.6
10.8
4-Nitrophenol
100-02-7
2.4
7.2
Pentachlorophenol
2
87-86-5
3.6
10.8
Phenol
108-95-2
1.5
4.5
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
88-06-2
2.7
8.1
1
All analytes in this table are Priority Pollutants (40 CFR part 423, appendix A).
2
See section 1.2; included for tailing factor testing.
3
MDL values from the 1984 promulgated version of Method 625.
4
ML = Minimum Level—see Glossary for definition and derivation.
Table 3—Additional Extractable Analytes
1 2
Analyte
CAS registry
MDL
7
(ug/L)
ML
8
(ug/L)
Acetophenone
98-86-2
2-Acetylaminofluorene
53-96-3
1-Acetyl-2-thiourea
591-08-2
Alachlor
15972-60-8
Aldrin
3
309-00-2
1.9
5.7
Ametryn
834-12-8
2-Aminoanthraquinone
117-79-3
Aminoazobenzene
60-09-3
4-Aminobiphenyl
92-67-1
3-Amino-9-ethylcarbazole
132-32-1
Anilazine
101-05-3
Aniline
62-53-3
o
-Anisidine
90-04-0
Aramite
140-57-8
Atraton
1610-17-9
Atrazine
1912-24-9
Azinphos-methyl
86-50-0
Barban
101-27-9
Benzanthrone
82-05-3
Benzenethiol
108-98-5
Benzoic acid
65-85-0
2,3-Benzofluorene
243-17-4
p
-Benzoquinone
106-51-4
Benzyl alcohol
100-51-6
alpha
-BHC
3
4
319-84-6
beta
-BHC
3
319-85-7
3.1
9.3
gamma
-BHC (Lindane)
3
4
58-89-8
4.2
12.6
delta
-BHC
3
319-86-8
Biphenyl
92-52-4
Bromacil
314-40-9
2-Bromochlorobenzene
694-80-4
3-Bromochlorobenzene
108-39-2
Bromoxynil
1689-84-5
Butachlor
2318-4669
Butylate
2008-41-5
n
-C10 (
n
-decane)
124-18-5
n
-C12 (
n
-undecane)
112-40-2
n
-C14 (
n
-tetradecane)
629-59-4
n
-C16 (
n
-hexadecane)
544-76-3
n
-C18 (
n
-octadecane)
593-45-3
n
-C20 (
n
-eicosane)
112-95-8
n
-C22 (
n
-docosane)
629-97-0
n
-C24 (
n
-tetracosane)
646-31-1
n
-C26 (
n
-hexacosane)
630-01-3
n
-C28 (
n
-octacosane)
630-02-4
n
-C30 (
n
-triacontane)
638-68-6
Captafol
2425-06-1
Captan
133-06-2
Carbaryl
63-25-2
Carbazole
86-74-8
Carbofuran
1563-66-2
Carboxin
5234-68 -4
Carbophenothion
786-19-6
Chlordane
3 5
57-74-9
bis(2-Chloroethyl) ether
3 4
111-44-4
5.7
17.1
Chloroneb
2675-77-6
4-Chloroaniline
106-47-8
Chlorobenzilate
510-15-6
Chlorfenvinphos
470-90-6
4-Chloro-2-methylaniline
95-69-2
3-(Chloromethyl)pyridine hydrochloride
6959-48-4
4-Chloro-2-nitroaniline
89-63-4
Chlorpropham
101-21-3
Chlorothalonil
1897-45-6
1-Chloronaphthalene
90-13-1
3-Chloronitrobenzene
121-73-3
4-Chloro-1,2-phenylenediamine
95-83-0
4-Chloro-1,3-phenylenediamine
5131-60-2
2-Chlorobiphenyl
2051-60-7
Chlorpyrifos
2921-88-2
Coumaphos
56-72-4
m
+
p
-Cresol
65794-96-9
o
-Cresol
95-48-7
p
-Cresidine
120-71-8
Crotoxyphos
7700-17-6
2-Cyclohexyl-4,6-dinitro-phenol
131-89-5
Cyanazine
21725-46-2
Cycloate
1134-23-2
p
-Cymene
99-87-6
Dacthal (DCPA)
1861-32-1
4,4'-DDD
3
72-54-8
2.8
8.4
4,4'-DDE
3
72-55-9
5.6
16.8
4,4'-DDT
3
50-29-3
4.7
14.1
Demeton-O
298-03-3
Demeton-S
126-75-0
Diallate (
cis
or
trans
)
2303-16-4
2,4-Diaminotoluene
95-80-7
Diazinon
333-41-5
Dibenz(a,j)acridine
224-42-0
Dibenzofuran
132-64-9
Dibenzo(a,e)pyrene
192-65-4
Dibenzothiophene
132-65-0
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane
96-12-8
3,5-Dibromo-4-hydroxybenzonitrile
1689-84-5
2,6-Di-
tert
-butyl-p-benzoquinone
719-22-2
Dichlone
117-80-6
2,3-Dichloroaniline
608-27-5
2,3-Dichlorobiphenyl
16605-91-7
2,6-Dichloro-4-nitroaniline
99-30-9
2,3-Dichloronitrobenzene
3209-22-1
1,3-Dichloro-2-propanol
96-23-1
2,6-Dichlorophenol
120-83-2
Dichlorvos
62-73-7
Dicrotophos
141-66-2
Dieldrin
3
60-57-1
2.5
7.5
1,2:3,4-Diepoxybutane
1464-53-5
Di(2-ethylhexyl) adipate
103-23-1
Diethylstilbestrol
56-53-1
Diethyl sulfate
64-67-5
Dilantin (5,5-Diphenylhydantoin)
57-41-0
Dimethoate
60-51-5
3,3′-Dimethoxybenzidine
119-90-4
Dimethylaminoazobenzene
60-11-7
7,12-Dimethylbenz(a)anthracene
57-97-6
3,3′-Dimethylbenzidine
119-93-7
N,N-Dimethylformamide
68-12-2
3,6-Dimethylphenathrene
1576-67-6
alpha, alpha
-Dimethylphenethylamine
122-09-8
Dimethyl sulfone
67-71-0
1,2-Dinitrobenzene
528-29-0
1,3-Dinitrobenzene
99-65-0
1,4-Dinitrobenzene
100-25-4
Dinocap
39300-45-3
Dinoseb
88-85-7
Diphenylamine
122-39-4
Diphenyl ether
101-84-8
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine
122-66-7
Diphenamid
957-51-7
Diphenyldisulfide
882-33-7
Disulfoton
298-04-4
Disulfoton sulfoxide
2497-07-6
Disulfoton sulfone
2497-06-5
Endosulfan I
4
959-98-8
Endosulfan II
3 4
33213-65-9
Endosulfan sulfate
3
1031-07-8
5.6
16.8
Endrin
3 4
72-20-8
Endrin aldehyde
3 4
7421-93-4
Endrin ketone
3 4
53494-70-5
EPN
2104-64-5
EPTC
759-94-4
Ethion
563-12-2
Ethoprop
13194-48-4
Ethyl carbamate
51-79-6
Ethyl methanesulfonate
65-50-0
Ethylenethiourea
96-45-7
Etridiazole
2593-15-9
Ethynylestradiol-3-methyl ether
72-33-3
Famphur
52-85-7
Fenamiphos
22224-92-6
Fenarimol
60168-88-9
Fensulfothion
115-90-2
Fenthion
55-38-9
Fluchloralin
33245-39-5
Fluridone
59756-60-4
Heptachlor
3
76-44-8
1.9
5.7
Heptachlor epoxide
3
1024-57-3
2.2
6.6
2,2′,3,3′,4,4′,6-Heptachlorobiphenyl
52663-71-5
2,2′,4,4′,5′,6-Hexachlorobiphenyl
60145-22-4
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
3 4
77-47-4
Hexachlorophene
70-30-4
Hexachloropropene
1888-71-7
Hexamethylphosphoramide
680-31-9
Hexanoic acid
142-62-1
Hexazinone
51235-04-2
Hydroquinone
123-31-9
Isodrin
465-73-6
2-Isopropylnaphthalene
2027-17-0
Isosafrole
120-58-1
Kepone
143-50-0
Leptophos
21609-90-5
Longifolene
475-20-7
Malachite green
569-64-2
Malathion
121-75-5
Maleic anhydride
108-31-6
Merphos
150-50-5
Mestranol
72-33-3
Methapyrilene
91-80-5
Methoxychlor
72-43-5
2-Methylbenzothioazole
120-75-2
3-Methylcholanthrene
56-49-5
4,4′-Methylenebis(2-chloroaniline)
101-14-4
4,4′-Methylenebis(N,N-dimethylaniline)
101-61-1
4,5-Methylenephenanthrene
203-64-5
1-Methylfluorene
1730-37-6
Methyl methanesulfonate
66-27-3
2-Methylnaphthalene
91-57-6
Methylparaoxon
950-35-6
Methyl parathion
298-00-0
1-Methylphenanthrene
832-69-9
2-(Methylthio)benzothiazole
615-22-5
Metolachlor
5218-45-2
Metribuzin
21087-64-9
Mevinphos
7786-34-7
Mexacarbate
315-18-4
MGK 264
113-48-4
Mirex
2385-85-5
Molinate
2212-67-1
Monocrotophos
6923-22-4
Naled
300-76-5
Napropamide
15299-99-7
1,4-Naphthoquinone
130-15-4
1-Naphthylamine
134-32-7
2-Naphthylamine
91-59-8
1,5-Naphthalenediamine
2243-62-1
Nicotine
54-11-5
5-Nitroacenaphthene
602-87-9
2-Nitroaniline
88-74-4
3-Nitroaniline
99-09-2
4-Nitroaniline
100-01-6
5-Nitro-
o
-anisidine
99-59-2
4-Nitrobiphenyl
92-93-3
Nitrofen
1836-75-5
5-Nitro-
o
-toluidine
99-55-8
Nitroquinoline-1-oxide
56-57-5
N-Nitrosodi-
n
-butylamine
4
924-16-3
N-Nitrosodiethylamine
4
55-18-5
N-Nitrosodimethylamine
3 4
62-75-9
N-Nitrosodiphenylamine
3 4
86-30-6
N-Nitrosomethylethylamine
4
10595-95-6
N-Nitrosomethylphenylamine
4
614-00-6
N-Nitrosomorpholine
4
59-89-2
N-Nitrosopiperidine
4
100-75-5
N-Nitrosopyrrolidine
4
930-55-2
trans
-Nonachlor
39765-80-5
Norflurazon
27314-13-2
2,2′,3,3′,4,5′,6,6′-Octachlorobiphenyl
40186-71-8
Octamethyl pyrophosphoramide
152-16-9
4,4'-Oxydianiline
101-80-4
Parathion
56-38-2
PCB-1016
3 5
12674-11-2
PCB-1221
3 5
11104-28-2
30
90
PCB-1232
3 5
11141-16-5
PCB-1242
3 5
53469-21-9
PCB-1248
3 5
12672-29-6
PCB-1254
3 5
11097-69-1
36
108
PCB-1260
3 5
11098-82-5
PCB-1268
3 5
11100-14-4
Pebulate
1114-71-2
Pentachlorobenzene
608-93-5
Pentachloronitrobenzene
82-68-8
2,2′,3,4′,6-Pentachlorobiphenyl
68194-05-8
Pentachloroethane
76-01-7
Pentamethylbenzene
700-12-9
Perylene
198-55-0
Phenacetin
62-44-2
cis
-Permethrin
61949-76-6
trans
-Permethrin
61949-77-7
Phenobarbital
50-06-6
Phenothiazene
92-84-2
1,4-Phenylenediamine
624-18-0
1-Phenylnaphthalene
605-02-7
2-Phenylnaphthalene
612-94-2
Phorate
298-02-2
Phosalone
2310-18-0
Phosmet
732-11-6
Phosphamidon
13171-21-6
Phthalic anhydride
85-44-9
alpha
-Picoline (2-Methylpyridine)
109-06-8
Piperonyl sulfoxide
120-62-7
Prometon
1610-18-0
Prometryn
7287-19-6
Pronamide
23950-58-5
Propachlor
1918-16-7
Propazine
139-40-2
Propylthiouracil
51-52-5
Pyridine
110-86-1
Resorcinol (1,3-Benzenediol)
108-46-3
Safrole
94-59-7
Simazine
122-34-9
Simetryn
1014-70-6
Squalene
7683-64-9
Stirofos
22248-79-9
Strychnine
57-24-9
Styrene
9
100-42-5
Sulfallate
95-06-7
Tebuthiuron
34014-18-1
Terbacil
5902-51-2
Terbufos
13071-79-9
Terbutryn
886-50-0
alpha
-Terpineol
98-55-5
1,2,4,5-Tetrachlorobenzene
95-94-3
2,2′,4,4′-Tetrachlorobiphenyl
2437-79-8
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-
p
-dioxin
1746-01-6
2,3,4,6-Tetrachlorophenol
58-90-2
Tetrachlorvinphos
22248-79-9
Tetraethyl dithiopyrophosphate
3689-24-5
Tetraethyl pyrophosphate
107-49-3
Thianaphthene (2,3-Benzothiophene)
95-15-8
Thioacetamide
62-55-5
Thionazin
297-97-2
Thiophenol (Benzenethiol)
108-98-5
Thioxanthone
492-22-8
Toluene-1,3-diisocyanate
26471-62-5
Toluene-2,4-diisocyanate
584-84-9
o
-Toluidine
95-53-4
Toxaphene
3 5
8001-35-2
Triadimefon
43121-43-3
1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
87-61-6
2,4,5-Trichlorobiphenyl
15862-07-4
2,3,6-Trichlorophenol
933-75-5
2,4,5-Trichlorophenol
95-95-4
Tricyclazole
41814-78-2
Trifluralin
1582-09-8
1,2,3-Trimethoxybenzene
634-36-6
2,4,5-Trimethylaniline
137-17-7
Trimethyl phosphate
512-56-1
Triphenylene
217-59-4
Tripropyleneglycolmethyl ether
20324-33-8
1,3,5-Trinitrobenzene
99-35-4
Tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate
126-72-7
Tri-
p
-tolyl phosphate
78-32-0
O,O,O-Triethyl phosphorothioate
126-68-1
Trithiane
291-29-4
Vernolate
1929-77-7
1
Compounds that have been demonstrated amenable to extraction and gas chromatography.
2
Determine each analyte in the fraction that gives the most accurate result.
3
Priority Pollutant (40 CFR part 423, appendix A).
4
See section 1.2.
5
These compounds are mixtures of various isomers.
6
Detected as azobenzene.
7
MDL values from the 1984 promulgated version of Method 625.
8
ML = Minimum Level—see Glossary for definition and derivation.
9
Styrene may be susceptible to losses during sampling, preservation, and/or extraction of full-volume (1 L) water samples. However, styrene is not regulated at 40 CFR part 136, and it is also listed as an analyte in EPA Method 624.1 and EPA Method 1625C, where such losses may be less than using Method 625.1.
Table 4—Chromatographic Conditions and Characteristic
m/z's
for Base/Neutral Extractables
Analyte
Retention time
(sec)
1
Characteristic m/z's
Electron impact ionization
Primary
Second
Second
Chemical ionization
Methane
Methane
Methane
N-Nitrosodimethylamine
385
42
74
44
bis(2-Chloroethyl) ether
704
93
63
95
63
107
109
bis(2-Chloroisopropyl) ether
799
45
77
79
77
135
137
Hexachloroethane
823
117
201
199
199
201
203
N-Nitrosodi-
n
-propylamine
830
130
42
101
Nitrobenzene
849
77
123
65
124
152
164
Isophorone
889
82
95
138
139
167
178
bis(2-Chloroethoxy) methane
939
93
95
123
65
107
137
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
958
180
182
145
181
183
209
Naphthalene
967
128
129
127
129
157
169
Hexachlorobutadiene
1006
225
223
227
223
225
227
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
1142
237
235
272
235
237
239
2-Chloronaphthalene
1200
162
164
127
163
191
203
Acenaphthylene
1247
152
151
153
152
153
181
Dimethyl phthalate
1273
163
194
164
151
163
164
2,6-Dinitrotoluene
1300
165
89
121
183
211
223
Acenaphthene
1304
154
153
152
154
155
183
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
1364
165
63
182
183
211
223
Fluorene
1401
166
165
167
166
167
195
4-Chlorophenyl phenyl ether
1409
204
206
141
Diethyl phthalate
1414
149
177
150
177
223
251
N-Nitrosodiphenylamine
1464
169
168
167
169
170
198
4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether
1498
248
250
141
249
251
277
alpha
-BHC
1514
183
181
109
Hexachlorobenzene
1522
284
142
249
284
286
288
beta
-BHC
1544
183
181
109
gamma
-BHC
1557
181
183
109
Phenanthrene
1583
178
179
176
178
179
207
Anthracene
1592
178
179
176
178
179
207
delta
-BHC
1599
183
109
181
Heptachlor
1683
100
272
274
Di-
n
-butyl phthalate
1723
149
150
104
149
205
279
Aldrin
1753
66
263
220
Fluoranthene
1817
202
101
100
203
231
243
Heptachlor epoxide
1820
353
355
351
gamma
-Chlordane
1834
373
375
377
Pyrene
1852
202
101
100
203
231
243
Benzidine
2
1853
184
92
185
185
213
225
alpha
-Chlordane
1854
373
375
377
Endosulfan I
1855
237
339
341
4,4′-DDE
1892
246
248
176
Dieldrin
1907
79
263
279
Endrin
1935
81
263
82
Endosulfan II
2014
237
339
341
4,4′-DDD
2019
235
237
165
Endrin aldehyde
2031
67
345
250
Butyl benzyl phthalate
2060
149
91
206
149
299
327
Endosulfan sulfate
2068
272
387
422
4,4′-DDT
2073
235
237
165
Chrysene
2083
228
226
229
228
229
257
3,3′-Dichlorobenzidine
2086
252
254
126
Benzo(a)anthracene
2090
228
229
226
228
229
257
bis(2-Ethylhexyl) phthalate
2124
149
167
279
149
Di-
n
-octyl phthalate
2240
149
43
57
Benzo(b)fluoranthene
2286
252
253
125
252
253
281
Benzo(k)fluoranthene
2293
252
253
125
252
253
281
Benzo(a)pyrene
2350
252
253
125
252
253
281
Indeno(1,2,3-cd) pyrene
2650
276
138
277
276
277
305
Dibenz(a,h)anthracene
2660
278
139
279
278
279
307
Benzo(ghi)perylene
2750
276
138
277
276
277
305
Toxaphene
159
231
233
PCB 1016
224
260
294
PCB 1221
190
224
260
PCB 1232
190
224
260
PCB 1242
224
260
294
PCB 1248
294
330
262
PCB 1254
294
330
362
PCB 1260
330
362
394
1
Column: 30 m x 0.25 mm ID; 94% methyl, 5% phenyl, 1% vinyl bonded phase fused silica capillary.
Conditions: 5 min at 30 °C; 30-280 at 8 °C per min; isothermal at 280 °C until benzo(ghi)perylene elutes.
Gas velocity: 30 cm/sec at 30 °C (at constant pressure).
2
See section 1.2; included for tailing factor testing.
Table 5—Chromatographic Conditions and Characteristic
m/z's
for Acid Extractables
Analyte
Retention Time
(sec)
1
Characteristic m/z's
Electron impact ionization
Prime
Second
Second
Chemical ionization
Methane
Methane
Methane
2-Chlorophenol
705
128
64
130
129
131
157
Phenol
700
94
65
66
95
123
135
2-Nitrophenol
900
139
65
109
140
168
122
2,4-Dimethylphenol
924
122
107
121
123
151
163
2,4-Dichlorophenol
947
162
164
98
163
165
167
4-Chloro-3-methylphenol
1091
142
107
144
143
171
183
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
1165
196
198
200
197
199
201
2,4-Dinitrophenol
1325
184
63
154
185
213
225
4-Nitrophenol
1354
65
139
109
140
168
122
2-Methyl-4,6-dinitrophenol
1435
198
182
77
199
227
239
Pentachlorophenol
1561
266
264
268
267
265
269
Column: 30 m x 0.25 mm ID; 94% methyl, 5% phenyl, 1% vinyl bonded phase fused silica capillary.
Conditions: 5 min at 30 °C; 30-250 at 8 °C per min; isothermal at 280 °C until pentachlorophenol elutes.
Gas velocity: 30 cm/sec at 30 °C (at constant pressure).
Table 6—QC Acceptance Criteria—Method 625
1
Analyte
Range for Q
(%)
2
Limit for s
(%)
3
Range for
X
(%)
3
Range for
P
1
, P
2
(%)
3
Limit for
RPD (%)
Acenaphthene
70-130
29
60-132
47-145
48
Acenaphthylene
60-130
45
54-126
33-145
74
Aldrin
7-152
39
7-152
D-166
81
Anthracene
58-130
40
43-120
27-133
66
Benzo(a)anthracene
42-133
32
42-133
33-143
53
Benzo(b)fluoranthene
42-140
43
42-140
24-159
71
Benzo(k)fluoranthene
25-146
38
25-146
11-162
63
Benzo(a)pyrene
32-148
43
32-148
17-163
72
Benzo(ghi)perylene
13-195
61
D-195
D-219
97
Benzyl butyl phthalate
43-140
36
D-140
D-152
60
beta
-BHC
42-131
37
42-131
24-149
61
delta
-BHC
D-130
77
D-120
D-120
129
bis(2-Chloroethyl)ether
52-130
65
43-126
12-158
108
bis(2-Chloroethoxy)methane
52-164
32
49-165
33-184
54
bis(2-Chloroisopropyl) ether
63-139
46
63-139
36-166
76
bis(2-Ethylhexyl) phthalate
43-137
50
29-137
8-158
82
4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether
70-130
26
65-120
53-127
43
2-Chloronaphthalene
70-130
15
65-120
60-120
24
4-Chlorophenyl phenyl ether
57-145
36
38-145
25-158
61
Chrysene
44-140
53
44-140
17-168
87
4,4′-DDD
D-135
56
D-135
D-145
93
4,4′-DDE
19-130
46
19-120
4-136
77
4,4′-DDT
D-171
81
D-171
D-203
135
Dibenz(a,h)anthracene
13-200
75
D-200
D-227
126
Di-
n
-butyl phthalate
52-130
28
8-120
1-120
47
3,3′-Dichlorobenzidine
18-213
65
8-213
D-262
108
Dieldrin
70-130
38
44-119
29-136
62
Diethyl phthalate
47-130
60
D-120
D-120
100
Dimethyl phthalate
50-130
110
D-120
D-120
183
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
53-130
25
48-127
39-139
42
2,6-Dinitrotoluene
68-137
29
68-137
50-158
48
Di-
n
-octyl phthalate
21-132
42
19-132
4-146
69
Endosulfan sulfate
D-130
42
D-120
D-120
70
Endrin aldehyde
D-189
45
D-189
D-209
75
Fluoranthene
47-130
40
43-121
26-137
66
Fluorene
70-130
23
70-120
59-121
38
Heptachlor
D-172
44
D-172
D-192
74
Heptachlor epoxide
70-130
61
71-120
26-155
101
Hexachlorobenzene
38-142
33
8-142
D-152
55
Hexachlorobutadiene
68-130
38
38-120
24-120
62
Hexachloroethane
55-130
32
55-120
40-120
52
Indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene
13-151
60
D-151
D-171
99
Isophorone
52-180
56
47-180
21-196
93
Naphthalene
70-130
39
36-120
21-133
65
Nitrobenzene
54-158
37
54-158
35-180
62
N-Nitrosodi-
n
-propylamine
59-170
52
14-198
D-230
87
PCB-1260
19-130
77
19-130
D-164
128
Phenanthrene
67-130
24
65-120
54-120
39
Pyrene
70-130
30
70-120
52-120
49
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
61-130
30
57-130
44-142
50
4-Chloro-3-methylphenol
68-130
44
41-128
22-147
73
2-Chlorophenol
55-130
37
36-120
23-134
61
2,4-Dichlorophenol
64-130
30
53-122
39-135
50
2,4-Dimethylphenol
58-130
35
42-120
32-120
58
2,4-Dinitrophenol
39-173
79
D-173
D-191
132
2-Methyl-4,6-dinitrophenol
56-130
122
53-130
D-181
203
2-Nitrophenol
61-163
33
45-167
29-182
55
4-Nitrophenol
35-130
79
13-129
D-132
131
Pentachlorophenol
42-152
52
38-152
14-176
86
Phenol
48-130
39
17-120
5-120
64
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
69-130
35
52-129
37-144
58
1
Acceptance criteria are based upon method performance data in Table 7 and from EPA Method 1625. Where necessary, limits for recovery have been broadened to assure applicability to concentrations below those used to develop Table 7.
2
Test concentration = 100 µg/mL.
3
Test concentration = 100 µg/L.
Q = Calibration verification (sections 7.3.1 and 13.4).
s = Standard deviation for four recovery measurements in the DOC test (section 8.2.4).
X
= Average recovery for four recovery measurements in the DOC test (section 8.2.4).
P
1
, P
2
= MS/MSD recovery (section 8.3.2, section 8.4.2).
RPD = MS/MSD relative percent difference (RPD; section 8.3.3).
D = Detected; result must be greater than zero.
Table 7—Precision and Recovery as Functions of Concentration—Method 625
1
Analyte
Recovery, X′
(µg/L)
Single analyst
precision, s
r
′
(µg/L)
Overall
precision, S′
(µg/L)
Acenaphthene
0.96C + 0.19
0.15
X
−0.12
0.21
X
−0.67
Acenaphthylene
0.89C + 0.74
0.24
X
−1.06
0.26
X
−0.54
Aldrin
0.78C + 1.66
0.27
X
−1.28
0.43
X
+ 1.13
Anthracene
0.80C + 0.68
0.21
X
−0.32
0.27
X
−0.64
Benzo(a)anthracene
0.88C−0.60
0.15
X
+ 0.93
0.26
X
−0.28
Benzo(b)fluoranthene
0.93C−1.80
0.22
X
+ 0.43
0.29
X
+ 0.96
Benzo(k)fluoranthene
0.87C−1.56
0.19
X
+ 1.03
0.35
X
+ 0.40
Benzo(a)pyrene
0.90C−0.13
0.22
X
+ 0.48
0.32
X
+ 1.35
Benzo(ghi)perylene
0.98C−0.86
0.29
X
+ 2.40
0.51
X
−0.44
Benzyl butyl phthalate
0.66C−1.68
0.18
X
+ 0.94
0.53
X
+ 0.92
beta
-BHC
0.87C−0.94
0.20
X
−0.58
0.30
X
−1.94
delta
-BHC
0.29C−1.09
0.34
X
+ 0.86
0.93
X
−0.17
bis(2-Chloroethyl) ether
0.86C−1.54
0.35
X
−0.99
0.35
X
+ 0.10
bis(2-Chloroethoxy) methane
1.12C−5.04
0.16
X
+ 1.34
0.26
X
+ 2.01
bis(2-Chloroisopropyl) ether
1.03C−2.31
0.24
X
+ 0.28
0.25
X
+ 1.04
bis(2-Ethylhexyl) phthalate
0.84C−1.18
0.26
X
+ 0.73
0.36
X
+ 0.67
4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether
0.91C−1.34
0.13
X
+ 0.66
0.16
X
+ 0.66
2-Chloronaphthalene
0.89C + 0.01
0.07
X
+ 0.52
0.13
X
+ 0.34
4-Chlorophenyl phenyl ether
0.91C + 0.53
0.20
X
−0.94
0.30
X
−0.46
Chrysene
0.93C−1.00
0.28
X
+ 0.13
0.33
X
−0.09
4,4′-DDD
0.56C−0.40
0.29
X
−0.32
0.66
X
−0.96
4,4′-DDE
0.70C−0.54
0.26
X
−1.17
0.39
X
−1.04
4,4′-DDT
0.79C−3.28
0.42
X
+ 0.19
0.65
X
−0.58
Dibenz(a,h)anthracene
0.88C + 4.72
0.30
X
+ 8.51
0.59
X
+ 0.25
Di-
n
-butyl phthalate
0.59C + 0.71
0.13
X
+ 1.16
0.39
X
+ 0.60
3,3'-Dichlorobenzidine
1.23C−12.65
0.28
X
+ 7.33
0.47
X
+ 3.45
Dieldrin
0.82C−0.16
0.20
X
−0.16
0.26
X
−0.07
Diethyl phthalate
0.43C + 1.00
0.28
X
+ 1.44
0.52
X
+ 0.22
Dimethyl phthalate
0.20C + 1.03
0.54
X
+ 0.19
1.05
X
−0.92
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
0.92C−4.81
0.12
X
+ 1.06
0.21
X
+ 1.50
2,6-Dinitrotoluene
1.06C−3.60
0.14
X
+ 1.26
0.19
X
+ 0.35
Di-
n
-octyl phthalate
0.76C−0.79
0.21
X
+ 1.19
0.37
X
+ 1.19
Endosulfan sulfate
0.39C + 0.41
0.12
X
+ 2.47
0.63
X
−1.03
Endrin aldehyde
0.76C−3.86
0.18
X
+ 3.91
0.73
X
−0.62
Fluoranthene
0.81C + 1.10
0.22
X
+ 0.73
0.28
X
−0.60
Fluorene
0.90C−0.00
0.12
X
+ 0.26
0.13
X
+ 0.61
Heptachlor
0.87C−2.97
0.24
X
−0.56
0.50
X
−0.23
Heptachlor epoxide
0.92C−1.87
0.33
X
−0.46
0.28
X
+ 0.64
Hexachlorobenzene
0.74C + 0.66
0.18
X
−0.10
0.43
X
−0.52
Hexachlorobutadiene
0.71C−1.01
0.19
X
+ 0.92
0.26
X
+ 0.49
Hexachloroethane
0.73C−0.83
0.17
X
+ 0.67
0.17
X
+ 0.80
Indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene
0.78C−3.10
0.29
X
+ 1.46
0.50
X
+ 0.44
Isophorone
1.12C + 1.41
0.27
X
+ 0.77
0.33
X
+ 0.26
Naphthalene
0.76C + 1.58
0.21
X
−0.41
0.30
X
−0.68
Nitrobenzene
1.09C−3.05
0.19
X
+ 0.92
0.27
X
+ 0.21
N-Nitrosodi-
n
-propylamine
1.12C−6.22
0.27
X
+ 0.68
0.44
X
+ 0.47
PCB-1260
0.81C−10.86
0.35
X
+ 3.61
0.43
X
+ 1.82
Phenanthrene
0.87C−0.06
0.12
X
+ 0.57
0.15
X
+ 0.25
Pyrene
0.84C−0.16
0.16
X
+ 0.06
0.15
X
+ 0.31
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
0.94C−0.79
0.15
X
+ 0.85
0.21
X
+ 0.39
4-Chloro-3-methylphenol
0.84C + 0.35
0.23
X
+ 0.75
0.29
X
+ 1.31
2-Chlorophenol
0.78C + 0.29
0.18
X
+ 1.46
0.28
X
+ 0.97
2,4-Dichlorophenol
0.87C + 0.13
0.15
X
+ 1.25
0.21
X
+ 1.28
2,4-Dimethylphenol
0.71C + 4.41
0.16
X
+ 1.21
0.22
X
+ 1.31
2,4-Dinitrophenol
0.81C−18.04
0.38
X
+ 2.36
0.42
X
+ 26.29
2-Methyl-4,6-Dinitrophenol
1.04C−28.04
0.05
X
+ 42.29
0.26
X
+ 23.10
2-Nitrophenol
1.07C−1.15
0.16
X
+ 1.94
0.27
X
+ 2.60
4-Nitrophenol
0.61C−1.22
0.38
X
+ 2.57
0.44
X
+ 3.24
Pentachlorophenol
0.93C + 1.99
0.24
X
+ 3.03
0.30
X
+ 4.33
Phenol
0.43C + 1.26
0.26
X
+ 0.73
0.35
X
+ 0.58
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
0.91C−0.18
0.16
X
+ 2.22
0.22
X
+ 1.81
1
Regressions based on data from Reference 2.
X′ = Expected recovery for one or more measurements of a sample containing a concentration of C, in µg/L.
s
r
′ = Expected single analyst standard deviation of measurements at an average concentration found of
X
, in µg/L.
S′ = Expected interlaboratory standard deviation of measurements at an average concentration found of
X
, in µg/L.
C = True value for the concentration, in µg/L.
X
= Average recovery found for measurements of samples containing a concentration of C, in µg/L.
Table 8—Suggested Internal and Surrogate Standards
Base/neutral fraction
Range for surrogate recovery (%)
1
Calibration verification
Recovery from samples
Acenaphthalene-d
8
66-152
33-168
Acenaphthene-d
10
71-141
30-180
Aniline-d
5
Anthracene-d
10
58-171
23-142
Benzo(a)anthracene-d
12
28-357
22-329
Benzo(a)pyrene-d
12
32-194
32-194
4-Chloroaniline-d
4
1-145
1-145
bis(2-Chloroethyl) ether-d
8
52-194
25-222
Chrysene-d
12
23-290
23-290
Decafluorobiphenyl
4,4′-Dibromobiphenyl
4,4′-Dibromooctafluorobiphenyl
1,4-Dichlorobenzene-d
4
65-153
11-245
2,2′-Difluorobiphenyl
Dimethyl phthalate-d
6
47-211
1-500
Fluoranthene-d
10
47-215
30-187
Fluorene-d
10
61-164
38-172
4-Fluoroaniline
1-Fluoronaphthalene
2-Fluoronaphthalene
2-Methylnaphthalene-d
10
50-150
50-150
Naphthalene-d
8
71-141
22-192
Nitrobenzene-d
5
46-219
15-314
2,3,4,5,6-Pentafluorobiphenyl
Perylene-d
12
Phenanthrene-d
10
67-149
34-168
Pyrene-d
10
48-210
28-196
Pyridine-d
5
Acid fraction
2-Chlorophenol-d
4
55-180
33-180
2,4-Dichlorophenol-d
3
64-157
34-182
4,6-Dinitro-2-methylphenol-d
2
56-177
22-307
2-Fluorophenol
4-Methylphenol-d
8
25-111
25-111
2-Nitrophenol-d
4
61-163
37-163
4-Nitrophenol-d
4
35-287
6-500
Pentafluorophenol
2-Perfluoromethylphenol
Phenol-d
5
48-208
8-424
1
Recovery from samples is the wider of the criteria in the CLP SOW for organics or in Method 1625.
Table 9A—DFTPP Key
m/z's
and Abundance Criteria for Quadrupole Instruments
1
m/z
Abundance criteria
51
30-60 percent of m/z 198.
68
Less than 2 percent of m/z 69.
70
Less than 2 percent of m/z 69.
127
40-60 percent of base peak m/z 198.
197
Less than 1 percent of m/z 198.
198
Base peak, 100 percent relative abundance.
199
5-9 percent of m/z 198.
275
10-30 percent of m/z 198.
365
Greater than 1 percent of m/z 198.
441
Present but less than m/z 443.
442
40-100 percent of m/z 198.
443
17-23 percent of m/z 442.
1
Criteria in these tables are for quadrupole and time-of-flight instruments. Alternative tuning criteria from other published EPA reference methods may be used provided method performance is not adversely affected. Alternative tuning criteria specified by an instrument manufacturer may also be used for another type of mass spectrometer, provided method performance is not adversely affected.
Table 9B—DFTPP Key
m/z's
and Abundance Criteria for Time-of-flight Instruments
1
m/z
Abundance criteria
51
10-85 percent of the base peak.
68
Less than 2 percent of m/z 69.
70
Less than 2 percent of m/z 69.
127
10-80 percent of the base peak.
197
Less than 2 percent of Mass 198.
198
Base peak, or greater than 50% of m/z 442.
199
5-9 percent of m/z 198.
275
10-60 percent of the base peak.
365
Greater than 0.5 percent of m/z 198.
441
Less than 150 percent of m/z 443.
442
Base peak or greater than 30 percent of m/z 198.
443
15-24 percent of m/z 442.
1
Criteria in these tables are for quadrupole and time-of-flight instruments. Alternative tuning criteria from other published EPA reference methods may be used provided method performance is not adversely affected. Alternative tuning criteria specified by an instrument manufacturer may also be used for another type of mass spectrometer, or for an alternative carrier gas, provided method performance is not adversely affected.

# 21. Figures
ER28AU17.018
ER28AU17.019

# 22. Glossary
These definitions and purposes are specific to this method but have been conformed to common usage to the extent possible.
22.1 Units of weight and measure and their abbreviations.
22.1.1 Symbols.
°C degrees Celsius
µg microgram
µL microliter
less than
greater than
≤ less than or equal to
% percent
22.1.2 Abbreviations (in alphabetical order).
cm centimeter
g gram
h hour
ID inside diameter
in. inch
L liter
m mass or meter
mg milligram
min minute
mL milliliter
mm millimeter
ms millisecond
m/z mass-to-charge ratio
N normal; gram molecular weight of solute divided by hydrogen equivalent of solute, per liter of solution
ng nanogram
pg picogram
ppb part-per-billion
ppm part-per-million
ppt part-per-trillion
psig pounds-per-square inch gauge
22.2 Definitions and acronyms (in alphabetical order).
Analyte—A compound or mixture of compounds (e.g., PCBs) tested for by this method. The analytes are listed in Tables 1-3.
Batch—See Extraction.
Blank—An aliquot of reagent water that is treated exactly as a sample including exposure to all glassware, equipment, solvents, reagents, internal standards, and surrogates that are used with samples. The blank is used to determine if analytes or interferences are present in the laboratory environment, the reagents, or the apparatus.
Calibration—The process of determining the relationship between the output or response of a measuring instrument and the value of an input standard. Historically, EPA has referred to a multi-point calibration as the “initial calibration,” to differentiate it from a single-point calibration verification.
Calibration standard—A solution prepared from stock solutions and/or a secondary standards and containing the analytes of interest, surrogates, and internal standards. The calibration standard is used to calibrate the response of the GC/MS instrument against analyte concentration.
Calibration verification standard—The mid-point calibration standard used to verify calibration. See sections 7.3 and 13.4.
Descriptor—In SIM, the beginning and ending retention times for the RT window, the m/z's sampled in the RT window, and the dwell time at each m/z.
Extracted ion current profile (EICP)—The line described by the signal at a given m/z.
Extraction Batch—A set of up to 20 field samples (not including QC samples) started through the extraction process on a given 24-hour shift (section 3.1). Each extraction batch must be accompanied by a blank (section 8.5), a laboratory control sample (LCS, section 8.4), and a matrix spike and duplicate (MS/MSD; Section 8.3), resulting in a minimum of five analyses (1 sample, 1 blank, 1 LCS, 1 MS, and 1 MSD) and a maximum of 24 analyses (20 field samples, 1 blank, 1 LCS, 1 MS, and 1 MSD) for the batch. If greater than 20 samples are to be extracted in a 24-hour shift, the samples must be separated into extraction batches of 20 or fewer samples.
Field Duplicates—Two samples collected at the same time and placed under identical conditions, and treated identically throughout field and laboratory procedures. Results of analyses of the field duplicates provide an estimate of the precision associated with sample collection, preservation, and storage, as well as with laboratory procedures.
Field blank—An aliquot of reagent water or other reference matrix that is placed in a sample container in the field, and treated as a sample in all respects, including exposure to sampling site conditions, storage, preservation, and all analytical procedures. The purpose of the field blank is to determine if the field or sample transporting procedures and environments have contaminated the sample.
GC—Gas chromatograph or gas chromatography.
Internal standard—A compound added to an extract or standard solution in a known amount and used as a reference for quantitation of the analytes of interest and surrogates. In this method the internal standards are stable isotopically labeled analogs of selected method analytes (Table 8). Also see Internal standard quantitation.
Internal standard quantitation—A means of determining the concentration of an analyte of interest (Tables 1-3) by reference to a compound not expected to be found in a sample.
DOC—Initial demonstration of capability (section 8.2); four aliquots of reagent water spiked with the analytes of interest and analyzed to establish the ability of the laboratory to generate acceptable precision and recovery. A DOC is performed prior to the first time this method is used and any time the method or instrumentation is modified.
Laboratory Control Sample (LCS; laboratory fortified blank; section 8.4)—An aliquot of reagent water spiked with known quantities of the analytes of interest and surrogates. The LCS is analyzed exactly like a sample. Its purpose is to assure that the results produced by the laboratory remain within the limits specified in this method for precision and recovery.
Laboratory fortified sample matrix—See Matrix spike.
Laboratory reagent blank—A blank run on laboratory reagents; e.g., methylene chloride (section 11.1.5).
Matrix spike (MS) and matrix spike duplicate (MSD) (laboratory fortified sample matrix and duplicate)—Two aliquots of an environmental sample to which known quantities of the analytes of interest and surrogates are added in the laboratory. The MS/MSD are prepared and analyzed exactly like a field sample. Their purpose is to quantify any additional bias and imprecision caused by the sample matrix. The background concentrations of the analytes in the sample matrix must be determined in a separate aliquot and the measured values in the MS/MSD corrected for background concentrations.
May—This action, activity, or procedural step is neither required nor prohibited.
May not—This action, activity, or procedural step is prohibited.
Method blank—See blank.
Method detection limit (MDL)—A detection limit determined by the procedure at 40 CFR part 136, appendix B. The MDLs determined by EPA in the original version of the method are listed in Tables 1, 2 and 3. As noted in section 1.5, use the MDLs in Tables 1, 2, and 3 in conjunction with current MDL data from the laboratory actually analyzing samples to assess the sensitivity of this procedure relative to project objectives and regulatory requirements (where applicable).
Minimum level (ML)—The term “minimum level” refers to either the sample concentration equivalent to the lowest calibration point in a method or a multiple of the method detection limit (MDL), whichever is higher. Minimum levels may be obtained in several ways: They may be published in a method; they may be based on the lowest acceptable calibration point used by a laboratory; or they may be calculated by multiplying the MDL in a method, or the MDL determined by a laboratory, by a factor of 3. For the purposes of NPDES compliance monitoring, EPA considers the following terms to be synonymous: “quantitation limit,” “reporting limit,” and “minimum level.”
MS—Mass spectrometer or mass spectrometry, or matrix spike (a QC sample type).
MSD—Matrix spike duplicate (a QC sample type).
Must—This action, activity, or procedural step is required.
m/z—The ratio of the mass of an ion (m) detected in the mass spectrometer to the charge (z) of that ion.
Preparation blank—See blank.
Quality control check sample (QCS)—See Laboratory Control Sample.
Reagent water—Water demonstrated to be free from the analytes of interest and potentially interfering substances at the MDLs for the analytes in this method.
Regulatory compliance limit (or regulatory concentration limit)—A limit on the concentration or amount of a pollutant or contaminant specified in a nationwide standard, in a permit, or otherwise established by a regulatory/control authority.
Relative retention time (RRT)—The ratio of the retention time of an analyte to the retention time of its associated internal standard. RRT compensates for small changes in the GC temperature program that can affect the absolute retention times of the analyte and internal standard. RRT is a unitless quantity.
Relative standard deviation (RSD)—The standard deviation times 100 divided by the mean. Also termed “coefficient of variation.”
RF—Response factor. See section 7.2.2.
RSD—See relative standard deviation.
Safety Data Sheet (SDS)—Written information on a chemical's toxicity, health hazards, physical properties, fire, and reactivity, including storage, spill, and handling precautions that meet the requirements of OSHA, 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and appendix D to § 1910.1200. United Nations Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), third revised edition, United Nations, 2009.
Selected Ion Monitoring (SIM)—An MS technique in which a few m/z's are monitored. When used with gas chromatography, the m/z's monitored are usually changed periodically throughout the chromatographic run, to correlate with the characteristic m/z's of the analytes, surrogates, and internal standards as they elute from the chromatographic column. The technique is often used to increase sensitivity and minimize interferences.
Signal-to-noise ratio (S/N)—The height of the signal as measured from the mean (average) of the noise to the peak maximum divided by the width of the noise.
Should—This action, activity, or procedural step is suggested but not required.
SPE—Solid-phase extraction; an extraction technique in which an analyte is extracted from an aqueous solution by passage over or through a material capable of reversibly adsorbing the analyte. Also termed liquid-solid extraction.
Stock solution—A solution containing an analyte that is prepared using a reference material traceable to EPA, the National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST), or a source that will attest to the purity, authenticity, and concentration of the standard.
Surrogate—A compound unlikely to be found in a sample, and which is spiked into sample in a known amount before extraction or other processing, and is quantitated with the same procedures used to quantify other sample components. The purpose of the surrogate is to monitor method performance with each sample.

# Method 1613, Revision B

# Tetra- Through Octa-Chlorinated Dioxins and Furans by Isotope Dilution HRGC/HRMS
Pt. 136, App. A, Meth. 1613

# 1.0 Scope and Application
1.1 This method is for determination of tetra- through octa-chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (CDDs) and dibenzofurans (CDFs) in water, soil, sediment, sludge, tissue, and other sample matrices by high resolution gas chromatography/high resolution mass spectrometry (HRGC/HRMS). The method is for use in EPA's data gathering and monitoring programs associated with the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, and the Safe Drinking Water Act. The method is based on a compilation of EPA, industry, commercial laboratory, and academic methods (References 1-6).
1.2 The seventeen 2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs listed in Table 1 may be determined by this method. Specifications are also provided for separate determination of 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-dibenzo-p-dioxin (2,3,7,8-TCDD) and 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-dibenzofuran (2,3,7,8-TCDF).
1.3 The detection limits and quantitation levels in this method are usually dependent on the level of interferences rather than instrumental limitations. The minimum levels (MLs) in Table 2 are the levels at which the CDDs/CDFs can be determined with no interferences present. The Method Detection Limit (MDL) for 2,3,7,8-TCDD has been determined as 4.4 pg/L (parts-per-quadrillion) using this method.
1.4 The GC/MS portions of this method are for use only by analysts experienced with HRGC/HRMS or under the close supervision of such qualified persons. Each laboratory that uses this method must demonstrate the ability to generate acceptable results using the procedure in Section 9.2.
1.5 This method is “performance-based”. The analyst is permitted to modify the method to overcome interferences or lower the cost of measurements, provided that all performance criteria in this method are met. The requirements for establishing method equivalency are given in Section 9.1.2.
1.6 Any modification of this method, beyond those expressly permitted, shall be considered a major modification subject to application and approval of alternate test procedures under 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5.

# 2.0 Summary of Method
Flow charts that summarize procedures for sample preparation, extraction, and analysis are given in Figure 1 for aqueous and solid samples, Figure 2 for multi-phase samples, and Figure 3 for tissue samples.
2.1 Extraction.
2.1.1 Aqueous samples (samples containing less than 1% solids)—Stable isotopically labeled analogs of 15 of the 2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs are spiked into a 1 L sample, and the sample is extracted by one of three procedures:
2.1.1.1 Samples containing no visible particles are extracted with methylene chloride in a separatory funnel or by the solid-phase extraction technique summarized in Section 2.1.1.3. The extract is concentrated for cleanup.
2.1.1.2 Samples containing visible particles are vacuum filtered through a glass-fiber filter. The filter is extracted in a Soxhlet/Dean-Stark (SDS) extractor (Reference 7), and the filtrate is extracted with methylene chloride in a separatory funnel. The methylene chloride extract is concentrated and combined with the SDS extract prior to cleanup.
2.1.1.3 The sample is vacuum filtered through a glass-fiber filter on top of a solid-phase extraction (SPE) disk. The filter and disk are extracted in an SDS extractor, and the extract is concentrated for cleanup.
2.1.2 Solid, semi-solid, and multi-phase samples (but not tissue)—The labeled compounds are spiked into a sample containing 10 g (dry weight) of solids. Samples containing multiple phases are pressure filtered and any aqueous liquid is discarded. Coarse solids are ground or homogenized. Any non-aqueous liquid from multi-phase samples is combined with the solids and extracted in an SDS extractor. The extract is concentrated for cleanup.
2.1.3 Fish and other tissue—The sample is extracted by one of two procedures:
2.1.3.1 Soxhlet or SDS extraction—A 20 g aliquot of sample is homogenized, and a 10 g aliquot is spiked with the labeled compounds. The sample is mixed with sodium sulfate, allowed to dry for 12-24 hours, and extracted for 18-24 hours using methylene chloride:hexane (1:1) in a Soxhlet extractor. The extract is evaporated to dryness, and the lipid content is determined.
2.1.3.2 HCl digestion—A 20 g aliquot is homogenized, and a 10 g aliquot is placed in a bottle and spiked with the labeled compounds. After equilibration, 200 mL of hydrochloric acid and 200 mL of methylene chloride:hexane (1:1) are added, and the bottle is agitated for 12-24 hours. The extract is evaporated to dryness, and the lipid content is determined.
2.2 After extraction,
37
Cl
4
-labeled 2,3,7,8-TCDD is added to each extract to measure the efficiency of the cleanup process. Sample cleanups may include back-extraction with acid and/or base, and gel permeation, alumina, silica gel, Florisil and activated carbon chromatography. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) can be used for further isolation of the 2,3,7,8-isomers or other specific isomers or congeners. Prior to the cleanup procedures cited above, tissue extracts are cleaned up using an anthropogenic isolation column, a batch silica gel adsorption, or sulfuric acid and base back-extraction, depending on the tissue extraction procedure used.
2.3 After cleanup, the extract is concentrated to near dryness. Immediately prior to injection, internal standards are added to each extract, and an aliquot of the extract is injected into the gas chromatograph. The analytes are separated by the GC and detected by a high-resolution (≥10,000) mass spectrometer. Two exact m/z's are monitored for each analyte.
2.4 An individual CDD/CDF is identified by comparing the GC retention time and ion-abundance ratio of two exact m/z's with the corresponding retention time of an authentic standard and the theoretical or acquired ion-abundance ratio of the two exact m/z's. The non-2,3,7,8 substituted isomers and congeners are identified when retention times and ion-abundance ratios agree within predefined limits. Isomer specificity for 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF is achieved using GC columns that resolve these isomers from the other tetra-isomers.
2.5 Quantitative analysis is performed using selected ion current profile (SICP) areas, in one of three ways:
2.5.1 For the 15 2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs with labeled analogs (see Table 1), the GC/MS system is calibrated, and the concentration of each compound is determined using the isotope dilution technique.
2.5.2 For 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD, OCDF, and the labeled compounds, the GC/MS system is calibrated and the concentration of each compound is determined using the internal standard technique.
2.5.3 For non-2,3,7,8-substituted isomers and for all isomers at a given level of chlorination (
i.e.
, total TCDD), concentrations are determined using response factors from calibration of the CDDs/CDFs at the same level of chlorination.
2.6 The quality of the analysis is assured through reproducible calibration and testing of the extraction, cleanup, and GC/MS systems.

# 3.0 Definitions
Definitions are given in the glossary at the end of this method.

# 4.0 Contamination and Interferences
4.1 Solvents, reagents, glassware, and other sample processing hardware may yield artifacts and/or elevated baselines causing misinterpretation of chromatograms (References 8-9). Specific selection of reagents and purification of solvents by distillation in all-glass systems may be required. Where possible, reagents are cleaned by extraction or solvent rinse.
4.2 Proper cleaning of glassware is extremely important, because glassware may not only contaminate the samples but may also remove the analytes of interest by adsorption on the glass surface.
4.2.1 Glassware should be rinsed with solvent and washed with a detergent solution as soon after use as is practical. Sonication of glassware containing a detergent solution for approximately 30 seconds may aid in cleaning. Glassware with removable parts, particularly separatory funnels with fluoropolymer stopcocks, must be disassembled prior to detergent washing.
4.2.2 After detergent washing, glassware should be rinsed immediately, first with methanol, then with hot tap water. The tap water rinse is followed by another methanol rinse, then acetone, and then methylene chloride.
4.2.3 Do not bake reusable glassware in an oven as a routine part of cleaning. Baking may be warranted after particularly dirty samples are encountered but should be minimized, as repeated baking of glassware may cause active sites on the glass surface that will irreversibly adsorb CDDs/CDFs.
4.2.4 Immediately prior to use, the Soxhlet apparatus should be pre-extracted with toluene for approximately three hours (see Sections 12.3.1 through 12.3.3). Separatory funnels should be shaken with methylene chloride/toluene (80/20 mixture) for two minutes, drained, and then shaken with pure methylene chloride for two minutes.
4.3 All materials used in the analysis shall be demonstrated to be free from interferences by running reference matrix method blanks initially and with each sample batch (samples started through the extraction process on a given 12-hour shift, to a maximum of 20 samples).
4.3.1 The reference matrix must simulate, as closely as possible, the sample matrix under test. Ideally, the reference matrix should not contain the CDDs/CDFs in detectable amounts, but should contain potential interferents in the concentrations expected to be found in the samples to be analyzed. For example, a reference sample of human adipose tissue containing pentachloronaphthalene can be used to exercise the cleanup systems when samples containing pentachloronaphthalene are expected.
4.3.2 When a reference matrix that simulates the sample matrix under test is not available, reagent water (Section 7.6.1) can be used to simulate water samples; playground sand (Section 7.6.2) or white quartz sand (Section 7.3.2) can be used to simulate soils; filter paper (Section 7.6.3) can be used to simulate papers and similar materials; and corn oil (Section 7.6.4) can be used to simulate tissues.
4.4 Interferences coextracted from samples will vary considerably from source to source, depending on the diversity of the site being sampled. Interfering compounds may be present at concentrations several orders of magnitude higher than the CDDs/CDFs. The most frequently encountered interferences are chlorinated biphenyls, methoxy biphenyls, hydroxydiphenyl ethers, benzylphenyl ethers, polynuclear aromatics, and pesticides. Because very low levels of CDDs/CDFs are measured by this method, the elimination of interferences is essential. The cleanup steps given in Section 13 can be used to reduce or eliminate these interferences and thereby permit reliable determination of the CDDs/CDFs at the levels shown in Table 2.
4.5 Each piece of reusable glassware should be numbered to associate that glassware with the processing of a particular sample. This will assist the laboratory in tracking possible sources of contamination for individual samples, identifying glassware associated with highly contaminated samples that may require extra cleaning, and determining when glassware should be discarded.
4.6 Cleanup of tissue—The natural lipid content of tissue can interfere in the analysis of tissue samples for the CDDs/CDFs. The lipid contents of different species and portions of tissue can vary widely. Lipids are soluble to varying degrees in various organic solvents and may be present in sufficient quantity to overwhelm the column chromatographic cleanup procedures used for cleanup of sample extracts. Lipids must be removed by the lipid removal procedures in Section 13.7, followed by alumina (Section 13.4) or Florisil (Section 13.8), and carbon (Section 13.5) as minimum additional cleanup steps. If chlorodiphenyl ethers are detected, as indicated by the presence of peaks at the exact m/z's monitored for these interferents, alumina and/or Florisil cleanup must be employed to eliminate these interferences.

# 5.0 Safety
5.1 The toxicity or carcinogenicity of each compound or reagent used in this method has not been precisely determined; however, each chemical compound should be
treated as a potential health hazard. Exposure to these compounds should be reduced to the lowest possible level.
5.1.1 The 2,3,7,8-TCDD isomer has been found to be acnegenic, carcinogenic, and teratogenic in laboratory animal studies. It is soluble in water to approximately 200 ppt and in organic solvents to 0.14%. On the basis of the available toxicological and physical properties of 2,3,7,8-TCDD, all of the CDDs/CDFs should be handled only by highly trained personnel thoroughly familiar with handling and cautionary procedures and the associated risks.
5.1.2 It is recommended that the laboratory purchase dilute standard solutions of the analytes in this method. However, if primary solutions are prepared, they shall be prepared in a hood, and a NIOSH/MESA approved toxic gas respirator shall be worn when high concentrations are handled.
5.2 The laboratory is responsible for maintaining a current awareness file of OSHA regulations regarding the safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method. A reference file of material safety data sheets (MSDSs) should also be made available to all personnel involved in these analyses. It is also suggested that the laboratory perform personal hygiene monitoring of each analyst who uses this method and that the results of this monitoring be made available to the analyst. Additional information on laboratory safety can be found in References 10-13. The references and bibliography at the end of Reference 13 are particularly comprehensive in dealing with the general subject of laboratory safety.
5.3 The CDDs/CDFs and samples suspected to contain these compounds are handled using essentially the same techniques employed in handling radioactive or infectious materials. Well-ventilated, controlled access laboratories are required. Assistance in evaluating the health hazards of particular laboratory conditions may be obtained from certain consulting laboratories and from State Departments of Health or Labor, many of which have an industrial health service. The CDDs/CDFs are extremely toxic to laboratory animals. Each laboratory must develop a strict safety program for handling these compounds. The practices in References 2 and 14 are highly recommended.
5.3.1 Facility—When finely divided samples (dusts, soils, dry chemicals) are handled, all operations (including removal of samples from sample containers, weighing, transferring, and mixing) should be performed in a glove box demonstrated to be leak tight or in a fume hood demonstrated to have adequate air flow. Gross losses to the laboratory ventilation system must not be allowed. Handling of the dilute solutions normally used in analytical and animal work presents no inhalation hazards except in the case of an accident.
5.3.2 Protective equipment—Disposable plastic gloves, apron or lab coat, safety glasses or mask, and a glove box or fume hood adequate for radioactive work should be used. During analytical operations that may give rise to aerosols or dusts, personnel should wear respirators equipped with activated carbon filters. Eye protection equipment (preferably full face shields) must be worn while working with exposed samples or pure analytical standards. Latex gloves are commonly used to reduce exposure of the hands. When handling samples suspected or known to contain high concentrations of the CDDs/CDFs, an additional set of gloves can also be worn beneath the latex gloves.
5.3.3 Training—Workers must be trained in the proper method of removing contaminated gloves and clothing without contacting the exterior surfaces.
5.3.4 Personal hygiene—Hands and forearms should be washed thoroughly after each manipulation and before breaks (coffee, lunch, and shift).
5.3.5 Confinement—Isolated work areas posted with signs, segregated glassware and tools, and plastic absorbent paper on bench tops will aid in confining contamination.
5.3.6 Effluent vapors—The effluents of sample splitters from the gas chromatograph (GC) and from roughing pumps on the mass spectrometer (MS) should pass through either a column of activated charcoal or be bubbled through a trap containing oil or high-boiling alcohols to condense CDD/CDF vapors.
5.3.7 Waste Handling—Good technique includes minimizing contaminated waste. Plastic bag liners should be used in waste cans. Janitors and other personnel must be trained in the safe handling of waste.
5.3.8 Decontamination
5.3.8.1 Decontamination of personnel—Use any mild soap with plenty of scrubbing action.
5.3.8.2 Glassware, tools, and surfaces—Chlorothene NU Solvent is the least toxic solvent shown to be effective. Satisfactory cleaning may be accomplished by rinsing with Chlorothene, then washing with any detergent and water. If glassware is first rinsed with solvent, then the dish water may be disposed of in the sewer. Given the cost of disposal, it is prudent to minimize solvent wastes.
5.3.9 Laundry—Clothing known to be contaminated should be collected in plastic bags. Persons who convey the bags and launder the clothing should be advised of the hazard and trained in proper handling. The clothing may be put into a washer without contact if the launderer knows of the potential problem. The washer should be run through a cycle before being used again for other clothing.
5.3.10 Wipe tests—A useful method of determining cleanliness of work surfaces and
tools is to wipe the surface with a piece of filter paper. Extraction and analysis by GC with an electron capture detector (ECD) can achieve a limit of detection of 0.1 µg per wipe; analysis using this method can achieve an even lower detection limit. Less than 0.1 µg per wipe indicates acceptable cleanliness; anything higher warrants further cleaning. More than 10 µg on a wipe constitutes an acute hazard and requires prompt cleaning before further use of the equipment or work space, and indicates that unacceptable work practices have been employed.
5.3.11 Table or wrist-action shaker—The use of a table or wrist-action shaker for extraction of tissues presents the possibility of breakage of the extraction bottle and spillage of acid and flammable organic solvent. A secondary containment system around the shaker is suggested to prevent the spread of acid and solvents in the event of such a breakage. The speed and intensity of shaking action should also be adjusted to minimize the possibility of breakage.

# 6.0 Apparatus and Materials

# Note:
Brand names, suppliers, and part numbers are for illustration purposes only and no endorsement is implied. Equivalent performance may be achieved using apparatus and materials other than those specified here. Meeting the performance requirements of this method is the responsibility of the laboratory.
6.1 Sampling Equipment for Discrete or Composite Sampling
6.1.1 Sample bottles and caps
6.1.1.1 Liquid samples (waters, sludges and similar materials containing 5% solids or less)—Sample bottle, amber glass, 1.1 L minimum, with screw cap.
6.1.1.2 Solid samples (soils, sediments, sludges, paper pulps, filter cake, compost, and similar materials that contain more than 5% solids)—Sample bottle, wide mouth, amber glass, 500 mL minimum.
6.1.1.3 If amber bottles are not available, samples shall be protected from light.
6.1.1.4 Bottle caps—Threaded to fit sample bottles. Caps shall be lined with fluoropolymer.
6.1.1.5 Cleaning
6.1.1.5.1 Bottles are detergent water washed, then solvent rinsed before use.
6.1.1.5.2 Liners are detergent water washed, rinsed with reagent water (Section 7.6.1) followed by solvent, and baked at approximately 200 °C for a minimum of 1 hour prior to use.
6.1.2 Compositing equipment—Automatic or manual compositing system incorporating glass containers cleaned per bottle cleaning procedure above. Only glass or fluoropolymer tubing shall be used. If the sampler uses a peristaltic pump, a minimum length of compressible silicone rubber tubing may be used in the pump only. Before use, the tubing shall be thoroughly rinsed with methanol, followed by repeated rinsing with reagent water to minimize sample contamination. An integrating flow meter is used to collect proportional composite samples.
6.2 Equipment for Glassware Cleaning—Laboratory sink with overhead fume hood.
6.3 Equipment for Sample Preparation
6.3.1 Laboratory fume hood of sufficient size to contain the sample preparation equipment listed below.
6.3.2 Glove box (optional).
6.3.3 Tissue homogenizer—VirTis Model 45 Macro homogenizer (American Scientific Products H-3515, or equivalent) with stainless steel Macro-shaft and Turbo-shear blade.
6.3.4 Meat grinder—Hobart, or equivalent, with 3-5 mm holes in inner plate.
6.3.5 Equipment for determining percent moisture
6.3.5.1 Oven—Capable of maintaining a temperature of 110 ±5 °C.
6.3.5.2 Dessicator.
6.3.6 Balances
6.3.6.1 Analytical—Capable of weighing 0.1 mg.
6.3.6.2 Top loading—Capable of weighing 10 mg.
6.4 Extraction Apparatus
6.4.1 Water samples
6.4.1.1 pH meter, with combination glass electrode.
6.4.1.2 pH paper, wide range (Hydrion Papers, or equivalent).
6.4.1.3 Graduated cylinder, 1 L capacity.
6.4.1.4 Liquid/liquid extraction—Separatory funnels, 250 mL, 500 mL, and 2000 mL, with fluoropolymer stopcocks.
6.4.1.5 Solid-phase extraction
6.4.1.5.1 One liter filtration apparatus, including glass funnel, glass frit support, clamp, adapter, stopper, filtration flask, and vacuum tubing (Figure 4). For wastewater samples, the apparatus should accept 90 or 144 mm disks. For drinking water or other samples containing low solids, smaller disks may be used.
6.4.1.5.2 Vacuum source capable of maintaining 25 in. Hg, equipped with shutoff valve and vacuum gauge.
6.4.1.5.3 Glass-fiber filter—Whatman GMF 150 (or equivalent), 1 micron pore size, to fit filtration apparatus in Section 6.4.1.5.1.
6.4.1.5.4 Solid-phase extraction disk containing octadecyl (C
18
) bonded silica uniformly enmeshed in an inert matrix—Fisher Scientific 14-378F (or equivalent), to fit filtration apparatus in Section 6.4.1.5.1.
6.4.2 Soxhlet/Dean-Stark (SDS) extractor (Figure 5)—For filters and solid/sludge samples.
6.4.2.1 Soxhlet—50 mm ID, 200 mL capacity with 500 mL flask (Cal-Glass LG-6900, or equivalent, except substitute 500 mL round-bottom flask for 300 mL flat-bottom flask).
6.4.2.2 Thimble—43 × 123 to fit Soxhlet (Cal-Glass LG-6901-122, or equivalent).
6.4.2.3 Moisture trap—Dean Stark or Barret with fluoropolymer stopcock, to fit Soxhlet.
6.4.2.4 Heating mantle—Hemispherical, to fit 500 mL round-bottom flask (Cal-Glass LG-8801-112, or equivalent).
6.4.2.5 Variable transformer—Powerstat (or equivalent), 110 volt, 10 amp.
6.4.3 Apparatus for extraction of tissue.
6.4.3.1 Bottle for extraction (if digestion/extraction using HCl is used)” 500-600 mL wide-mouth clear glass, with fluoropolymer-lined cap.
6.4.3.2 Bottle for back-extraction—100-200 mL narrow-mouth clear glass with fluoropolymer-lined cap.
6.4.3.3 Mechanical shaker—Wrist-action or platform-type rotary shaker that produces vigorous agitation (Sybron Thermolyne Model LE “Big Bill” rotator/shaker, or equivalent).
6.4.3.4 Rack attached to shaker table to permit agitation of four to nine samples simultaneously.
6.4.4 Beakers—400-500 mL.
6.4.5 Spatulas—Stainless steel.
6.5 Filtration Apparatus.
6.5.1 Pyrex glass wool—Solvent-extracted by SDS for three hours minimum.

# Note:
Baking glass wool may cause active sites that will irreversibly adsorb CDDs/CDFs.
6.5.2 Glass funnel—125-250 mL.
6.5.3 Glass-fiber filter paper—Whatman GF/D (or equivalent), to fit glass funnel in Section 6.5.2.
6.5.4 Drying column—15-20 mm ID Pyrex chromatographic column equipped with coarse-glass frit or glass-wool plug.
6.5.5 Buchner funnel—15 cm.
6.5.6 Glass-fiber filter paper—to fit Buchner funnel in Section 6.5.5.
6.5.7 Filtration flasks—1.5-2.0 L, with side arm.
6.5.8 Pressure filtration apparatus—Millipore YT30 142 HW, or equivalent.
6.6 Centrifuge Apparatus.
6.6.1 Centrifuge—Capable of rotating 500 mL centrifuge bottles or 15 mL centrifuge tubes at 5,000 rpm minimum.
6.6.2 Centrifuge bottles—500 mL, with screw-caps, to fit centrifuge.
6.6.3 Centrifuge tubes—12-15 mL, with screw-caps, to fit centrifuge.
6.7 Cleanup Apparatus.
6.7.1 Automated gel permeation chromatograph (Analytical Biochemical Labs, Inc, Columbia, MO, Model GPC Autoprep 1002, or equivalent).
6.7.1.1 Column—600-700 mm long × 25 mm ID, packed with 70 g of
SX-3 Bio-beads (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Richmond, CA, or equivalent).
6.7.1.2 Syringe—10 mL, with Luer fitting.
6.7.1.3 Syringe filter holder—stainless steel, and glass-fiber or fluoropolymer filters (Gelman 4310, or equivalent).
6.7.1.4 UV detectors—254 nm, preparative or semi-preparative flow cell (Isco, Inc., Type 6; Schmadzu, 5 mm path length; Beckman-Altex 152W, 8 µL micro-prep flow cell, 2 mm path; Pharmacia UV-1, 3 mm flow cell; LDC Milton-Roy UV-3, monitor #1203; or equivalent).
6.7.2 Reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatograph.
6.7.2.1 Column oven and detector—Perkin-Elmer Model LC-65T (or equivalent) operated at 0.02 AUFS at 235 nm.
6.7.2.2 Injector—Rheodyne 7120 (or equivalent) with 50 µL sample loop.
6.7.2.3 Column—Two 6.2 mm × 250 mm Zorbax-ODS columns in series (DuPont Instruments Division, Wilmington, DE, or equivalent), operated at 50 °C with 2.0 mL/min methanol isocratic effluent.
6.7.2.4 Pump—Altex 110A (or equivalent).
6.7.3 Pipets.
6.7.3.1 Disposable, pasteur—150 mm long × 5-mm ID (Fisher Scientific 13-678-6A, or equivalent).
6.7.3.2 Disposable, serological—10 mL (6 mm ID).
6.7.4 Glass chromatographic columns.
6.7.4.1 150 mm long × 8-mm ID, (Kontes K-420155, or equivalent) with coarse-glass frit or glass-wool plug and 250 mL reservoir.
6.7.4.2 200 mm long × 15 mm ID, with coarse-glass frit or glass-wool plug and 250 mL reservoir.
6.7.4.3 300 mm long × 25 mm ID, with 300 mL reservoir and glass or fluoropolymer stopcock.
6.7.5 Stirring apparatus for batch silica cleanup of tissue extracts.
6.7.5.1 Mechanical stirrer—Corning Model 320, or equivalent.
6.7.5.2 Bottle—500-600 mL wide-mouth clear glass.
6.7.6 Oven—For baking and storage of adsorbents, capable of maintaining a constant temperature (±5 °C) in the range of 105-250 °C.
6.8 Concentration Apparatus.
6.8.1 Rotary evaporator—Buchi/Brinkman-American Scientific No. E5045-10 or equivalent, equipped with a variable temperature water bath.
6.8.1.1 Vacuum source for rotary evaporator equipped with shutoff valve at the evaporator and vacuum gauge.
6.8.1.2 A recirculating water pump and chiller are recommended, as use of tap water for cooling the evaporator wastes large volumes of water and can lead to inconsistent performance as water temperatures and pressures vary.
6.8.1.3 Round-bottom flask—100 mL and 500 mL or larger, with ground-glass fitting compatible with the rotary evaporator.
6.8.2 Kuderna-Danish (K-D) Concentrator.
6.8.2.1 Concentrator tube—10 mL, graduated (Kontes K-570050-1025, or equivalent) with calibration verified. Ground-glass stopper (size 19/22 joint) is used to prevent evaporation of extracts.
6.8.2.2 Evaporation flask—500 mL (Kontes K-570001-0500, or equivalent), attached to concentrator tube with springs (Kontes K-662750-0012 or equivalent).
6.8.2.3 Snyder column—Three-ball macro (Kontes K-503000-0232, or equivalent).
6.8.2.4 Boiling chips.
6.8.2.4.1 Glass or silicon carbide—Approximately 10/40 mesh, extracted with methylene chloride and baked at 450 °C for one hour minimum.
6.8.2.4.2 Fluoropolymer (optional)—Extracted with methylene chloride.
6.8.2.5 Water bath—Heated, with concentric ring cover, capable of maintaining a temperature within ±2 °C, installed in a fume hood.
6.8.3 Nitrogen blowdown apparatus—Equipped with water bath controlled in the range of 30-60 °C (N-Evap, Organomation Associates, Inc., South Berlin, MA, or equivalent), installed in a fume hood.
6.8.4 Sample vials.
6.8.4.1 Amber glass—2-5 mL with fluoropolymer-lined screw-cap.
6.8.4.2 Glass—0.3 mL, conical, with fluoropolymer-lined screw or crimp cap.
6.9 Gas Chromatograph—Shall have splitless or on-column injection port for capillary column, temperature program with isothermal hold, and shall meet all of the performance specifications in Section 10.
6.9.1 GC column for CDDs/CDFs and for isomer specificity for 2,3,7,8-TCDD—60 ±5 m long × 0.32 ±0.02 mm ID; 0.25 µm 5% phenyl, 94% methyl, 1% vinyl silicone bonded-phase fused-silica capillary column (J
W DB-5, or equivalent).
6.9.2 GC column for isomer specificity for 2,3,7,8-TCDF—30 ±5 m long × 0.32 ±0.02 mm ID; 0.25 µm bonded-phase fused-silica capillary column (J
W DB-225, or equivalent).
6.10 Mass Spectrometer—28-40 eV electron impact ionization, shall be capable of repetitively selectively monitoring 12 exact m/z's minimum at high resolution (≥10,000) during a period of approximately one second, and shall meet all of the performance specifications in Section 10.
6.11 GC/MS Interface—The mass spectrometer (MS) shall be interfaced to the GC such that the end of the capillary column terminates within 1 cm of the ion source but does not intercept the electron or ion beams.
6.12 Data System—Capable of collecting, recording, and storing MS data.

# 7.0 Reagents and Standards
7.1 pH Adjustment and Back-Extraction.
7.1.1 Potassium hydroxide—Dissolve 20 g reagent grade KOH in 100 mL reagent water.
7.1.2 Sulfuric acid—Reagent grade (specific gravity 1.84).
7.1.3 Hydrochloric acid—Reagent grade, 6N.
7.1.4 Sodium chloride—Reagent grade, prepare at 5% (w/v) solution in reagent water.
7.2 Solution Drying and Evaporation.
7.2.1 Solution drying—Sodium sulfate, reagent grade, granular, anhydrous (Baker 3375, or equivalent), rinsed with methylene chloride (20 mL/g), baked at 400 °C for one hour minimum, cooled in a dessicator, and stored in a pre-cleaned glass bottle with screw-cap that prevents moisture from entering. If, after heating, the sodium sulfate develops a noticeable grayish cast (due to the presence of carbon in the crystal matrix), that batch of reagent is not suitable for use and should be discarded. Extraction with methylene chloride (as opposed to simple rinsing) and baking at a lower temperature may produce sodium sulfate that is suitable for use.
7.2.2 Tissue drying—Sodium sulfate, reagent grade, powdered, treated and stored as above.
7.2.3 Prepurified nitrogen.
7.3 Extraction.
7.3.1 Solvents—Acetone, toluene, cyclohexane, hexane, methanol, methylene chloride, and nonane; distilled in glass, pesticide quality, lot-certified to be free of interferences.
7.3.2 White quartz sand, 60/70 mesh—For Soxhlet/Dean-Stark extraction (Aldrich Chemical, Cat. No. 27-437-9, or equivalent). Bake at 450 °C for four hours minimum.
7.4 GPC Calibration Solution—Prepare a solution containing 300 mg/mL corn oil, 15 mg/mL bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, 1.4 mg/mL pentachlorophenol, 0.1 mg/mL perylene, and 0.5 mg/mL sulfur.
7.5 Adsorbents for Sample Cleanup.
7.5.1 Silica gel.
7.5.1.1 Activated silica gel—100-200 mesh, Supelco 1-3651 (or equivalent), rinsed with methylene chloride, baked at 180 °C for a minimum of one hour, cooled in a dessicator, and stored in a precleaned glass bottle with screw-cap that prevents moisture from entering.
7.5.1.2 Acid silica gel (30% w/w)—Thoroughly mix 44.0 g of concentrated sulfuric acid with 100.0 g of activated silica gel in a clean container. Break up aggregates with a stirring rod until a uniform mixture is obtained. Store in a bottle with a fluoropolymer-lined screw-cap.
7.5.1.3 Basic silica gel—Thoroughly mix 30 g of 1N sodium hydroxide with 100 g of activated silica gel in a clean container. Break up aggregates with a stirring rod until a uniform mixture is obtained. Store in a bottle with a fluoropolymer-lined screw-cap.
7.5.1.4 Potassium silicate.
7.5.1.4.1 Dissolve 56 g of high purity potassium hydroxide (Aldrich, or equivalent) in 300 mL of methanol in a 750-1000 mL flat-bottom flask.
7.5.1.4.2 Add 100 g of silica gel and a stirring bar, and stir on a hot plate at 60-70 °C for one to two hours.
7.5.1.4.3 Decant the liquid and rinse the potassium silicate twice with 100 mL portions of methanol, followed by a single rinse with 100 mL of methylene chloride.
7.5.1.4.4 Spread the potassium silicate on solvent-rinsed aluminum foil and dry for two to four hours in a hood.
7.5.1.4.5 Activate overnight at 200-250 °C.
7.5.2 Alumina—Either one of two types of alumina, acid or basic, may be used in the cleanup of sample extracts, provided that the laboratory can meet the performance specifications for the recovery of labeled compounds described in Section 9.3. The same type of alumina must be used for all samples, including those used to demonstrate initial precision and recovery (Section 9.2) and ongoing precision and recovery (Section 15.5).
7.5.2.1 Acid alumina—Supelco 19996-6C (or equivalent). Activate by heating to 130 °C for a minimum of 12 hours.
7.5.2.2 Basic alumina—Supelco 19944-6C (or equivalent). Activate by heating to 600 °C for a minimum of 24 hours. Alternatively, activate by heating in a tube furnace at 650-700 °C under an air flow rate of approximately 400 cc/minute. Do not heat over 700 °C, as this can lead to reduced capacity for retaining the analytes. Store at 130 °C in a covered flask. Use within five days of baking.
7.5.3 Carbon.
7.5.3.1 Carbopak C—(Supelco 1-0258, or equivalent).
7.5.3.2 Celite 545—(Supelco 2-0199, or equivalent).
7.5.3.3 Thoroughly mix 9.0 g Carbopak C and 41.0 g Celite 545 to produce an 18% w/w mixture. Activate the mixture at 130 °C for a minimum of six hours. Store in a dessicator.
7.5.4 Anthropogenic isolation column—Pack the column in Section 6.7.4.3 from bottom to top with the following:
7.5.4.1 2 g silica gel (Section 7.5.1.1).
7.5.4.2 2 g potassium silicate (Section 7.5.1.4).
7.5.4.3 2 g granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1).
7.5.4.4 10 g acid silica gel (Section 7.5.1.2).
7.5.4.5 2 g granular anhydrous sodium sulfate.
7.5.5 Florisil column.
7.5.5.1 Florisil—60-100 mesh, Floridin Corp (or equivalent). Soxhlet extract in 500 g portions for 24 hours.
7.5.5.2 Insert a glass wool plug into the tapered end of a graduated serological pipet (Section 6.7.3.2). Pack with 1.5 g (approx 2 mL) of Florisil topped with approx 1 mL of sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1) and a glass wool plug.
7.5.5.3 Activate in an oven at 130-150 °C for a minimum of 24 hours and cool for 30 minutes. Use within 90 minutes of cooling.
7.6 Reference Matrices—Matrices in which the CDDs/CDFs and interfering compounds are not detected by this method.
7.6.1 Reagent water—Bottled water purchased locally, or prepared by passage through activated carbon.
7.6.2 High-solids reference matrix—Playground sand or similar material. Prepared by extraction with methylene chloride and/or baking at 450 °C for a minimum of four hours.
7.6.3 Paper reference matrix—Glass-fiber filter, Gelman Type A, or equivalent. Cut paper to simulate the surface area of the paper sample being tested.
7.6.4 Tissue reference matrix—Corn or other vegetable oil. May be prepared by extraction with methylene chloride.
7.6.5 Other matrices—This method may be verified on any reference matrix by performing the tests given in Section 9.2. Ideally, the matrix should be free of the CDDs/CDFs, but in no case shall the background level of the CDDs/CDFs in the reference matrix exceed three times the minimum levels in Table 2. If low background levels of the CDDs/CDFs are present in the reference matrix, the spike level of the analytes used in Section 9.2 should be increased to provide a spike-to-background ratio in the range of 1:1 to 5:1 (Reference 15).
7.7 Standard Solutions—Purchased as solutions or mixtures with certification to their purity, concentration, and authenticity, or prepared from materials of known purity and composition. If the chemical purity is 98% or greater, the weight may be used without correction to compute the concentration of the standard. When not being used, standards are stored in the dark at room temperature in screw-capped vials with fluoropolymer-lined caps. A mark is placed on the vial at the level of the solution so that solvent loss by evaporation can be detected. If solvent loss has occurred, the solution should be replaced.
7.8 Stock Solutions.
7.8.1 Preparation—Prepare in nonane per the steps below or purchase as dilute solutions (Cambridge Isotope Laboratories (CIL), Woburn, MA, or equivalent). Observe the safety precautions in Section 5, and the recommendation in Section 5.1.2.
7.8.2 Dissolve an appropriate amount of assayed reference material in solvent. For example, weigh 1-2 mg of 2,3,7,8-TCDD to three significant figures in a 10 mL ground-glass-stoppered volumetric flask and fill to the mark with nonane. After the TCDD is completely dissolved, transfer the solution to a clean 15 mL vial with fluoropolymer-lined cap.
7.8.3 Stock standard solutions should be checked for signs of degradation prior to the
preparation of calibration or performance test standards. Reference standards that can be used to determine the accuracy of calibration standards are available from CIL and may be available from other vendors.
7.9 PAR Stock Solution
7.9.1 All CDDs/CDFs—Using the solutions in Section 7.8, prepare the PAR stock solution to contain the CDDs/CDFs at the concentrations shown in Table 3. When diluted, the solution will become the PAR (Section 7.14).
7.9.2 If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, prepare the PAR stock solution to contain these compounds only.
7.10 Labeled-Compound Spiking Solution.
7.10.1 All CDDs/CDFs—From stock solutions, or from purchased mixtures, prepare this solution to contain the labeled compounds in nonane at the concentrations shown in Table 3. This solution is diluted with acetone prior to use (Section 7.10.3).
7.10.2 If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, prepare the labeled-compound solution to contain these compounds only. This solution is diluted with acetone prior to use (Section 7.10.3).
7.10.3 Dilute a sufficient volume of the labeled compound solution (Section 7.10.1 or 7.10.2) by a factor of 50 with acetone to prepare a diluted spiking solution. Each sample requires 1.0 mL of the diluted solution, but no more solution should be prepared than can be used in one day.
7.11 Cleanup Standard—Prepare
37
Cl
4
-2,3,7,8-TCDD in nonane at the concentration shown in Table 3. The cleanup standard is added to all extracts prior to cleanup to measure the efficiency of the cleanup process.
7.12 Internal Standard(s).
7.12.1 All CDDs/CDFs—Prepare the internal standard solution to contain
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD and
13
C
2
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD in nonane at the concentration shown in Table 3.
7.12.2 If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, prepare the internal standard solution to contain
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD only.
7.13 Calibration Standards (CS1 through CS5)—Combine the solutions in Sections 7.9 through 7.12 to produce the five calibration solutions shown in Table 4 in nonane. These solutions permit the relative response (labeled to native) and response factor to be measured as a function of concentration. The CS3 standard is used for calibration verification (VER). If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, combine the solutions appropriate to these compounds.
7.14 Precision and Recovery (PAR) Standard—Used for determination of initial (Section 9.2) and ongoing (Section 15.5) precision and recovery. Dilute 10 µL of the precision and recovery standard (Section 7.9.1 or 7.9.2) to 2.0 mL with acetone for each sample matrix for each sample batch. One mL each are required for the blank and OPR with each matrix in each batch.
7.15 GC Retention Time Window Defining Solution and Isomer Specificity Test Standard—Used to define the beginning and ending retention times for the dioxin and furan isomers and to demonstrate isomer specificity of the GC columns employed for determination of 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF. The standard must contain the compounds listed in Table 5 (CIL EDF—4006, or equivalent), at a minimum. It is not necessary to monitor the window-defining compounds if only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined. In this case, an isomer-specificity test standard containing the most closely eluted isomers listed in Table 5 (CIL EDF-4033, or equivalent) may be used.
7.16 QC Check Sample—A QC Check Sample should be obtained from a source independent of the calibration standards. Ideally, this check sample would be a certified reference material containing the CDDs/CDFs in known concentrations in a sample matrix similar to the matrix under test.
7.17 Stability of Solutions—Standard solutions used for quantitative purposes (Sections 7.9 through 7.15) should be analyzed periodically, and should be assayed against reference standards (Section 7.8.3) before further use.

# 8.0 Sample Collection, Preservation, Storage, and Holding Times
8.1 Collect samples in amber glass containers following conventional sampling practices (Reference 16). Aqueous samples that flow freely are collected in refrigerated bottles using automatic sampling equipment. Solid samples are collected as grab samples using wide-mouth jars.
8.2 Maintain aqueous samples in the dark at 0-4 °C from the time of collection until receipt at the laboratory. If residual chlorine is present in aqueous samples, add 80 mg sodium thiosulfate per liter of water. EPA Methods 330.4 and 330.5 may be used to measure residual chlorine (Reference 17). If sample pH is greater than 9, adjust to pH 7-9 with sulfuric acid.
Maintain solid, semi-solid, oily, and mixed-phase samples in the dark at
4 °C from the time of collection until receipt at the laboratory.
Store aqueous samples in the dark at 0-4 °C. Store solid, semi-solid, oily, mixed-phase, and tissue samples in the dark at
−10 °C.
8.3 Fish and Tissue Samples.
8.3.1 Fish may be cleaned, filleted, or processed in other ways in the field, such that the laboratory may expect to receive whole fish, fish fillets, or other tissues for analysis.
8.3.2 Fish collected in the field should be wrapped in aluminum foil, and must be maintained at a temperature less than 4 °C
from the time of collection until receipt at the laboratory.
8.3.3 Samples must be frozen upon receipt at the laboratory and maintained in the dark at
−10 °C until prepared. Maintain unused sample in the dark at
−10 °C.
8.4 Holding Times.
8.4.1 There are no demonstrated maximum holding times associated with CDDs/CDFs in aqueous, solid, semi-solid, tissues, or other sample matrices. If stored in the dark at 0-4 °C and preserved as given above (if required), aqueous samples may be stored for up to one year. Similarly, if stored in the dark at
−10 °C, solid, semi-solid, multi-phase, and tissue samples may be stored for up to one year.
8.4.2 Store sample extracts in the dark at
−10 °C until analyzed. If stored in the dark at
−10 °C, sample extracts may be stored for up to one year.

# 9.0 Quality Assurance/Quality Control
9.1 Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality assurance program (Reference 18). The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability, analysis of samples spiked with labeled compounds to evaluate and document data quality, and analysis of standards and blanks as tests of continued performance. Laboratory performance is compared to established performance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet the performance characteristics of the method.
If the method is to be applied to sample matrix other than water (e.g., soils, filter cake, compost, tissue) the most appropriate alternate matrix (Sections 7.6.2 through 7.6.5) is substituted for the reagent water matrix (Section 7.6.1) in all performance tests.
9.1.1 The analyst shall make an initial demonstration of the ability to generate acceptable accuracy and precision with this method. This ability is established as described in Section 9.2.
9.1.2 In recognition of advances that are occurring in analytical technology, and to allow the analyst to overcome sample matrix interferences, the analyst is permitted certain options to improve separations or lower the costs of measurements. These options include alternate extraction, concentration, cleanup procedures, and changes in columns and detectors. Alternate determinative techniques, such as the substitution of spectroscopic or immuno-assay techniques, and changes that degrade method performance, are not allowed. If an analytical technique other than the techniques specified in this method is used, that technique must have a specificity equal to or better than the specificity of the techniques in this method for the analytes of interest.
9.1.2.1 Each time a modification is made to this method, the analyst is required to repeat the procedure in Section 9.2. If the detection limit of the method will be affected by the change, the laboratory is required to demonstrate that the MDL (40 CFR part 136, appendix B) is lower than one-third the regulatory compliance level or one-third the ML in this method, whichever is higher. If calibration will be affected by the change, the analyst must recalibrate the instrument per Section 10.
9.1.2.2 The laboratory is required to maintain records of modifications made to this method. These records include the following, at a minimum:
9.1.2.2.1 The names, titles, addresses, and telephone numbers of the analyst(s) who performed the analyses and modification, and of the quality control officer who witnessed and will verify the analyses and modifications.
9.1.2.2.2 A listing of pollutant(s) measured, by name and CAS Registry number.
9.1.2.2.3 A narrative stating reason(s) for the modifications.
9.1.2.2.4 Results from all quality control (QC) tests comparing the modified method to this method, including:
(a) Calibration (Section 10.5 through 10.7).
(b) Calibration verification (Section 15.3).
(c) Initial precision and recovery (Section 9.2).
(d) Labeled compound recovery (Section 9.3).
(e) Analysis of blanks (Section 9.5).
(f) Accuracy assessment (Section 9.4).
9.1.2.2.5 Data that will allow an independent reviewer to validate each determination by tracing the instrument output (peak height, area, or other signal) to the final result. These data are to include:
(a) Sample numbers and other identifiers.
(b) Extraction dates.
(c) Analysis dates and times.
(d) Analysis sequence/run chronology.
(e) Sample weight or volume (Section 11).
(f) Extract volume prior to each cleanup step (Section 13).
(g) Extract volume after each cleanup step (Section 13).
(h) Final extract volume prior to injection (Section 14).
(i) Injection volume (Section 14.3).
(j) Dilution data, differentiating between dilution of a sample or extract (Section 17.5).
(k) Instrument and operating conditions.
(l) Column (dimensions, liquid phase, solid support, film thickness, etc).
(m) Operating conditions (temperatures, temperature program, flow rates).
(n) Detector (type, operating conditions, etc).
(o) Chromatograms, printer tapes, and other recordings of raw data.
(p) Quantitation reports, data system outputs, and other data to link the raw data to the results reported.
9.1.3 Analyses of method blanks are required to demonstrate freedom from contamination (Section 4.3). The procedures and criteria for analysis of a method blank are described in Sections 9.5 and 15.6.
9.1.4 The laboratory shall spike all samples with labeled compounds to monitor method performance. This test is described in Section 9.3. When results of these spikes indicate atypical method performance for samples, the samples are diluted to bring method performance within acceptable limits. Procedures for dilution are given in Section 17.5.
9.1.5 The laboratory shall, on an ongoing basis, demonstrate through calibration verification and the analysis of the ongoing precision and recovery aliquot that the analytical system is in control. These procedures are described in Sections 15.1 through 15.5.
9.1.6 The laboratory shall maintain records to define the quality of data that is generated. Development of accuracy statements is described in Section 9.4.
9.2 Initial Precision and Recovery (IPR)—To establish the ability to generate acceptable precision and recovery, the analyst shall perform the following operations.
9.2.1 For low solids (aqueous) samples, extract, concentrate, and analyze four 1 L aliquots of reagent water spiked with the diluted labeled compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) and the precision and recovery standard (Section 7.14) according to the procedures in Sections 11 through 18. For an alternative sample matrix, four aliquots of the alternative reference matrix (Section 7.6) are used. All sample processing steps that are to be used for processing samples, including preparation (Section 11), extraction (Section 12), and cleanup (Section 13), shall be included in this test.
9.2.2 Using results of the set of four analyses, compute the average concentration (X) of the extracts in ng/mL and the standard deviation of the concentration (s) in ng/mL for each compound, by isotope dilution for CDDs/CDFs with a labeled analog, and by internal standard for 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD, OCDF, and the labeled compounds.
9.2.3 For each CDD/CDF and labeled compound, compare s and X with the corresponding limits for initial precision and recovery in Table 6. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, compare s and X with the corresponding limits for initial precision and recovery in Table 6a. If s and X for all compounds meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may begin. If, however, any individual s exceeds the precision limit or any individual X falls outside the range for accuracy, system performance is unacceptable for that compound. Correct the problem and repeat the test (Section 9.2).
9.3 The laboratory shall spike all samples with the diluted labeled compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) to assess method performance on the sample matrix.
9.3.1 Analyze each sample according to the procedures in Sections 11 through 18.
9.3.2 Compute the percent recovery of the labeled compounds and the cleanup standard using the internal standard method (Section 17.2).
9.3.3 The recovery of each labeled compound must be within the limits in Table 7 when all 2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs are determined, and within the limits in Table 7a when only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are determined. If the recovery of any compound falls outside of these limits, method performance is unacceptable for that compound in that sample. To overcome such difficulties, water samples are diluted and smaller amounts of soils, sludges, sediments, and other matrices are reanalyzed per Section 18.4.
9.4 Recovery of labeled compounds from samples should be assessed and records should be maintained.
9.4.1 After the analysis of five samples of a given matrix type (water, soil, sludge, pulp, etc.) for which the labeled compounds pass the tests in Section 9.3, compute the average percent recovery (R) and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (SR) for the labeled compounds only. Express the assessment as a percent recovery interval from R−2S
R
to R = 2S
R
for each matrix. For example, if R = 90% and S
R
= 10% for five analyses of pulp, the recovery interval is expressed as 70-110%.
9.4.2 Update the accuracy assessment for each labeled compound in each matrix on a regular basis (e.g., after each 5-10 new measurements).
9.5 Method Blanks—Reference matrix method blanks are analyzed to demonstrate freedom from contamination (Section 4.3).
9.5.1 Prepare, extract, clean up, and concentrate a method blank with each sample batch (samples of the same matrix started through the extraction process on the same 12-hour shift, to a maximum of 20 samples). The matrix for the method blank shall be similar to sample matrix for the batch, e.g., a 1 L reagent water blank (Section 7.6.1), high-solids reference matrix blank (Section 7.6.2), paper matrix blank (Section 7.6.3); tissue blank (Section 7.6.4) or alternative reference matrix blank (Section 7.6.5). Analyze the blank immediately after analysis of the OPR (Section 15.5) to demonstrate freedom from contamination.
9.5.2 If any 2,3,7,8-substituted CDD/CDF (Table 1) is found in the blank at greater than the minimum level (Table 2) or one-third the regulatory compliance level, whichever is greater; or if any potentially interfering compound is found in the blank at the minimum level for each level of
chlorination given in Table 2 (assuming a response factor of 1 relative to the
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD internal standard for compounds not listed in Table 1), analysis of samples is halted until the blank associated with the sample batch shows no evidence of contamination at this level. All samples must be associated with an uncontaminated method blank before the results for those samples may be reported for regulatory compliance purposes.
9.6 QC Check Sample—Analyze the QC Check Sample (Section 7.16) periodically to assure the accuracy of calibration standards and the overall reliability of the analytical process. It is suggested that the QC Check Sample be analyzed at least quarterly.
9.7 The specifications contained in this method can be met if the apparatus used is calibrated properly and then maintained in a calibrated state. The standards used for calibration (Section 10), calibration verification (Section 15.3), and for initial (Section 9.2) and ongoing (Section 15.5) precision and recovery should be identical, so that the most precise results will be obtained. A GC/MS instrument will provide the most reproducible results if dedicated to the settings and conditions required for the analyses of CDDs/CDFs by this method.
9.8 Depending on specific program requirements, field replicates may be collected to determine the precision of the sampling technique, and spiked samples may be required to determine the accuracy of the analysis when the internal standard method is used.

# 10.0 Calibration
10.1 Establish the operating conditions necessary to meet the minimum retention times for the internal standards in Section 10.2.4 and the relative retention times for the CDDs/CDFs in Table 2.
10.1.1 Suggested GC operating conditions:
Injector temperature: 270 °C
Interface temperature: 290 °C
Initial temperature: 200 °C
Initial time: Two minutes
Temperature program:
200-220 °C, at 5 °C/minute
220 °C for 16 minutes
220-235 °C, at 5 °C/minute
235 °C for seven minutes
235-330 °C, at 5 °C/minute

# Note:
All portions of the column that connect the GC to the ion source shall remain at or above the interface temperature specified above during analysis to preclude condensation of less volatile compounds.
Optimize GC conditions for compound separation and sensitivity. Once optimized, the same GC conditions must be used for the analysis of all standards, blanks, IPR and OPR aliquots, and samples.
10.1.2 Mass spectrometer (MS) resolution—Obtain a selected ion current profile (SICP) of each analyte in Table 3 at the two exact m/z's specified in Table 8 and at ≥10,000 resolving power by injecting an authentic standard of the CDDs/CDFs either singly or as part of a mixture in which there is no interference between closely eluted components.
10.1.2.1 The analysis time for CDDs/CDFs may exceed the long-term mass stability of the mass spectrometer. Because the instrument is operated in the high-resolution mode, mass drifts of a few ppm (e.g., 5 ppm in mass) can have serious adverse effects on instrument performance. Therefore, a mass-drift correction is mandatory and a lock-mass m/z from PFK is used for drift correction. The lock-mass m/z is dependent on the exact m/z's monitored within each descriptor, as shown in Table 8. The level of PFK metered into the HRMS during analyses should be adjusted so that the amplitude of the most intense selected lock-mass m/z signal (regardless of the descriptor number) does not exceed 10% of the full-scale deflection for a given set of detector parameters. Under those conditions, sensitivity changes that might occur during the analysis can be more effectively monitored.

# Note:
Excessive PFK (or any other reference substance) may cause noise problems and contamination of the ion source necessitating increased frequency of source cleaning.
10.1.2.2 If the HRMS has the capability to monitor resolution during the analysis, it is acceptable to terminate the analysis when the resolution falls below 10,000 to save reanalysis time.
10.1.2.3 Using a PFK molecular leak, tune the instrument to meet the minimum required resolving power of 10,000 (10% valley) at m/z 304.9824 (PFK) or any other reference signal close to m/z 304 (from TCDF). For each descriptor (Table 8), monitor and record the resolution and exact m/z's of three to five reference peaks covering the mass range of the descriptor. The resolution must be greater than or equal to 10,000, and the deviation between the exact m/z and the theoretical m/z (Table 8) for each exact m/z monitored must be less than 5 ppm.
10.2 Ion Abundance Ratios, Minimum Levels, Signal-to-Noise Ratios, and Absolute Retention Times—Choose an injection volume of either 1 µL or 2 µL, consistent with the capability of the HRGC/HRMS instrument. Inject a 1 µL or 2 µL aliquot of the CS1 calibration solution (Table 4) using the GC conditions from Section 10.1.1. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, the operating conditions and specifications below apply to analysis of those compounds only.
10.2.1 Measure the SICP areas for each analyte, and compute the ion abundance ratios at the exact m/z's specified in Table 8. Compare the computed ratio to the theoretical ratio given in Table 9.
10.2.1.1 The exact m/z's to be monitored in each descriptor are shown in Table 8. Each group or descriptor shall be monitored in succession as a function of GC retention time to ensure that all CDDs/CDFs are detected. Additional m/z's may be monitored in each descriptor, and the m/z's may be divided among more than the five descriptors listed in Table 8, provided that the laboratory is able to monitor the m/z's of all the CDDs/CDFs that may elute from the GC in a given retention-time window. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, the descriptors may be modified to include only the exact m/z's for the tetra-and penta-isomers, the diphenyl ethers, and the lock m/z's.
10.2.1.2 The mass spectrometer shall be operated in a mass-drift correction mode, using perfluorokerosene (PFK) to provide lock m/z's. The lock-mass for each group of m/z's is shown in Table 8. Each lock mass shall be monitored and shall not vary by more than ±20% throughout its respective retention time window. Variations of the lock mass by more than 20% indicate the presence of coeluting interferences that may significantly reduce the sensitivity of the mass spectrometer. Reinjection of another aliquot of the sample extract will not resolve the problem. Additional cleanup of the extract may be required to remove the interferences.
10.2.2 All CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds in the CS1 standard shall be within the QC limits in Table 9 for their respective ion abundance ratios; otherwise, the mass spectrometer shall be adjusted and this test repeated until the m/z ratios fall within the limits specified. If the adjustment alters the resolution of the mass spectrometer, resolution shall be verified (Section 10.1.2) prior to repeat of the test.
10.2.3 Verify that the HRGC/HRMS instrument meets the minimum levels in Table 2. The peaks representing the CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds in the CS1 calibration standard must have signal-to-noise ratios (S/N) greater than or equal to 10.0. Otherwise, the mass spectrometer shall be adjusted and this test repeated until the minimum levels in Table 2 are met.
10.2.4 The absolute retention time of
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD (Section 7.12) shall exceed 25.0 minutes on the DB-5 column, and the retention time of
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD shall exceed 15.0 minutes on the DB-225 column; otherwise, the GC temperature program shall be adjusted and this test repeated until the above-stated minimum retention time criteria are met.
2010.3 Retention-Time Windows—Analyze the window defining mixtures (Section 7.15) using the optimized temperature program in Section 10.1. Table 5 gives the elution order (first/last) of the window-defining compounds. If 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF only are to be analyzed, this test is not required.
10.4 Isomer Specificity.
10.4.1 Analyze the isomer specificity test standards (Section 7.15) using the procedure in Section 14 and the optimized conditions for sample analysis (Section 10.1.1).
10.4.2 Compute the percent valley between the GC peaks that elute most closely to the 2,3,7,8-TCDD and TCDF isomers, on their respective columns, per Figures 6 and 7.
10.4.3 Verify that the height of the valley between the most closely eluted isomers and the 2,3,7,8-substituted isomers is less than 25% (computed as 100 x/y in Figures 6 and 7). If the valley exceeds 25%, adjust the analytical conditions and repeat the test or replace the GC column and recalibrate (Sections 10.1.2 through 10.7).
10.5 Calibration by Isotope Dilution—Isotope dilution calibration is used for the 15 2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs for which labeled compounds are added to samples prior to extraction. The reference compound for each CDD/CDF compound is shown in Table 2.
10.5.1 A calibration curve encompassing the concentration range is prepared for each compound to be determined. The relative response (RR) (labeled to native) vs. concentration in standard solutions is plotted or computed using a linear regression. Relative response is determined according to the procedures described below. Five calibration points are employed.
10.5.2 The response of each CDD/CDF relative to its labeled analog is determined using the area responses of both the primary and secondary exact m/z's specified in Table 8, for each calibration standard, as follows:
ER15SE97.002
where:
A1
n
and A2
n
= The areas of the primary and secondary m/z's for the CDD/CDF.
A1
l
and A2
l
= The areas of the primary and secondary m/z's for the labeled compound.
C
l
= The concentration of the labeled compound in the calibration standard (Table 4).
C
n
= The concentration of the native compound in the calibration standard (Table 4).
10.5.3 To calibrate the analytical system by isotope dilution, inject a volume of calibration standards CS1 through CS5 (Section 7.13 and Table 4) identical to the volume chosen in Section 10.2, using the procedure in Section 14 and the conditions in Section
10.1.1 and Table 2. Compute the relative response (RR) at each concentration.
10.5.4 Linearity—If the relative response for any compound is constant (less than 20% coefficient of variation) over the five-point calibration range, an averaged relative response may be used for that compound; otherwise, the complete calibration curve for that compound shall be used over the five-point calibration range.
10.6 Calibration by Internal Standard—The internal standard method is applied to determination of 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD (Section 17.1.2), OCDF (Section 17.1.1), the non 2,3,7,8-substituted compounds, and to the determination of labeled compounds for intralaboratory statistics (Sections 9.4 and 15.5.4).
10.6.1 Response factors—Calibration requires the determination of response factors (RF) defined by the following equation:
ER15SE97.003
where:
A1
s
and A2
s
= The areas of the primary and secondary m/z's for the CDD/CDF.
A1
is
and A2
is
= The areas of the primary and secondary m/z's for the internal standard.
C
is
= The concentration of the internal standard (Table 4).
C
s
= The concentration of the compound in the calibration standard (Table 4).

# Note:
There is only one m/z for
37
Cl
4
-2,3,7,8-TCDD. See Table 8.
10.6.2 To calibrate the analytical system by internal standard, inject 1.0 µL or 2.0 µL of calibration standards CS1 through CS5 (Section 7.13 and Table 4) using the procedure in Section 14 and the conditions in Section 10.1.1 and Table 2. Compute the response factor (RF) at each concentration.
10.6.3 Linearity—If the response factor (RF) for any compound is constant (less than 35% coefficient of variation) over the five-point calibration range, an averaged response factor may be used for that compound; otherwise, the complete calibration curve for that compound shall be used over the five-point range.
10.7 Combined Calibration—By using calibration solutions (Section 7.13 and Table 4) containing the CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds and the internal standards, a single set of analyses can be used to produce calibration curves for the isotope dilution and internal standard methods. These curves are verified each shift (Section 15.3) by analyzing the calibration verification standard (VER, Table 4). Recalibration is required if any of the calibration verification criteria (Section 15.3) cannot be met.
10.8 Data Storage—MS data shall be collected, recorded, and stored.
10.8.1 Data acquisition—The signal at each exact m/z shall be collected repetitively throughout the monitoring period and stored on a mass storage device.
10.8.2 Response factors and multipoint calibrations—The data system shall be used to record and maintain lists of response factors (response ratios for isotope dilution) and multipoint calibration curves. Computations of relative standard deviation (coefficient of variation) shall be used to test calibration linearity. Statistics on initial performance (Section 9.2) and ongoing performance (Section 15.5) should be computed and maintained, either on the instrument data system, or on a separate computer system.

# 11.0 Sample Preparation
11.1 Sample preparation involves modifying the physical form of the sample so that the CDDs/CDFs can be extracted efficiently. In general, the samples must be in a liquid form or in the form of finely divided solids in order for efficient extraction to take place. Table 10 lists the phases and suggested quantities for extraction of various sample matrices.
For samples known or expected to contain high levels of the CDDs/CDFs, the smallest sample size representative of the entire sample should be used (see Section 17.5).
For all samples, the blank and IPR/OPR aliquots must be processed through the same steps as the sample to check for contamination and losses in the preparation processes.
11.1.1 For samples that contain particles, percent solids and particle size are determined using the procedures in Sections 11.2 and 11.3, respectively.
11.1.2 Aqueous samples—Because CDDs/CDFs may be bound to suspended particles, the preparation of aqueous samples is dependent on the solids content of the sample.
11.1.2.1 Aqueous samples visibly absent particles are prepared per Section 11.4 and extracted directly using the separatory funnel or SPE techniques in Sections 12.1 or 12.2, respectively.
11.1.2.2 Aqueous samples containing visible particles and containing one percent suspended solids or less are prepared using the procedure in Section 11.4. After preparation, the sample is extracted directly using the SPE technique in 12.2 or filtered per Section 11.4.3. After filtration, the particles and filter are extracted using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3 and the filtrate is extracted using the separatory funnel procedure in Section 12.1.
11.1.2.3 For aqueous samples containing greater than one percent solids, a sample aliquot sufficient to provide 10 g of dry solids is used, as described in Section 11.5.
11.1.3 Solid samples are prepared using the procedure described in Section 11.5 followed by extraction via the SDS procedure in Section 12.3.
11.1.4 Multiphase samples—The phase(s) containing the CDDs/CDFs is separated from the non-CDD/CDF phase using pressure filtration and centrifugation, as described in Section 11.6. The CDDs/CDFs will be in the organic phase in a multiphase sample in which an organic phase exists.
11.1.5 Procedures for grinding, homogenization, and blending of various sample phases are given in Section 11.7.
11.1.6 Tissue samples—Preparation procedures for fish and other tissues are given in Section 11.8.
11.2 Determination of Percent Suspended Solids.

# Note:
This aliquot is used for determining the solids content of the sample, not for determination of CDDs/CDFs.
11.2.1 Aqueous liquids and multi-phase samples consisting of mainly an aqueous phase.
11.2.1.1 Dessicate and weigh a GF/D filter (Section 6.5.3) to three significant figures.
11.2.1.2 Filter 10.0 ±0.02 mL of well-mixed sample through the filter.
11.2.1.3 Dry the filter a minimum of 12 hours at 110 ±5 °C and cool in a dessicator.
11.2.1.4 Calculate percent solids as follows:
ER15SE97.004
11.2.2 Non-aqueous liquids, solids, semi-solid samples, and multi-phase samples in which the main phase is not aqueous; but not tissues.
11.2.2.1 Weigh 5-10 g of sample to three significant figures in a tared beaker.
11.2.2.2 Dry a minimum of 12 hours at 110 ±5 °C, and cool in a dessicator.
11.2.2.3 Calculate percent solids as follows:
ER15SE97.005
11.3 Determination of Particle Size.
11.3.1 Spread the dried sample from Section 11.2.2.2 on a piece of filter paper or aluminum foil in a fume hood or glove box.
11.3.2 Estimate the size of the particles in the sample. If the size of the largest particles is greater than 1 mm, the particle size must be reduced to 1 mm or less prior to extraction using the procedures in Section 11.7.
11.4 Preparation of Aqueous Samples Containing 1% Suspended Solids or Less.
11.4.1 Aqueous samples visibly absent particles are prepared per the procedure below and extracted directly using the separatory funnel or SPE techniques in Sections 12.1 or 12.2, respectively. Aqueous samples containing visible particles and one percent suspended solids or less are prepared using the procedure below and extracted using either the SPE technique in Section 12.2 or further prepared using the filtration procedure in Section 11.4.3. The filtration procedure is followed by SDS extraction of the filter and particles (Section 12.3) and separatory funnel extraction of the filtrate (Section 12.1). The SPE procedure is followed by SDS extraction of the filter and disk.
11.4.2 Preparation of sample and QC aliquots.
11.4.2.1 Mark the original level of the sample on the sample bottle for reference. Weigh the sample plus bottle to ±1.
11.4.2.2 Spike 1.0 mL of the diluted labeled-compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) into the sample bottle. Cap the bottle and mix the sample by careful shaking. Allow the sample to equilibrate for one to two hours, with occasional shaking.
11.4.2.3 For each sample or sample batch (to a maximum of 20 samples) to be extracted during the same 12-hour shift, place two 1.0 L aliquots of reagent water in clean sample bottles or flasks.
11.4.2.4 Spike 1.0 mL of the diluted labeled-compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) into both reagent water aliquots. One of these aliquots will serve as the method blank.
11.4.2.5 Spike 1.0 mL of the PAR standard (Section 7.14) into the remaining reagent water aliquot. This aliquot will serve as the OPR (Section 15.5).
11.4.2.6 If SPE is to be used, add 5 mL of methanol to the sample, cap and shake the
sample to mix thoroughly, and proceed to Section 12.2 for extraction. If SPE is not to be used, and the sample is visibly absent particles, proceed to Section 12.1 for extraction. If SPE is not to be used and the sample contains visible particles, proceed to the following section for filtration of particles.
11.4.3 Filtration of particles.
11.4.3.1 Assemble a Buchner funnel (Section 6.5.5) on top of a clean filtration flask. Apply vacuum to the flask, and pour the entire contents of the sample bottle through a glass-fiber filter (Section 6.5.6) in the Buchner funnel, swirling the sample remaining in the bottle to suspend any particles.
11.4.3.2 Rinse the sample bottle twice with approximately 5 mL portions of reagent water to transfer any remaining particles onto the filter.
11.4.3.3 Rinse any particles off the sides of the Buchner funnel with small quantities of reagent water.
11.4.3.4 Weigh the empty sample bottle to ±1 g. Determine the weight of the sample by difference. Save the bottle for further use.
11.4.3.5 Extract the filtrate using the separatory funnel procedure in Section 12.1.
11.4.3.6 Extract the filter containing the particles using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3.
11.5 Preparation of Samples Containing Greater Than 1% Solids.
11.5.1 Weigh a well-mixed aliquot of each sample (of the same matrix type) sufficient to provide 10 g of dry solids (based on the solids determination in Section 11.2) into a clean beaker or glass jar.
11.5.2 Spike 1.0 mL of the diluted labeled compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) into the sample.
11.5.3 For each sample or sample batch (to a maximum of 20 samples) to be extracted during the same 12-hour shift, weigh two 10 g aliquots of the appropriate reference matrix (Section 7.6) into clean beakers or glass jars.
11.5.4 Spike 1.0 mL of the diluted labeled compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) into each reference matrix aliquot. One aliquot will serve as the method blank. Spike 1.0 mL of the PAR standard (Section 7.14) into the other reference matrix aliquot. This aliquot will serve as the OPR (Section 15.5).
11.5.5 Stir or tumble and equilibrate the aliquots for one to two hours.
11.5.6 Decant excess water. If necessary to remove water, filter the sample through a glass-fiber filter and discard the aqueous liquid.
11.5.7 If particles
1mm are present in the sample (as determined in Section 11.3.2), spread the sample on clean aluminum foil in a hood. After the sample is dry, grind to reduce the particle size (Section 11.7).
11.5.8 Extract the sample and QC aliquots using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3.
11.6 Multiphase Samples.
11.6.1 Using the percent solids determined in Section 11.2.1 or 11.2.2, determine the volume of sample that will provide 10 g of solids, up to 1 L of sample.
11.6.2 Pressure filter the amount of sample determined in Section 11.6.1 through Whatman GF/D glass-fiber filter paper (Section 6.5.3). Pressure filter the blank and OPR aliquots through GF/D papers also. If necessary to separate the phases and/or settle the solids, centrifuge these aliquots prior to filtration.
11.6.3 Discard any aqueous phase (if present). Remove any non-aqueous liquid present and reserve the maximum amount filtered from the sample (Section 11.6.1) or 10 g, whichever is less, for combination with the solid phase (Section 12.3.5).
11.6.4 If particles
1mm are present in the sample (as determined in Section 11.3.2) and the sample is capable of being dried, spread the sample and QC aliquots on clean aluminum foil in a hood. After the aliquots are dry or if the sample cannot be dried, reduce the particle size using the procedures in Section 11.7 and extract the reduced particles using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3. If particles
1mm are not present, extract the particles and filter in the sample and QC aliquots directly using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3.
11.7 Sample grinding, homogenization, or blending—Samples with particle sizes greater than 1 mm (as determined in Section 11.3.2) are subjected to grinding, homogenization, or blending. The method of reducing particle size to less than 1 mm is matrix-dependent. In general, hard particles can be reduced by grinding with a mortar and pestle. Softer particles can be reduced by grinding in a Wiley mill or meat grinder, by homogenization, or in a blender.
11.7.1 Each size-reducing preparation procedure on each matrix shall be verified by running the tests in Section 9.2 before the procedure is employed routinely.
11.7.2 The grinding, homogenization, or blending procedures shall be carried out in a glove box or fume hood to prevent particles from contaminating the work environment.
11.7.3 Grinding—Certain papers and pulps, slurries, and amorphous solids can be ground in a Wiley mill or heavy duty meat grinder. In some cases, reducing the temperature of the sample to freezing or to dry ice or liquid nitrogen temperatures can aid in the grinding process. Grind the sample aliquots from Section 11.5.7 or 11.6.4 in a clean grinder. Do not allow the sample temperature to exceed 50 °C. Grind the blank and reference matrix aliquots using a clean grinder.
11.7.4 Homogenization or blending—Particles that are not ground effectively, or particles greater than 1 mm in size after grinding, can often be reduced in size by high speed homogenization or blending. Homogenize and/or blend the particles or filter from
Section 11.5.7 or 11.6.4 for the sample, blank, and OPR aliquots.
11.7.5 Extract the aliquots using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3.
11.8 Fish and Other Tissues—Prior to processing tissue samples, the laboratory must determine the exact tissue to be analyzed. Common requests for analysis of fish tissue include whole fish—skin on, whole fish—skin removed, edible fish fillets (filleted in the field or by the laboratory), specific organs, and other portions. Once the appropriate tissue has been determined, the sample must be homogenized.
11.8.1 Homogenization.
11.8.1.1 Samples are homogenized while still frozen, where practical. If the laboratory must dissect the whole fish to obtain the appropriate tissue for analysis, the unused tissues may be rapidly refrozen and stored in a clean glass jar for subsequent use.
11.8.1.2 Each analysis requires 10 g of tissue (wet weight). Therefore, the laboratory should homogenize at least 20 g of tissue to allow for re-extraction of a second aliquot of the same homogenized sample, if re-analysis is required. When whole fish analysis is necessary, the entire fish is homogenized.
11.8.1.3 Homogenize the sample in a tissue homogenizer (Section 6.3.3) or grind in a meat grinder (Section 6.3.4). Cut tissue too large to feed into the grinder into smaller pieces. To assure homogeneity, grind three times.
11.8.1.4 Transfer approximately 10 g (wet weight) of homogenized tissue to a clean, tared, 400-500 mL beaker. For the alternate HCl digestion/extraction, transfer the tissue to a clean, tared 500-600 mL wide-mouth bottle. Record the weight to the nearest 10 mg.
11.8.1.5 Transfer the remaining homogenized tissue to a clean jar with a fluoropolymer-lined lid. Seal the jar and store the tissue at
−10 °C. Return any tissue that was not homogenized to its original container and store at
−10 °C.
11.8.2 QC aliquots.
11.8.2.1 Prepare a method blank by adding approximately 10 g of the oily liquid reference matrix (Section 7.6.4) to a 400-500 mL beaker. For the alternate HCl digestion/extraction, add the reference matrix to a 500-600 mL wide-mouth bottle. Record the weight to the nearest 10 mg.
11.8.2.2 Prepare a precision and recovery aliquot by adding approximately 10 g of the oily liquid reference matrix (Section 7.6.4) to a separate 400-500 mL beaker or wide-mouth bottle, depending on the extraction procedure to be used. Record the weight to the nearest 10 mg. If the initial precision and recovery test is to be performed, use four aliquots; if the ongoing precision and recovery test is to be performed, use a single aliquot.
11.8.3 Spiking
11.8.3.1 Spike 1.0 mL of the labeled compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) into the sample, blank, and OPR aliquot.
11.8.3.2 Spike 1.0 mL of the PAR standard (Section 7.14) into the OPR aliquot.
11.8.4 Extract the aliquots using the procedures in Section 12.4.

# 12.0 Extraction and Concentration
Extraction procedures include separatory funnel (Section 12.1) and solid phase (Section 12.2) for aqueous liquids; Soxhlet/Dean-Stark (Section 12.3) for solids, filters, and SPE disks; and Soxhlet extraction (Section 12.4.1) and HCl digestion (Section 12.4.2) for tissues. Acid/base back-extraction (Section 12.5) is used for initial cleanup of extracts.
Macro-concentration procedures include rotary evaporation (Section 12.6.1), heating mantle (Section 12.6.2), and Kuderna-Danish (K-D) evaporation (Section 12.6.3). Micro-concentration uses nitrogen blowdown (Section 12.7).
12.1 Separatory funnel extraction of filtrates and of aqueous samples visibly absent particles.
12.1.1 Pour the spiked sample (Section 11.4.2.2) or filtrate (Section 11.4.3.5) into a 2 L separatory funnel. Rinse the bottle or flask twice with 5 mL of reagent water and add these rinses to the separatory funnel.
12.1.2 Add 60 mL methylene chloride to the empty sample bottle (Section 12.1.1), seal, and shake 60 seconds to rinse the inner surface. Transfer the solvent to the separatory funnel, and extract the sample by shaking the funnel for two minutes with periodic venting. Allow the organic layer to separate from the aqueous phase for a minimum of 10 minutes. If an emulsion forms and is more than one-third the volume of the solvent layer, employ mechanical techniques to complete the phase separation (see note below). Drain the methylene chloride extract through a solvent-rinsed glass funnel approximately one-half full of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1) supported on clean glass-fiber paper into a solvent-rinsed concentration device (Section 12.6).

# Note:
If an emulsion forms, the analyst must employ mechanical techniques to complete the phase separation. The optimum technique depends upon the sample, but may include stirring, filtration through glass wool, use of phase separation paper, centrifugation, use of an ultrasonic bath with ice, addition of NaCl, or other physical methods. Alternatively, solid-phase or other extraction techniques may be used to prevent emulsion formation. Any alternative technique is acceptable so long as the requirements in Section 9 are met.
Experience with aqueous samples high in dissolved organic materials (e.g., paper mill effluents) has shown that acidification of the
sample prior to extraction may reduce the formation of emulsions. Paper industry methods suggest that the addition of up to 400 mL of ethanol to a 1 L effluent sample may also reduce emulsion formation. However, studies by EPA suggest that the effect may be a result of sample dilution, and that the addition of reagent water may serve the same function. Mechanical techniques may still be necessary to complete the phase separation. If either acidification or addition of ethanol is utilized, the laboratory must perform the startup tests described in Section 9.2 using the same techniques.
12.1.3 Extract the water sample two more times with 60 mL portions of methylene chloride. Drain each portion through the sodium sulfate into the concentrator. After the third extraction, rinse the separatory funnel with at least 20 mL of methylene chloride, and drain this rinse through the sodium sulfate into the concentrator. Repeat this rinse at least twice. Set aside the funnel with sodium sulfate if the extract is to be combined with the extract from the particles.
12.1.4 Concentrate the extract using one of the macro-concentration procedures in Section 12.6.
12.1.4.1 If the extract is from a sample visibly absent particles (Section 11.1.2.1), adjust the final volume of the concentrated extract to approximately 10 mL with hexane, transfer to a 250 mL separatory funnel, and back-extract using the procedure in Section 12.5.
12.1.4.2 If the extract is from the aqueous filtrate (Section 11.4.3.5), set aside the concentration apparatus for addition of the SDS extract from the particles (Section 12.3.9.1.2).
12.2 SPE of Samples Containing Less Than 1% Solids (References 19-20).
12.2.1 Disk preparation.
12.2.1.1 Place an SPE disk on the base of the filter holder (Figure 4) and wet with toluene. While holding a GMF 150 filter above the SPE disk with tweezers, wet the filter with toluene and lay the filter on the SPE disk, making sure that air is not trapped between the filter and disk. Clamp the filter and SPE disk between the 1 L glass reservoir and the vacuum filtration flask.
12.2.1.2 Rinse the sides of the filtration flask with approx 15 mL of toluene using a squeeze bottle or syringe. Apply vacuum momentarily until a few drops appear at the drip tip. Release the vacuum and allow the filter/disk to soak for approx one minute. Apply vacuum and draw all of the toluene through the filter/disk. Repeat the wash step with approx 15 mL of acetone and allow the filter/disk to air dry.
12.2.1.3 Re-wet the filter/disk with approximately 15 mL of methanol, allowing the filter/disk to soak for approximately one minute. Pull the methanol through the filter/disk using the vacuum, but retain a layer of methanol approximately 1 mm thick on the filter. Do not allow the disk to go dry from this point until the end of the extraction.
12.2.1.4 Rinse the filter/disk with two 50-mL portions of reagent water by adding the water to the reservoir and pulling most through, leaving a layer of water on the surface of the filter.
12.2.2 Extraction.
12.2.2.1 Pour the spiked sample (Section 11.4.2.2), blank (Section 11.4.2.4), or IPR/OPR aliquot (Section 11.4.2.5) into the reservoir and turn on the vacuum to begin the extraction. Adjust the vacuum to complete the extraction in no less than 10 minutes. For samples containing a high concentration of particles (suspended solids), filtration times may be eight hours or longer.
12.2.2.2 Before all of the sample has been pulled through the filter/disk, rinse the sample bottle with approximately 50 mL of reagent water to remove any solids, and pour into the reservoir. Pull through the filter/disk. Use additional reagent water rinses until all visible solids are removed.
12.2.2.3 Before all of the sample and rinses have been pulled through the filter/disk, rinse the sides of the reservoir with small portions of reagent water.
12.2.2.4 Allow the filter/disk to dry, then remove the filter and disk and place in a glass Petri dish. Extract the filter and disk per Section 12.3.
12.3 SDS Extraction of Samples Containing Particles, and of Filters and/or Disks.
12.3.1 Charge a clean extraction thimble (Section 6.4.2.2) with 5.0 g of 100/200 mesh silica (Section 7.5.1.1) topped with 100 g of quartz sand (Section 7.3.2).

# Note:
Do not disturb the silica layer throughout the extraction process.
12.3.2 Place the thimble in a clean extractor. Place 30-40 mL of toluene in the receiver and 200-250 mL of toluene in the flask.
12.3.3 Pre-extract the glassware by heating the flask until the toluene is boiling. When properly adjusted, one to two drops of toluene will fall per second from the condenser tip into the receiver. Extract the apparatus for a minimum of three hours.
12.3.4 After pre-extraction, cool and disassemble the apparatus. Rinse the thimble with toluene and allow to air dry.
12.3.5 Load the wet sample, filter, and/or disk from Section 11.4.3.6, 11.5.8, 11.6.4, 11.7.3, 11.7.4, or 12.2.2.4 and any nonaqueous liquid from Section 11.6.3 into the thimble and manually mix into the sand layer with a clean metal spatula, carefully breaking up any large lumps of sample.
12.3.6 Reassemble the pre-extracted SDS apparatus, and add a fresh charge of toluene to the receiver and reflux flask. Apply power
to the heating mantle to begin refluxing. Adjust the reflux rate to match the rate of percolation through the sand and silica beds until water removal lessens the restriction to toluene flow. Frequently check the apparatus for foaming during the first two hours of extraction. If foaming occurs, reduce the reflux rate until foaming subsides.
12.3.7 Drain the water from the receiver at one to two hours and eight to nine hours, or sooner if the receiver fills with water. Reflux the sample for a total of 16-24 hours. Cool and disassemble the apparatus. Record the total volume of water collected.
12.3.8 Remove the distilling flask. Drain the water from the Dean-Stark receiver and add any toluene in the receiver to the extract in the flask.
12.3.9 Concentrate the extract using one of the macro-concentration procedures in Section 12.6 per the following:
12.3.9.1 Extracts from the particles in an aqueous sample containing less than 1% solids (Section 11.4.3.6).
12.3.9.1.1 Concentrate the extract to approximately 5 mL using the rotary evaporator or heating mantle procedures in Section 12.6.1 or 12.6.2.
12.3.9.1.2 Quantitatively transfer the extract through the sodium sulfate (Section 12.1.3) into the apparatus that was set aside (Section 12.1.4.2) and reconcentrate to the level of the toluene.
12.3.9.1.3 Adjust to approximately 10 mL with hexane, transfer to a 250 mL separatory funnel, and proceed with back-extraction (Section 12.5).
12.3.9.2 Extracts from particles (Sections 11.5 through 11.6) or from the SPE filter and disk (Section 12.2.2.4)—Concentrate to approximately 10 mL using the rotary evaporator or heating mantle (Section 12.6.1 or 12.6.2), transfer to a 250 mL separatory funnel, and proceed with back-extraction (Section 12.5).
12.4 Extraction of Tissue—Two procedures are provided for tissue extraction.
12.4.1 Soxhlet extraction (Reference 21).
12.4.1.1 Add 30-40 g of powdered anhydrous sodium sulfate to each of the beakers (Section 11.8.4) and mix thoroughly. Cover the beakers with aluminum foil and allow to equilibrate for 12-24 hours. Remix prior to extraction to prevent clumping.
12.4.1.2 Assemble and pre-extract the Soxhlet apparatus per Sections 12.3.1 through 12.3.4, except use the methylene chloride:hexane (1:1) mixture for the pre-extraction and rinsing and omit the quartz sand. The Dean-Stark moisture trap may also be omitted, if desired.
12.4.1.3 Reassemble the pre-extracted Soxhlet apparatus and add a fresh charge of methylene chloride:hexane to the reflux flask.
12.4.1.4 Transfer the sample/sodium sulfate mixture (Section 12.4.1.1) to the Soxhlet thimble, and install the thimble in the Soxhlet apparatus.
12.4.1.5 Rinse the beaker with several portions of solvent mixture and add to the thimble. Fill the thimble/receiver with solvent. Extract for 18-24 hours.
12.4.1.6 After extraction, cool and disassemble the apparatus.
12.4.1.7 Quantitatively transfer the extract to a macro-concentration device (Section 12.6), and concentrate to near dryness. Set aside the concentration apparatus for re-use.
12.4.1.8 Complete the removal of the solvent using the nitrogen blowdown procedure (Section 12.7) and a water bath temperature of 60 °C. Weigh the receiver, record the weight, and return the receiver to the blowdown apparatus, concentrating the residue until a constant weight is obtained.
12.4.1.9 Percent lipid determination—The lipid content is determined by extraction of tissue with the same solvent system (methylene chloride:hexane) that was used in EPA's National Dioxin Study (Reference 22) so that lipid contents are consistent with that study.
12.4.1.9.1 Redissolve the residue in the receiver in hexane and spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the solution.
12.4.1.9.2 Transfer the residue/hexane to the anthropogenic isolation column (Section 13.7.1) or bottle for the acidified silica gel batch cleanup (Section 13.7.2), retaining the boiling chips in the concentration apparatus. Use several rinses to assure that all material is transferred. If necessary, sonicate or heat the receiver slightly to assure that all material is re-dissolved. Allow the receiver to dry. Weigh the receiver and boiling chips.
12.4.1.9.3 Calculate the lipid content to the nearest three significant figures as follows:
ER15SE97.006
12.4.1.9.4 It is not necessary to determine the lipid content of the blank, IPR, or OPR aliquots.
12.4.2 HCl digestion/extraction and concentration (References 23-26).
12.4.2.1 Add 200 mL of 6 N HCl and 200 mL of methylene chloride:hexane (1:1) to the sample and QC aliquots (Section 11.8.4).
12.4.2.2 Cap and shake each bottle one to three times. Loosen the cap in a hood to vent excess pressure. Shake each bottle for 10-30 seconds and vent.
12.4.2.3 Tightly cap and place on shaker. Adjust the shaker action and speed so that the acid, solvent, and tissue are in constant motion. However, take care to avoid such violent action that the bottle may be dislodged from the shaker. Shake for 12-24 hours.
12.4.2.4 After digestion, remove the bottles from the shaker. Allow the bottles to stand so that the solvent and acid layers separate.
12.4.2.5 Decant the solvent through a glass funnel with glass-fiber filter (Sections 6.5.2 through 6.5.3) containing approximately 10 g of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1) into a macro-concentration apparatus (Section 12.6). Rinse the contents of the bottle with two 25 mL portions of hexane and pour through the sodium sulfate into the apparatus.
12.4.2.6 Concentrate the solvent to near dryness using a macro-concentration procedure (Section 12.6).
12.4.2.7 Complete the removal of the solvent using the nitrogen blowdown apparatus (Section 12.7) and a water bath temperature of 60 °C. Weigh the receiver, record the weight, and return the receiver to the blowdown apparatus, concentrating the residue until a constant weight is obtained.
12.4.2.8 Percent lipid determination—The lipid content is determined in the same solvent system [methylene chloride:hexane (1:1)] that was used in EPA's National Dioxin Study (Reference 22) so that lipid contents are consistent with that study.
12.4.2.8.1 Redissolve the residue in the receiver in hexane and spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the solution.
12.4.2.8.2 Transfer the residue/hexane to the narrow-mouth 100-200 mL bottle retaining the boiling chips in the receiver. Use several rinses to assure that all material is transferred, to a maximum hexane volume of approximately 70 mL. Allow the receiver to dry. Weigh the receiver and boiling chips.
12.4.2.8.3 Calculate the percent lipid per Section 12.4.1.9.3. It is not necessary to determine the lipid content of the blank, IPR, or OPR aliquots.
12.4.2.9 Clean up the extract per Section 13.7.3.
12.5 Back-Extraction with Base and Acid.
12.5.1 Spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the separatory funnels containing the sample and QC extracts from Section 12.1.4.1, 12.3.9.1.3, or 12.3.9.2.
12.5.2 Partition the extract against 50 mL of potassium hydroxide solution (Section 7.1.1). Shake for two minutes with periodic venting into a hood. Remove and discard the aqueous layer. Repeat the base washing until no color is visible in the aqueous layer, to a maximum of four washings. Minimize contact time between the extract and the base to prevent degradation of the CDDs/CDFs. Stronger potassium hydroxide solutions may be employed for back-extraction, provided that the laboratory meets the specifications for labeled compound recovery and demonstrates acceptable performance using the procedure in Section 9.2.
12.5.3 Partition the extract against 50 mL of sodium chloride solution (Section 7.1.4) in the same way as with base. Discard the aqueous layer.
12.5.4 Partition the extract against 50 mL of sulfuric acid (Section 7.1.2) in the same way as with base. Repeat the acid washing until no color is visible in the aqueous layer, to a maximum of four washings.
12.5.5 Repeat the partitioning against sodium chloride solution and discard the aqueous layer.
12.5.6 Pour each extract through a drying column containing 7-10 cm of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1). Rinse the separatory funnel with 30-50 mL of solvent, and pour through the drying column. Collect each extract in a round-bottom flask. Re-concentrate the sample and QC aliquots per Sections 12.6 through 12.7, and clean up the samples and QC aliquots per Section 13.
12.6 Macro-Concentration—Extracts in toluene are concentrated using a rotary evaporator or a heating mantle; extracts in methylene chloride or hexane are concentrated using a rotary evaporator, heating mantle, or Kuderna-Danish apparatus.
12.6.1 Rotary evaporation—Concentrate the extracts in separate round-bottom flasks.
12.6.1.1 Assemble the rotary evaporator according to manufacturer's instructions, and warm the water bath to 45 °C. On a daily basis, preclean the rotary evaporator by concentrating 100 mL of clean extraction solvent through the system. Archive both the concentrated solvent and the solvent in the catch flask for a contamination check if necessary. Between samples, three 2-3 mL aliquots of solvent should be rinsed down the feed tube into a waste beaker.
12.6.1.2 Attach the round-bottom flask containing the sample extract to the rotary evaporator. Slowly apply vacuum to the system, and begin rotating the sample flask.
12.6.1.3 Lower the flask into the water bath, and adjust the speed of rotation and the temperature as required to complete concentration in 15-20 minutes. At the proper rate of concentration, the flow of solvent into the receiving flask will be steady, but no bumping or visible boiling of the extract will occur.

# Note:
If the rate of concentration is too fast, analyte loss may occur.
12.6.1.4 When the liquid in the concentration flask has reached an apparent volume of approximately 2 mL, remove the flask from the water bath and stop the rotation. Slowly and carefully admit air into the system. Be sure not to open the valve so quickly that the sample is blown out of the flask. Rinse the feed tube with approximately 2 mL of solvent.
12.6.1.5 Proceed to Section 12.6.4 for preparation for back-extraction or micro-concentration and solvent exchange.
12.6.2 Heating mantle—Concentrate the extracts in separate round-bottom flasks.
12.6.2.1 Add one or two clean boiling chips to the round-bottom flask, and attach a three-ball macro Snyder column. Prewet the column by adding approximately 1 mL of solvent through the top. Place the round-bottom flask in a heating mantle, and apply heat as required to complete the concentration in 15-20 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation, the balls of the column will actively chatter, but the chambers will not flood.
12.6.2.2 When the liquid has reached an apparent volume of approximately 10 mL, remove the round-bottom flask from the heating mantle and allow the solvent to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the Snyder column and rinse the glass joint into the receiver with small portions of solvent.
12.6.2.3 Proceed to Section 12.6.4 for preparation for back-extraction or micro-concentration and solvent exchange.
12.6.3 Kuderna-Danish (K-D)—Concentrate the extracts in separate 500 mL K-D flasks equipped with 10 mL concentrator tubes. The K-D technique is used for solvents such as methylene chloride and hexane. Toluene is difficult to concentrate using the K-D technique unless a water bath fed by a steam generator is used.
12.6.3.1 Add one to two clean boiling chips to the receiver. Attach a three-ball macro Snyder column. Prewet the column by adding approximately 1 mL of solvent through the top. Place the K-D apparatus in a hot water bath so that the entire lower rounded surface of the flask is bathed with steam.
12.6.3.2 Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 15-20 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation, the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood.
12.6.3.3 When the liquid has reached an apparent volume of 1 mL, remove the K-D apparatus from the bath and allow the solvent to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with 1-2 mL of solvent. A 5 mL syringe is recommended for this operation.
12.6.3.4 Remove the three-ball Snyder column, add a fresh boiling chip, and attach a two-ball micro Snyder column to the concentrator tube. Prewet the column by adding approximately 0.5 mL of solvent through the top. Place the apparatus in the hot water bath.
12.6.3.5 Adjust the vertical position and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 5-10 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation, the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood.
12.6.3.6 When the liquid reaches an apparent volume of 0.5 mL, remove the apparatus from the water bath and allow to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes.
12.6.3.7 Proceed to 12.6.4 for preparation for back-extraction or micro-concentration and solvent exchange.
12.6.4 Preparation for back-extraction or micro-concentration and solvent exchange.
12.6.4.1 For back-extraction (Section 12.5), transfer the extract to a 250 mL separatory funnel. Rinse the concentration vessel with small portions of hexane, adjust the hexane volume in the separatory funnel to 10-20 mL, and proceed to back-extraction (Section 12.5).
12.6.4.2 For determination of the weight of residue in the extract, or for clean-up procedures other than back-extraction, transfer the extract to a blowdown vial using two to three rinses of solvent. Proceed with micro-concentration and solvent exchange (Section 12.7).
12.7 Micro-Concentration and Solvent Exchange.
12.7.1 Extracts to be subjected to GPC or HPLC cleanup are exchanged into methylene chloride. Extracts to be cleaned up using silica gel, alumina, carbon, and/or Florisil are exchanged into hexane.
12.7.2 Transfer the vial containing the sample extract to a nitrogen blowdown device. Adjust the flow of nitrogen so that the surface of the solvent is just visibly disturbed.

# Note:
A large vortex in the solvent may cause analyte loss.
12.7.3 Lower the vial into a 45 °C water bath and continue concentrating.
12.7.3.1 If the extract is to be concentrated to dryness for weight determination (Sections 12.4.1.8, 12.4.2.7, and 13.7.1.4), blow dry until a constant weight is obtained.
12.7.3.2 If the extract is to be concentrated for injection into the GC/MS or the solvent is to be exchanged for extract cleanup, proceed as follows:
12.7.4 When the volume of the liquid is approximately 100 L, add 2-3 mL of the desired solvent (methylene chloride for GPC and HPLC, or hexane for the other cleanups) and continue concentration to approximately 100 µL. Repeat the addition of solvent and concentrate once more.
12.7.5 If the extract is to be cleaned up by GPC, adjust the volume of the extract to 5.0 mL with methylene chloride. If the extract is to be cleaned up by HPLC, further concentrate the extract to 30 µL. Proceed with GPC or HPLC cleanup (Section 13.2 or 13.6, respectively).
12.7.6 If the extract is to be cleaned up by column chromatography (alumina, silica gel, Carbopak/Celite, or Florisil), bring the final
volume to 1.0 mL with hexane. Proceed with column cleanups (Sections 13.3 through 13.5 and 13.8).
12.7.7 If the extract is to be concentrated for injection into the GC/MS (Section 14), quantitatively transfer the extract to a 0.3 mL conical vial for final concentration, rinsing the larger vial with hexane and adding the rinse to the conical vial. Reduce the volume to approximately 100 µL. Add 10 µL of nonane to the vial, and evaporate the solvent to the level of the nonane. Seal the vial and label with the sample number. Store in the dark at room temperature until ready for GC/MS analysis. If GC/MS analysis will not be performed on the same day, store the vial at
−10 °C.

# 13.0 Extract Cleanup
13.1 Cleanup may not be necessary for relatively clean samples (e.g., treated effluents, groundwater, drinking water). If particular circumstances require the use of a cleanup procedure, the analyst may use any or all of the procedures below or any other appropriate procedure. Before using a cleanup procedure, the analyst must demonstrate that the requirements of Section 9.2 can be met using the cleanup procedure. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, the cleanup procedures may be optimized for isolation of these two compounds.
13.1.1 Gel permeation chromatography (Section 13.2) removes high molecular weight interferences that cause GC column performance to degrade. It should be used for all soil and sediment extracts and may be used for water extracts that are expected to contain high molecular weight organic compounds (e.g., polymeric materials, humic acids).
13.1.2 Acid, neutral, and basic silica gel (Section 13.3), alumina (Section 13.4), and Florisil (Section 13.8) are used to remove nonpolar and polar interferences. Alumina and Florisil are used to remove chlorodiphenyl ethers.
13.1.3 Carbopak/Celite (Section 13.5) is used to remove nonpolar interferences.
13.1.4 HPLC (Section 13.6) is used to provide specificity for the 2,3,7,8-substituted and other CDD and CDF isomers.
13.1.5 The anthropogenic isolation column (Section 13.7.1), acidified silica gel batch adsorption procedure (Section 13.7.2), and sulfuric acid and base back-extraction (Section 13.7.3) are used for removal of lipids from tissue samples.
13.2 Gel Permeation Chromatography (GPC).
13.2.1 Column packing.
13.2.1.1 Place 70-75 g of SX-3 Bio-beads (Section 6.7.1.1) in a 400-500 mL beaker.
13.2.1.2 Cover the beads with methylene chloride and allow to swell overnight (a minimum of 12 hours).
13.2.1.3 Transfer the swelled beads to the column (Section 6.7.1.1) and pump solvent through the column, from bottom to top, at 4.5-5.5 mL/minute prior to connecting the column to the detector.
13.2.1.4 After purging the column with solvent for one to two hours, adjust the column head pressure to 7-10 psig and purge for four to five hours to remove air. Maintain a head pressure of 7-10 psig. Connect the column to the detector (Section 6.7.1.4).
13.2.2 Column calibration.
13.2.2.1 Load 5 mL of the calibration solution (Section 7.4) into the sample loop.
13.2.2.2 Inject the calibration solution and record the signal from the detector. The elution pattern will be corn oil, bis(2-ethyl hexyl)phthalate, pentachlorophenol, perylene, and sulfur.
13.2.2.3 Set the “dump time” to allow
85% removal of the corn oil and
85% collection of the phthalate.
13.2.2.4 Set the “collect time” to the peak minimum between perylene and sulfur.
13.2.2.5 Verify the calibration with the calibration solution after every 20 extracts. Calibration is verified if the recovery of the pentachlorophenol is greater than 85%. If calibration is not verified, the system shall be recalibrated using the calibration solution, and the previous 20 samples shall be re-extracted and cleaned up using the calibrated GPC system.
13.2.3 Extract cleanup—GPC requires that the column not be overloaded. The column specified in this method is designed to handle a maximum of 0.5 g of high molecular weight material in a 5 mL extract. If the extract is known or expected to contain more than 0.5 g, the extract is split into aliquots for GPC, and the aliquots are combined after elution from the column. The residue content of the extract may be obtained gravimetrically by evaporating the solvent from a 50 µL aliquot.
13.2.3.1 Filter the extract or load through the filter holder (Section 6.7.1.3) to remove the particles. Load the 5.0 mL extract onto the column.
13.2.3.2 Elute the extract using the calibration data determined in Section 13.2.2. Collect the eluate in a clean 400-500 mL beaker.
13.2.3.3 Rinse the sample loading tube thoroughly with methylene chloride between extracts to prepare for the next sample.
13.2.3.4 If a particularly dirty extract is encountered, a 5.0 mL methylene chloride blank shall be run through the system to check for carry-over.
13.2.3.5 Concentrate the eluate per Sections 12.6 and 12.7 for further cleanup or injection into the GC/MS.
13.3 Silica Gel Cleanup.
13.3.1 Place a glass-wool plug in a 15 mm ID chromatography column (Section 6.7.4.2). Pack the column bottom to top with: 1 g silica gel (Section 7.5.1.1), 4 g basic silica gel (Section 7.5.1.3), 1 g silica gel, 8 g acid silica
gel (Section 7.5.1.2), 2 g silica gel, and 4 g granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1). Tap the column to settle the adsorbents.
13.3.2 Pre-elute the column with 50-100 mL of hexane. Close the stopcock when the hexane is within 1 mm of the sodium sulfate. Discard the eluate. Check the column for channeling. If channeling is present, discard the column and prepare another.
13.3.3 Apply the concentrated extract to the column. Open the stopcock until the extract is within 1 mm of the sodium sulfate.
13.3.4 Rinse the receiver twice with 1 mL portions of hexane, and apply separately to the column. Elute the CDDs/CDFs with 100 mL hexane, and collect the eluate.
13.3.5 Concentrate the eluate per Sections 12.6 and 12.7 for further cleanup or injection into the HPLC or GC/MS.
13.3.6 For extracts of samples known to contain large quantities of other organic compounds (such as paper mill effluents), it may be advisable to increase the capacity of the silica gel column. This may be accomplished by increasing the strengths of the acid and basic silica gels. The acid silica gel (Section 7.5.1.2) may be increased in strength to as much as 44% w/w (7.9 g sulfuric acid added to 10 g silica gel). The basic silica gel (Section 7.5.1.3) may be increased in strength to as much as 33% w/w (50 mL 1N NaOH added to 100 g silica gel), or the potassium silicate (Section 7.5.1.4) may be used.

# Note:
The use of stronger acid silica gel (44% w/w) may lead to charring of organic compounds in some extracts. The charred material may retain some of the analytes and lead to lower recoveries of CDDs/CDFs. Increasing the strengths of the acid and basic silica gel may also require different volumes of hexane than those specified above to elute the analytes off the column. Therefore, the performance of the method after such modifications must be verified by the procedure in Section 9.2.
13.4 Alumina Cleanup.
13.4.1 Place a glass-wool plug in a 15 mm ID chromatography column (Section 6.7.4.2).
13.4.2 If using acid alumina, pack the column by adding 6 g acid alumina (Section 7.5.2.1). If using basic alumina, substitute 6 g basic alumina (Section 7.5.2.2). Tap the column to settle the adsorbents.
13.4.3 Pre-elute the column with 50-100 mL of hexane. Close the stopcock when the hexane is within 1 mm of the alumina.
13.4.4 Discard the eluate. Check the column for channeling. If channeling is present, discard the column and prepare another.
13.4.5 Apply the concentrated extract to the column. Open the stopcock until the extract is within 1 mm of the alumina.
13.4.6 Rinse the receiver twice with 1 mL portions of hexane and apply separately to the column. Elute the interfering compounds with 100 mL hexane and discard the eluate.
13.4.7 The choice of eluting solvents will depend on the choice of alumina (acid or basic) made in Section 13.4.2.
13.4.7.1 If using acid alumina, elute the CDDs/CDFs from the column with 20 mL methylene chloride:hexane (20:80 v/v). Collect the eluate.
13.4.7.2 If using basic alumina, elute the CDDs/CDFs from the column with 20 mL methylene chloride:hexane (50:50 v/v). Collect the eluate.
13.4.8 Concentrate the eluate per Sections 12.6 and 12.7 for further cleanup or injection into the HPLC or GC/MS.
13.5 Carbon Column.
13.5.1 Cut both ends from a 10 mL disposable serological pipet (Section 6.7.3.2) to produce a 10 cm column. Fire-polish both ends and flare both ends if desired. Insert a glass-wool plug at one end, and pack the column with 0.55 g of Carbopak/Celite (Section 7.5.3.3) to form an adsorbent bed approximately 2 cm long. Insert a glass-wool plug on top of the bed to hold the adsorbent in place.
13.5.2 Pre-elute the column with 5 mL of toluene followed by 2 mL of methylene chloride: methanol:toluene (15:4:1 v/v), 1 mL of methylene chloride:cyclohexane (1:1 v/v), and 5 mL of hexane. If the flow rate of eluate exceeds 0.5 mL/minute, discard the column.
13.5.3 When the solvent is within 1 mm of the column packing, apply the sample extract to the column. Rinse the sample container twice with 1 mL portions of hexane and apply separately to the column. Apply 2 mL of hexane to complete the transfer.
13.5.4 Elute the interfering compounds with two 3 mL portions of hexane, 2 mL of methylene chloride:cyclohexane (1:1 v/v), and 2 mL of methylene chloride:methanol:toluene (15:4:1 v/v). Discard the eluate.
13.5.5 Invert the column, and elute the CDDs/CDFs with 20 mL of toluene. If carbon particles are present in the eluate, filter through glass-fiber filter paper.
13.5.6 Concentrate the eluate per Sections 12.6 and 12.7 for further cleanup or injection into the HPLC or GC/MS.
13.6 HPLC (Reference 6).
13.6.1 Column calibration.
13.6.1.1 Prepare a calibration standard containing the 2,3,7,8-substituted isomers and/or other isomers of interest at a concentration of approximately 500 pg/µL in methylene chloride.
13.6.1.2 Inject 30 µL of the calibration solution into the HPLC and record the signal from the detector. Collect the eluant for reuse. The elution order will be the tetra- through octa-isomers.
13.6.1.3 Establish the collection time for the tetra-isomers and for the other isomers of interest. Following calibration, flush the injection system with copious quantities of
methylene chloride, including a minimum of five 50 µL injections while the detector is monitored, to ensure that residual CDDs/CDFs are removed from the system.
13.6.1.4 Verify the calibration with the calibration solution after every 20 extracts. Calibration is verified if the recovery of the CDDs/CDFs from the calibration standard (Section 13.6.1.1) is 75-125% compared to the calibration (Section 13.6.1.2). If calibration is not verified, the system shall be recalibrated using the calibration solution, and the previous 20 samples shall be re-extracted and cleaned up using the calibrated system.
13.6.2 Extract cleanup—HPLC requires that the column not be overloaded. The column specified in this method is designed to handle a maximum of 30 µL of extract. If the extract cannot be concentrated to less than 30 µL, it is split into fractions and the fractions are combined after elution from the column.
13.6.2.1 Rinse the sides of the vial twice with 30 µL of methylene chloride and reduce to 30 µL with the evaporation apparatus (Section 12.7).
13.6.2.2 Inject the 30 µL extract into the HPLC.
13.6.2.3 Elute the extract using the calibration data determined in Section 13.6.1. Collect the fraction(s) in a clean 20 mL concentrator tube containing 5 mL of hexane:acetone (1:1 v/v).
13.6.2.4 If an extract containing greater than 100 ng/mL of total CDD or CDF is encountered, a 30 µL methylene chloride blank shall be run through the system to check for carry-over.
13.6.2.5 Concentrate the eluate per Section 12.7 for injection into the GC/MS.
13.7 Cleanup of Tissue Lipids—Lipids are removed from the Soxhlet extract using either the anthropogenic isolation column (Section 13.7.1) or acidified silica gel (Section 13.7.2), or are removed from the HCl digested extract using sulfuric acid and base back-extraction (Section 13.7.3).
13.7.1 Anthropogenic isolation column (References 22 and 27)—Used for removal of lipids from the Soxhlet/SDS extraction (Section 12.4.1).
13.7.1.1 Prepare the column as given in Section 7.5.4.
13.7.1.2 Pre-elute the column with 100 mL of hexane. Drain the hexane layer to the top of the column, but do not expose the sodium sulfate.
13.7.1.3 Load the sample and rinses (Section 12.4.1.9.2) onto the column by draining each portion to the top of the bed. Elute the CDDs/CDFs from the column into the apparatus used for concentration (Section 12.4.1.7) using 200 mL of hexane.
13.7.1.4 Concentrate the cleaned up extract (Sections 12.6 through 12.7) to constant weight per Section 12.7.3.1. If more than 500 mg of material remains, repeat the cleanup using a fresh anthropogenic isolation column.
13.7.1.5 Redissolve the extract in a solvent suitable for the additional cleanups to be used (Sections 13.2 through 13.6 and 13.8).
13.7.1.6 Spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the residue/solvent.
13.7.1.7 Clean up the extract using the procedures in Sections 13.2 through 13.6 and 13.8. Alumina (Section 13.4) or Florisil (Section 13.8) and carbon (Section 13.5) are recommended as minimum additional cleanup steps.
13.7.1.8 Following cleanup, concentrate the extract to 10 µL as described in Section 12.7 and proceed with the analysis in Section 14.
13.7.2 Acidified silica gel (Reference 28)—Procedure alternate to the anthropogenic isolation column (Section 13.7.1) that is used for removal of lipids from the Soxhlet/SDS extraction (Section 12.4.1).
13.7.2.1 Adjust the volume of hexane in the bottle (Section 12.4.1.9.2) to approximately 200 mL.
13.7.2.2 Spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the residue/solvent.
13.7.2.3 Drop the stirring bar into the bottle, place the bottle on the stirring plate, and begin stirring.
13.7.2.4 Add 30-100 g of acid silica gel (Section 7.5.1.2) to the bottle while stirring, keeping the silica gel in motion. Stir for two to three hours.

# Note:
30 grams of silica gel should be adequate for most samples and will minimize contamination from this source.
13.7.2.5 After stirring, pour the extract through approximately 10 g of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1) contained in a funnel with glass-fiber filter into a macro contration device (Section 12.6). Rinse the bottle and sodium sulfate with hexane to complete the transfer.
13.7.2.6 Concentrate the extract per Sections 12.6 through 12.7 and clean up the extract using the procedures in Sections 13.2 through 13.6 and 13.8. Alumina (Section 13.4) or Florisil (Section 13.8) and carbon (Section 13.5) are recommended as minimum additional cleanup steps.
13.7.3 Sulfuric acid and base back-extraction. Used with HCl digested extracts (Section 12.4.2).
13.7.3.1 Spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the residue/solvent (Section 12.4.2.8.2).
13.7.3.2 Add 10 mL of concentrated sulfuric acid to the bottle. Immediately cap and shake one to three times. Loosen cap in a hood to vent excess pressure. Cap and shake the bottle so that the residue/solvent is exposed to the acid for a total time of approximately 45 seconds.
13.7.3.3 Decant the hexane into a 250 mL separatory funnel making sure that no acid
is transferred. Complete the quantitative transfer with several hexane rinses.
13.7.3.4 Back extract the solvent/residue with 50 mL of potassium hydroxide solution per Section 12.5.2, followed by two reagent water rinses.
13.7.3.5 Drain the extract through a filter funnel containing approximately 10 g of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate in a glass-fiber filter into a macro concentration device (Section 12.6).
13.7.3.6 Concentrate the cleaned up extract to a volume suitable for the additional cleanups given in Sections 13.2 through 13.6 and 13.8. Gel permeation chromatography (Section 13.2), alumina (Section 13.4) or Florisil (Section 13.8), and Carbopak/Celite (Section 13.5) are recommended as minimum additional cleanup steps.
13.7.3.7 Following cleanup, concentrate the extract to 10 L as described in Section 12.7 and proceed with analysis per Section 14.
13.8 Florisil Cleanup (Reference 29).
13.8.1 Pre-elute the activated Florisil column (Section 7.5.3) with 10 mL of methylene chloride followed by 10 mL of hexane:methylene chloride (98:2 v/v) and discard the solvents.
13.8.2 When the solvent is within 1 mm of the packing, apply the sample extract (in hexane) to the column. Rinse the sample container twice with 1 mL portions of hexane and apply to the column.
13.8.3 Elute the interfering compounds with 20 mL of hexane:methylene chloride (98:2) and discard the eluate.
13.8.4 Elute the CDDs/CDFs with 35 mL of methylene chloride and collect the eluate. Concentrate the eluate per Sections 12.6 through 12.7 for further cleanup or for injection into the HPLC or GC/MS.

# 14.0 HRGC/HRMS Analysis
14.1 Establish the operating conditions given in Section 10.1.
14.2 Add 10 uL of the appropriate internal standard solution (Section 7.12) to the sample extract immediately prior to injection to minimize the possibility of loss by evaporation, adsorption, or reaction. If an extract is to be reanalyzed and evaporation has occurred, do not add more instrument internal standard solution. Rather, bring the extract back to its previous volume (e.g., 19 L) with pure nonane only (18 L if 2 L injections are used).
14.3 Inject 1.0 µL or 2.0 µL of the concentrated extract containing the internal standard solution, using on-column or splitless injection. The volume injected must be identical to the volume used for calibration (Section 10). Start the GC column initial isothermal hold upon injection. Start MS data collection after the solvent peak elutes. Stop data collection after the OCDD and OCDF have eluted. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, stop data collection after elution of these compounds. Return the column to the initial temperature for analysis of the next extract or standard.

# 15.0 System and Laboratory Performance
15.1 At the beginning of each 12-hour shift during which analyses are performed, GC/MS system performance and calibration are verified for all CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds. For these tests, analysis of the CS3 calibration verification (VER) standard (Section 7.13 and Table 4) and the isomer specificity test standards (Section 7.15 and Table 5) shall be used to verify all performance criteria. Adjustment and/or recalibration (Section 10) shall be performed until all performance criteria are met. Only after all performance criteria are met may samples, blanks, IPRs, and OPRs be analyzed.
15.2 MS Resolution—A static resolving power of at least 10,000 (10% valley definition) must be demonstrated at the appropriate m/z before any analysis is performed. Static resolving power checks must be performed at the beginning and at the end of each 12-hour shift according to procedures in Section 10.1.2. Corrective actions must be implemented whenever the resolving power does not meet the requirement.
15.3 Calibration Verification.
15.3.1 Inject the VER standard using the procedure in Section 14.
15.3.2 The m/z abundance ratios for all CDDs/CDFs shall be within the limits in Table 9; otherwise, the mass spectrometer shall be adjusted until the m/z abundance ratios fall within the limits specified, and the verification test shall be repeated. If the adjustment alters the resolution of the mass spectrometer, resolution shall be verified (Section 10.1.2) prior to repeat of the verification test.
15.3.3 The peaks representing each CDD/CDF and labeled compound in the VER standard must be present with S/N of at least 10; otherwise, the mass spectrometer shall be adjusted and the verification test repeated.
15.3.4 Compute the concentration of each CDD/CDF compound by isotope dilution (Section 10.5) for those compounds that have labeled analogs (Table 1). Compute the concentration of the labeled compounds by the internal standard method (Section 10.6). These concentrations are computed based on the calibration data in Section 10.
15.3.5 For each compound, compare the concentration with the calibration verification limit in Table 6. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, compare the concentration to the limit in Table 6a. If all compounds meet the acceptance criteria, calibration has been verified and analysis of standards and sample extracts may proceed. If, however, any compound fails its respective limit, the measurement system is not performing properly for
that compound. In this event, prepare a fresh calibration standard or correct the problem causing the failure and repeat the resolution (Section 15.2) and verification (Section 15.3) tests, or recalibrate (Section 10).
15.4 Retention Times and GC Resolution.
15.4.1 Retention times.
15.4.1.1 Absolute—The absolute retention times of the
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD and
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD GCMS internal standards in the verification test (Section 15.3) shall be within ±15 seconds of the retention times obtained during calibration (Sections 10.2.1 and 10.2.4).
15.4.1.2 Relative—The relative retention times of CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds in the verification test (Section 15.3) shall be within the limits given in Table 2.
15.4.2 GC resolution.
15.4.2.1 Inject the isomer specificity standards (Section 7.15) on their respective columns.
15.4.2.2 The valley height between 2,3,7,8-TCDD and the other tetra-dioxin isomers at m/z 319.8965, and between 2,3,7,8-TCDF and the other tetra-furan isomers at m/z 303.9016 shall not exceed 25% on their respective columns (Figures 6 and 7).
15.4.3 If the absolute retention time of any compound is not within the limits specified or if the 2,3,7,8-isomers are not resolved, the GC is not performing properly. In this event, adjust the GC and repeat the verification test (Section 15.3) or recalibrate (Section 10), or replace the GC column and either verify calibration or recalibrate.
15.5 Ongoing Precision and Recovery.
15.5.1 Analyze the extract of the ongoing precision and recovery (OPR) aliquot (Section 11.4.2.5, 11.5.4, 11.6.2, 11.7.4, or 11.8.3.2) prior to analysis of samples from the same batch.
15.5.2 Compute the concentration of each CDD/CDF by isotope dilution for those compounds that have labeled analogs (Section 10.5). Compute the concentration of 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD, OCDF, and each labeled compound by the internal standard method (Section 10.6).
15.5.3 For each CDD/CDF and labeled compound, compare the concentration to the OPR limits given in Table 6. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, compare the concentration to the limits in Table 6a. If all compounds meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may proceed. If, however, any individual concentration falls outside of the range given, the extraction/concentration processes are not being performed properly for that compound. In this event, correct the problem, re-prepare, extract, and clean up the sample batch and repeat the ongoing precision and recovery test (Section 15.5).
15.5.4 Add results that pass the specifications in Section 15.5.3 to initial and previous ongoing data for each compound in each matrix. Update QC charts to form a graphic representation of continued laboratory performance. Develop a statement of laboratory accuracy for each CDD/CDF in each matrix type by calculating the average percent recovery (R) and the standard deviation of percent recovery (S
R
). Express the accuracy as a recovery interval from R−2S
R
to R = 2S
R
. For example, if R = 95% and S
R
= 5%, the accuracy is 85-105%.
15.6 Blank—Analyze the method blank extracted with each sample batch immediately following analysis of the OPR aliquot to demonstrate freedom from contamination and freedom from carryover from the OPR analysis. The results of the analysis of the blank must meet the specifications in Section 9.5.2 before sample analyses may proceed.

# 16.0 Qualitative Determination
A CDD, CDF, or labeled compound is identified in a standard, blank, or sample when all of the criteria in Sections 16.1 through 16.4 are met.
16.1 The signals for the two exact m/z's in Table 8 must be present and must maximize within the same two seconds.
16.2 The signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) for the GC peak at each exact m/z must be greater than or equal to 2.5 for each CDD or CDF detected in a sample extract, and greater than or equal to 10 for all CDDs/CDFs in the calibration standard (Sections 10.2.3 and 15.3.3).
16.3 The ratio of the integrated areas of the two exact m/z's specified in Table 8 must be within the limit in Table 9, or within ±10% of the ratio in the midpoint (CS3) calibration or calibration verification (VER), whichever is most recent.
16.4 The relative retention time of the peak for a 2,3,7,8-substituted CDD or CDF must be within the limit in Table 2. The retention time of peaks representing non-2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs must be within the retention time windows established in Section 10.3.
16.5 Confirmatory Analysis—Isomer specificity for 2,3,7,8-TCDF cannot be achieved on the DB-5 column. Therefore, any sample in which 2,3,7,8-TCDF is identified by analysis on a DB-5 column must have a confirmatory analysis performed on a DB-225, SP-2330, or equivalent GC column. The operating conditions in Section 10.1.1 may be adjusted to optimize the analysis on the second GC column, but the GC/MS must meet the mass resolution and calibration specifications in Section 10.
16.6 If the criteria for identification in Sections 16.1 through 16.5 are not met, the CDD or CDF has not been identified and the results may not be reported for regulatory compliance purposes. If interferences preclude identification, a new aliquot of sample
must be extracted, further cleaned up, and analyzed.
17.0 Quantitative Determination
17.1 Isotope Dilution Quantitation—By adding a known amount of a labeled compound to every sample prior to extraction, correction for recovery of the CDD/CDF can be made because the CDD/CDF and its labeled analog exhibit similar effects upon extraction, concentration, and gas chromatography. Relative response (RR) values are used in conjunction with the initial calibration data described in Section 10.5 to determine concentrations directly, so long as labeled compound spiking levels are constant, using the following equation:
ER15SE97.007
where:
C
ex
= The concentration of the CDD/CDF in the extract, and the other terms are as defined in Section 10.5.2.
17.1.1 Because of a potential interference, the labeled analog of OCDF is not added to the sample. Therefore, OCDF is quantitated against labeled OCDD. As a result, the concentration of OCDF is corrected for the recovery of the labeled OCDD. In instances where OCDD and OCDF behave differently during sample extraction, concentration, and cleanup procedures, this may decrease the accuracy of the OCDF results. However, given the low toxicity of this compound relative to the other dioxins and furans, the potential decrease in accuracy is not considered significant.
17.1.2 Because
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD is used as an instrument internal standard (
i.e.
, not added before extraction of the sample), it cannot be used to quantitate the 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD by strict isotope dilution procedures. Therefore, 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD is quantitated using the averaged response of the labeled analogs of the other two 2,3,7,8-substituted HxCDD's: 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD and 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD. As a result, the concentration of 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD is corrected for the average recovery of the other two HxCDD's.
17.1.3 Any peaks representing non-2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs are quantitated using an average of the response factors from all of the labeled 2,3,7,8-isomers at the same level of chlorination.
17.2 Internal Standard Quantitation and Labeled Compound Recovery.
17.2.1 Compute the concentrations of 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD, OCDF, the
13
C-labeled analogs and the
37
C-labeled cleanup standard in the extract using the response factors determined from the initial calibration data (Section 10.6) and the following equation:
ER15SE97.008
where:
C
ex
= The concentration of the CDD/CDF in the extract, and the other terms are as defined in Section 10.6.1.

# Note:
There is only one m/z for the
37
Cl-labeled standard.
17.2.2 Using the concentration in the extract determined above, compute the percent recovery of the
13
C-labeled compounds and the
37
C-labeled cleanup standard using the following equation:
ER15SE97.009
17.3 The concentration of a CDD/CDF in the solid phase of the sample is computed using the concentration of the compound in the extract and the weight of the solids (Section 11.5.1), as follows:
ER15SE97.010
where:
C
ex
= The concentration of the compound in the extract.
V
ex
= The extract volume in mL.
W
s
= The sample weight (dry weight) in kg.
17.4 The concentration of a CDD/CDF in the aqueous phase of the sample is computed using the concentration of the compound in
the extract and the volume of water extracted (Section 11.4 or 11.5), as follows:
ER15SE97.011
where:
C
ex
= The concentration of the compound in the extract.
V
ex
= The extract volume in mL.
V
s
= The sample volume in liters.
17.5 If the SICP area at either quantitation m/z for any compound exceeds the calibration range of the system, a smaller sample aliquot is extracted.
17.5.1 For aqueous samples containing 1% solids or less, dilute 100 mL, 10 mL, etc., of sample to 1 L with reagent water and re-prepare, extract, clean up, and analyze per Sections 11 through 14.
17.5.2 For samples containing greater than 1% solids, extract an amount of sample equal to
1/10
,
1/100
, etc., of the amount used in Section 11.5.1. Re-prepare, extract, clean up, and analyze per Sections 11 through 14.
17.5.3 If a smaller sample size will not be representative of the entire sample, dilute the sample extract by a factor of 10, adjust the concentration of the instrument internal standard to 100 pg/µL in the extract, and analyze an aliquot of this diluted extract by the internal standard method.
17.6 Results are reported to three significant figures for the CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds found in all standards, blanks, and samples.
17.6.1 Reporting units and levels.
17.6.1.1 Aqueous samples—Report results in pg/L (parts-per-quadrillion).
17.6.1.2 Samples containing greater than 1% solids (soils, sediments, filter cake, compost)—Report results in ng/kg based on the dry weight of the sample. Report the percent solids so that the result may be corrected.
17.6.1.3 Tissues—Report results in ng/kg of wet tissue, not on the basis of the lipid content of the sample. Report the percent lipid content, so that the data user can calculate the concentration on a lipid basis if desired.
17.6.1.4 Reporting level.
17.6.1.4.1 Standards (VER, IPR, OPR) and samples—Report results at or above the minimum level (Table 2). Report results below the minimum level as not detected or as required by the regulatory authority.
17.6.1.4.2 Blanks—Report results above one-third the ML.
17.6.2 Results for CDDs/CDFs in samples that have been diluted are reported at the least dilute level at which the areas at the quantitation m/z's are within the calibration range (Section 17.5).
17.6.3 For CDDs/CDFs having a labeled analog, results are reported at the least dilute level at which the area at the quantitation m/z is within the calibration range (Section 17.5) and the labeled compound recovery is within the normal range for the method (Section 9.3 and Tables 6, 6a, 7, and 7a).
17.6.4 Additionally, if requested, the total concentration of all isomers in an individual level of chlorination (
i.e.
, total TCDD, total TCDF, total Paced, etc.) may be reported by summing the concentrations of all isomers identified in that level of chlorination, including both 2,3,7,8-substituted and non-2,3,7,8-substituted isomers.

# 18.0 Analysis of Complex Samples
18.1 Some samples may contain high levels (
10 ng/L;
1000 ng/kg) of the compounds of interest, interfering compounds, and/or polymeric materials. Some extracts will not concentrate to 10 µL (Section 12.7); others may overload the GC column and/or mass spectrometer.
18.2 Analyze a smaller aliquot of the sample (Section 17.5) when the extract will not concentrate to 10 µL after all cleanup procedures have been exhausted.
18.3 Chlorodiphenyl Ethers—If chromatographic peaks are detected at the retention time of any CDDs/CDFs in any of the m/z channels being monitored for the chlorodiphenyl ethers (Table 8), cleanup procedures must be employed until these interferences are removed. Alumina (Section 13.4) and Florisil (Section 13.8) are recommended for removal of chlorodiphenyl ethers.
18.4 Recovery of Labeled Compounds—In most samples, recoveries of the labeled compounds will be similar to those from reagent water or from the alternate matrix (Section 7.6).
18.4.1 If the recovery of any of the labeled compounds is outside of the normal range (Table 7), a diluted sample shall be analyzed (Section 17.5).
18.4.2 If the recovery of any of the labeled compounds in the diluted sample is outside of normal range, the calibration verification standard (Section 7.13) shall be analyzed and calibration verified (Section 15.3).
18.4.3 If the calibration cannot be verified, a new calibration must be performed and the original sample extract reanalyzed.
18.4.4 If the calibration is verified and the diluted sample does not meet the limits for labeled compound recovery, the method does not apply to the sample being analyzed and the result may not be reported for regulatory compliance purposes. In this case, alternate extraction and cleanup procedures in this method must be employed to resolve the interference. If all cleanup procedures in this method have been employed and labeled compound recovery remains outside of the normal range, extraction and/or cleanup procedures that are beyond this scope of this method will be required to analyze these samples.

# 19.0 Pollution Prevention
19.1 The solvents used in this method pose little threat to the environment when managed properly. The solvent evaporation techniques used in this method are amenable to solvent recovery, and it is recommended that the laboratory recover solvents wherever feasible.
19.2 Standards should be prepared in volumes consistent with laboratory use to minimize disposal of standards.

# 20.0 Waste Management
20.1 It is the laboratory's responsibility to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions, and to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any sewage discharge permits and regulations.
20.2 Samples containing HCl to pH
2 are hazardous and must be neutralized before being poured down a drain or must be handled as hazardous waste.
20.3 The CDDs/CDFs decompose above 800 °C. Low-level waste such as absorbent paper, tissues, animal remains, and plastic gloves may be burned in an appropriate incinerator. Gross quantities (milligrams) should be packaged securely and disposed of through commercial or governmental channels that are capable of handling extremely toxic wastes.
20.4 Liquid or soluble waste should be dissolved in methanol or ethanol and irradiated with ultraviolet light with a wavelength shorter than 290 nm for several days. Use F40 BL or equivalent lamps. Analyze liquid wastes, and dispose of the solutions when the CDDs/CDFs can no longer be detected.
20.5 For further information on waste management, consult “The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel” and “Less is Better—Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction,” available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

# 21.0 Method Performance
Method performance was validated and performance specifications were developed using data from EPA's international interlaboratory validation study (References 30-31) and the EPA/paper industry Long-Term Variability Study of discharges from the pulp and paper industry (58 FR 66078).

# 22.0 References
1. Tondeur, Yves. “Method 8290: Analytical Procedures and Quality Assurance for Multimedia Analysis of Polychlorinated Dibenzo-
p
-dioxins and Dibenzofurans by High Resolution Gas Chromatography/High Resolution Mass Spectrometry,” USEPA EMSL, Las Vegas, Nevada, June 1987.
2. “Measurement of 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorinated Dibenzo-
p
-dioxin (TCDD) and 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorinated Dibenzofuran (TCDF) in Pulp, Sludges, Process Samples and Wastewaters from Pulp and Paper Mills,” Wright State University, Dayton, OH 45435, June 1988.
3. “NCASI Procedures for the Preparation and Isomer Specific Analysis of Pulp and Paper Industry Samples for 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF,” National Council of the Paper Industry for Air and Stream Improvement Inc., 260 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10016, Technical Bulletin No. 551, Pre-Release Copy, July 1988.
4. “Analytical Procedures and Quality Assurance Plan for the Determination of PCDD/PCDF in Fish,” USEPA, Environmental Research Laboratory, 6201 Congdon Boulevard, Duluth, MN 55804, April 1988.
5. Tondeur, Yves. “Proposed GC/MS Methodology for the Analysis of PCDDs and PCDFs in Special Analytical Services Samples,” Triangle Laboratories, Inc., 801-10 Capitola Dr, Research Triangle Park, NC 27713, January 1988; updated by personal communication September 1988.
6. Lamparski, L.L. and Nestrick, T.J. “Determination of Tetra-, Hexa-, Hepta-, and Octachlorodibenzo-
p
-dioxin Isomers in Particulate Samples at Parts per Trillion Levels,” Analytical Chemistry, 52: 2045-2054, 1980.
7. Lamparski, L.L. and Nestrick, T.J. “Novel Extraction Device for the Determination of Chlorinated Dibenzo-
p
-dioxins (PCDDs) and Dibenzofurans (PCDFs) in Matrices Containing Water,” Chemosphere, 19:27-31, 1989.
8. Patterson, D.G., et. al. “Control of Interferences in the Analysis of Human Adipose Tissue for 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-
p
-
dioxin,” Environmental Toxicological Chemistry, 5:355-360, 1986.
9. Stanley, John S. and Sack, Thomas M. “Protocol for the Analysis of 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-
p
-dioxin by High Resolution Gas Chromatography/High Resolution Mass Spectrometry,” USEPA EMSL, Las Vegas, Nevada 89114, EPA 600/4-86-004, January 1986.
10. “Working with Carcinogens,” Department of Health, Education,
Welfare, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control, NIOSH, Publication 77-206, August 1977, NTIS PB-277256.
11. “OSHA Safety and Health Standards, General Industry,” OSHA 2206, 29 CFR 1910.
12. “Safety in Academic Chemistry Laboratories,” ACS Committee on Chemical Safety, 1979.
13. “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,” 18th edition and later revisions, American Public Health Association, 1015 15th St, N.W., Washington, DC 20005, 1-35: Section 1090 (Safety), 1992.
14. “Method 613—2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin,” 40 CFR 136 (49 FR 43234), October 26, 1984, Section 4.1.
15. Provost, L.P. and Elder, R.S. “Interpretation of Percent Recovery Data,” American Laboratory, 15: 56-83, 1983.
16. “Standard Practice for Sampling Water,” ASTM Annual Book of Standards, ASTM, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103-1187, 1980.
17. “Methods 330.4 and 330.5 for Total Residual Chlorine,” USEPA, EMSL, Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA 600/4-79-020, March 1979.
18. “Handbook of Analytical Quality Control in Water and Wastewater Laboratories,” USEPA EMSL, Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA-600/4-79-019, March 1979.
19. Williams, Rick. Letter to Bill Telliard, June 4, 1993, available from the EPA Sample Control Center operated by DynCorp Viar, Inc., 300 N Lee St, Alexandria, VA 22314, 703-519-1140.
20. Barkowski, Sarah. Fax to Sue Price, August 6, 1992, available from the EPA Sample Control Center operated by DynCorp Viar, Inc., 300 N Lee St, Alexandria VA 22314, 703-519-1140.
21. “Analysis of Multi-media, Multi-concentration Samples for Dioxins and Furans, PCDD/PCDF Analyses Data Package”, Narrative for Episode 4419, MRI Project No. 3091-A, op.cit. February 12, 1993, Available from the EPA Sample Control Center operated by DynCorp Viar Inc, 300 N Lee St, Alexandria, VA 22314 (703-519-1140).
22. “Analytical Procedures and Quality Assurance Plan for the Determination of PCDD/PCDF in Fish”, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Research Laboratory, Duluth, MN 55804, EPA/600/3-90/022, March 1990.
23. Afghan, B.K., Carron, J., Goulden, P.D., Lawrence, J., Leger, D., Onuska, F., Sherry, J., and Wilkenson, R.J., “Recent Advances in Ultratrace Analysis of Dioxins and Related Halogenated Hydrocarbons”, Can J. Chem., 65: 1086-1097, 1987.
24. Sherry, J.P. and Tse, H. “A Procedure for the Determination of Polychlorinated Dibenzo-p-dioxins in Fish”, Chemosphere, 20: 865-872, 1990.
25. “Preliminary Fish Tissue Study”, Results of Episode 4419, available from the EPA Sample Control Center operated by DynCorp Viar, Inc., 300 N Lee St, Alexandria, VA 22314, 703-519-1140.
26. Nestrick, Terry L. DOW Chemical Co., personal communication with D.R. Rushneck, April 8, 1993. Details available from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Sample Control Center operated by DynCorp Viar Inc, 300 N Lee St, Alexandria, VA 22314, 703-519-1140.
27. Barnstadt, Michael. “Big Fish Column”, Triangle Laboratories of RTP, Inc., SOP 129-90, 27 March 27, 1992.
28. “Determination of Polychlorinated Dibenzo-p-Dioxins (PCDD) and Dibenzofurans (PCDF) in Environmental Samples Using EPA Method 1613”, Chemical Sciences Department, Midwest Research Institute, 425 Volker Boulevard, Kansas City, MO 44110-2299, Standard Operating Procedure No. CS-153, January 15, 1992.
29. Ryan, John J. Raymonde Lizotte and William H. Newsome, J. Chromatog. 303 (1984) 351-360.
30. Telliard, William A., McCarty, Harry B., and Riddick, Lynn S. “Results of the Interlaboratory Validation Study of USEPA Method 1613 for the Analysis of Tetra-through Octachlorinated Dioxins and Furans by Isotope Dilution GC/MS,” Chemosphere, 27, 41-46 (1993).
31. “Results of the International Interlaboratory Validation Study of USEPA Method 1613”, October 1994, available from the EPA Sample Control Center operated by DynCorp Viar, Inc., 300 N Lee St, Alexandria, VA 22314, 703-519-1140.

# 23.0 Tables and Figures
Table 1—Chlorinated Dibenzo-p-Dioxins and Furans Determined by Isotope Dilution and Internal Standard High Resolution Gas Chromatography (HRGC)/High Resolution Mass Spectrometry (HRMS)
CDDs/CDFs
1
CAS registry
Labeled analog
CAS registry
2,3,7,8-TCDD
1746-01-6
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
37
Cl
4
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
76523-40-5
85508-50-5
Total TCDD
41903-57-5
2,3,7,8-TCDF
51207-31-9
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDF
89059-46-1
Total-TCDF
55722-27-5
1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
40321-76-4
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
109719-79-1
Total-PeCDD
36088-22-9
1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
57117-41-6
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
109719-77-9
2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
57117-31-4
13
C
12
-2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
116843-02-8
Total-PeCDF
30402-15-4
1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
39227-28-6
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
109719-80-4
1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
57653-85-7
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
109719-81-5
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD
19408-74-3
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD
109719-82-6
Total-HxCDD
34465-46-8
1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
70648-26-9
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
114423-98-2
1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
57117-44-9
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
116843-03-9
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
72918-21-9
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
116843-04-0
2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
60851-34-5
13
C
12
-2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
116843-05-1
Total-HxCDF
55684-94-1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
35822-46-9
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
109719-83-7
Total-HpCDD
37871-00-4
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
67562-39-4
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
109719-84-8
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HpCDF
55673-89-7
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HpCDF
109719-94-0
Total-HpCDF
38998-75-3
OCDD
3268-87-9
13
C
12
-OCDD
114423-97-1
OCDF
39001-02-0
Not used
1
Chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and chlorinated dibenzofurans.
TCDD = Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
TCDF = Tetrachlorodibenzofuran.
PeCDD = Pentachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
PeCDF = Pentachlorodibenzofuran.
HxCDD = Hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
HxCDF = Hexachlorodibenzofuran.
HpCDD = Heptachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
HpCDF = Heptachlorodibenzofuran.
OCDD = Octachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
OCDF = Octachlorodibenzofuran.
Table 2—Retention Time References, Quantitation References, Relative Retention Times, and Minimum Levels for CDDS and DCFS
CDD/CDF
Retention time and quantitation
reference
Relative retention time
Minimum level
1
Water (pg/L; ppq)
Solid (ng/kg; ppt)
Extract (pg/µL; ppb)
Compounds using
13
C12-1,2,3,4-TCDD as the Injection Internal Standard
2,3,7,8-TCDF
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDF
0.999-1.003
10
1
0.5
2,3,7,8-TCDD
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
0.999-1.002
10
1
0.5
1,2,3,7,8-Pe
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
0.999-1.002
50
5
2.5
2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
13
C
12
-2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
0.999-1.002
50
5
2.5
1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
0.999-1.002
50
5
2.5
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD
0.923-1.103
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD
0.976-1.043
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD
0.989-1.052
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD
1.000-1.425
13
C
12
-2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD
1.001-1.526
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD
1.000-1.567
Compounds using
13
C12-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD as the Injection Internal Standard
1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
0.999-1.001
50
5
2.5
1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
0.997-1.005
50
5
2.5
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
0.999-1.001
50
5
2.5
2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
13
C
12
-2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
0.999-1.001
50
5
2.5
1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
0.999-1.001
50
5
2.5
1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
0.998-1.004
50
5
2.5
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD
(
2
)
1.000-1.019
50
5
2.5
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
0.999-1.001
50
5
2.5
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HpCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HpCDF
0.999-1.001
50
5
2.5
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
0.999-1.001
50
5
2.5
OCDF
13
C
12
-OCDD
0.999-1.001
100
10
5.0
OCDD
13
C
12
-OCDD
0.999-1.001
100
10
5.0
1,2,3,4,6,7,8,-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HpCDD
0.949-0.975
13
C
12
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HpCDD
0.977-1.047
13
C
12
2,3,4,6,7,8,-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HpCDD
0.959-1.021
13
C
12
1,2,3,4,7,8,-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HpCDD
0.977-1.000
13
C
12
1,2,3,6,7,8,-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HpCDD
0.981-1.003
13
C
12
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HpCDD
1.043-1.085
13
C
12
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HpCDD
1.057-1.151
13
C
12
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HpCDD
1.086-1.110
13
C
12
OCDD
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HpCDD
1.032-1.311
1
The Minimum Level (ML) for each analyte is defined as the level at which the entire analytical system must give a recognizable signal and acceptable calibration point. It is equivalent to the concentration of the lowest calibration standard, assuming that all method-specified sample weights, volumes, and cleanup procedures have been employed.
2
The retention time reference for 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD is
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD, and 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD is quantified using the averaged responses for
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD and
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD.
Table 3—Concentration of Stock and Spiking Solutions Containing CDDS/CDFS and Labeled Compounds
CDD/CDF
Labeled compound stock solution
1
(ng/mL)
Labeled compound spiking solution
2
(ng/mL)
PAR stock solution
3
(ng/mL)
PAR spiking solution
4
(ng/mL)
2,3,7,8-TCDD
40
0.8
2,3,7,8-TCDF
40
0.8
1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
200
4
1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
200
4
2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
200
4
1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
200
4
1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
200
4
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD
200
4
1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
200
4
1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
200
4
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
200
4
2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
200
4
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
200
4
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
200
4
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HpCDF
200
4
OCDD
400
8
OCDF
400
8
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
100
2
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDF
100
2
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
100
2
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
100
2
13
C
12
-2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
100
2
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
100
2
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
100
2
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
100
2
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
100
2
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
100
2
13
C
12
-2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
100
2
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
100
2
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
100
2
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HpCDF
100
2
13
C
12
-OCDD
200
4
Cleanup Standard
5
37
Cl
4
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
0.8
Internal Standards
6
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD
200
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD
200
1
Section 7.10—prepared in nonane and diluted to prepare spiking solution.
2
Section 7.10.3—prepared in acetone from stock solution daily.
3
Section 7.9—prepared in nonane and diluted to prepare spiking solution.
4
Section 7.14—prepared in acetone from stock solution daily.
5
Section 7.11—prepared in nonane and added to extract prior to cleanup.
6
Section 7.12—prepared in nonane and added to the concentrated extract immediately prior to injection into the GC (Section 14.2).
Table 4—Concentration of CDDS/CDFS in Calibration and Calibration Verification Solutions
1
(Section 15.3)
CDD/CDF
CS2
(ng/mL)
CS3
(ng/mL)
CS4
(ng/mL)
CS5
(ng/mL)
2,3,7,8-TCDD
0.5
2
10
40
200
2,3,7,8-TCDF
0.5
2
10
40
200
1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
2.5
10
50
200
1000
1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
2.5
10
50
200
1000
2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
2.5
10
50
200
1000
1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
2.5
10
50
200
1000
1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
2.5
10
50
200
1000
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD
2.5
10
50
200
1000
1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
2.5
10
50
200
1000
1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
2.5
10
50
200
1000
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
2.5
10
50
200
1000
2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
2.5
10
50
200
1000
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
2.5
10
50
200
1000
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
2.5
10
50
200
1000
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HpCDF
2.5
10
50
200
1000
OCDD
5.0
20
100
400
2000
OCDF
5.0
20
100
400
2000
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDF
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-PeCDF
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8,9-Hp CDF
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-OCDD
200
200
200
200
200
Cleanup Standard:
37
C1
4
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
0.5
2
10
40
200
Internal Standards:
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4-TCDD
100
100
100
100
100
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD
100
100
100
100
100
Table 5—GC Retention Time Window Defining Solution and Isomer Specificity Test Standard (Section 7.15)
DB-5 column GC retention-time window defining solution
CDD/CDF
First eluted
Last eluted
TCDF
1,3,6,8-
1,2,8,9-
TCDD
1,3,6,8-
1,2,8,9-
PeCDF
1,3,4,6,8-
1,2,3,8,9-
PeCDD
1,2,4,7,9-
1,2,3,8,9-
HxCDF
1,2,3,4,6,8-
1,2,3,4,8,9-
HxCDD
1,2,4,6,7,9-
1,2,3,4,6,7-
HpCDF
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-
HpCDD
1,2,3,4,6,7,9-
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-
DB-5 Column TCDD Specificity Test Standard
1,2,3,7 = 1,2,3,8-TCDD
2,3,7,8-TCDD
1,2,3,9-TCDD
DB-225 Column TCDF Isomer Specificity Test Standard
2,3,4,7-TCDF
2,3,7,8-TCDF
1,2,3,9-TCDF
Table 6—Acceptance Criteria for Performance Tests When All CDDS/CDFS Are Tested
1
CDD/CDF
Test conc. (ng/mL)
IPR
2 3
s
(ng/mL)
X
(ng/mL)
OPR
(ng/mL)
VER
(ng/mL)
2,3,7,8-TCDD
10
2.8
8.3-12.9
6.7-15.8
7.8-12.9
2,3,7,8-TCDF
10
2.0
8.7-13.7
7.5-15.8
8.4-12.0
1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
50
7.5
38-66
35-71
39-65
1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
50
7.5
43-62
40-67
41-60
2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
50
8.6
36-75
34-80
41-61
1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
50
9.4
39-76
35-82
39-64
1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
50
7.7
42-62
38-67
39-64
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD
50
11.1
37-71
32-81
41-61
1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
50
8.7
41-59
36-67
45-56
1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
50
6.7
46-60
42-65
44-57
1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
50
6.4
42-61
39-65
45-56
2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
50
7.4
37-74
35-78
44-57
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
50
7.7
38-65
35-70
43-58
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
50
6.3
45-56
41-61
45-55
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HpCDF
50
8.1
43-63
39-69
43-58
OCDD
100
19
89-127
78-144
79-126
OCDF
100
27
74-146
63-170
63-159
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
100
37
28-134
20-175
82-121
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDF
100
35
31-113
22-152
71-140
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
100
39
27-184
21-227
62-160
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
100
34
27-156
21-192
76-130
13
C
12
-2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
100
38
16-279
13-328
77-130
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
100
41
29-147
21-193
85-117
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
100
38
34-122
25-163
85-118
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
100
43
27-152
19-202
76-131
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
100
35
30-122
21-159
70-143
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
100
40
24-157
17-205
74-135
13
C
12
-2,3,4,6,7,8,-HxCDF
100
37
29-136
22-176
73-137
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
100
35
34-129
26-166
72-138
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
100
41
32-110
21-158
78-129
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HpCDF
100
40
28-141
20-186
77-129
13
C
12
-OCDD
200
95
41-276
26-397
96-415
37
Cl
4
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
10
3.6
3.9-15.4
3.1-19.1
7.9-12.7
1
All specifications are given as concentration in the final extract, assuming a 20 µL volume.
2
s = standard deviation of the concentration.
3
X = average concentration.
Table 6a—Acceptance Criteria for Performance Tests When Only Tetra Compounds are Tested
1
CDD/CDF
Test Conc. (ng/mL)
IPR
2 3
s (ng/mL)
X (ng/mL)
OPR
(ng/mL)
VER
(ng/mL)
2,3,7,8-TCDD
10
2.7
8.7-12.4
7.314.6
8.2-12.3
2,3,7,8-TCDF
10
2.0
9.1-13.1
8.0-14.7
8.6-11.6
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
100
35
32-115
25-141
85-117
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDF
100
34
35-99
26-126
76-131
37
C
l4
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
10
3.4
4.5-13.4
3.7-15.8
8.3-12.1
1
All specifications are given as concentration in the final extract, assuming a 20 µL volume.
2
s = standard deviation of the concentration.
3
X = average concentration.
Table 7—Labeled Compounds Recovery in Samples When all CDDS/CDFS are Tested
Compound
Test conc. (ng/mL)
Labeled compound
recovery
(ng/mL)
1
(%)
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
100
25-164
25-164
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDF
100
24-169
24-169
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD
100
25-181
25-181
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF
100
24-185
24-185
13
C
12
-2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF
100
21-178
21-178
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD
100
32-141
32-141
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD
100
28-130
28-130
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF
100
26-152
26-152
13
C
12
-1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF
100
26-123
26-123
13
C
12
-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDF
100
29-147
29-147
13
C
12
-2,3,4,6,7,8-HxCDF
100
28-136
28-136
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD
100
23-140
23-140
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF
100
28-143
28-143
13
C
12
-1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HpCDF
100
26-138
26-138
13
C
12
-OCDD
200
34-313
17-157
37
Cl
4
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
10
3.5-19.7
35-197
1
Specification given as concentration in the final extract, assuming a 20-µL volume.
Table 7a—Labeled Compound Recovery in Samples When Only Tetra Compounds are Tested
Compound
Test conc. (ng/mL)
Labeled compound
recovery
(ng/mL)
1
(%)
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
100
31-137
31-137
13
C
12
-2,3,7,8-TCDF
100
29-140
29-140
37
Cl
4
-2,3,7,8-TCDD
10
4.2-16.4
42-164
1
Specification given as concentration in the final extract, assuming a 20 µL volume.
Table 8—Descriptors, Exact M/Z's, M/Z Types, and Elemental Compositions of the CDDs and CDFs
Descriptor
Exact M/Z
1
M/Z type
Elemental composition
Substance
2
1
292.9825
Lock
C
7
F
11
PFK
303.9016
M
C
12
H
4
35
Cl
4
O
TCDF
305.8987
M = 2
C
12
H
4
35
Cl
3
37
ClO
TCDF
315.9419
M
13
C
12
H
4
35
Cl
4
O
TCDF
3
317.9389
M = 2
13
C
12
H
4
35
Cl
3
37
ClO
TCDF
3
319.8965
M
C
12
H
4
35
Cl
4
O
2
TCDD
321.8936
M = 2
C
12
H
4
35
Cl
3
37
ClO
2
TCDD
327.8847
M
C
12
H
4
37
Cl
4
O
2
TCDD
4
330.9792
QC
C
7
F
13
PFK
331.9368
M
13
C
12
H
4
35
Cl
4
O
2
TCDD
3
333.9339
M = 2
13
C
12
H
4
35
Cl
3
37
ClO
2
TCDD
3
375.8364
M = 2
C
12
H
4
35
Cl
5
37
ClO
HxCDPE
2
339.8597
M = 2
C
12
H
3
35
Cl
4
37
ClO
PeCDF
341.8567
M = 4
C
12
H
3
35
Cl
3
37
Cl
2
O
PeCDF
351.9000
M = 2
13
C
12
H
3
35
Cl
4
37
ClO
PeCDF
353.8970
M = 4
13
C
12
H
3
35
Cl
3
37
Cl
2
O
PeCDF
3
354.9792
Lock
C
9
F
13
PFK
355.8546
M = 2
C
12
H
3
35
Cl
4
37
ClO
2
PeCDD
357.8516
M = 4
C
12
H
3
35
Cl
3
37
Cl
2
O
2
PeCDD
367.8949
M = 2
13
C
12
H
3
35
Cl
4
37
ClO
2
PeCDD
3
369.8919
M = 4
13
C
12
H
3
35
Cl
3
37
Cl
2
O
2
PeCDD
3
409.7974
M = 2
C
12
H
3
35
Cl
6
37
ClO
HpCDPE
3
373.8208
M = 2
C
12
H
2
35
Cl
5
37
ClO
HxCDF
375.8178
M = 4
C
12
H
2
35
Cl
4
37
Cl
2
O
HxCDF
383.8639
M
13
C
12
H
2
35
Cl
6
O
HxCDF
3
385.8610
M = 2
13
C
12
H
2
35
Cl
5
37
ClO
HxCDF
3
389.8157
M = 2
C
12
H
2
35
Cl
5
37
ClO
2
HxCDD
391.8127
M = 4
C
12
H
2
35
Cl
4
37
Cl
2
O
2
HxCDD
392.9760
Lock
C
9
F
15
PFK
401.8559
M = 2
13
C
12
H
2
35
Cl
5
37
ClO
2
HxCDD
3
403.8529
M = 4
13
C
12
H
2
35
Cl
4
37
Cl
2
O
2
HxCDD
3
430.9729
QC
C
9
F
17
PFK
445.7555
M = 4
C
12
H
2
35
Cl
6
37
Cl
2
O
OCDPE
4
407.7818
M = 2
C
12
H
35
Cl
6
37
ClO
HpCDF
409.7789
M = 4
C
12
H
35
Cl
5
37
Cl
2
O
HpCDF
417.8253
M
13
C
12
H
35
Cl
7
O
HpCDF
3
419.8220
M = 2
13
C
12
H
35
Cl
6
37
ClO
HpCDF
3
423.7766
M = 2
C
12
H
35
Cl
6
37
ClO
2
HpCDD
425.7737
M = 4
C
12
H
35
Cl
5
37
Cl
2
O
2
HpCDD
430.9729
Lock
C
9
F
17
PFK
435.8169
M = 2
13
C
12
H
35
Cl
6
37
ClO
2
HpCDD
3
437.8140
M = 4
13
C
12
H
35
Cl
5
37
Cl
2
O
2
HpCDD
3
479.7165
M = 4
C
12
H
35
Cl
7
37
Cl
2
O
NCDPE
5
441.7428
M = 2
C
12
35
Cl
7
37
ClO
OCDF
442.9728
Lock
C
10
F
17
PFK
443.7399
M = 4
C
12
35
Cl
6
37
Cl
2
O
OCDF
457.7377
M = 2
C
12
35
Cl
7
37
ClO
2
OCDD
459.7348
M = 4
C
12
35
Cl
6
37
Cl
2
O
2
OCDD
469.7779
M = 2
13
C
12
35
Cl
7
37
ClO
2
OCDD
3
471.7750
M = 4
13
C
12
35
Cl
6
37
Cl
2
O
2
OCDD
3
513.6775
M = 4
C
12
35
Cl
8
37
Cl
2
O
DCDPE
1
Nuclidic masses used:
H = 1.007825.
O = 15.994915.
C = 12.00000.
35
Cl = 34.968853.
13
C = 13.003355.
37
Cl = 36.965903.
F = 18.9984.
2
TCDD = Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
PeCDD = Pentachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
HxCDD = Hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
HpCDD = Heptachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
OCDD = Octachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
HxCDPE = Hexachlorodiphenyl ether.
OCDPE = Octachlorodiphenyl ether.
DCDPE = Decachlorodiphenyl ether.
TCDF = Tetrachlorodibenzofuran.
PeCDF = Pentachlorodibenzofuran.
HxCDF = Hexachlorodibenzofuran.
HpCDF = Heptachlorodibenzofuran.
OCDF = Octachlorodibenzofuran.
HpCDPE = Heptachlorodiphenyl ether.
NCDPE = Nonachlorodiphenyl ether.
PFK = Perfluorokerosene.
3
Labeled compound.
4
There is only one m/z for
37
Cl
4
-2,3,7,8,-TCDD (cleanup standard).
Table 9—Theoretical Ion Abundance Ratios and QC Limits
Number of chlorine atoms
M/Z's forming ratio
Theoretical ratio
QC limit
1
Lower
Upper
4
2
M/(M = 2)
0.77
0.65
0.89
5
(M = 2)/(M = 4)
1.55
1.32
1.78
6
(M = 2)/(M = 4)
1.24
1.05
1.43
6
3
M/(M = 2)
0.51
0.43
0.59
7
(M = 2)/(M = 4)
1.05
0.88
1.20
7
4
M/(M = 2)
0.44
0.37
0.51
8
(M = 2)/(M = 4)
0.89
0.76
1.02
1
QC limits represent ±15% windows around the theoretical ion abundance ratios.
2
Does not apply to
37
Cl
4
-2,3,7,8-TCDD (cleanup standard).
3
Used for
13
C
12
-HxCDF only.
4
Used for
13
C
12
-HpCDF only.
Table 10—Suggested Sample Quantities To Be Extracted for Various Matrices
1
Sample Matrix
2
Example
Percent solids
Phase
Quantity extracted
Single-phase:
Aqueous
Drinking water
1
(
3
)
1000 mL.
Groundwater
Treated wastewater
Solid
Dry soil
20
Solid
10 g.
Compost
Ash
Organic
Waste solvent
1
Organic
10 g.
Waste oil
Organic polymer
Tissue
Fish
Organic
10 g.
Human adipose
Multi-phase:
Liquid/Solid:
Aqueous/Solid
Wet soil
1-30
Solid
10 g.
Untreated effluent
Digested municipal sludge
Filter cake
Paper pulp
Organic/solid
Industrial sludge
1-100
Both
10 g.
Oily waste
Liquid/Liquid:
Aqueous/organic
In-process effluent
1
Organic
10 g.
Untreated effluent
Drum waste
Aqueous/organic/solid
Untreated effluent
1
Organic and solid
10 g.
Drum waste
1
The quantity of sample to be extracted is adjusted to provide 10 g of solids (dry weight). One liter of aqueous samples containing 1% solids will contain 10 g of solids. For aqueous samples containing greater than 1% solids, a lesser volume is used so that 10 g of solids (dry weight) will be extracted.
2
The sample matrix may be amorphous for some samples. In general, when the CDDs/CDFs are in contact with a multiphase system in which one of the phases is water, they will be preferentially dispersed in or adsorbed on the alternate phase because of their low solubility in water.
3
Aqueous samples are filtered after spiking with the labeled compounds. The filtrate and the materials trapped on the filter are extracted separately, and the extracts are combined for cleanup and analysis.
ER15SE97.012
ER15SE97.013
ER15SE97.014
ER15SE97.015
ER15SE97.016
ER15SE97.017
ER15SE97.018

# 24.0 Glossary of Definitions and Purposes
These definitions and purposes are specific to this method but have been conformed to common usage as much as possible.
24.1 Units of weight and Measure and Their Abbreviations.
24.1.1 Symbols:
°C—degrees Celsius
µL—microliter
µm—micrometer
—less than
—greater than
%—percent
24.1.2 Alphabetical abbreviations:
amp—ampere
cm—centimeter
g—gram
h—hour
D—inside diameter
in.—inch
L—liter
M—Molecular ion
m—meter
mg—milligram
min—minute
mL—milliliter
mm—millimeter
m/z—mass-to-charge ratio
N—normal; gram molecular weight of solute divided by hydrogen equivalent of solute, per liter of solution
OD—outside diameter
pg—picogram
ppb—part-per-billion
ppm—part-per-million
ppq—part-per-quadrillion
ppt—part-per-trillion
psig—pounds-per-square inch gauge
v/v—volume per unit volume
w/v—weight per unit volume
24.2 Definitions and Acronyms (in Alphabetical Order).
Analyte—A CDD or CDF tested for by this method. The analytes are listed in Table 1.
Calibration Standard (CAL)—A solution prepared from a secondary standard and/or stock solutions and used to calibrate the response of the instrument with respect to analyte concentration.
Calibration Verification Standard (VER)—The mid-point calibration standard (CS3) that is used in to verify calibration. See Table 4.
CDD—Chlorinated Dibenzo-p-ioxin—The isomers and congeners of tetra-through octa-chlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
CDF—Chlorinated Dibenzofuran—The isomers and congeners of tetra-through octa-chlorodibenzofuran.
CS1, CS2, CS3, CS4, CS5—See Calibration standards and Table 4.
Field Blank—An aliquot of reagent water or other reference matrix that is placed in a sample container in the laboratory or the field, and treated as a sample in all respects, including exposure to sampling site conditions, storage, preservation, and all analytical procedures. The purpose of the field blank is to determine if the field or sample transporting procedures and environments have contaminated the sample.
GC—Gas chromatograph or gas chromatography.
GPC—Gel permeation chromatograph or gel permeation chromatography.
HPLC—High performance liquid chromatograph or high performance liquid chromatography.
HRGC—High resolution GC.
HRMS—High resolution MS.
IPR—Initial precision and recovery; four aliquots of the diluted PAR standard analyzed to establish the ability to generate acceptable precision and accuracy. An IPR is performed prior to the first time this method is used and any time the method or instrumentation is modified.
K-D—Kuderna-Danish concentrator; a device used to concentrate the analytes in a solvent.
Laboratory Blank—See method blank.
Laboratory Control sample (LCS)—See ongoing precision and recovery standard (OPR).
Laboratory Reagent Blank—See method blank.
May—This action, activity, or procedural step is neither required nor prohibited.
May Not—This action, activity, or procedural step is prohibited.
Method Blank—An aliquot of reagent water that is treated exactly as a sample including exposure to all glassware, equipment, solvents, reagents, internal standards, and surrogates that are used with samples. The method blank is used to determine if analytes or interferences are present in the laboratory environment, the reagents, or the apparatus.
Minimum Level (ML)—The level at which the entire analytical system must give a recognizable signal and acceptable calibration point for the analyte. It is equivalent to the concentration of the lowest calibration standard, assuming that all method-specified sample weights, volumes, and cleanup procedures have been employed.
MS—Mass spectrometer or mass spectrometry.
Must—This action, activity, or procedural step is required.
OPR—Ongoing precision and recovery standard (OPR); a laboratory blank spiked with known quantities of analytes. The OPR is analyzed exactly like a sample. Its purpose is to assure that the results produced by the laboratory remain within the limits specified in this method for precision and recovery.
PAR—Precision and recovery standard; secondary standard that is diluted and spiked to form the IPR and OPR.
PFK—Perfluorokerosene; the mixture of compounds used to calibrate the exact m/z scale in the HRMS.
Preparation Blank—See method blank.
Primary Dilution Standard—A solution containing the specified analytes that is purchased or prepared from stock solutions and diluted as needed to prepare calibration solutions and other solutions.
Quality Control Check Sample (QCS)—A sample containing all or a subset of the analytes at known concentrations. The QCS is obtained from a source external to the laboratory or is prepared from a source of standards different from the source of calibration standards. It is used to check laboratory performance with test materials prepared external to the normal preparation process.
Reagent Water—Water demonstrated to be free from the analytes of interest and potentially interfering substances at the method detection limit for the analyte.
Relative Standard Deviation (RSD)—The standard deviation times 100 divided by the mean. Also termed “coefficient of variation.”
RF—Response factor. See Section 10.6.1.
RR—Relative response. See Section 10.5.2.
RSD—See relative standard deviation.
SDS—Soxhlet/Dean-Stark extractor; an extraction device applied to the extraction of solid and semi-solid materials (Reference 7).
Should—This action, activity, or procedural step is suggested but not required.
SICP—Selected ion current profile; the line described by the signal at an exact m/z.
SPE—Solid-phase extraction; an extraction technique in which an analyte is extracted from an aqueous sample by passage over or through a material capable of reversibly adsorbing the analyte. Also termed liquid-solid extraction.
Stock Solution—A solution containing an analyte that is prepared using a reference material traceable to EPA, the National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST), or a source that will attest to the purity and authenticity of the reference material.
TCDD—Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
TCDF—Tetrachlorodibenzofuran.
VER—See calibration verification standard.

# Method 1624 Revision B—Volatile Organic Compounds by Isotope Dilution GC/MS
Pt. 136, App. A, Meth. 1624

# 1. Scope and Application
1.1 This method is designed to determine the volatile toxic organic pollutants associated with the 1976 Consent Decree and additional compounds amenable to purge and trap gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS).
1.2 The chemical compounds listed in table 1 may be determined in municipal and industrial discharges by this method. The methmd is designed to meet the survey requirements of Effluent Guidelines Division (EGD) and the National Pollutants Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) under 40 CFR 136.1 and 136.5. Any modifications of this method, beyond those expressly permitted, shall be considered as major modifications subject to application and approval of alternate test procedures under 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5.
1.3 The detection limit of this method is usually dependent on the level of interferences rather than instrumental limitations. The limits in table 2 represent the minimum quantity that can be detected with no interferences present.
1.4 The GC/MS portions of this method are for use only by analysts experienced with GC/MS or under the close supervision of such qualified persons. Laboratories unfamiliar with the analyses of environmental samples by GC/MS should run the performance tests in reference 1 before beginning.

# 2. Summary of Method
2.1 Stable isotopically labeled analogs of the compounds of interest are added to a 5 mL water sample. The sample is purged at 20-25 °C with an inert gas in a specially designed chamber. The volatile organic compounds are transferred from the aqueous phase into the gaseous phase where they are passed into a sorbent column and trapped. After purging is completed, the trap is backflushed and heated rapidly to desorb the compounds into a gas chromatograph (GC). The compounds are separated by the GC and detected by a mass spectrometer (MS) (references 2 and 3). The labeled compounds serve to correct the variability of the analytical technique.
2.2 Identification of a compound (qualitative analysis) is performed by comparing the GC retention time and the background corrected characteristic spectral masses with those of authentic standards.
2.3 Quantitative analysis is performed by GC/MS using extracted ion current profile (EICP) areas. Isotope dilution is used when labeled compounds are available; otherwise, an internal standard method is used.
2.4 Quality is assured through reproducible calibration and testing of the purge and trap and GC/MS systems.

# 3. Contamination and Interferences
3.1 Impurities in the purge gas, organic compounds out-gassing from the plumbing upstream of the trap, and solvent vapors in the laboratory account for the majority of contamination problems. The analytical system is demonstrated to be free from interferences under conditions of the analysis by analyzing blanks initially and with each sample lot (samples analyzed on the same 8 hr shift), as described in Section 8.5.
3.2 Samples can be contaminated by diffusion of volatile organic compounds (particularly methylene chloride) through the bottle seal during shipment and storage. A field blank prepared from reagent water and carried through the sampling and handling protocol serves as a check on such contamination.
3.3 Contamination by carry-over can occur when high level and low level samples are analyzed sequentially. To reduce carry-over, the purging device and sample syringe are rinsed between samples with reagent water. When an unusually concentrated sample is encountered, it is followed by analysis of a reagent water blank to check for carry-over. For samples containing large amounts of water soluble materials, suspended solids, high boiling compounds, or high levels or purgeable compounds, the purge device is washed with soap solution, rinsed with tap and distilled water, and dried in an oven at 100-125 °C. The trap and other parts of the system are also subject to contamination; therefore, frequent bakeout and purging of the entire system may be required.
3.4 Interferences resulting from samples will vary considerably from source to source, depending on the diversity of the industrial complex or municipality being sampled.

# 4. Safety
4.1 The toxicity or carcinogenicity of each compound or reagent used in this method has not been precisely determined; however, each chemical compound should be treated as a potential health hazard. Exposure to these compounds should be reduced to the lowest possible level. The laboratory is responsible for maintaining a current awareness file of OSHA regulations regarding the safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method. A reference file of data handling sheets should also be made available to all personnel involved in these analyses. Additional information on laboratory safety can be found in references 4-6.
4.2 The following compounds covered by this method have been tentatively classified as known or suspected human or mammalian carcinogens: benzene, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, and vinyl chloride. Primary standards of these toxic compounds should be prepared in a hood, and a NIOSH/MESA approved toxic gas respirator should be worn when high concentrations are handled.

# 5. Apparatus and Materials
5.1 Sample bottles for discrete sampling.
5.1.1 Bottle—25 to 40 mL with screw cap (Pierce 13075, or equivalent). Detergent wash, rinse with tap and distilled water, and dry at
105 °C for one hr minimum before use.
5.1.2 Septum—Teflon-faced silicone (Pierce 12722, or equivalent), cleaned as above and baked at 100-200 °C, for one hour minimum.
5.2 Purge and trap device—consists of purging device, trap, and desorber. Complete devices are commercially available.
5.2.1 Purging device—designed to accept 5 mL samples with water column at least 3 cm deep. The volume of the gaseous head space between the water and trap shall be less than 15 mL. The purge gas shall be introduced less than 5 mm from the base of the water column and shall pass through the water as bubbles with a diameter less than 3 mm. The purging device shown in Figure 1 meets these criteria.
5.2.2 Trap—25 to 30 cm × 2.5 mm i.d. minimum, containing the following:
5.2.2.1 Methyl silicone packing—one ±0.2 cm, 3 percent OV-1 on 60/80 mesh Chromosorb W, or equivalent.
5.2.2.2 Porous polymer—15 ±1.0 cm, Tenax GC (2,6-diphenylene oxide polymer), 60/80 mesh, chromatographic grade, or equivalent.
5.2.2.3 Silica gel—8 ±1.0 cm, Davison Chemical, 35/60 mesh, grade 15, or equivalent. The trap shown in Figure 2 meets these specifications.
5.2.3 Desorber—shall heat the trap to 175 ±5 °C in 45 seconds or less. The polymer section of the trap shall not exceed 180 °C, and the remaining sections shall not exceed 220 °C. The desorber shown in Figure 2 meets these specifications.
5.2.4 The purge and trap device may be a separate unit or coupled to a GC as shown in Figures 3 and 4.
5.3 Gas chromatograph—shall be linearly temperature programmable with initial and final holds, shall contain a glass jet separator as the MS interface, and shall produce results which meet the calibration (Section 7), quality assurance (Section 8), and performance tests (Section 11) of this method.
5.3.1 Column—2.8 ±0.4 m × 2 ±0.5 mm i. d. glass, packekd with one percent SP-1000 on Carbopak B, 60/80 mesh, or equivalent.
5.4 Mass spectrometer—70 eV electron impact ionization; shall repetitively scan from 20 to 250 amu every 2-3 seconds, and produce a unit resolution (valleys between m/z 174-176 less than 10 percent of the height of the m/z 175 peak), background corrected mass spectrum from 50 ng 4-bromo-fluorobenzene (BFB) injected into the GC. The BFB spectrum shall meet the mass-intensity criteria in Table 3. All portions of the GC column, transfer lines, and separator which connect the GC column to the ion source shall remain at or above the column temperature during analysis to preclude condensation of less volatile compounds.
5.5 Data system—shall collect and record MS data, store mass intensity data in spectral libraries, process GC/MS data and generate reports, and shall calculate and record response factors.
5.5.1 Data acquisition—mass spectra shall be collected continuously throughout the analysis and stored on a mass storage device.
5.5.2 Mass spectral libraries—user created libraries containing mass spectra obtained from analysis of authentic standards shall be employed to reverse search GC/MS runs for the compounds of interest (Section 7.2).
5.5.3 Data processing—the data system shall be used to search, locate, identify, and quantify the compounds of interest in each GC/MS analysis. Software routines shall be employed to compute retention times and EICP areas. Displays of spectra, mass chromatograms, and library comparisons are required to verify results.
5.5.4 Response factors and multipoint calibrations—the data system shall be used to record and maintain lists of response factors (response ratios for isotope dilution) and generate multi-point calibration curves (Section 7). Computations of relative standard deviation (coefficient of variation) are useful for testing calibration linearity. Statistics on initial and on-going performance shall be maintained (Sections 8 and 11).
5.6 Syringes—5 mL glass hypodermic, with Luer-lok tips.
5.7 Micro syringes—10, 25, and 100 uL.
5.8 Syringe valves—2-way, with Luer ends (Telfon or Kel-F).
5.9 Syringe—5 mL, gas-tight, with shut-off valve.
5.10 Bottles—15 mL., screw-cap with Telfon liner.
5.11 Balance—analytical, capable of weighing 0.1 mg.

# 6. Reagents and Standards
6.1 Reagent water—water in which the compounds of interest and interfering compounds are not detected by this method (Section 11.7). It may be generated by any of the following methods:
6.1.1 Activated carbon—pass tap water through a carbon bed (Calgon Filtrasorb-300, or equivalent).
6.1.2 Water purifier—pass tap water through a purifier (Millipore Super Q, or equivalent).
6.1.3 Boil and purge—heat tap water to 90-100 °C and bubble contaminant free inert gas through it for approx one hour. While still hot, transfer the water to screw-cap bottles and seal with a Teflon-lined cap.
6.2 Sodium thiosulfate—ACS granular.
6.3 Methanol—pesticide quality or equivalent.
6.4 Standard solutions—purchased as solution or mixtures with certification to their purity, concentration, and authenticity, or prepared from materials of known purity and composition. If compound purity is 96 percent or greater, the weight may be used without correction to calculate the concentration of the standard.
6.5 Preparation of stock solutions—prepare in methanol using liquid or gaseous standards per the steps below. Observe the safety precautions given in Section 4.
6.5.1 Place approx 9.8 mL of methanol in a 10 mL ground glass stoppered volumetric flask. Allow the flask to stand unstoppered for approximately 10 minutes or until all methanol wetted surfaces have dried. In each case, weigh the flask, immediately add the compound, then immediately reweigh to prevent evaporation losses from affecting the measurement.
6.5.1.1 Liquids—using a 100 µL syringe, permit 2 drops of liquid to fall into the methanol without contacting the leck of the flask. Alternatively, inject a known volume of the compound into the methanol in the flask using a micro-syringe.
6.5.1.2 Gases (chloromethane, bromomethane, chloroethane, vinyl chloride)—fill a valved 5 mL gas-tight syringe with the compound. Lower the needle to approximately 5 mm above the methanol meniscus. Slowly introduce the compound above the surface of the meniscus. The gas will dissolve rapidly in the methanol.
6.5.2 Fill the flask to volume, stopper, then mix by inverting several times. Calculate the concentration in mg/mL (µg/µL) from the weight gain (or density if a known volume was injected).
6.5.3 Transfer the stock solution to a Teflon sealed screw-cap-bottle. Store, with minimal headspace, in the dark at −10 to −20 °C.
6.5.4 Prepare fresh standards weekly for the gases and 2-chloroethylvinyl ether. All other standards are replaced after one month, or sooner if comparison with check standards indicate a change in concentration. Quality control check standards that can be used to determine the accuracy of calibration standards are available from the US Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio.
6.6 Labeled compound spiking solution—from stock standard solutions prepared as above, or from mixtures, prepare the spiking solution to contain a concentration such that a 5-10 µL spike into each 5 mL sample, blank, or aqueous standard analyzed will result in a concentration of 20 µg/L of each labeled compound. For the gases and for the water soluble compounds (acrolein, acrylonitrile, acetone, diethyl ether, and MEK), a concentration of 100 µg/L may be used. Include the internal standards (Section 7.5) in this solution so that a concentration of 20 µg/L in each sample, blank, or aqueous standard will be produced.
6.7 Secondary standards—using stock solutions, prepare a secondary standard in methanol to contain each pollutant at a concentration of 500 µg/mL For the gases and water soluble compounds (Section 6.6), a concentration of 2.5 mg/mL may be used.
6.7.1 Aqueous calibration standards—using a 25 µL syringe, add 20 µL of the secondary standard (Section 6.7) to 50, 100, 200, 500, and 1000 mL of reagent water to produce concentrations of 200, 100, 50, 20, and 10 µg/L, respectively. If the higher concentration standard for the gases and water soluble compounds was chosen (Section 6.6), these compounds will be at concentrations of 1000, 500, 250, 100, and 50 µg/L in the aqueous calibration standards.
6.7.2 Aqueous performance standard—an aqueous standard containing all pollutants, internal standards, labeled compounds, and BFB is prepared daily, and analyzed each shift to demonstrate performance (Section 11). This standard shall contain either 20 or 100 µg/L of the labeled and pollutant gases and water soluble compounds, 10 µg/L BFB, and 20 µg/L of all other pollutants, labeled compounds, and internal standards. It may be the nominal 20 µg/L aqueous calibration standard (Section 6.7.1).
6.7.3 A methanolic standard containing all pollutants and internal standards is prepared to demonstrate recovery of these compounds when syringe injection and purge and trap analyses are compared. This standard shall contain either 100 µg/mL or 500 µg/mL of the gases and water soluble compounds, and 100 µg/mL of the remaining pollutants
and internal standards (consistent with the amounts in the aqueous performance standard in 6.7.2).
6.7.4 Other standards which may be needed are those for test of BFB performance (Section 7.1) and for collection of mass spectra for storage in spectral libraries (Section 7.2).

# 7. Calibration
7.1 Assemble the gas chromatographic apparatus and establish operating conditions given in table 2. By injecting standards into the GC, demonstrate that the analytical system meets the detection limits in table 2 and the mass-intensity criteria in table 3 for 50 ng BFB.
7.2 Mass spectral libraries—detection and identification of the compound of interest are dependent upon the spectra stored in user created libraries.
7.2.1 Obtain a mass spectrum of each pollutant and labeled compound and each internal standard by analyzing an authentic standard either singly or as part of a mixture in which there is no interference between closely eluted components. That only a single compound is present is determined by examination of the spectrum. Fragments not attributable to the compound under study indicate the presence of an interfering compound. Adjust the analytical conditions and scan rate (for this test only) to produce an undistorted spectrum at the GC peak maximum. An undistorted spectrum will usually be obtained if five complete spectra are collected across the upper half of the GC peak. Software algorithms designed to “enhance” the spectrum may eliminate distortion, but may also eliminate authentic m/z's or introduce other distortion.
7.2.3 The authentic reference spectrum is obtained under BFB tuning conditions (Section 7.1 and table 3) to normalize it to spectra from other instruments.
7.2.4 The spectrum is edited by saving the 5 most intense mass spectral peaks and all other mass spectral peaks greater than 10 percent of the base peak. This spectrum is stored for reverse search and for compound confirmation.
7.3 Assemble the purge and trap device. Pack the trap as shown in Figure 2 and condition overnight at 170-180 °C by backflushing with an inert gas at a flow rate of 20-30 mL/min. Condition traps daily for a minimum of 10 minutes prior to use.
7.3.1 Analyze the aqueous performance standard (Section 6.7.2) according to the purge and trap procedure in Section 10. Compute the area at the primary m/z (table 4) for each compound. Compare these areas to those obtained by injecting one µL of the methanolic standard (Section 6.7.3) to determine compound recovery. The recovery shall be greater than 20 percent for the water soluble compounds, and 60-110 percent for all other compounds. This recovery is demonstrated initially for each purge and trap GC/MS system. The test is repeated only if the purge and trap or GC/MS systems are modified in any way that might result in a change in recovery.
7.3.2 Demonstrate that 100 ng toluene (or toluene-d8) produces an area at m/z 91 (or 99) approx one-tenth that required to exceed the linear range of the system. The exact value must be determined by experience for each instrument. It is used to match the calibration range of the instrument to the analytical range and detection limits required.
7.4 Calibration by isotope dilution—the isotope dilution approach is used for the purgeable organic compounds when appropriate labeled compounds are available and when interferences do not preclude the analysis. If labeled compounds are not available, or interferences are present, internal standard methods (Section 7.5 or 7.6) are used. A calibration curve encompassing the concentration range of interest is prepared for each compound determined. The relative response (RR) vs concentration (µg/L) is plotted or computed using a linear regression. An example of a calibration curve for toluene using toluene-d8 is given in figure 5. Also shown are the ±10 percent error limits (dotted lines). Relative response is determined according to the procedures described below. A minimum of five data points are required for calibration (Section 7.4.4).
7.4.1 The relative response (RR) of pollutant to labeled compound is determined from isotope ratio values calculated from acquired data. Three isotope ratios are used in this process:
R
X
= the isotope ratio measured in the pure pollutant (figure 6A).
R
y
= the isotope ratio of pure labeled compound (figure 6B).
R
m
= the isotope ratio measured in the analytical mixture of the pollutant and labeled compounds (figure 6C).
The correct way to calculate RR is: RR = (R
y
−R
m
) (R
X
+ 1)/(R
m
−R
X
)(R
y
+ 1) If R
m
is not between 2R
y
and 0.5R
X
, the method does not apply and the sample is analyzed by internal or external standard methods (Section 7.5 or 7.6).
7.4.2 In most cases, the retention times of the pollutant and labeled compound are the same and isotope ratios (R's) can be calculated from the EICP areas, where: R = (area at m
1
/z)/(area at m
2
/z) If either of the areas is zero, it is assigned a value of one in the calculations; that is, if: area of m
1
/z = 50721, and area of m
2
/z = 0, then R = 50721/1 = 50720. The m/z's are always selected such that R
X
R
y
. When there is a difference in retention times (RT) between the pollutant and labeled compounds, special precautions are required to determine the isotope ratios.
R
X
, R
y
, and R
m
are defined as follows:
R
X
=[area m
1
/z (at RT
1
)]/1
R
y
= 1/[area m
2
/z (at RT
2
)]
R
m
=[area m
1
/z (at RT
1
)]/[area m
2
/z (at RT
2
)]
7.4.3 An example of the above calculations can be taken from the data plotted in figure 6 for toluene and toluene-d8. For these data, R
X
= 168920/1 = 168900, R
y
= 1/60960 = 0.00001640, and R
m
= 96868/82508 = 1.174. The RR for the above data is then calculated using the equation given in Section 7.4.1. For the example, RR = 1.174.

# Note:
Not all labeled compounds elute before their pollutant analogs.
7.4.4 To calibrate the analytical system by isotope dilution, analyze a 5 mL aliquot of each of the aqueous calibration standards (Section 6.7.1) spiked with an appropriate constant amount of the labeled compound spiking solution (Section 6.6), using the purge and trap procedure in section 10. Compute the RR at each concentration.
7.4.5 Linearity—if the ratio of relative response to concentration for any compound is constant (less than 20 percent coefficient of variation) over the 5 point calibration range, an averaged relative response/concentration ratio may be used for that compound; otherwise, the complete calibration curve for that compound shall be used over the 5 point calibration range.
7.5 Calibration by internal standard—used when criteria for isotope dilution (Section 7.4) cannot be met. The method is applied to pollutants having no labeled analog and to the labeled compounds. The internal standards used for volatiles analyses are bromochloromethane, 2-bromo-1-chloropropane, and 1,4-dichlorobutane. Concentrations of the labeled compounds and pollutants without labeled analogs are computed relative to the nearest eluted internal standard, as shown in table 2.
7.5.1 Response factors—calibration requires the determination of response factors (RF) which are defined by the following equation:
RF = (A
s
xC
is
)/(A
is
xC
s
), where A
s
is the EICP area at the characteristic m/z for the compound in the daily standard. A
is
is the EICP area at the characteristic m/z for the internal standard.
C
is
is the concentration (ug/L) of the internal standard
C
s
is the concentration of the pollutant in the daily standard.
7.5.2 The response factor is determined at 10, 20, 50, 100, and 200 ug/L for the pollutants (optionally at five times these concentrations for gases and water soluble pollutants—see Section 6.7), in a way analogous to that for calibration by isotope dilution (Section 7.4.4). The RF is plotted against concentration for each compound in the standard (C
s
) to produce a calibration curve.
7.5.3 Linearity—if the response factor (RF) for any compound is constant (less than 35 percent coefficient of variation) over the 5 point calibration range, an averaged response factor may be used for that compound; otherwise, the complete calibration curve for that compound shall be used over the 5 point range.
7.6 Combined calibration—by adding the isotopically labeled compounds and internal standards (Section 6.6) to the aqueous calibration standards (Section 6.7.1), a single set of analyses can be used to produce calibration curves for the isotope dilution and internal standard methods. These curves are verified each shift (Section 11.5) by purging the aqueous performance standard (Section 6.7.2). Recalibration is required only if calibration and on-going performance (Section 11.5) criteria cannot be met.

# 8. Quality Assurance/Quality Control
8.1 Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality assurance program. The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability, analysis of samples spiked with labeled compounds to evaluate and document data quality, and analysis of standards and blanks as tests of continued performance. Laboratory performance is compared to established performance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet the performance characteristics of the method.
8.1.1 The analyst shall make an initial demonstration of the ability to generate acceptable accuracy and precision with this method. This ability is established as described in Section 8.2.
8.1.2 The analyst is permitted to modify this method to improve separations or lower the costs of measurements, provided all performance specifications are met. Each time a modification is made to the method, the analyst is required to repeat the procedure in Section 8.2 to demonstrate method performance.
8.1.3 Analyses of blanks are required to demonstrate freedom from contamination and that the compounds of interest and interfering compounds have not been carried over from a previous analysis (Section 3). The procedures and criteria for analysis of a blank are described in Sections 8.5 and 11.7.
8.1.4 The laboratory shall spike all samples with labeled compounds to monitor method performance. This test is described in Section 8.3. When results of these spikes indicate atypical method performance for samples, the samples are diluted to bring method performance within acceptable limits (Section 14.2).
8.1.5 The laboratory shall, on an on-going basis, demonstrate through the analysis of the aqueous performance standard (Section 6.7.2) that the analysis system is in control. This procedure is described in Sections 11.1 and 11.5.
8.1.6 The laboratory shall maintain records to define the quality of data that is generated. Development of accuracy statements is described in Sections 8.4 and 11.5.2.
8.2 Initial precision and accuracy—to establish the ability to generate acceptable precision and accuracy, the analyst shall perform the following operations:
8.2.1 Analyze two sets of four 5-mL aliquots (8 aliquots total) of the aqueous performance standard (Section 6.7.2) according to the method beginning in Section 10.
8.2.2 Using results of the first set of four analyses in Section 8.2.1, compute the average recovery (X
) in µg/L and the standard deviation of the recovery (s) in µg/L for each compound, by isotope dilution for polluitants with a labeled analog, and by internal standard for labeled compounds and pollutants with no labeled analog.
8.2.3 For each compound, compare s and X
with the corresponding limits for initial precision and accuracy found in table 5. If s and X
for all compounds meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may begin. If individual X
falls outside the range for accuracy, system performance is unacceptable for that compound.

# Note:
The large number of compounds in table 5 present a substantial probability that one or more will fail one of the acceptance criteria when all compoulds are analyzed. To determine if the analytical system is out of control, or if the failure can be attributed to probability, proceed as follows:
8.2.4 Using the results of the second set of four analyses, compute s and X
for only those compounds which failed the test of the first set of four analyses (Section 8.2.3). If these compounds now pass, system performance is acceptable for all compounds and analysis of blanks and samples may begin. If, however, any of the same compounds fail again, the analysis system is not performing properly for the compound(s) in question. In this event, correct the problem and repeat the entire test (Section 8.2.1).
8.3 The laboratory shall spike all samples with labeled compounds to assess method performance on the sample matrix.
8.3.1 Spike and analyze each sample according to the method beginning in Section 10.
8.3.2 Compute the percent recovery (P) of the labeled compounds using the internal standard method (Section 7.5).
8.3.3 Compare the percent recovery for each compound with the corresponding labeled compound recovery limit in table 5. If the recovery of any compound falls outside its warning limit, method performance is unacceptable for that compound in that sample. Therefore, the sample matrix is complex and the sample is to be diluted and reanalyzed, per Section 14.2.
8.4 As part of the QA program for the laboratory, method accuracy for wastewater samples shall be assessed and records shall be maintained. After the analysis of five wastewater samples for which the labeled compounds pass the tests in Section 8.3.3, compute the average percent recovery (P) and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (s
p
) for the labeled compounds only. Express the accuracy assessment as a percent recovery interval from P−2s
p
to P + 2s
p
. For example, if P = 90% and s
p
= 10%, the accuracy interval is expressed as 70-110%. Update the accuracy assessment for each compound on a regular basis (e.g. after each 5-10 new accuracy measurements).
8.5 Blanks—reagent water blanks are analyzed to demonstrate freedom from carry-over (Section 3) and contamination.
8.5.1 The level at which the purge and trap system will carry greater than 5 µg/L of a pollutant of interest (table 1) into a succeeding blank shall be determined by analyzing successively larger concentrations of these compounds. When a sample contains this concentration or more, a blank shall be analyzed immediately following this sample to demonstrate no carry-over at the 5 µg/L level.
8.5.2 With each sample lot (samples analyzed on the same 8 hr shift), a blank shall be analyzed immediately after analysis of the aqueous performance standard (Section 11.1) to demonstrate freedom from contamination. If any of the compounds of interest (table 1) or any potentially interfering compound is found in a blank at greater than 10 µg/L (assuming a response factor of 1 relative to the nearest eluted internal standard for compounds not listed in table 1), analysis of samples is halted until the source of contamination is eliminated and a blank shows no evidence of contamination at this level.
8.6 The specifications contained in this method can be met if the apparatus used is calibrated properly, then maintained in a calibrated state.
The standards used for calibration (Section 7), calibration verification (Section 11.5) and for initial (Section 8.2) and on-going (Section 11.5) precision and accuracy should be identical, so that the most precise results will be obtained. The GC/MS instrument in particular will provide the most reproducible results if dedicated to the settings and conditions required for the analyses of volatiles by this method.
8.7 Depending on specific program requirements, field replicates may be collected to determine the precision of the sampling technique, and spiked samples may be required to determine the accuracy of the analysis when internal or external standard methods are used.

# 9. Sample Collection, Preservation, and Handling
9.1 Grab samples are collected in glass containers having a total volume greater than 20 mL. Fill sample bottles so that no air bubbles pass through the sample as the bottle is filled. Seal each bottle so that no air bubbles are entrapped. Maintain the hermetic seal on the sample bottle until time of analysis.
9.2 Samples are maintained at 0-4 °C from the time of collection until analysis. If the sample contains residual chlorine, add sodium thiosulfate preservative (10 mg/40 mL) to the empty sample bottles just prior to shipment to the sample site. EPA Methods 330.4 and 330.5 may be used for measurement of residual chlorine (Reference 8). If preservative has been added, shake bottle vigorously for one minute immediately after filling.
9.3 Experimental evidence indicates that some aromatic compounds, notably benzene, toluene, and ethyl benzene are susceptible to rapid biological degradation under certain environmental conditions. Refrigeration alone may not be adequate to preserve these compounds in wastewaters for more than seven days. For this reason, a separate sample should be collected, acidified, and analyzed when these aromatics are to be determined. Collect about 500 mL of sample in a clean container.
Adjust the pH of the sample to about 2 by adding HCl (1 + 1) while stirring. Check pH with narrow range (1.4 to 2.8) pH paper. Fill a sample container as described in Section 9.1. If residual chlorine is present, add sodium thiosulfate to a separate sample container and fill as in Section 9.1.
9.4 All samples shall be analyzed within 14 days of collection.

# 10. Purge, Trap, and GC/MS Analysis
10.1 Remove standards and samples from cold storage and bring to 20-25 °.
10.2 Adjust the purge gas flow rate to 40 ±4 mL/min. Attach the trap inlet to the purging device and set the valve to the purge mode (figure 3). Open the syringe valve located on the purging device sample introduction needle (figure 1).
10.3 Remove the plunger from a 5-mL syringe and attach a closed syringe valve. Open the sample bottle and carefully pour the sample into the syringe barrel until it overflows. Replace the plunger and compress the sample. Open the syringe valve and vent any residual air while adjusting the sample volume to 5.0 mL. Because this process of taking an aliquot destroys the validity of the sample for future analysis, fill a second syringe at this time to protect against possible loss of data. Add an appropriate amount of the labeled compound spiking solution (Section 6.6) through the valve bore, then close the valve.
10.4 Attach the syringe valve assembly to the syringe valve on the purging device. Open both syringe valves and inject the sample into the purging chamber.
10.5 Close both valves and purge the sample for 11.0 ±0.1 minutes at 20-25 °C.
10.6 After the 11 minute purge time, attach the trap to the chromatograph and set the purge and trap apparatus to the desorb mode (figure 4). Desorb the trapped compounds into the GC column by heating the trap to 170-180 °C while backflushing with carrier gas at 20-60 mL/min for four minutes. Start MS data acquisition upon start of the desorb cycle, and start the GC column temperature program 3 minutes later. Table 1 summarizes the recommended operating conditions for the gas chromatograph. Included in this table are retention times and detection limits that were achieved under these conditions. Other columns may be used provided the requirements in Section 8 can be met. If the priority pollutant gases produce GC peaks so broad that the precision and recovery specifications (Section 8.2) cannot be met, the column may be cooled to ambient or sub-ambient temperatures to sharpen these peaks.
10.7 While analysis of the desorbed compounds proceeds, empty the purging chamber using the sample introduction syringe. Wash the chamber with two 5-mL portions of reagent water. After the purging device has been emptied, allow the purge gas to vent through the chamber until the frit is dry, so that it is ready for the next sample.
10.8 After desorbing the sample for four minutes, recondition the trap by returning to the purge mode. Wait 15 seconds, then close the syringe valve on the purging device to begin gas flow through the trap. Maintain the trap temperature at 170-180 °C. After approximately seven minutes, turn off the trap heater and open the syringe valve to stop the gas flow through the trap. When cool, the trap is ready for the next sample.

# 11. System Performance
11.1 At the beginning of each 8 hr shift during which analyses are performed, system calibration and performance shall be verified for all pollutants and labeled compounds. For these tests, analysis of the aqueous performance standard (Section 6.7.2) shall be used to verify all performance criteria. Adjustment and/or recalibration (per Section 7) shall be performed until all performance criteria are met. Only after all performance criteria are met may blanks and samples be analyzed.
11.2 BFB spectrum validity—the criteria in table 3 shall be met.
11.3 Retention times—the absolute retention times of all compounds shall approximate those given in Table 2.
11.4 GC resolution—the valley height between toluene and toluene-d8 (at m/z 91 and 99 plotted on the same graph) shall be less than 10 percent of the taller of the two peaks.
11.5 Calibration verification and on-going precision and accuracy—compute the concentration of each polutant (Table 1) by isotope dilution (Section 7.4) for those compmunds which have labeled analogs. Compute the concentration of each pollutant (Table 1) which has no labeled analog by the internal standard method (Section 7.5). Compute the concentration of the labeled compounds by the internal standard method. These concentrations are computed based on the calibration data determined in Section 7.
11.5.1 For each pollutant and labeled compound, compare the concentration with the corresponding limit for on-going accuracy in Table 5. If all compmunds meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may continue. If any individual value falls outside the range given, system performance is unacceptable for that compound.

# Note:
The large number of compounds in Table 5 present a substantial probability that one or more will fail the acceptance criteria when all compounds are analyzed. To determine if the analytical system is out of control, or if the failure may be attributed to probability, proceed as follows:
11.5.1.1 Analyze a second aliquot of the aqueous performance standard (Section 6.7.2).
11.5.1.2 Compute the concentration for only those compounds which failed the first test (Section 11.5.1). If these compounds now pass, system performance is acceptable for all compounds and analyses of blanks and samples may proceed. If, however, any of the compounds fail again, the measurement system is not performing properly for these compounds. In this event, locate and correct the problem or recalibrate the system (Section 7), and repeat the entire test (Section 11.1) for all compounds.
11.5.2 Add results which pass the specification in 11.5.1.2 to initial (Section 8.2) and previous on-going data. Update QC charts to form a graphic representation of laboratory performance (Figure 7). Develop a statement of accuracy for each pollutant and labeled compound by calculating the average percentage recovery (R) and the standard deviation of percent recovery (s
r
). Express the accuracy as a recovery interval from R−2s
r
to R + 2s
r
. For example, if R = 95% and s
r
= 5%, the accuracy is 85-105 percent.

# 12. Qualitative Determination—Accomplished by Comparison of Data from Analysis of a Sample or Blank with Data from Analysis of the Shift Standard (Section 11.1). Identification is Confirmed When Spectra and Retention Times Agree Per the Criteria Below
12.1 Labeled compounds and pollutants having no labeled analog:
12.1.1 The signals for all characteristic masses stored in the spectral library (Section 7.2.4) shall be present and shall maximize within the same two consecutive scans.
12.1.2 Either (1) the background corrected EICP areas, or (2) the corrected relative intensities of the mass spectral peaks at the GC peak maximum shall agree within a factor of two (0.5 to 2 times) for all masses stored in the library.
12.1.3 The retention time relative to the nearest eluted internal standard shall be within ±7 scans or ±20 seconds, whichever is greater.
12.2 Pollutants having a labeled analog:
12.2.1 The signals for all characteristic masses stored in the spectral library (Section 7.2.4) shall be present and shall maximize within the same two consecutive scans.
12.2.2 Either (1) the background corrected EICP areas, or (2) the corrected relative intensities of the mass spectral peaks at the GC peak maximum shall agree within a factor of two for all masses stored in the spectral library.
12.2.3 The retention time difference between the pollutant and its labeled analog shall agree within ±2 scans or ±6 seconds (whichever is greater) of this difference in the shift standard (Section 11.1).
12.3 Masses present in the experimental mass spectrum that are not present in the reference mass spectrum shall be accounted for by contaminant or background ions. If the experimental mass spectrum is contaminated, an experienced spectrometrist (Section 1.4) is to determine the presence or absence of the compound.

# 13. Quantitative Determination
13.1 Isotope dilution—by adding a known amount of a labeled compound to every sample prior to purging, correction for recovery of the pollutant can be made because the pollutant and its labeled analog exhibit the same effects upon purging, desorption, and gas chromatography. Relative response (RR) values for sample mixtures are used in conjunction with calibration curves described in Section 7.4 to determine concentrations directly, so long as labeled compound spiking levels are constant. For the toluene example given in Figure 6 (Section 7.4.3), RR would be equal to 1.174. For this RR value, the toluene calibration curve given in Figure 5 indicates a concentration of 31.8 µg/L.
13.2 Internal standard—calculate the concentration using the response factor determined from calibration data (Section 7.5) and the following equation:
Concentration = (A
s
× C
is
)/(A
is
× RF) where the terms are as defined in Section 7.5.1.
13.3 If the EICP area at the quantitation mass for any compound exceeds the calibration range of the system, the sample is diluted by successive factors of 10 and these dilutions are analyzed until the area is within the calibration range.
13.4 Report results for all pollutants and labeled compounds (Table 1) found in all standards, blanks, and samples, in µg/L to three significant figures. Results for samples which have been diluted are reported at the least dilute level at which the area at the quantitation mass is within the calibration range (Section 13.3) and the labeled compound recovery is within the normal range for the Method (Section 14.2).

# 14. Analysis of Complex Samples
14.1 Untreated effluents and other samples frequently contain high levels (
1000 µg/L) of the compounds of interest and of interfering compounds. Some samples will foam excessively when purged; others will overload the trap/or GC column.
14.2 Dilute 0.5 mL of sample with 4.5 mL of reagent water and analyze this diluted sample when labeled compound recovery is outside the range given in Table 5. If the recovery remains outside of the range for this diluted sample, the aqueous performance standard shall be analyzed (Section 11) and calibration verified (Section 11.5). If the recovery for the labeled compmund in the aqueous performance standard is outside the range given in Table 5, the analytical system is out of control. In this case, the instrumelt shall be repaired, the performance specifications in Section 11 shall be met, and the analysis of the undiluted sample shall be repeated. If the recovery for the aqueous performance standard is within the range given in Table 5, the method does not work on the sample being analyzed and the result may not be reported for regulatory compliance purposes.
14.3 Reverse search computer programs can misinterpret the spectrum of chromatographically unresolved pollutant and labeled compound pairs with overlapping spectra when a high level of the pollutant is present. Examine each chromatogram for peaks greater than the height of the internal standard peaks. These peaks can obscure the compounds of interest.

# 15. Method Performance
15.1 The specifications for this method were taken from the inter-laboratory validation of EPA Method 624 (reference 9). Method 1624 has been shown to yield slightly better performance on treated effluents than Method 624. Additional method performance data can be found in Reference 10.

# References
1. “Performance Tests for the Evaluation of Computerized Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry Equipment and Laboratories,” USEPA, EMSL/Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA-600/4-80-025 (April 1980).
2. Bellar, T.A. and Lichtenberg, J.J., “Journal American Water Works Association,”
66,
739 (1974).
3. Bellar, T.A. and Lichtenberg, J.J., “Semi-automated Headspace Analysis of Drinking Waters and Industrial Waters for Purgeable Volatile Organic Compounds,” in
Measurement of Organic Pollutants Water and Wastewater,
C.E. VanHall, ed., American Society for Testing Materials, Philadelphia, PA, Special Technical Publication 686, (1978).
4. “Working with Carcinogens,” DHEW, PHS, NIOSH, Publication 77-206 (1977).
5. “OSHA Safety and Health Standards, General Industry,” 29 CFR part 1910, OSHA 2206, (1976).
6. “Safety in Academic Chemistry Laboratories,” American Chemical Society Publication, Committee on Chemical Safety (1979).
7. “Handbook of Analytical Quality Control in Water and Wastewater Laboratories,” USEPA, EMSL/Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA-4-79-019 (March 1979).
8. “Methods 330.4 and 330.5 for Total Residual Chlorine,” USEPA, EMSL/Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA-4-79-020 (March 1979).
9. “EPA Method Study 29 EPA Method 624—Purgeables,” EPA 600/4-84-054, National Technical Information Service, PB84-209915, Springfield, Virginia 22161, June 1984.
10. “Colby, B.N., Beimer, R.G., Rushneck, D.R., and Telliard, W.A., “Isotope Dilution Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry for the Determination of Priority Pollutants in Industrial Effluents,” USEPA, Effluent Guidelines Division, Washington, DC 20460 (1980).
Table 1—Volatile Organic Compounds Analyzed by Isotope Dilution Gc/MS
Compound
Storet
CAS registry
EPA-EGD
NPDES
Acetone
81552
67-64-1
516 V
Acrolein
34210
107-02-8
002 V
001 V
Acrylonitrile
34215
107-13-1
003 V
002 V
Benzene
34030
71-43-2
004 V
003 V
Bromodichloromethane
32101
75-27-4
048 V
012 V
Bromoform
32104
75-25-2
047 V
005 V
Bromomethane
34413
74-83-9
046 V
020 V
Carbon tetrachloride
32102
56-23-5
006 V
006 V
Chlorobenzene
34301
108-90-7
007 V
007 V
Chloroethane
34311
75-00-3
016 V
009 V
2-chloroethylvinyl ether
34576
110-75-8
019 V
010 V
Chloroform
32106
67-66-1
023 V
011 V
Chloromethane
34418
74-87-3
045 V
021 V
Dibromochloromethane
32105
124-48-1
051 V
008 V
1,1-dichloroethane
34496
75-34-3
013 V
014 V
1,2-dichloroethane
34536
107-06-2
010 V
015 V
1,1-dichloroethene
34501
75-35-4
029 V
016 V
Trans-1,2-dichloroethane
34546
156-60-5
030 V
026 V
1,2-dichloropropane
34541
78-87-5
032 V
017 V
Cis-1,3-dichloropropene
34704
10061-01-5
Trans-1,3-dichloropropene
34699
10061-02-6
033 V
Diethyl ether
81576
60-29-7
515 V
P-dioxane
81582
123-91-1
527 V
Ethylbenzene
34371
100-41-4
038 V
019 V
Methylene chloride
34423
75-09-2
044 V
022 V
Methyl ethyl ketone
81595
78-93-3
514 V
1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane
34516
79-34-5
015 V
023 V
Tetrachlorethene
34475
127-18-4
085 V
024 V
Toluene
34010
108-88-3
086 V
025 V
1,1,1-trichloroethane
34506
71-55-6
011 V
027 V
1,1,2-trichloroethane
34511
79-00-5
014 V
028 V
Trichloroethene
39180
79-01-6
087 V
029 V
Vinyl chloride
39175
75-01-4
088 V
031 V
Table 2—Gas Chromatography of Purgeable Organic Compounds by Isotope Dilution GC/MS
EGD No. (1)
Compound
Ref EGD No.
Mean retention time (sec)
Minimum level (2) (µg/L)
181
Bromochloromethane (I.S.)
181
730
10
245
Chloromethane-d3
181
147
50
345
Chloromethane
245
148
50
246
Bromomethane-d3
181
243
50
346
Bromomethane
246
246
50
288
Vinyl chloride-d3
181
301
50
388
Vinyl chloride
288
304
10
216
Chloroethane-d5
181
378
50
316
Chloroethane
216
386
50
244
Methylene chloride-d2
181
512
10
344
Methylene chloride
244
517
10
616
Acetone-d6
181
554
50
716
Acetone
616
565
50
002
Acrolein
181
566
50
203
Acrylonitrile-d3
181
606
50
303
Acrylonitrile
203
612
50
229
1,1-dichloroethene-d2
181
696
10
329
1,1-dichloroethene
229
696
10
213
1,1-dichloroethane-d3
181
778
10
313
1,1-dichloroethane
213
786
10
615
Diethyl ether-d10
181
804
50
715
Diethyl ether
615
820
50
230
Trans-1,2-dichloroethene-d2
181
821
10
330
Trans-1,2-dichloroethene
230
821
10
614
Methyl ethyl ketone-d3
181
840
50
714
Methyl ethyl ketone
614
848
50
223
Chloroform-13C1
181
861
10
323
Chloroform
223
861
10
210
1,2-dichloroethane-d4
181
901
10
310
1,2-dichloroethane
210
910
10
211
1,1,1-trichloroethane-13C2
181
989
10
311
1,1,1-trichloroethane
211
999
10
527
p-dioxane
181
1001
10
206
Carbon tetrachloride-13C1
182
1018
10
306
Carbon tetrachloride
206
1018
10
248
Bromodichloromethane-13C1
182
1045
10
348
Bromodichloromethane
248
1045
10
232
1,2-dichloropropane-d6
182
1123
10
332
1.2-dichloropropane
232
1134
10
233
Trans-1,3-dichloropropene-d4
182
1138
10
333
Trans-1,3-dichloropropene
233
1138
10
287
Trichloroethene-13C1
182
1172
10
387
Trichloroethene
287
1187
10
204
Benzene-d6
182
1200
10
304
Benzene
204
1212
10
251
Chlorodibromemethane-13C1
182
1222
10
351
Chlorodibromomethane
251
1222
10
214
1,1,2-trichloroethane-13C2
182
1224
10
314
1,1,2-trichloroethane
214
1224
10
019
2-chloroethylvinyl ether
182
1278
10
182
2-bromo-1-chloropropane (I.S.)
182
1306
10
247
Bromoform-13C1
182
1386
10
347
Bromoform
247
1386
10
215
1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane-d2
183
1525
10
315
1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane
215
1525
10
285
Tetrachloroethene-13C2
183
1528
10
385
Tetrachloroethene
285
1528
10
183
1,4-dichlorobutale (int std)
183
1555
10
286
Toluene-d8
183
1603
10
386
Toluene
286
1619
10
207
Chlorobenzene-d5
183
1679
10
307
Chlorobenzene
207
1679
10
238
Ethylbenzene-d10
183
1802
10
338
Ethylbenzene
238
1820
10
185
Bromofluorobenzene
183
1985
10
(1) Reference numbers beginning with 0, 1 or 5 indicate a pollutant quantified by the internal standard method; reference numbers beginning with 2 or 6 indicate a labeled compound quantified by the internal standard method; reference numbers beginning with 3 or 7 indicate a pollutant quantified by isotope dilution.
(2) This is a minimum level at which the analytical system shall give recognizable mass spectra (background corrected) and acceptable calibration points. Column: 2.4m (8 ft) × 2 mm i.d. glass, packed with one percent SP-1000 coated on 60/80 Carbopak B. Carrier gas: helium at 40 mL/min. Temperature program: 3 min at 45 °C, 8 °C per min to 240 °C, hold at 240 °C for 15 minutes.
Note:
The specifications in this table were developed from data collected from three wastewater laboratories.
Table 3—BFB Mass-Intensity Specifications
Mass
Intensity required
50
15 to 40 percent of mass 95.
75
30 to 60 percent of mass 95.
95
base peak, 100 percent.
96
5 to 9 percent of mass 95.
173
2 percent of mass 174.
174
50 percent of mass 95.
175
5 to 9 percent of mass 174.
176
95 to 101 percent of mass 174.
177
5 to 9 percent of mass 176.
Table 4—Volatile Organic Compound Characteristic Masses
Labeled compound
Analog
Primary m/z's
Acetone
d6
58/64
Acrolein
d2
56/58
Acrylonitrile
d3
53/56
Benzene
d6
78/84
Bromodichloromethane
13C
83/86
Bromoform
13C
173/176
Bromomethale
d3
96/99
Carbon tetrachloride
13C
47/48
Chlorobenzene
d5
112/117
Chloroethane
d5
64/71
2-chloroethylvinyl ether
d7
106/113
Chloroform
13C
85/86
Chloromethane
d3
50/53
Dibromochloromethane
13C
129/130
1,1-dichloroethane
d3
63/66
1,2-dichloroethane
d4
62/67
1,1-dichloroethene
d2
61/65
Trans-1,2-dichloroethene
d2
61/65
1,2-dichloropropane
d6
63/67
Cis-1,3-dichloropropene
d4
75/79
Trans-1,3-dichloropropene
d4
75/79
Diethyl ether
d10
74/84
p-dioxane
d8
88/96
Ethylbenzene
d10
106/116
Methylene chloride
d2
84/88
Methyl ethyl ketone
d3
72/75
1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane
d2
83/84
Tetrachloroethene
13C2
166/172
Toluene
d8
92/99
1,1,1-trichloroethane
d3
97/102
1,1,2-trichloroethane
13C2
83/84
Trichloroethene
13C
95/133
Vinyl chloride
d3
62/65
Table 5—Acceptance Criteria for Performance Tests
Compound
Acceptance criteria at 20 µg/L
Initial precision and accuracy section 8.2.3
s (µg/L)
X
(µg/L)
Labeled compound recovery sec. 8.3 and 14.2
P (percent)
On-going accuracy sec. 11.5
R (µg/L)
Acetone
Note 1
Acrolein
Note 2
Acrylonitrile
Note 2
Benzene
9.0
13.0-28.2
ns-196
4-33
Bromodichloromethane
8.2
6.5-31.5
ns-199
4-34
Bromoform
7.0
7.4-35.1
ns-214
6-36
Bromomethane
25.0
d-54.3
ns-414
d-61
Carbon tetrachloride
6.9
15.9-24.8
42-165
12-30
Chlorobenzene
8.2
14.2-29.6
ns-205
4-35
Chloroethane
14.8
2.1-46.7
ns-308
d-51
2-chloroethylvinyl ether
36.0
d-69.8
ns-554
d-79
Chloroform
7.9
11.6-26.3
18-172
8-30
Chloromethane
26.0
d-55.5
ns-410
d-64
Dibromochloromethane
7.9
11.2-29.1
16-185
8-32
1,1-dichloroethane
6.7
11.4-31.4
23-191
9-33
1,2-dichloroethane
7.7
11.6-30.1
12-192
8-33
1,1-dichloroethene
11.7
d-49.8
ns-315
d-52
Trans-1,2-dichloroethene
7.4
10.5-31.5
15-195
8-34
1,2-dichloropropane
19.2
d-46.8
ns-343
d-51
Cis-1,3-dichloropropene
22.1
d-51.0
ns-381
d-56
Trans-1,3-dichloropropene
14.5
d-40.2
ns-284
d-44
Diethyl ether
Note 1
P-dioxane
Note 1
Ethyl benzene
9.6
15.6-28.5
ns-203
5-35
Methylene chloride
9.7
d-49.8
ns-316
d-50
Methyl ethyl ketone
Note 1
1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane
9.6
10.7-30.0
5-199
7-34
Tetrachloroethene
6.6
15.1-28.5
31-181
11-32
Toluene
6.3
14.5-28.7
4-193
6-33
1,1,1-trichloroethane
5.9
10.5-33.4
12-200
8-35
1,1,2-trichloroethane
7.1
11.8-29.7
21-184
9-32
Trichloroethene
8.9
16.6-29.5
35-196
12-34
Vinyl chloride
27.9
d-58.5
ns-452
d-65
d = detected; result must be greater than zero.
ns = no specification; limit would be below detection limit.
Note 1:
Specifications not available for these compounds at time of release of this method.
Note 2:
Specifications not developed for these compounds; use method 603.
EC02JY92.055
EC02JY92.056

# Method 1625 Revision B—Semivolatile Organic Compounds by Isotope Dilution GC/MS
Pt. 136, App. A, Meth. 1625

# 1. Scope and Application
1.1 This method is designed to determine the semivolatile toxic organic pollutants associated with the 1976 Consent Decree and additional compounds amenable to extraction and analysis by capillary column gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS).
1.2 The chemical compounds listed in Tables 1 and 2 may be determined in municipal and industrial discharges by this method. The method is designed to meet the survey
requirements of Effluent Guidelines Division (EGD) and the National Pollutants Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) under 40 CFR 136.1. Any modifications of this method, beyond those expressly permitted, shall be considered as major modifications subject to application and approval of alternate test procedures under 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5.
1.3 The detection limit of this method is usually dependent on the level of interferences rather than instrumental limitations. The limits listed in Tables 3 and 4 represent the minimum quantity that can be detected with no interferences present.
1.4 The GC/MS portions of this method are for use only by analysts experienced with GC/MS or under the close supervision of such qualified persons. Laboratories unfamiliar with analyses of environmental samples by GC/MS should run the performance tests in reference 1 before beginning.

# 2. Summary of Method
2.1 Stable isotopically labeled analogs of the compounds of interest are added to a one liter wastewater sample. The sample is extracted at pH 12-13, then at pH
2 with methylene chloride using continuous extraction techniques. The extract is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to a volume of one mL. An internal standard is added to the extract, and the extract is injected into the gas chromatograph (GC). The compounds are separated by GC and detected by a mass spectrometer (MS). The labeled compounds serve to correct the variability of the analytical technique.
2.2 Identification of a compound (qualitative analysis) is performed by comparing the GC retention time and background corrected characteristic spectral masses with those of authentic standards.
2.3 Quantitative analysis is performed by GC/MS using extracted ion current profile (EICP) areas. Isotope dilution is used when labeled compounds are available; otherwise, an internal standard method is used.
2.4 Quality is assured through reproducible calibration and testing of the extraction and GC/MS systems.

# 3. Contamination and Interferences
3.1 Solvents, reagents, glassware, and other sample processing hardware may yield artifacts and/or elevated baselines causing misinterpretation of chromatograms and spectra. All materials shall be demonstrated to be free from interferences under the conditions of analysis by running method blanks initially and with each sample lot (samples started through the extraction process on a given 8 hr shift, to a maximum of 20). Specific selection of reagents and purification of solvents by distillation in all-glass systems may be required. Glassware and, where possible, reagents are cleaned by solvent rinse and baking at 450 °C for one hour minimum.
3.2 Interferences coextracted from samples will vary considerably from source to source, depending on the diversity of the industrial complex or municipality being samples.

# 4. Safety
4.1 The toxicity or carcinogenicity of each compound or reagent used in this method has not been precisely determined; however, each chemical compound should be treated as a potential health hazard. Exposure to these compounds should be reduced to the lowest possible level. The laboratory is responsible for maintaining a current awareness file of OSHA regulations regarding the safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method. A reference file of data handling sheets should also be made available to all personnel involved in these analyses. Additional information on laboratory safety can be found in references 2-4.
4.2 The following compounds covered by this method have been tentatively classified as known or suspected human or mammalian carcinogens: benzidine benzo(a)anthracene, 3,3′-dichlorobenzidine, benzo(a)pyrene, dibenzo(a,h)anthracene, N-nitrosodimethylamine, and β-naphtylamine. Primary standards of these compounds shall be prepared in a hood, and a NIOSH/MESA approved toxic gas respirator should be worn when high concentrations are handled.

# 5. Apparatus and Materials
5.1 Sampling equipment for discrete or composite sampling.
5.1.1 Sample bottle, amber glass, 1.1 liters minimum. If amber bottles are not available, samples shall be protected from light. Bottles are detergent water washed, then solvent rinsed or baked at 450 °C for one hour minimum before use.
5.1.2 Bottle caps—threaded to fit sample bottles. Caps are lined with Teflon. Aluminum foil may be substituted if the sample is not corrosive. Liners are detergent water washed, then reagent water (Section 6.5) and solvent rinsed, and baked at approximately 200 °C for one hour minimum before use.
5.1.3 Compositing equipment—automatic or manual compositing system incorporating glass containers for collection of a minimum 1.1 liters. Sample containers are kept at 0 to 4 °C during sampling. Glass or Teflon tubing only shall be used. If the sampler uses a peristaltic pump, a minimum length of compressible silicone rubber tubing may be used in the pump only. Before use, the tubing is thoroughly rinsed with methanol, followed by repeated rinsings with reagent water (Section 6.5) to minimize sample contamination. An integrating flow meter is used to collect proportional composite samples.
5.2 Continuous liquid-liquid extractor—Teflon or glass conncecting joints and stopcocks without lubrication (Hershberg-Wolf Extractor) one liter capacity, Ace Glass 6841-10, or equivalent.
5.3 Drying column—15 to 20 mm i.d. Pyrex chromatographic column equipped with coarse glass frit or glass wool plug.
5.4 Kuderna-Danish (K-D) apparatus
5.4.1 Concentrator tube—10mL, graduated (Kontes K-570050-1025, or equivalent) with calibration verified. Ground glass stopper (size 19/22 joint) is used to prevent evaporation of extracts.
5.4.2 Evaporation flask—500 mL (Kontes K-570001-0500, or equivalent), attached to concentrator tube with springs (Kontes K-662750-0012).
5.4.3 Snyder column—three ball macro (Kontes K-503000-0232, or equivalent).
5.4.4 Snyder column—two ball micro (Kontes K-469002-0219, or equivalent).
5.4.5 Boiling chips—approx 10/40 mesh, extracted with methylene chloride and baked at 450 °C for one hr minimum.
5.5 Water bath—heated, with concentric ring cover, capable of temperature control ±2 °C, installed in a fume hood.
5.6 Sample vials—amber glass, 2-5 mL with Teflon-lined screw cap.
5.7 Analytical balance—capable of weighing 0.1 mg.
5.8 Gas chromatograph—shall have splitless or on-column injection port for capillary column, temperature program with 30 °C hold, and shall meet all of the performance specifications in Section 12.
5.8.1 Column—30 ±5 m × 0.25 ±0.02 mm i.d. 5% phenyl, 94% methyl, 1% vinyl silicone bonded phase fused silica capillary column (J
W DB-5, or equivalent).
5.9 Mass spectrometer—70 eV electron impact ionization, shall repetitively scan from 35 to 450 amu in 0.95 to 1.00 second, and shall produce a unit resolution (valleys between m/z 441-442 less than 10 percent of the height of the 441 peak), backgound corrected mass spectrum from 50 ng decafluorotriphenylphosphine (DFTPP) introduced through the GC inlet. The spectrum shall meet the mass-intensity criteria in Table 5 (reference 5). The mass spectrometer shall be interfaced to the GC such that the end of the capillary column terminates within one centimeter of the ion source but does not intercept the electron or ion beams. All portions of the column which connect the GC to the ion source shall remain at or above the column temperature during analysis to preclude condensation of less volatile compounds.
5.10 Data system—shall collect and record MS data, store mass-intensity data in spectral libraries, process GC/MS data, generate reports, and shall compute and record response factors.
5.10.1 Data acquisition—mass spectra shall be collected continuously throughout the analysis and stored on a mass storage device.
5.10.2 Mass spectral libraries—user created libraries containing mass spectra obtained from analysis of authentic standards shall be employed to reverse search GC/MS runs for the compounds of interest (Section 7.2).
5.10.3 Data processing—the data system shall be used to search, locate, identify, and quantify the compounds of interest in each GC/MS analysis. Software routines shall be employed to compute retention times and peak areas. Displays of spectra, mass chromatograms, and library comparisons are required to verify results.
5.10.4 Response factors and multipoint calibrations—the data system shall be used to record and maintain lists of response factors (response ratios for isotope dilution) and multipoint calibration curves (Section 7). Computations of relative standard deviation (coefficient of variation) are useful for testing calibration linearity. Statistics on initial (Section 8.2) and on-going (Section 12.7) performance shall be computed and maintained.

# 6. Reagents and Standards
6.1 Sodium hydroxide—reagent grade, 6N in reagent water.
6.2 Sulfuric acid—reagent grade, 6N in reagent water.
6.3 Sodium sulfate—reagent grade, granular anhydrous, rinsed with methylene chloride (20 mL/g) and conditioned at 450 °C for one hour minimum.
6.4 Methylene chloride—distilled in glass (Burdick and Jackson, or equivalent).
6.5 Reagent water—water in which the compounds of interest and interfering compounds are not detected by this method.
6.6 Standard solutions—purchased as solutions or mixtures with certification to their purity, concentration, and authenticity, or prepared from materials of known purity and composition. If compound purity is 96 percent or greater, the weight may be used without correction to compute the concentration of the standard. When not being used, standards are stored in the dark at −20 to −10 °C in screw-capped vials with Teflon-lined lids. A mark is placed on the vial at the level of the solution so that solvent evaporation loss can be detected. The vials are brought to room temperature prior to use. Any precipitate is redissolved and solvent is added if solvent loss has occurred.
6.7 Preparation of stock solutions—prepare in methylene chloride, benzene, p-dioxane, or a mixture of these solvents per the steps below. Observe the safety precautions in Section 4. The large number of labeled and unlabeled acid, base/neutral, and Appendix C compounds used for combined
calibration (Section 7) and calibration verification (12.5) require high concentratimns (approx 40 mg/mL) when individual stock solutions are prepared, so that dilutions of mixtures will permit calibration with all compounds in a single set of solutions. The working range for most compounds is 10-200 µg/mL. Compounds with a reduced MS response may be prepared at higher concentrations.
6.7.1 Dissolve an appropriate amount of assayed reference material in a suitable solvent. For example, weigh 400 mg naphthalene in a 10 mL ground glass stoppered volumetric flask and fill to the mark with benzene. After the naphthalene is completely dissolved, transfer the solution to a 15 mL vial with Teflon-lined cap.
6.7.2 Stock standard solutions should be checked for signs of degradation prior to the preparation of calibration or performance test standards. Quality control check samples that can be used to determine the accuracy of calibration standards are available from the US Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio 45268.
6.7.3 Stock standard solutions shall be replaced after six months, or sooner if comparison with quality control check samples indicates a change in concentration.
6.8 Labeled compound spiking solution—from stock standard solutions prepared as above, or from mixtures, prepare the spiking solution at a concentration of 200 µg/mL, or at a concentration appropriate to the MS response of each compound.
6.9 Secondary standard—using stock solutions (Section 6.7), prepare a secondary standard containing all of the compounds in Tables 1 and 2 at a concentration of 400 µg/mL, or higher concentration appropriate to the MS response of the compound.
6.10 Internal standard solution—prepare 2,2′-difluorobiphenyl (DFB) at a concentration of 10 mg/mL in benzene.
6.11 DFTPP solution—prepare at 50 µg/mL in acetone.
6.12 Solutions for obtaining authentic mass spectra (Section 7.2)—prepare mixtures of compounds at concentrations which will assure authentic spectra are obtained for storage in libraries.
6.13 Calibration solutions—combine 0.5 mL of the solution in Section 6.8 with 25, 50, 125, 250, and 500 uL of the solution in section 6.9 and bring to 1.00 mL total volume each. This will produce calibration solutions of nominal 10, 20, 50, 100, and 200 µg/mL of the pollutants and a constant nominal 100 µg/mL of the labeled compounds. Spike each solution with 10 µL of the internal standard solution (Section 6.10). These solutions permit the relative response (labeled to unlabeled) to be measured as a function of concentration (Section 7.4).
6.14 Precision and recovery standard—used for determination of initial (Section 8.2) and on-going (Section 12.7) precision and recovery. This solution shall contain the pollutants and labeled compounds at a nominal concentration of 100 µg/mL.
6.15 Stability of solutions—all standard solutions (Sections 6.8-6.14) shall be analyzed within 48 hours of preparation and on a monthly basis thereafter for signs of degradation. Standards will remain acceptable if the peak area at the quantitation mass relative to the DFB internal standard remains within ±15 percent of the area obtained in the initial analysis of the standard.

# 7. Calibration
7.1 Assemble the GC/MS and establish the operating conditions in Table 3. Analyze standards per the procedure in Section 11 to demonstrate that the analytical system meets the detection limits in Tables 3 and 4, and the mass-intensity criteria in Table 5 for 50 ng DFTPP.
7.2 Mass spectral libraries—detection and identification of compounds of interest are dependent upon spectra stored in user created libraries.
7.2.1 Obtain a mass spectrum of each pollutant, labeled compound, and the internal standard by analyzing an authentic standard either singly or as part of a mixture in which there is no interference between closely eluted components. That only a single compound is present is determined by examination of the spectrum. Fragments not attributable to the compound under study indicate the presence of an interfering compound.
7.2.2 Adjust the analytical conditions and scan rate (for this test only) to produce an undistorted spectrum at the GC peak maximum. An undistorted spectrum will usually be obtained if five complete spectra are collected across the upper half of the GC peak. Software algorithms designed to “enhance” the spectrum may eliminate distortion, but may also eliminate authentic masses or introduce other distortion.
7.2.3 The authentic reference spectrum is obtained under DFTPP tuning conditions (Section 7.1 and Table 5) to normalize it to spectra from other instruments.
7.2.4 The spectrum is edited by saving the 5 most intense mass spectral peaks and all other mass spectral peaks greater than 10 percent of the base peak. This edited spectrum is stored for reverse search and for compound confirmation.
7.3 Analytical range—demonstrate that 20 ng anthracene or phenanthrene produces an area at m/z 178 approx one-tenth that required to exceed the linear range of the system. The exact value must be determined by experience for each instrument. It is used to match the calibration range of the instrument to the analytical range and detection limits required, and to diagnose instrument
sensitivity problems (Section 15.4). The 20 ug/mL calibration standard (Section 6.13) can be used to demonstrate this performance.
7.3.1 Polar compound detection—demonstrate that unlabeled pentachlorophenol and benzidine are detectable at the 50 µg/mL level (per all criteria in Section 13). The 50 µg/mL calibration standard (Section 6.13) can be used to demonstrate this performance.
7.4 Calibration with isotope dilution—isotope dilution is used when (1) labeled compounds are available, (2) interferences do not preclude its use, and (3) the quantitation mass extracted ion current profile (EICP) area for the compound is in the calibration range. If any of these conditions preclude isotope dilution, internal standard methods (Section 7.5 or 7.6) are used.
7.4.1 A calibration curve encompassing the concentration range is prepared for each compound to be determined. The relative response (pollutant to labeled) vs concentration in standard solutions is plotted or computed using a linear regression. The example in Figure 1 shows a calibration curve for phenol using phenol-d5 as the isotopic diluent. Also shown are the ±10 percent error limits (dotted lines). Relative Reponse (RR) is determined according to the procedures described below. A minimum of five data points are employed for calibration.
7.4.2 The relative response of a pollutant to its labeled analog is determined from isotope ratio values computed from acquired data. Three isotope ratios are used in this process:
R
X
= the isotope ratio measured for the pure pollutant.
R
y
= the isotope ratio measured for the labeled compound.
R
m
= the isotope ratio of an analytical mixture of pollutant and labeled compounds.
The m/z's are selected such that R
X
R
y
. If R
m
is not between 2R
y
and 0.5R
X
, the method does not apply and the sample is analyzed by internal or external standard methods.
7.4.3 Capillary columns usually separate the pollutant-labeled pair, with the labeled compound eluted first (Figure 2). For this case, R
X
= [area m
1
/z]/1, at the retention time of the pollutant (RT
2
). R
y
= 1/[area m
2
/z, at the retention time of the labeled compound RT
1
). R
m
= [area at m
1
/z (at RT
2
)]/[area at RT
1
)], as measured in the mixture of the pollutant and labeled compounds (Figure 2), and RR = R
m
.
7.4.4 Special precautions are taken when the pollutant-labeled pair is not separated, or when another labeled compound with interfering spectral masses overlaps the pollutant (a case which can occur with isomeric compounds). In this case, it is necessary to determine the respective contributions of the pollutant and labeled compounds to the respective EICP areas. If the peaks are separated well enough to permit the data system or operator to remove the contributions of the compounds to each other, the equations in Section 7.4.3 apply. This usually occurs when the height of the valley between the two GC peaks at the same m/z is less than 10 percent of the height of the shorter of the two peaks. If significant GC and spectral overlap occur, RR is computed using the following equation:
RR = (R
y
− R
m
) (R
X
+ 1)/(R
m
− R
X
) (R
y
+ 1), where R
X
is measured as shown in Figure 3A, R
y
is measured as shown in Figure 3B, and R
m
is measured as shown in Figure 3C. For example, R
X
= 46100/4780 = 9.644, R
y
= 2650/43600 = 0.0608, R
m
= 49200/48300 = 1.019. amd RR = 1.114.
7.4.5 To calibrate the analytical system by isotope dilution, analyze a 1.0 µL aliquot of each of the calibration standards (Section 6.13) using the procedure in Section 11. Compute the RR at each concentration.
7.4.6 Linearity—if the ratio of relative response to concentration for any compound is constant (less than 20 percent coefficient of variation) over the 5 point calibration range, and averaged relative response/concentration ratio may be used for that compound; otherwise, the complete calibration curve for that compound shall be used over the 5 point calibration range.
7.5 Calibration by internal standard—used when criteria for istope dilution (Section 7.4) cannot be met. The internal standard to be used for both acid and base/neutral analyses is 2,2′-difluorobiphenyl. The internal standard method is also applied to determination of compounds having no labeled analog, and to measurement of labeled compounds for intra-laboratory statistics (Sections 8.4 and 12.7.4).
7.5.1 Response factors—calibration requires the determination of response factors (RF) which are defined by the following equation:
RF = (A
s
× C
is
)/(A
is
× C
s
), where
A
s
is the area of the characteristic mass for the compmund in the daily standard
A
is
is the area of the characteristic mass for the internal standard
C
is
is the concentration of the internal standard (µg/mL)
C
s
is the concentration of the compound in the daily standard (µg/mL)
7.5.1.1 The response factor is determined for at least five concentrations appropriate to the response of each compound (Section 6.13); nominally, 10, 20, 50, 100, and 200 µg/mL. The amount of internal standard added to each extract is the same (100 µg/mL) so that C
is
remains constant. The RF is plotted vs concentration for each compound in the standard (C
s
) to produce a calibration curve.
7.5.1.2 Linearity—if the response factor (RF) for any compound is constant (less than 35 percent coefficient of variation) over the 5
point calibration range, an averaged response factor may be used for that compound; otherwise, the complete calibration curve for that compound shall be used over the 5 point range.
7.6 Combined calibration—by using calibration solutions (Section 6.13) containing the pollutants, labeled compounds, and the internal standard, a single set of analyses can be used to produce calibration curves for the isotope dilution and internal standard methods. These curves are verified each shift (Section 12.5) by analyzing the 100 µg/mL calibration standard (Section 6.13). Recalibration is required only if calibration verification (Section 12.5) criteria cannot be met.

# 8. Quality Assurance/Quality Control
8.1 Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality assurance program. The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability, analysis of samples spiked with labeled compounds to evaluate and document data quality, and analysis of standards and blanks as tests of continued performance. Laboratory performance is compared to established performance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet the performance characteristics of the method.
8.1.1 The analyst shall make an initial demonstration of the ability to generate acceptable accuracy and precision with this method. This ability is established as described in Section 8.2.
8.1.2 The analyst is permitted to modify this method to improve separations or lower the costs of measurements, provided all performance specifications are met. Each time a modification is made to the method, the analyst is required to repeat the procedure in Section 8.2 to demonstrate method performance.
8.1.3 Analyses of blanks are required to demonstrate freedom from contamination. The procedures and criteria for analysis of a blank are described in Section 8.5.
8.1.4 The laboratory shall spike all samples with labeled compounds to monitor method performance. This test is described in Section 8.3. When results of these spikes indicate atypical method performance for samples, the samples are diluted to bring method performance within acceptable limits (Section 15).
8.1.5 The laboratory shall, on an on-going basis, demonstrate through calibration verification and the analysis of the precision and recovery standard (Section 6.14) that the analysis system is in control. These procedures are described in Sections 12.1, 12.5, and 12.7.
8.1.6 The laboratory shall maintain records to define the quality of data that is generated. Development of accuracy statements is described in Section 8.4.
8.2 Initial precision and accuracy—to establish the ability to generate acceptable precision and accuracy, the analyst shall perform the following operations:
8.2.1 Extract, concentrate, and analyze two sets of four one-liter aliquots (8 aliquots total) of the precision and recovery standard (Section 6.14) according to the procedure in Section 10.
8.2.2 Using results of the first set of four analyses, compute the average recovery (X
) in µg/mL and the standard deviation of the recovery (s) in θg/µL for each compound, by isotope dilution for pollutants with a labeled analog, and by internal standard for labeled compounds and pollutants with no labeled analog.
8.2.3 For each compound, compare s and X
with the corresponding limits for initial precision and accuracy in Table 8. If s and X
for all compounds meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may begin. If, however, any individual s exceeds the precision limit or any individual X
falls outside the range for accuracy, system performance is unacceptable for that compound.

# Note:
The large number of compounds in Table 8 present a substantial probability that one or more will fail the acceptance criteria when all compounds are analyzed. To determine if the analytical system is out of control, or if the failure can be attributed to probability, proceed as follows:
8.2.4 Using the results of the second set of four analyses, compute s and X
for only those compounds which failed the test of the first set of four analyses (Section 8.2.3). If these compounds now pass, system performance is acceptable for all compounds and analysis of blanks and samples may begin. If, however, any of the same compoulds fail again, the analysis system is not performing properly for these compounds. In this event, correct the problem and repeat the entire test (Section 8.2.1).
8.3 The laboratory shall spike all samples with labeled compounds to assess method performance on the sample matrix.
8.3.1 Analyze each sample according to the method in Section 10.
8.3.2 Compute the percent recovery (P) of the labeled compounds using the internal standard methmd (Section 7.5).
8.3.3 Compare the labeled compound recovery for each compound with the corresponding limits in Table 8. If the recovery of any compounds falls outside its warning limit, method performance is unacceptable for that compound in that sample, Therefore, the sample is complex and is to be diluted and reanalyzed per Section 15.4.
the QA program for the laboratory, method accuracy for wastewater samples shall be assessed and records shall be maintained. After
the analysis of five wastewater samples for which the labeled compounds pass the tests in Section 8.3, compute the average percent recovery (P) and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (s
p
) for the labeled compounds only. Express the accuracy assessment as a percent recovery interval from P—2
sp
to P + 2
sp
. For example, if P = 90% and s
p
= 10%, the accuracy interval is expressed as 70-100%. Update the accuracy assessment for each compound on a regular basis (e.g. after each 5-10 new accuracy measurements).
8.5 Blanks—reagent water blanks are analyzed to demonstrate freedom from contamination.
8.5.1 Extract and concentrate a blank with each sample lot (samples started through the extraction process on the same 8 hr shift, to a maximum of 20 samples). Analyze the blank immediately after analysis of the precision and recovery standard (Section 6.14) to demonstrate freedom from contamination.
8.5.2 If any of the compounds of interest (Tables 1 and 2) or any potentially interfering compound is found in a blank at greater than 10 µg/L (assuming a response factor of 1 relative to the internal standard for compounds not listed in Tables 1 and 2), analysis of samples is halted until the source of contamination is eliminated and a blank shows no evidence of contamination at this level.
8.6 The specifications contained in this method can be met if the apparatus used is calibrated properly, then maintained in a calibrated state. The standards used for calibration (Section 7), calibration verification (Section 12.5), and for initial (Section 8.2) and on-going (Section 12.7) precision and recovery should be identical, so that the most precise results will be obtained. The GC/MS instrument in particular will provide the most reproducible results if dedicated to the settings and conditions required for the analysis of semi-volatiles by this method.
8.7 Depending on specific program requirements, field replicates may be collected to determine the precision of the sampling technique, and spiked samples may be required to determine the accuracy of the analysis when internal or external standard methods are used.

# 9. Sample Collection, Preservation, and Handling
9.1 Collect samples in glass containers following conventional sampling practices (Reference 7). Composite samples are collected in refrigerated glass containers (Section 5.1.3) in accordance with the requirements of the sampling program.
9.2 Maintain samples at 0-4 °C from the time collectimn until extraction. If residual chlorine is present, add 80 mg sodium thiosulfate per liter of water. EPA Methods 330.4 and 330.5 may be used to measure residual chlorine (Reference 8).
9.3 Begin sample extraction within seven days of collection, and analyze all extracts within 40 days of extraction.

# 10. Sample Extraction and Concentration (See Figure 4)
10.1 Labeled compound spiking—measure 1.00 ±0.01 liter of sample into a glass container. For untreated effluents, and samples which are expected to be difficult to extract and/or concentrate, measure an additional 10.0 ±0.1 mL and dilute to a final volume of 1.00 ±0.01 liter with reagent water in a glass container.
10.1.1 For each sample or sample lot (to a maximum of 20) to be extracted at the same time, place three 1.00 ±0.10 liter aliquots of reagent water in glass containers.
10.1.2 Spike 0.5 mL of the labeled compound spiking solution (Section 6.8) into all samples and one reagant water aliquot.
10.1.3 Spike 1.0 mL of the precision and recovery standard (Section 6.14) into the two remaining reagent water aliquots.
10.1.4 Stir and equilibrate all solutions for 1-2 hr.
10.2 Base/neutral extraction—place 100-150 mL methylene chloride in each continuous extractor and 200-300 in each distilling flask.
10.2.1 Pour the sample(s), blank, and standard aliquots into the extractors. Rinse the glass containers with 50-100 mL methylene chloride and add to the respective extractor.
10.2.2 Adjust the pH of the waters in the extractors to 12-13 with 6N NaOH while monitoring with a pH meter. Begin the extraction by heating the flask until the methylene chloride is boiling. When properly adjusted, 1-2 drops of methylene chloride per second will fall from the condensor tip into the water. After 1-2 hours of extraction, test the pH and readjust to 12-13 if required. Extract for 18-24 hours.
10.2.3 Remove the distilling flask, estimate and record the volume of extract (to the nearest 100 mL), and pour the contents through a drying column containing 7 to 10 cm anhydrous sodium sulfate. Rinse the distilling flask with 30-50 mL of methylene chloride and pour through the drying column. Collect the solution in a 500 mL K-D evaporator flask equipped with a 10 mL concentrator tube. Seal, label as the base/neutral fraction, and concentrate per Sections 10.4 to 10.5.
10.3 Acid extraction—adjust the pH of the waters in the extractors to 2 or less using 6N sulfuric acid. Charge clean distilling flasks with 300-400 mL of methylene chloride. Test and adjust the pH of the waters after the first 1-2 hr of extraction. Extract for 18-24 hours.
10.3.1 Repeat Section 10.2.3, except label as the acid fraction.
10.4 Concentration—concentrate the extracts in separate 500 mL K-D flasks equipped with 10 mL concentrator tubes.
10.4.1 Add 1 to 2 clean boiling chips to the flask and attach a three-ball macro Snyder column. Prewet the column by adding approximately one mL of methylene chloride through the top. Place the K-D apparatus in a hot water bath so that the entire lower rounded surface of the flask is bathed with steam. Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 15 to 20 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation, the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood. When the liquid has reached an apparent volume of 1 mL, remove the K-D apparatus from the bath and allow the solvent to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with 1-2 mL of methylene chloride. A 5-mL syringe is recommended for this operation.
10.4.2 For performance standards (Sections 8.2 and 12.7) and for blanks (Section 8.5), combine the acid and base/neutral extracts for each at this point. Do not combine the acid and base/neutral extracts for samples.
10.5 Add a clean boiling chip and attach a two ball micro Snyder column to the concentrator tube. Prewet the column by adding approx 0.5 mL methylene chloride through the top. Place the apparatus in the hot water bath. Adjust the vertical position and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 5-10 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation, the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood. When the liquid reaches an apparent volume of approx 0.5 mL, remove the apparatus from the water bath and allow to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the micro Snyder column and rinse its lower joint into the concentrator tube with approx 0.2 mL of methylene chloride. Adjust the final volume to 1.0 mL.
10.6 Transfer the concentrated extract to a clean screw-cap vial. Seal the vial with a Teflon-lined lid, and mark the level on the vial. Label with the sample number and fraction, and store in the dark at −20 to −10 °C until ready for analysis.

# 11. GC/MS Analysis
11.1 Establish the operating conditions given in Table 3 or 4 for analysis of the base/neutral or acid extracts, respectively. For analysis of combined extracts (Section 10.4.2), use the operating conditions in Table 3.
11.2 Bring the concentrated extract (Section 10.6) or standard (Sections 6.13 through 6.14) to room temperature and verify that any precipitate has redissolved. Verify the level on the extract (Sections 6.6 and 10.6) and bring to the mark with solvent if required.
11.3 Add the internal standard solution (Section 6.10) to the extract (use 1.0 uL of solution per 0.1 mL of extract) immediately prior to injection to minimize the possibility of loss by evaporation, adsorption, or reaction. Mix thoroughly.
11.4 Inject a volume of the standard solution or extract such that 100 ng of the internal standard will be injected, using on-column or splitless injection. For 1 mL extracts, this volume will be 1.0 uL. Start the GC column initial isothermal hold upon injection. Start MS data collection after the solvent peak elutes. Stop data collection after the benzo (ghi) perylene or pentachlorophenol peak elutes for the base/neutral or acid fraction, respectively. Return the column to the initial temperature for analysis of the next sample.

# 12. System and Laboratory Performance
12.1 At the beginning of each 8 hr shift during which analyses are performed, GC/MS system performance and calibration are verified for all pollutants and labeled compounds. For these tests, analysis of the 100 µg/mL calibration standard (Section 6.13) shall be used to verify all performance criteria. Adjustment and/or recalibration (per Section 7) shall be performed until all performance criteria are met. Only after all performance criteria are met may samples, blanks, and precision and recovery standards be analyzed.
12.2 DFTPP spectrum validity—inject 1 µL of the DFTPP solution (Section 6.11) either separately or within a few seconds of injection of the standard (Section 12.1) analyzed at the beginning of each shift. The criteria in Table 5 shall be met.
12.3 Retention times—the absolute retention time of 2,2′-difluorobiphenyl shall be within the range of 1078 to 1248 seconds and the relative retention times of all pollutants and labeled compounds shall fall within the limits given in Tables 3 and 4.
12.4 GC resolution—the valley height between anthracene and phenanthrene at m/z 178 (or the analogs at m/z 188) shall not exceed 10 percent of the taller of the two peaks.
12.5 Calibration verification—compute the concentration of each pollutant (Tables 1 and 2) by isotope dilution (Section 7.4) for those compounds which have labeled analogs. Compute the concentration of each pollutant which has no labeled analog by the internal standard method (Section 7.5). Compute the concentration of the labeled compounds by the internal standard method. These concentrations are computed based on the calibration data determined in Section 7.
12.5.1 For each pollutant and labeled compound being tested, compare the concentration with the calibration verification limit
in Table 8. If all compounds meet the acceptance criteria, calibration has been verified and analysis of blanks, samples, and precision and recovery standards may proceed. If, however, any compound fails, the measurement system is not performing properly for that compound. In this event, prepare a fresh calibration standard or correct the problem causing the failure and repeat the test (Section 12.1), or recalibrate (Section 7).
12.6 Multiple peaks—each compound injected shall give a single, distinct GC peak.
12.7 On-going precision and accuracy.
12.7.1 Analyze the extract of one of the pair of precision and recovery standards (Section 10.1.3) prior to analysis of samples from the same lot.
12.7.2 Compute the concentration of each pollutant (Tables 1 and 2) by isotope dilution (Section 7.4) for those compounds which have labeled analogs. Compute the concentration of each pollutant which has no labeled analog by the internal standard method (Section 7.5). Compute the concentration of the labeled compounds by the internal standard method.
12.7.3 For each pollutant and labeled compound, compare the concentration with the limits for on-going accuracy in Table 8. If all compounds meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may proceed. If, however, any individual concentration falls outside of the range given, system performance is unacceptable for that compound.

# Note:
The large number of compounds in Table 8 present a substantial probability that one or more will fail when all compounds are analyzed. To determine if the extraction/concentration system is out of control or if the failure is caused by probability, proceed as follows:
12.7.3.1 Analyze the second aliquot of the pair of precision and recovery standard (Section 10.1.3).
12.7.3.2 Compute the concentration of only those pollutants or labeled compounds that failed the previous test (Section 12.7.3). If these compounds now pass, the extraction/concentration processes are in control and analysis of blanks and samples may proceed. If, however, any of the same compounds fail again, the extraction/concentration processes are not being performed properly for these compounds. In this event, correct the problem, re-extract the sample lot (Section 10) and repeat the on-going precision and recovery test (Section 12.7).
12.7.4 Add results which pass the specifications in Section 12.7.2 to initial and previous on-going data. Update QC charts to perform a graphic representation of continued laboratory performance (Figure 5). Develop a statement of laboratory accuracy for each pollutant and labeled compound by calculating the average percent recovery (R) and the standard deviation of percent recovery (s
r
). Express the accuracy as a recovery interval from R−2s
r
to R + 2s
r
. For example, if R = 95% and s
r
= 5%, the accuracy is 85−105%.

# 13. Qualitative Determination
13.1 Qualititative determination is accomplished by comparison of data from analysis of a sample or blank with data from analysis of the shift standard (Section 12.1) and with data stored in the spectral libraries (Section 7.2.4). Identification is confirmed when spectra and retention times agree per the criteria below.
13.2 Labeled compounds and pollutants having no labeled analog:
13.2.1 The signals for all characteristic masses stored in the spectral library (Section 7.2.4) shall be present and shall maximize within the same two consecutive scans.
13.2.2 Either (1) the background corrected EICP areas, or (2) the corrected relative intensities of the mass spectral peaks at the GC peak maximum shall agree within a factor of two (0.5 to 2 times) for all masses stored in the library.
13.2.3 The retention time relative to the nearest eluted internal standard shall be within ±15 scans or ±15 seconds, whichever is greater of this difference in the shift standard (Section 12.1).
13.3 Pollutants having a labled analog:
13.3.1 The signals for all characteristic masses stored in the spectral library (Section 7.2.4) shall be present and shall maximize within the same two consecutive scans.
13.3.2. Either (1) the background corrected EICP areas, or (2) the corrected relative intensities of the mass spectral peaks at the GC peak maximum shall agree within a factor of two for all masses stored in the spectral library.
13.3.3. The retention time difference between the pollutant and its labeled analog shall agree within ±6 scans or ±6 seconds (whichever is greater) of this difference in the shift standard (Section 12.1).
13.4 Masses present in the experimental mass spectrum that are not present in the reference mass spectrum shall be accounted for by contaminant or background ions. If the experimental mass spectrum is contaminated, an experienced spectrometrist (Section 1.4) is to determine the presence or absence of the cmmpound.

# 14. Quantitative Determination
14.1 Isotope dilution—by adding a known amount of a labeled compound to every sample prior to extraction, correction for recovery of the pollutant can be made because the pollutant and its labeled analog exhibit the same effects upon extraction, concentration, and gas chromatography. Relative response (RR) values for mixtures are used in conjunction with calibration curves described in
Section 7.4 to determine concentrations directly, so long as labeled compound spiking levels are constant. For the phenml example given in Figure 1 (Section 7.4.1), RR would be equal to 1.114. For this RR value, the phenol calibration curve given in Figure 1 indicates a concentration of 27 µg/mL in the sample extract (C
ex
).
14.2 Internal standard—compute the concentration in the extract using the response factor determined from calibration data (Section 7.5) and the following equation: C
ex
(µg/mL) = (A
s
× C
is
/(A
is
× RF) where C
ex
is the concentration of the compound in the extract, and the other terms are as defined in Section 7.5.1.
14.3 The concentration of the pollutant in water is computed using the volumes of the original water sample (Section 10.1) and the final extract volume (Section 10.5), as follows: Concentration in water (µg/L) = (C
ex
× V
ex
)/V
s
where V
ex
is the extract volume in mL, and V
s
is the sample volume in liters.
14.4 If the EICP area at the quantitiation mass for any compound exceeds the calibration range of the system, the extract of the dilute aliquot (Section 10.1) is analyzed by isotope dilution; otherwise, the extract is diluted by a factor of 10, 9 µL of internal standard solution (Section 6.10) are added to a 1.0 mL aliquot, and this diluted extract is analyzed by the internal standard method (Section 14.2). Quantify each compound at the highest concentration level within the calibration range.
14.5 Report results for all pollutants and labeled compounds (Tables 1 and 2) found in all standards, blanks, and samples in µg/L, to three significant figures. Results for samples which have been diluted are reported at the least dilute level at which the area at the quantitation mass is within the calibration range (Section 14.4) and the labeled compound recovery is within the normal range for the method (Section 15.4).

# 15. Analysis of Complex Samples
15.1 Untreated effluents and other samples frequently contain high levels (
1000 µg/L) of the compounds of interest, interfering compounds, and/or polymeric materials. Some samples will not concentrate to one mL (Section 10.5); others will overload the GC column and/or mass spectrometer.
15.2 Analyze the dilute aliquot (Section 10.1) when the sample will not concentrate to 1.0 mL. If a dilute aliquot was not extracted, and the sample holding time (Section 9.3) has not been exceeded, dilute an aliquot of the sample with reagent water and re-extract (Section 10.1); otherwise, dilute the extract (Section 14.4) and analyze by the internal standard method (Section 14.2).
15.3 Recovery of internal standard—the EICP area of the internal standard should be within a factor of two of the area in the shift standard (Section 12.1). If the absolute areas of the labeled compounds are within a factor of two of the respective areas in the shift standard, and the internal standard area is less than one-half of its respective area, then internal standard loss in the extract has occurred. In this case, use one of the labeled compounds (perferably a polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbon) to compute the concentration of a pollutant with no labeled analog.
15.4 Recovery of labeled compounds—in most samples, labeled compound recoveries will be similar to those from reagent water (Section 12.7). If the labeled compound recovery is outside the limits given in Table 8, the dilute extract (Section 10.1) is analyzed as in Section 14.4. If the recoveries of all labeled compounds and the internal staldard are low (per the criteria above), then a loss in instrument sensitivity is the most likely cause. In this case, the 100 µg/mL calibration standard (Section 12.1) shall be analyzed and calibration verified (Section 12.5). If a loss in sensitivity has occurred, the instrument shall be repaired, the performance specifications in Section 12 shall be met, and the extract reanalyzed. If a loss in instrument sensitivity has not occurred, the method does not work on the sample being analyzed and the result may not be reported for regulatory compliance purposes.

# 16. Method Performance
16.1 Interlaboratory performance for this method is detailed in references 9 and 10.
16.2 A chromatogram of the 100 µg/mL acid/base/neutral calibration standard (Section 6.13) is shown in Figure 6.

# References
1. “Performance Tests for the Evaluation of Computerized Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry Equipment and Laboratories” USEPA, EMSL/Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA-600/4-80-025 (April 1980).
2. “Working with Carcinogens,” DHEW, PHS, CDC, NIOSH, Publication 77-206, (August 1977).
3. “OSHA Safety and Health Standards, General Industry” OSHA 2206, 29 CFR part 1910 (January 1976).
4. “Safety in Academic Chemistry Laboratories, ” ACS Committee on Chemical Safety (1979).
5. “Reference Compound to Calibrate Ion Abundance Measurement in Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry Systems,” J.W. Eichelberger, L.E. Harris, and W.L. Budde, Anal. Chem.,
47,
955 (1975).
6. “Handbook of Analytical Quality Control in Water and Wastewater Laboratories,” USEPA, EMSL/Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA-600/4-79-019 (March 1979).
7. “Standard Practice for Sampling Water,” ASTM Annual Book of Standards, ASTM, Philadelphia, PA, 76 (1980).
8. “Methods 330.4 and 330.5 for Total Residual Chlorine,” USEPA, EMSL/ Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA 600/4-70-020 (March 1979).
9. Colby, B.N., Beimer, R.G., Rushneck, D.R., and Telliard, W.A., “Isotope Dilution Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry for the determination of Priority Pollutants in Industrial Effluents.” USEPA, Effluent Guidelines Division, Washington, DC 20460 (1980).
10. “Inter-laboratory Validation of US Environmental Protection Agency Method 1625,” USEPA, Effluent Guidelines Division, Washington, DC 20460 (June 15, 1984).
Table 1—Base/Neutral Extractable Compounds
Compound
STORET
CAS registry
EPA-EGD
NPDES
Acenaphthene
34205
83-32-9
001 B
001 B
Acenaphthylene
34200
208-96-8
077 B
002 B
Anthracene
34220
120-12-7
078 B
003 B
Benzidine
39120
92-87-5
005 B
004 B
Benzo(a)anthracene
34526
56-55-3
072 B
005 B
Benzo(b)fluoranthene
34230
205-99-2
074 B
007 B
Benzo(k)fluoranthene
34242
207-08-9
075 B
009 B
Benzo(a)pyrene
34247
50-32-8
073 B
006 B
Benzo(ghi)perylene
34521
191-24-2
079 B
008 B
Biphenyl (Appendix C)
81513
92-52-4
512 B
Bis(2-chloroethyl) ether
34273
111-44-4
018 B
011 B
Bis(2-chloroethyoxy)methane
34278
111-91-1
043 B
010 B
Bis(2-chloroisopropyl) ether
34283
108-60-1
042 B
012 B
Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
39100
117-81-7
066 B
013 B
4-bromophenyl phenyl ether
34636
101-55-3
041 B
014 B
Butyl benzyl phthalate
34292
85-68-7
067 B
015 B
n-C10 (Appendix C)
77427
124-18-5
517 B
n-C12 (Appendix C)
77588
112-40-2
506 B
n-C14 (Appendix C)
77691
629-59-4
518 B
n-C16 (Appendix C)
77757
544-76-3
519 B
n-C18 (Appendix C)
77804
593-45-3
520 B
n-C20 (Appendix C)
77830
112-95-8
521 B
n-C22 (Appendix C)
77859
629-97-0
522 B
n-C24 (Appendix C)
77886
646-31-1
523 B
n-C26 (Appendix C)
77901
630-01-3
524 B
n-C28 (Appendix C)
78116
630-02-4
525 B
n-C30 (Appendix C)
78117
638-68-6
526 B
Carbazole (4c)
77571
86-74-8
528 B
2-chloronaphthalene
34581
91-58-7
020 B
016 B
4-chlorophenyl phenyl ether
34641
7005-72-3
040 B
017 B
Chrysene
34320
218-01-9
076 B
018 B
P-cymene (Appendix C)
77356
99-87-6
513 B
Dibenzo(a,h)anthracene
34556
53-70-3
082 B
019 B
Dibenzofuran (Appendix C and 4c)
81302
132-64-9
505 B
Dibenzothiophene (Synfuel)
77639
132-65-0
504 B
Di-n-butyl phthalate
39110
84-74-2
068 B
026 B
1,2-dichlorobenzene
34536
95-50-1
025 B
020 B
1,3-dichlorobenzene
34566
541-73-1
026 B
021 B
1,4-dichlorobenzene
34571
106-46-7
027 B
022 B
3,3′-dichlorobenzidine
34631
91-94-1
028 B
023 B
Diethyl phthalate
34336
84-66-2
070 B
024 B
2,4-dimethylphenol
34606
105-67-9
034 A
003 A
Dimethyl phthalate
34341
131-11-3
071 B
025 B
2,4-dinitrotoluene
34611
121-14-2
035 B
027 B
2,6-dinitrotoluene
34626
606-20-2
036 B
028 B
Di-n-octyl phthalate
34596
117-84-0
069 B
029 B
Diphenylamine (Appendix C)
77579
122-39-4
507 B
Diphenyl ether (Appendix C)
77587
101-84-8
508 B
1,2-diphenylhydrazine
34346
122-66-7
037 B
030 B
Fluoranthene
34376
206-44-0
039 B
031 B
Fluorene
34381
86-73-7
080 B
032 B
Hexachlorobenzene
39700
118-74-1
009 B
033 B
Hexachlorobutadiene
34391
87-68-3
052 B
034 B
Hexachloroethane
34396
67-72-1
012 B
036 B
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
34386
77-47-4
053 B
035 B
Indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene
34403
193-39-5
083 B
037 B
Isophorone
34408
78-59-1
054 B
038 B
Naphthalene
34696
91-20-3
055 B
039 B
B-naphthylamine (Appendix C)
82553
91-59-8
502 B
Nitrobenzene
34447
98-95-3
056 B
040 B
N-nitrosodimethylamine
34438
62-75-9
061 B
041 B
N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine
34428
621-64-7
063 B
042 B
N-nitrosodiphenylamine
34433
86-30-3
062 B
043 B
Phenanthrene
34461
85-01-8
081 B
044 B
Phenol
34694
108-95-2
065 A
010 A
a
-Picoline (Synfuel)
77088
109-06-89
503 B
Pyrene
34469
129-00-0
084 B
045 B
styrene (Appendix C)
77128
100-42-5
510 B
a-terpineol (Appendix C)
77493
98-55-5
509 B
1,2,3-trichlorobenzene (4c)
77613
87-61-6
529 B
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene
34551
120-82-1
008 B
046 B
Table 2—Acid Extractable Compounds
Compound
STORET
CAS registry
EPA-EGD
NPDES
4-chloro-3-methylphenol
34452
59-50-7
022 A
008 A
2-chlorophenol
34586
95-57-8
024 A
001 A
2,4-dichlorophenol
34601
120-83-2
031 A
002 A
2,4-dinitrophenol
34616
51-28-5
059 A
005 A
2-methyl-4,6-dinitrophenol
34657
534-52-1
060 A
004 A
2-nitrophenol
34591
88-75-5
057 A
006 A
4-nitrophenol
34646
100-02-7
058 A
007 A
Pentachlorophenol
39032
87-86-5
064 A
009 A
2,3,6-trichlorophenol (4c)
77688
93-37-55
530 A
2,4,5-trichlorophenol (4c)
95-95-4
531 A
2,4,6-trichlorophenol
34621
88-06-2
021 A
011 A
Table 3—Gas Chromatography of Base/Neutral Extractable Compounds
EGD No.
1
Compound
Retention time
Mean (sec)
EGD Ref
Relative
Detection limit
2
(µg/L)
164
2,2′-difluorobiphenyl (int std)
1163
164
1.000-1.000
10
061
N-nitrosodimethylamine
385
164
ns
50
603
alpha picoline-d7
417
164
0.326-0.393
50
703
alpha picoline
426
603
1.006-1.028
50
610
styrene-d5
546
164
0.450-0.488
10
710
styrene
549
610
1.002-1.009
10
613
p-cymene-d14
742
164
0.624-0.652
10
713
p-cymene
755
613
1.008-1.023
10
265
phenol-d5
696
164
0.584-0.613
10
365
phenol
700
265
0.995-1.010
10
218
bis(2-chloroethyl) ether-d8
696
164
0.584-0.607
10
318
bis(2-chloroethyl) ether
704
218
1.007-1.016
10
617
n-decane-d22
698
164
0.585-0.615
10
717
n-decane
720
617
1.022-1.038
10
226
1,3-dichlorobenzene-d4
722
164
0.605-0.636
10
326
1,3-dichlorobenzene
724
226
0.998-1.008
10
227
1,4-dichlorobenzene-d4
737
164
0.601-0.666
10
327
1,4-dichlorobenzene
740
227
0.997-1.009
10
225
1,2-dichlorobenzene-d4
758
164
0.632-0.667
10
325
1,2-dichlorobenzene
760
225
0.995-1.008
10
242
bis(2-chloroisopropyl) ether-d12
788
164
0.664-0.691
10
342
bis(2-chloroisopropyl) ether
799
242
1.010-1.016
10
212
hexachloroethane-13C
819
164
0.690-0.717
10
312
hexachloroethane
823
212
0.999-1.001
10
063
N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine
830
164
ns
20
256
nitrobenzene-d5
845
164
0.706-0.727
10
356
nitrobenzene
849
256
1.002-1.007
10
254
isophorone-d8
881
164
0.747-0.767
10
354
isophorone
889
254
0.999-1.017
10
234
2,4-dimethyl phenol-d3
921
164
0.781-0.803
10
334
2,4-dimethylphenol
924
234
0.999-1.003
10
043
bis(2-chloroethoxy) methane
939
164
ns
10
208
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-d3
955
164
0.813-0.830
10
308
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene
958
208
1.000-1.005
10
255
naphthalene-d8
963
164
0.819-0.836
10
355
naphthalene
967
255
1.001-1.006
10
609
alpha-terpineol-d3
973
164
0.829-0.844
10
709
alpha-terpineol
975
609
0.998-1.008
10
606
n-dodecane-d26
953
164
0.730-0.908
10
706
n-dodecane
981
606
0.986-1.051
10
529
1,2,3-trichlorobenzene
1003
164
ns
10
252
hexachlorobutadiene-13C4
1005
164
0.856-0.871
10
352
hexachlorobutadiene
1006
252
0.999-1.002
10
253
hexachlorocyclopentadiene-13C4
1147
164
0.976-0.986
10
353
hexachlorocyclopentadiene
1142
253
0.999-1.001
10
220
2-chloronaphthalene-d7
1185
164
1.014-1.024
10
320
2-chloronaphthalene
1200
220
0.997-1.007
10
518
n-tetradecane
1203
164
ns
10
612
Biphenyl-d10
1205
164
1.016-1.027
10
712
Biphenyl
1195
612
1.001-1.006
10
608
Diphenyl ether-d10
1211
164
1.036-1.047
10
708
Diphenyl ether
1216
608
0.997-1.009
10
277
Acenaphthylene-d8
1265
164
1.080-1.095
10
377
Acenaphthylene
1247
277
1.000-1.004
10
271
Dimethyl phthalate-d4
1269
164
1.083-1.102
10
371
Dimethyl phthalate
1273
271
0.998-1.005
10
236
2,6-dinitrotoluene-d3
1283
164
1.090-1.112
10
336
2,6-dinitrotoluene
1300
236
1.001-1.005
10
201
Acenaphthene-d10
1298
164
1.107-1.125
10
301
Acenaphthene
1304
201
0.999-1.009
10
605
Dibenzofuran-d8
1331
164
1.134-1.155
10
705
Dibenzofuran
1335
605
0.998-1.007
10
602
Beta-naphthylamine-d7
1368
164
1.163-1.189
50
702
Beta-naphthylamine
1371
602
0.996-1.007
50
280
Fluorene-d10
1395
164
1.185-1.214
10
380
Fluorene
1401
281
0.999-1.008
10
240
4-chlorophenyl phenyl ether-d5
1406
164
1.194-1.223
10
340
4-chlorophenyl phenyl ether
1409
240
0.990-1.015
10
270
Diethyl phthalate-d4
1409
164
1.197-1.229
10
370
Diethyl phthalate
1414
270
0.996-1.006
10
619
n-hexadecane-d34
1447
164
1.010-1.478
10
719
n-hexadecane
1469
619
1.013-1.020
10
235
2,4-dinitrotoluene-d3
1359
164
1.152-1.181
10
335
2,4-dinitrotoluene
1344
235
1.000-1.002
10
237
1,2-diphenylhydrazine-d8
1433
164
1.216-1.248
20
337
1,2-diphenylhydrazine (
3
)
1439
237
0.999-1.009
20
607
Diphenylamine-d10
1437
164
1.213-1.249
20
707
Diphenylamine
1439
607
1.000-1.007
20
262
N-nitrosodiphenylamine-d6
1447
164
1.225-1.252
20
362
N-nitrosodiphenylamine (
4
)
1464
262
1.000-1.002
20
041
4-bromophenyl phenyl ether
1498
164
1.271-1.307
10
209
Hexachlorobenzene-13C6
1521
164
1.288-1.327
10
309
Hexachlorobenzene
1522
209
0.999-1.001
10
281
Phenanthrene-d10
1578
164
1.334-1.380
10
520
n-octadecane
1580
164
ns
10
381
Phenanthrene
1583
281
1.000-1.005
10
278
Anthracene-d10
1588
164
1.342-1.388
10
378
Anthracene
1592
278
0.998-1.006
10
604
Dibenzothiophene-d8
1559
164
1.314-1.361
10
704
Dibenzothiophene
1564
604
1.000-1.006
10
528
Carbazole
1650
164
ns
20
621
n-eicosane-d42
1655
164
1.184-1.662
10
721
n-eicosane
1677
621
1.010-1.021
10
268
Di-n-butyl phthalate-d4
1719
164
1.446-1.510
10
368
Di-n-butyl phthalate
1723
268
1.000-1.003
10
239
Fluoranthene-d10
1813
164
1.522-1.596
10
339
Fluoranthene
1817
239
1.000-1.004
10
284
Pyrene-d10
1844
164
1.523-1.644
10
384
Pyrene
1852
284
1.001-1.003
10
205
Benzidine-d8
1854
164
1.549-1.632
50
305
Benzidine
1853
205
1.000-1.002
50
522
n-docosane
1889
164
ns
10
623
n-tetracosane-d50
1997
164
1.671-1.764
10
723
n-tetracosane
2025
612
1.012-1.015
10
067
Butylbenzyl phthalate
2060
164
ns
10
276
Chrysene-d12
2081
164
1.743-1.837
10
376
Chrysene
2083
276
1.000-1.004
10
272
Benzo(a)anthracene-d12
2082
164
1.735-1.846
10
372
Benzo(a)anthracene
2090
272
0.999-1.007
10
228
3,3′-dichlorobenzidine-d6
2088
164
1.744-1.848
50
328
3,3′-dichlorobenzidine
2086
228
1.000-1.001
50
266
Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate-d4
2123
164
1.771-1.880
10
366
Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
2124
266
1.000-1.002
10
524
n-hexacosane
2147
164
ns
10
269
di-n-octyl phthalate-d4
2239
164
1.867-1.982
10
369
di-n-octyl phthalate
2240
269
1.000-1.002
10
525
n-octacosane
2272
164
ns
10
274
Benzo(b)fluoranthene-d12
2281
164
1.902-2.025
10
354
Benzo(b)fluoranthene
2293
274
1.000-1.005
10
275
Benzo(k)fluoranthene-d12
2287
164
1.906-2.033
10
375
Benzo(k)fluoranthene
2293
275
1.000-1.005
10
273
Benzo(a)pyrene-d12
2351
164
1.954-2.088
10
373
Benzo(a)pyrene
2350
273
1.000-1.004
10
626
N-triacontane-d62
2384
164
1.972-2.127
10
726
N-triacontane
2429
626
1.011-1.028
10
083
Indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene
2650
164
ns
20
082
Dibenzo(a,h)anthracene
2660
164
ns
20
279
Benzo(ghi)perylene-d12
2741
164
2.187-2.524
20
379
Benzo(ghi)perylene
2750
279
1.001-1.006
20
1
Reference numbers beginning with 0, 1 or 5 indicate a pollutant quantified by the internal standard method; reference numbers beginning with 2 or 6 indicate a labeled compound quantified by the internal standard method; reference numbers beginning with 3 or 7 indicate a pollutant quantified by isotope dilution.
2
This is a minimum level at which the entire GC/MS system must give recognizable mass spectra (background corrected) and acceptable calibration points.
3
Detected as azobenzene.
4
Detected as diphenylamine.
ns = specification not available at time of release of method.
Column: 30 ±2 m × 0.25 ±0.02 mm i.d. 94% methyl, 4% phenyl, 1% vinyl bonded phase fused silica capillary.
Temperature program: 5 min at 30 °C; 30 - 280 °C at 8 °C per min; isothermal at 280 °C until benzo(ghi)perylene elutes.
Gas velocity: 30 ±5 cm/sec.
Table 4—Gas Chromatography of Acid Extractable Compounds
EGD No.
1
Compound
Retention time
Mean (sec)
EGD Ref
Relative
Detection limit
2
(µg/L)
164
2,2′-difluorobiphenyl (int std)
1163
164
1.000-1.000
10
224
2-chlorophenol-d4
701
164
0.587-0.618
10
324
2-chlorophenol
705
224
0.997-1.010
10
257
2-nitrophenol-d4
898
164
0.761-0.783
20
357
2-nitrophenol
900
257
0.994-1.009
20
231
2,4-dichlorophenol-d3
944
164
0.802-0.822
10
331
2,4-dichlorophenol
947
231
0.997-1.006
10
222
4-chloro-3-methylphenol-d2
1086
164
0.930-0.943
10
322
4-chloro-3-methylphenol
1091
222
0.998-1.003
10
221
2,4,6-trichlorophenol-d2
1162
164
0.994-1.005
10
321
2,4,6-trichlorophenol
1165
221
0.998-1.004
10
531
2,4,5-trichlorophenol
1170
164
ns
10
530
2,3,6-trichlorophenol
1195
164
ns
10
259
2,4-dinitrophenol-d3
1323
164
1.127-1.149
50
359
2,4-dinitrophenol
1325
259
1.000-1.005
50
258
4-nitrophenol-d4
1349
164
1.147-1.175
50
358
4-nitrophenol
1354
258
0.997-1.006
50
260
2-methyl-4,6-dinitrophenol-d2
1433
164
1.216-1.249
20
360
2-methyl-4,6-dinitrophenol
1435
260
1.000-1.002
20
264
Pentachlorophenol-13C6
1559
164
1.320-1.363
50
364
Pentachlorophenol
1561
264
0.998-1.002
50
1
Reference numbers beginning with 0, 1 or 5 indicate a pollutant quantified by the internal standard method; reference numbers beginning with 2 or 6 indicate a labeled compound quantified by the internal standard method; reference numbers beginning with 3 or 7 indicate a pollutant quantified by isotope dilution.
2
This is a minimum level at which the entire GC/MS system must give recognizable mass spectra (background corrected) and acceptable calibration points.
ns = specification not available at time of release of method.
Column: 30 ±2m × 0.25 ±0.02mm i.d. 94% methyl, 4% phenyl, 1% vinyl bonded phase fused silica capillary.
Temperature program: 5 min at 30 °C; 8 °C/min. to 250 °C or until pentachlorophenol elutes.
Gas velocity: 30 ±5 cm/sec.
Table 5—DFTPP Mass Intensity Specifications
Mass
Intensity required
51
30-60 percent of mass 198.
68
Less than 2 percent of mass 69.
70
Less than 2 percent of mass 69.
127
40-60 percent of mass 198.
197
Less than 1 percent of mass 198.
199
5-9 percent of mass 198.
275
10-30 percent of mass 198.
365
greater than 1 percent of mass 198.
441
present and less than mass 443.
442
40-100 percent of mass 198.
443
17-23 percent of mass 442.
Table 6—Base/Neutral Extractable Compound Characteristic Masses
Compound
Labeled analog
Primary m/z
Acenaphthene
d10
154/164
Acenaphthylene
d8
152/160
Anthracene
d10
178/188
Benzidine
d8
184/192
Benzo(a)anthracene
d12
228/240
Benzo(b)fluoranthene
d12
252/264
Benzo(k)fluoranthene
d12
252/264
Benzo(a)pyrene
d12
252/264
Benzo(ghi)perylene
d12
276/288
Biphenyl
d10
154/164
Bis(2-chloroethyl) ether
d8
93/101
Bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane
93
Bis(2-chloroisopropyl) ether
d12
121/131
Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
d4
149/153
4-bromophenyl phenyl ether
248
Butyl benzyl phthalate
149
n-C10
d22
55/66
n-C12
d26
55/66
n-C14
55
n-C16
d34
55/66
n-C18
55
n-C20
d42
55/66
n-C22
55
n-C24
d50
55/66
n-C26
55
n-C28
55
n-C30
d62
55/66
Carbazole
d8
167/175
2-chloronaphthalene
d7
162/169
4-chlorophenyl phenyl ether
d5
204/209
Chrysene
d12
228/240
p-cymene
d14
114/130
Dibenzo(a,h)anthracene
278
Dibenzofuran
d8
168/176
Dibenzothiophene
d8
184/192
Di-n-butyl phthalate
d4
149/153
1,2-dichlorobenzene
d4
146/152
1,3-dichlorobenzene
d4
146/152
1,4-dichlorobenzene
d4
146/152
3,3′-dichlorobenzidine
d6
252/258
Diethyl phthalate
d4
149/153
2,4-dimethylphenol
d3
122/125
Dimethyl phthalate
d4
163/167
2,4-dinitrotoluene
d3
164/168
2,6-dinitrotoluene
d3
165/167
Di-n-octyl phthalate
d4
149/153
Diphenylamine
d10
169/179
Diphenyl ether
d10
170/180
1,2-diphenylhydrazine
1
d10
77/82
Fluoranthene
d10
202/212
Fluorene
d10
166/176
Hexachlorobenzene
13C6
284/292
Hexachlorobutadiene
13C4
225/231
Hexachloroethane
13C
201/204
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
13C4
237/241
Ideno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene
276
Isophorone
d8
82/88
Naphthalene
d8
128/136
B-naphthylamine
d7
143/150
Nitrobenzene
d5
123/128
N-nitrosodimethylamine
74
N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine
70
N-nitrosodiphenylamile
2
d6
169/175
Phenanthrene
d10
178/188
Phenol
d5
94/71
a-picoline
d7
93/100
Pyrene
d10
202/212
Styrene
d5
104/109
a-terpineol
d3
59/62
1,2,3-trichlorobenzene
d3
180/183
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene
d3
180/183
1
Detected as azobenzene.
2
Detected as diphenylamine.
Table 7—Acid Extractable Compound Characteristic Masses
Compound
Labeled analog
Primary m/z
4-chloro-3-methylphenol
d2
107/109
2-chlorophenol
d4
128/132
2,4-dichlorophenol
d3
162/167
2,4-dinitrophenol
d3
184/187
2-methyl-4,6-dinitrophenol
d2
198/200
2-nitrophenol
d4
139/143
4-nitrophenol
d4
139/143
Pentachlorophenol
13C6
266/272
2,3,6-trichlorophenol
d2
196/200
2,4,5-trichlorophenol
d2
196/200
2,4,6-trichlorophenol
d2
196/200
Table 8—Acceptance Criteria for Performance Tests
EGD No.
1
Compound
Acceptance criteria
Initial precision and accuracy section 8.2.3 (µg/L)
s
X
Labeled compound recovery sec. 8.3 and 14.2 P (percent)
Calibration verification sec. 12.5 (µg/mL)
On-going accuracy sec. 11.6 R (µg/L)
301
Acenaphthene
21
79-134
80-125
72-144
201
Acenaphthene-d10
38
38-147
20-270
71-141
30-180
377
Acenaphtylene
38
69-186
60-166
61-207
277
Acenaphthylene-d8
31
38-146
23-239
66-152
33-168
378
Anthracene
41
58-174
60-168
50-199
278
Anthracene-d10
49
31-194
14-419
58-171
23-242
305
Benzidine
119
16-518
34-296
11-672
205
Benzidine-d8
269
ns-ns
ns-ns
ns-ns
ns-ns
372
Benzo(a)anthracene
20
65-168
70-142
62-176
272
Benzo(a)anthracene-d12
41
25-298
12-605
28-357
22-329
374
Benzo(b)fluoranthene
183
32-545
61-164
20-ns
274
Benzo(b)fluoranthene-d12
168
11-577
ns-ns
14-ns
ns-ns
375
Benzo(k)fluoranthene
26
59-143
13-ns
53-155
275
Benzo(k)fluoranthene-d12
114
15-514
ns-ns
13-ns
ns-685
373
Benzo(a)pyrene
26
62-195
78-129
59-206
273
Benzo(a)pyrene-d12
24
35-181
21-290
12-ns
32-194
379
Benzo(ghi)perylene
21
72-160
69-145
58-168
279
Benzo(ghi)perylene-d12
45
29-268
14-529
13-ns
25-303
712
Biphenyl (Appendix C)
41
75-148
58-171
62-176
612
Biphenyl-d12
43
28-165
ns-ns
52-192
17-267
318
Bis(2-chloroethyl) ether
34
55-196
61-164
50-213
218
Bis(2-chloroethyl) ether-d8
33
29-196
15-372
52-194
25-222
043
Bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane*
27
43-153
44-228
39-166
342
Bis(2-chloroisopropyl) ether
17
81-138
67-148
77-145
242
Bis(2-chloroisopropyl)ether-d12
27
35-149
20-260
44-229
30-169
366
Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
31
69-220
76-131
64-232
266
Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate-d4
29
32-205
18-364
43-232
28-224
041
4-bromophenyl phenyl ether*
44
44-140
52-193
35-172
067
Butyl benzyl phthalate*
31
19-233
22-450
35-170
717
n-C10 (Appendix C)
51
24-195
42-235
19-237
617
n-C10-d22
70
ns-298
ns-ns
44-227
ns-504
706
n-C12 (Appendix C)
74
35-369
60-166
29-424
606
n-C12-d26
53
ns-331
ns-ns
41-242
ns-408
518
n-C14 (Appendix C)*
109
ns-985
37-268
ns-ns
719
n-C16 (Appendix C)
33
80-162
72-138
71-181
619
n-C16-d34
46
37-162
18-308
54-186
28-202
520
n-C18 (Appendix C)*
39
42-131
40-249
35-167
721
n-C20 (Appendix C)
59
53-263
54-184
46-301
621
n-C20-d42
34
34-172
19-306
62-162
29-198
522
n-C22 (Appendix C)*
31
45-152
40-249
39-195
723
n-C24 (Appendix C)
11
80-139
65-154
78-142
623
n-C24-d50
28
27-211
15-376
50-199
25-229
524
n-C26 (Appendix C)*
35
35-193
26-392
31-212
525
n-C28 (Appendix C)*
35
35-193
26-392
31-212
726
n-C30 (Appendix C)
32
61-200
66-152
56-215
626
n-C30-d62
41
27-242
13-479
24-423
23-274
528
Carbazole (4c)*
38
36-165
44-227
31-188
320
2-chloronaphthalene
100
46-357
58-171
35-442
220
2-chloronaphthalene-d7
41
30-168
15-324
72-139
24-204
322
4-chloro-3-methylphenol
37
76-131
85-115
62-159
222
4-chloro-3-methylphenol-d2
111
30-174
ns-613
68-147
14-314
324
2-chlorophenol
13
79-135
78-129
76-138
224
2-chlorophenol-d4
24
36-162
23-255
55-180
33-176
340
4-chlorophenyl phenyl ether
42
75-166
71-142
63-194
240
4-chlorophenyl phenyl ether-d5
52
40-161
19-325
57-175
29-212
376
Chrysene
51
59-186
70-142
48-221
276
Chrysene-d12
69
33-219
13-512
24-411
23-290
713
p-cymene (Appendix C)
18
76-140
79-127
72-147
613
p-cymene-d14
67
ns-359
ns-ns
66-152
ns-468
082
Dibenzo(a,h)anthracene*
55
23-299
13-761
19-340
705
Dibenzofuran (Appendix C)
20
85-136
73-136
79-146
605
Dibenzofuran-d8
31
47-136
28-220
66-150
39-160
704
Dibenzothiophene (Synfuel)
31
79-150
72-140
70-168
604
Dibenzothiophene-d8
31
48-130
29-215
69-145
40-156
368
Di-n-butyl phthalate
15
76-165
71-142
74-169
268
Di-n-butyl phthalate-d4
23
23-195
13-346
52-192
22-209
325
1,2-dichlorobenzene
17
73-146
74-135
70-152
225
1,2-dichlorobenzene-d4
35
14-212
ns-494
61-164
11-247
326
1,3-dichlorobenzene
43
63-201
65-154
55-225
226
1,3-dichlorobenzene-d4
48
13-203
ns-550
52-192
ns-260
327
1,4-dichlorobenzene
42
61-194
62-161
53-219
227
1,4-dichlorobenzene-d4
48
15-193
ns-474
65-153
11-245
328
3,3′-dichlorobenzidine
26
68-174
77-130
64-185
228
3,3′-dichlorobenzidine-d6
80
ns-562
ns-ns
18-558
ns-ns
331
2,4-dichlorophenol
12
85-131
67-149
83-135
231
2,4-dichlorophenol-d3
28
38-164
24-260
64-157
34-182
370
Diethyl phthalate
44
75-196
74-135
65-222
270
Diethyl phthalate-d4
78
ns-260
ns-ns
47-211
ns-ns
334
2,4-dimethylphenol
13
62-153
67-150
60-156
234
2,4-dimethylphenol-d3
22
15-228
ns-449
58-172
14-242
371
Dimethyl phthalate
36
74-188
73-137
67-207
271
Dimethyl phthalate-d4
108
ns-640
ns-ns
50-201
ns-ns
359
2,4-dinitrophenol
18
72-134
75-133
68-141
259
2,4-dinitrophenol-d3
66
22-308
ns-ns
39-256
17-378
335
2,4-dinitrotoluene
18
75-158
79-127
72-164
235
2,4-dinitrotoluene-d3
37
22-245
10-514
53-187
19-275
336
2,6-dinitrotoluene
30
80-141
55-183
70-159
236
2,6-dinitrotoluene-d3
59
44-184
17-442
36-278
31-250
369
Di-n-octyl phthalate
16
77-161
71-140
74-166
269
Di-n-octyl phthalate-d4
46
12-383
ns-ns
21-467
10-433
707
Diphenylamine (Appendix C)
45
58-205
57-176
51-231
607
Diphenylamine-d10
42
27-206
11-488
59-169
21-249
708
Diphenyl ether (Appendix C)
19
82-136
83-120
77-144
608
Diphenyl ether-d10
37
36-155
19-281
77-129
29-186
337
1,2-diphenylhydrazine
73
49-308
75-134
40-360
237
1,2-diphenylhydrazine-d10
35
31-173
17-316
58-174
26-200
339
Fluoranthene
33
71-177
67-149
64-194
239
Fluoranthene-d10
35
36-161
20-278
47-215
30-187
380
Fluorene
29
81-132
74-135
70-151
280
Fluorene-d10
43
51-131
27-238
61-164
38-172
309
Hexachlorobenzene
16
90-124
78-128
85-132
209
Hexachlorobenzene-13C6
81
36-228
13-595
38-265
23-321
352
hexachlorobutadiene
56
51-251
74-135
43-287
252
hexachlorobutadiene-13C4
63
ns-316
ns-ns
68-148
ns-413
312
hexachloroethane
227
21-ns
71-141
13-ns
212
hexachloroethane-13C1
77
ns-400
ns-ns
47-212
ns-563
353
hexachlorocyclopentadiene
15
69-144
77-129
67-148
253
hexachlorocyclopentadiene-13C4
60
ns-ns
ns-ns
47-211
ns-ns
083
ideno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene*
55
23-299
13-761
19-340
354
isophorone
25
76-156
70-142
70-168
254
isophorone-d8
23
49-133
33-193
52-194
44-147
360
2-methyl-4,6-dinitrophenol
19
77-133
69-145
72-142
260
2-methyl-4,6-dinitrophenol-d2
64
36-247
16-527
56-177
28-307
355
naphthalene
20
80-139
73-137
75-149
255
naphthalene-d8
39
28-157
14-305
71-141
22-192
702
B-naphthylamine (Appendix C)
49
10-ns
39-256
ns-ns
602
B-naphthylamine-d7
33
ns-ns
ns-ns
44-230
ns-ns
356
nitrobenzene
25
69-161
85-115
65-169
256
nitrobenzene-d5
28
18-265
ns-ns
46-219
15-314
357
2-nitrophenol
15
78-140
77-129
75-145
257
2-nitrophenol-d4
23
41-145
27-217
61-163
37-158
358
4-nitrophenol
42
62-146
55-183
51-175
258
4-nitrophenol-d4
188
14-398
ns-ns
35-287
ns-ns
061
N-nitrosodimethylamile*
198
21-472
40-249
12-807
063
N-nitrosodi-n-proplyamine*
198
21-472
40-249
12-807
362
N-nitrosodiphenylamine
45
65-142
68-148
53-173
262
N-nitrosodiphenylamine-d6
37
54-126
26-256
59-170
40-166
364
pentachlorophenol
21
76-140
77-130
71-150
264
pentachlorophenol-13C6
49
37-212
18-412
42-237
29-254
381
phenanthrene
13
93-119
75-133
87-126
281
phenanthrene-d10
40
45-130
24-241
67-149
34-168
365
phenol
36
77-127
65-155
62-154
265
phenol-d5
161
21-210
ns-ns
48-208
ns-ns
703
a-picoline (Synfuel)
38
59-149
60-165
50-174
603
a-picoline-d7
138
11-380
ns-ns
31-324
ns-608
384
pyrene
19
76-152
76-132
72-159
284
pyrene-d10
29
32-176
18-303
48-210
28-196
710
styrene (Appendix C)
42
53-221
65-153
48-244
610
styrene-d5
49
ns-281
ns-ns
44-228
ns-348
709
a-terpineol (Appendix C)
44
42-234
54-186
38-258
609
a-terpineol-d3
48
22-292
ns-672
20-502
18-339
529
1,2,3-trichlorobenzene (4c)*
69
15-229
60-167
11-297
308
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene
19
82-136
78-128
77-144
208
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-d3
57
15-212
ns-592
61-163
10-282
530
2,3,6-trichlorophenol (4c)*
30
58-137
56-180
51-153
531
2,4,5-trichlorophenol (4c)*
30
58-137
56-180
51-153
321
2,4,6-trichlorophenol
57
59-205
81-123
48-244
221
2,4,6-trichlorophenol-d2
47
43-183
21-363
69-144
34-226
1
Reference numbers beginning with 0, 1 or 5 indicate a pollutant quantified by the internal standard method; reference numbers beginning with 2 or 6 indicate a labeled compound quantified by the internal standard method; reference numbers beginning with 3 or 7 indicate a pollutant quantified by isotope dilution.
* Measured by internal standard; specification derived from related compound.
ns = no specification; limit is outside the range that can be measured reliably.
EC02JY92.057
EC02JY92.058
EC02JY92.059

# Attachment 1 to Method 1625

# Introduction
To support measurement of several semivolatile pollutants, EPA has developed this attachment to EPA Method 1625B.
1
The modifications listed in this attachment are approved only for monitoring wastestreams from the Centralized Waste Treatment Point Source Category (40 CFR part 437) and the Landfills Point Source Category (40 CFR part 445). EPA Method 1625B (the Method) employs sample extraction with methylene chloride followed by analysis of the extract using capillary column gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS). This attachment addresses the addition of the semivolatile pollutants listed in Tables 1 and 2 to all applicable standard, stock, and spiking solutions utilized for the determination of semivolatile organic compounds by EPA Method 1625B.
1
EPA Method 1625 Revision B, Semivolatile Organic Compounds by Isotope Dilution GC/MS, 40 CFR part 136, appendix A.

# 1.0 EPA METHOD 1625 REVISION B MODIFICATION SUMMARY
The additional semivolatile organic compounds listed in Tables 1 and 2 are added to all applicable calibration, spiking, and other solutions utilized in the determination of semivolatile compounds by EPA Method 1625. The instrument is to be calibrated with these compounds, and all procedures and quality control tests described in the Method must be performed.

# 2.0 SECTION MODIFICATIONS

# Note:
All section and figure numbers in this Attachment reference section and figure numbers in EPA Method 1625 Revision B unless noted otherwise. Sections not listed here remain unchanged.
Section 6.7 The stock standard solutions described in this section are modified such that the analytes in Tables 1 and 2 of this attachment are required in addition to those specified in the Method.
Section 6.8 The labeled compound spiking solution in this section is modified to include the labeled compounds listed in Tables 5 and 6 of this attachment.
Section 6.9 The secondary standard is modified to include the additional analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 of this attachment.
Section 6.12 The solutions for obtaining authentic mass spectra are to include all additional analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 of this attachment.
Section 6.13 The calibration solutions are modified to include the analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 and the labeled compounds listed in Tables 5 and 6 of this attachment.
Section 6.14 The precision and recovery standard is modified to include the analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 and the labeled compounds listed in Tables 5 and 6 of this attachment.
Section 6.15 The solutions containing the additional analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 of this attachment are to be analyzed for stability.
Section 7.2.1 This section is modified to include the analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 and the labeled compounds listed in Tables 5 and 6 of this attachment.
Section 7.4.5 This section is modified to include the analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 and the labeled compounds listed in Tables 5 and 6 in the calibration.
Section 8.2 The initial precision and recovery (IPR) requirements are modified to include the analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 and the labeled compounds listed in Tables 5 and 6 of this attachment. Additional IPR performance criteria are supplied in Table 7 of this attachment.
Section 8.3 The labeled compounds listed in Tables 3 and 4 of this attachment are to be included in the method performance tests. Additional method performance criteria are supplied in Table 7 of this attachment.
Section 8.5.2 The acceptance criteria for blanks includes the analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 of this attachment.
Section 10.1.2 The labeled compound solution must include the labeled compounds listed in Tables 5 and 6 of this attachment.
Section 10.1.3 The precision and recovery standard must include the analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 and the labeled compounds listed in Tables 5 and 6 of this attachment.
Section 12.5 Additional QC requirements for calibration verification are supplied in Table 7 of this attachment.
Section 12.7 Additional QC requirements for ongoing precision and recovery are supplied in Table 7 of this attachment.
Table 1—Base/Neutral Extractable Compounds
Compound
Pollutant
CAS
Registry
EPA-EGD
acetophenone
1
98-86-2
758
aniline
2
62-53-3
757
-2,3-dichloroaniline
1
608-27-5
578
-o-cresol
1
95-48-7
771
pyridine
2
110-86-1
1330
CAS = Chemical Abstracts Registry.
EGD = Effluent Guidelines Division.
1
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment industry.
2
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment and Landfills industries.
Table 2—Acid Extractable Compounds
Compound
Pollutant
CAS
Registry
EPA-EGD
p-cresol
1
106-44-5
1744
CAS = Chemical Abstracts Registry.
EGD = Effluent Guidelines Division.
1
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment and Landfills industries.
Table 3—Gas Chromatography
1
of Base/Neutral Extractable Compounds
EGD No.
Compound
Retention time
2
Mean
(sec)
EGD Ref
Relative
Minimum
level
3
(µg/L)
EGD No.
Compound
Retention time
2
Mean
(sec)
EGD Ref
Relative
Minimum level
3
(µg/L)
758
acetophenone
4
818
658
1.003-1.005
10
757
aniline
5
694
657
0.994-1.023
10
578
2,3-dichloroaniline
4
1160
164
1.003-1.007
10
771
o-cresol
4
814
671
1.005-1.009
10
1330
pyridine
5
378
1230
1.005-1.011
10
EGD = Effluent Guidelines Division.
1
The data presented in this table were obtained under the chromatographic conditions given in the footnote to Table 3 of EPA Method 1625B.
2
Retention times are approximate and are intended to be consistent with the retention times for the analytes in EPA Method 1625B.
3
See the definition in footnote 2 to Table 3 of EPA Method 1625B.
4
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment industry.
5
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment and Landfills industries.
Table 4—Gas Chromatography
1
of Acid Extractable Compounds
EGD No.
Compound
Retention time
2
Mean
(sec)
EGD Ref
Relative
Minimum
level
(µ/L)
3
1744
p-cresol
4
834
1644
1.004-1.008
20
EGD = Effluent Guidelines Division.
1
The data presented in this table were obtained under the chromatographic conditions given in the footnote to Table 4 of EPA Method 1625B.
2
Retention times are approximate and are intended to be consistent with the retention times for the analytes in EPA Method 1625B.
3
See the definition in footnote 2 to Table 4 of EPA Method 1625B.
4
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment and Landfills industries.
Table 5—Base/Neutral Extractable Compound Characteristic m/z's
Compound
Labeled Analog
Primary
m/z
1
acetophenone
2
d
5
105/110
aniline
3
d
7
93/100
o-cresol
2
d
7
108/116
2,3-dichloroaniline
2
n/a
161
pyridine
3
d
5
79/84
m/z = mass to charge ratio.
1
Native/labeled.
2
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment industry.
3
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment and Landfills industries.
Table 6—Acid Extractable Compound Characteristic m/z's
Compound
Labeled Analog
Primary
m/z
1
p-cresol
2
d
7
108/116
m/z = mass to charge ratio.
1
Native/labeled.
2
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment and Landfills industries.
Table 7—Acceptance Criteria for Performance Tests
EGD No.
Compound
Acceptance criteria
Initial precision and accuracy section 8.2
(µg/L)
s
(µg/L)
X
Labeled compound recovery sec. 8.3 and 14.2 P
(percent)
Calibration verification sec. 12.5
µg/mL)
On-going accuracy sec. 12.7 R
(µg/L)
758
acetophenone
1
34
44-167
85-115
45-162
658
acetophenone-d
5
1
51
23-254
45-162
85-115
22-264
757
aniline
2
32
30-171
85-115
33-154
657
aniline-d
7
2
71
15-278
33-154
85-115
12-344
771
o-cresol
1
40
31-226
85-115
35-196
671
o-cresol-d
7
1
23
30-146
35-196
85-115
31-142
1744
p-cresol
2
59
54-140
85-115
37-203
1644
p-cresol-d
7
2
22
11-618
37-203
85-115
16-415
578
2,3-dichloroaniline
1
13
40-160
85-115
44-144
1330
pyridine
2
28
10-421
83-117
18-238
1230
pyridine-d
5
2
ns
7-392
19-238
85-115
4-621
s = Standard deviation of four recovery measurements.
X = Average recovery for four recovery measurements.
EGD = Effluent Guidelines Division.
ns = no specification; limit is outside the range that can be measured reliably.
1
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment industry.
2
Analysis of this pollutant is approved only for the Centralized Waste Treatment and Landfills industries.
[49 FR 43261, Oct. 26, 1984; 50 FR 692, 695, Jan. 4, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 23702, June 30, 1986; 62 FR 48405, Sept. 15, 1997; 65 FR 3044, Jan. 19, 2000; 65 FR 81295, 81298, Dec. 22, 2000; 82 FR 40875, Aug. 28, 2017]
Pt. 136, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 136—Definition and Procedure for the Determination of the Method Detection Limit—Revision 2

# Definition
The method detection limit (MDL) is defined as the minimum measured concentration of a substance that can be reported with 99% confidence that the measured concentration is distinguishable from method blank results.

# I. Scope and Application
(1) The MDL procedure is designed to be a straightforward technique for estimation of the detection limit for a broad variety of physical and chemical methods. The procedure requires a complete, specific, and well-defined analytical method. It is essential that all sample processing steps used by the laboratory be included in the determination of the method detection limit.
(2) The MDL procedure is
not
applicable to methods that do not produce results with a continuous distribution, such as, but not limited to, methods for whole effluent toxicity, presence/absence methods, and microbiological methods that involve counting colonies. The MDL procedure also is
not
applicable to measurements such as, but not limited to, biochemical oxygen demand, color, pH, specific conductance, many titration methods, and any method where low-level spiked samples cannot be prepared. Except as described in the addendum, for the purposes of this procedure, “spiked samples” are prepared from a clean reference matrix, such as reagent water, spiked with a known and consistent quantity of the analyte. MDL determinations using spiked samples may not be appropriate for all gravimetric methods (e.g., residue or total suspended solids), but an MDL based on method blanks can be determined in such instances.

# II. Procedure
(1) Estimate the initial MDL using one or more of the following:
(a) The mean determined concentration plus three times the standard deviation of a set of method blanks.
(b) The concentration value that corresponds to an instrument signal-to-noise ratio in the range of 3 to 5.
(c) The concentration equivalent to three times the standard deviation of replicate instrumental measurements of spiked blanks.
(d) That region of the calibration where there is a significant change in sensitivity,
i.e.,
a break in the slope of the calibration.
(e) Instrumental limitations.
(f) Previously determined MDL.

# Note:
It is recognized that the experience of the analyst is important to this process. However, the analyst should include some or all of the above considerations in the initial estimate of the MDL.
(2) Determine the initial MDL.

# Note:
The Initial MDL is used when the laboratory does not have adequate data to perform the Ongoing Annual Verification specified in Section (4), typically when a new method is implemented or if a method was rarely used in the last 24 months.
(a) Select a spiking level, typically 2—10 times the estimated MDL in Section 1. Spiking levels in excess of 10 times the estimated detection limit may be required for analytes with very poor recovery (e.g., for an analyte with 10% recovery, spiked at 100 micrograms/L, with mean recovery of 10 micrograms/L; the calculated MDL may be around 3 micrograms/L. Therefore, in this example, the spiking level would be 33 times the MDL, but spiking lower may result in no recovery at all).
(b) Process a minimum of seven spiked samples and seven method blank samples through all steps of the method. The samples used for the MDL must be prepared in at least three batches on three separate calendar dates and analyzed on three separate calendar dates. (Preparation and analysis may be on the same day.) Existing data may be used, if compliant with the requirements for at least three batches, and generated within the last twenty four months. The most recent available data for method blanks and spiked samples must be used. Statistical outlier removal procedures should not be used to remove data for the initial MDL determination, since the total number of observations is small and the purpose of the MDL procedure is to capture routine method variability. However, documented instances of gross failures (e.g., instrument malfunctions, mislabeled samples, cracked vials) may be excluded from the calculations, provided that at least seven spiked samples and seven method blanks are available. (The rationale for removal of specific outliers must be documented and maintained on file with the results of the MDL determination.)
(i) If there are multiple instruments that will be assigned the same MDL, then the sample analyses must be distributed across all of the instruments.
(ii) A minimum of two spiked samples and two method blank samples prepared and analyzed on different calendar dates is required for each instrument. Each analytical batch may contain one spiked sample and one method blank sample run together. A spiked sample and a method blank sample may be analyzed in the same batch, but are not required to be.
(iii) The same prepared extract may be analyzed on multiple instruments so long as the minimum requirement of seven preparations in at least three separate batches is maintained.
(c) Evaluate the spiking level: If any result for any individual analyte from the spiked samples does not meet the method qualitative identification criteria or does not provide a numerical result greater than zero, then repeat the spiked samples at a higher concentration. (Qualitative identification criteria are a set of rules or guidelines for establishing the identification or presence of an analyte using a measurement system. Qualitative identification does not ensure that quantitative results for the analyte can be obtained.)
(d) Make all computations as specified in the analytical method and express the final results in the method-specified reporting units.
(i) Calculate the sample standard deviation (S) of the replicate spiked sample measurements and the sample standard deviation of the replicate method blank measurements from all instruments to which the MDL will be applied.
(ii) Compute the MDL
s
(the MDL based on spiked samples) as follows:
MDL
S
=
t
(
n −1, 1−
α
= 0.99)
S
s
Where:
MDL
s
= the method detection limit based on spiked samples
t
(n-1, 1−
α
= 0.99)
= the Student's t-value appropriate for a single-tailed 99th percentile t statistic and a standard deviation estimate with n-1 degrees of freedom. See Addendum Table 1.
S
s
= sample standard deviation of the replicate spiked sample analyses.
(iii) Compute the MDL
b
(the MDL based on method blanks) as follows:
(A) If none of the method blanks give numerical results for an individual analyte, the MDL
b
does not apply. A numerical result includes both positive and negative results, including results below the current MDL, but not results of “ND” (not detected) commonly
observed when a peak is not present in chromatographic analysis.
(B) If some (but not all) of the method blanks for an individual analyte give numerical results, set the MDL
b
equal to the highest method blank result. If more than 100 method blanks are available, set MDL
b
to the level that is no less than the 99th percentile of the method blank results. For “n” method blanks where n ≥ 100, sort the method blanks in rank order. The (n * 0.99) ranked method blank result (round to the nearest whole number) is the MDL
b
. For example, to find MDL
b
from a set of 164 method blanks where the highest ranked method blank results are . . . 1.5, 1.7, 1.9, 5.0, and 10, then 164 × 0.99 = 162.36 which rounds to the 162nd method blank result. Therefore, MDL
b
is 1.9 for n = 164 (10 is the 164th result, 5.0 is the 163rd result, and 1.9 is the 162nd result). Alternatively, you may use spreadsheet algorithms to calculate the 99th percentile to interpolate between the ranks more precisely.
(C) If all of the method blanks for an individual analyte give numerical results, then calculate the MDL
b
as:
MDL
b
=
X
+
t
n
−1,1−
α
= (0.99)
S
b
Where:
MDL
b
= the MDL based on method blanks
X
= mean of the method blank results (use zero in place of the mean if the mean is negative)
t
(n−1, 1
α
= 0.99)
= the Student's t-value appropriate for the single-tailed 99th percentile t statistic and a standard deviation estimate with n−1 degrees of freedom. See Addendum Table 1.
S
b
= sample standard deviation of the replicate method blank sample analyses.

# Note:
If 100 or more method blanks are available, as an option, MDL
b
may be set to the concentration that is greater than or equal to the 99th percentile of the method blank results, as described in Section (2)(d)(iii)(B).
(e) Select the greater of MDL
s
or MDL
b
as the initial MDL.
(3) Ongoing Data Collection.
(a) During any quarter in which samples are being analyzed, prepare and analyze a minimum of two spiked samples on each instrument, in separate batches, using the same spiking concentration used in Section 2. If any analytes are repeatedly not detected in the quarterly spiked sample analyses, or do not meet the qualitative identification criteria of the method (see section 2(c) of this procedure), then this is an indication that the spiking level is not high enough and should be adjusted upward. Note that it is not necessary to analyze additional method blanks together with the spiked samples, the method blank population should include all of the routine method blanks analyzed with each batch during the course of sample analysis.
(b) Ensure that at least seven spiked samples and seven method blanks are completed for the annual verification. If only one instrument is in use, a minimum of seven spikes are still required, but they may be drawn from the last two years of data collection.
(c) At least once per year, re-evaluate the spiking level.
(i) If more than 5% of the spiked samples do not return positive numerical results that meet all method qualitative identification criteria, then the spiking level must be increased and the initial MDL re-determined following the procedure in section 2.
(ii) [Reserved]
(d) If the method is altered in a way that can be reasonably expected to change its sensitivity, then re-determine the initial MDL according to section 2, and the restart the ongoing data collection.
(e) If a new instrument is added to a group of instruments whose data are being pooled to create a single MDL, analyze a minimum of two spiked replicates and two method blank replicates on the new instrument. If both method blank results are below the existing MDL, then the existing MDL
b
is validated. Combine the new spiked sample results to the existing spiked sample results and recalculate the MDL
s
as in Section 4. If the recalculated MDL
s
does not vary by more than the factor specified in section 4(f) of this procedure, then the existing MDL
s
is validated. If either of these two conditions is not met, then calculate a new MDL following the instructions in section 2.
(4) Ongoing Annual Verification.
(a) At least once every thirteen months, re-calculate MDL
s
and MDL
b
from the collected spiked samples and method blank results using the equations in section 2.
(b) Include data generated within the last twenty four months, but only data with the same spiking level. Only documented instances of gross failures (e.g., instrument malfunctions, mislabeled samples, cracked vials) may be excluded from the calculations. (The rationale for removal of specific outliers must be documented and maintained on file with the results of the MDL determination.) If the laboratory believes the sensitivity of the method has changed significantly, then the most recent data available may be used, maintaining compliance with the requirement for at least seven replicates in three separate batches on three separate days (see section 2b).
(c) Include the initial MDL spiked samples, if the data were generated within twenty four months.
(d) Only use data associated with acceptable calibrations and batch QC. Include all routine data, with the exception of batches that are rejected and the associated samples reanalyzed. If the method has been altered in a way that can be reasonably expected to
change its sensitivity, then use only data collected after the change.
(e) Ideally, use all method blank results from the last 24 months for the MDL
b
calculation. The laboratory has the option to use only the last six months of method blank data or the fifty most recent method blanks, whichever criteria yields the greater number of method blanks.
(f) The verified MDL is the greater of the MDL
s
or MDL
b
. If the verified MDL is within 0.5 to 2.0 times the existing MDL, and fewer than 3% of the method blank results (for the individual analyte) have numerical results above the existing MDL, then the existing MDL may optionally be left unchanged. Otherwise, adjust the MDL to the new verification MDL. (The range of 0.5 to 2.0 approximates the 95th percentile confidence interval for the initial MDL determination with six degrees of freedom.)

# Addendum to Section II: Determination of the MDL for a Specific Matrix
The MDL may be determined in a specific sample matrix as well as in reagent water.
(1) Analyze the sample matrix to determine the native (background) concentration of the analyte(s) of interest.
(2) If the response for the native concentration is at a signal-to-noise ratio of approximately 5-20, determine the matrix-specific MDL according to Section 2 but without spiking additional analyte.
(3) Calculate MDL
b
using the method blanks, not the sample matrix.
(4) If the signal-to-noise ratio is less than 5, then the analyte(s) should be spiked into the sample matrix to obtain a concentration that will give results with a signal-to-noise ratio of approximately 10-20.
(5) If the analytes(s) of interest have signal-to-noise ratio(s) greater than approximately 20, then the resulting MDL is likely to be biased high.
Table 1—Single-Tailed 99
th
Percentile
t
Statistic
Number of replicates
Degrees of freedom
(n−1)
t
(n−1, 0.99)
7
6
3.143
8
7
2.998
9
8
2.896
10
9
2.821
11
10
2.764
16
15
2.602
21
20
2.528
26
25
2.485
31
30
2.457
32
31
2.453
48
47
2.408
50
49
2.405
61
60
2.390
64
63
2.387
80
79
2.374
96
95
2.366
100
99
2.365

# III. Documentation
The analytical method used must be specifically identified by number or title and the MDL for each analyte expressed in the appropriate method reporting units. Data and calculations used to establish the MDL must be able to be reconstructed upon request. The sample matrix used to determine the MDL must also be identified with MDL value. Document the mean spiked and recovered analyte levels with the MDL. The rationale for removal of outlier results, if any, must be documented and maintained on file with the results of the MDL determination.
[82 FR 40939, Aug. 28, 2017]
Pt. 136, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 136—Determination of Metals and Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry Method 200.7

# 1.0 Scope and Application
1.1 Inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES) is used to determine metals and some nonmetals in solution. This method is a consolidation of existing methods for water, wastewater, and solid wastes.
1-4
(For analysis of petroleum products see References 5 and 6, Section 16.0). This method is applicable to the following analytes:
Analyte
Chemical abstract services registry
number (CASRN)
Aluminum (Al)
7429-90-5
Antimony (Sb)
7440-36-0
Arsenic (As)
7440-38-2
Barium (Ba)
7440-39-3
Beryllium (Be)
7440-41-7
Boron (B)
7440-42-8
Cadmium (Cd)
7440-43-9
Calcium (Ca)
7440-70-2
Cerium
a
(Cr)
7440-45-1
Chromium (Cr)
7440-47-3
Cobalt (Co)
7440-48-4
Copper (Cu)
7440-50-8
Iron (Fe)
7439-89-6
Lead (Pb)
7439-92-1
Lithium (Li)
7439-93-2
Magnesium (Mg)
7439-95-4
Manganese (Mn)
7439-96-5
Mercury (Hg)
7439-97-6
Molybdenum (Mo)
7439-98-7
Nickel (Ni)
7440-02-0
Phosphorus (P)
7723-14-0
Potassium (K)
7440-09-7
Selenium (Se)
7782-49-2
Silica
b
(Si0
2
)
7631-86-9
Silver (Ag)
7440-22-4
Sodium (Na)
7440-23-5
Strontium (Sr)
7440-24-6
Thallium (Tl)
7440-28-0
Tin (Sn)
7440-31-5
Titanium (Ti)
7440-32-6
Vanadium (V)
7440-62-2
Zinc (Zn)
7440-66-6
a
Cerium has been included as method analyte for correction of potential interelement spectral interference.
b
This method is
not
suitable for the determination of silica in solids.
1.2 For reference where this method is approved for use in compliance monitoring programs [e.g., Clean Water Act (NPDES) or Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA)] consult both the appropriate sections of the Code of Federal Regulation (40 CFR Part 136 Table 1B for NPDES, and Part 141 § 141.23 for drinking water), and the latest
Federal Register
announcements.
1.3 ICP-AES can be used to determine dissolved analytes in aqueous samples after suitable filtration and acid preservation. To reduce potential interferences, dissolved solids should be
0.2% (w/v) (Section 4.2).
1.4 With the exception of silver, where this method is approved for the determination of certain metal and metalloid contaminants in drinking water, samples may be analyzed directly by pneumatic nebulization without acid digestion if the sample has been properly preserved with acid and has turbidity of
1 NTU at the time of analysis. This total recoverable determination procedure is referred to as “direct analysis”. However, in the determination of some primary drinking water metal contaminants, preconcentration of the sample may be required prior to analysis in order to meet drinking water acceptance performance criteria (Sections 11.2.2 through 11.2.7).
1.5 For the determination of total recoverable analytes in aqueous and solid samples a digestion/extraction is required prior to analysis when the elements are not in solution (e.g., soils, sludges, sediments and aqueous samples that may contain particulate and suspended solids). Aqueous samples containing suspended or particulate material 1% (w/v) should be extracted as a solid type sample.
1.6 When determining boron and silica in aqueous samples, only plastic, PTFE or quartz labware should be used from time of sample collection to completion of analysis. For accurate determination of boron in solid samples only quartz or PTFE beakers should be used during acid extraction with immediate transfer of an extract aliquot to a plastic centrifuge tube following dilution of the extract to volume. When possible, borosilicate glass should be avoided to prevent contamination of these analytes.
1.7 Silver is only slightly soluble in the presence of chloride unless there is a sufficient chloride concentration to form the soluble chloride complex. Therefore, low recoveries of silver may occur in samples, fortified sample matrices and even fortified blanks if determined as a dissolved analyte or by “direct analysis” where the sample has not been processed using the total recoverable mixed acid digestion. For this reason it is recommended that samples be digested prior to the determination of silver. The total recoverable sample digestion procedure given in this method is suitable for the determination of silver in aqueous samples containing concentrations up to 0.1 mg/L. For the analysis of wastewater samples containing higher concentrations of silver, succeeding smaller volume, well mixed aliquots should be prepared until the analysis solution contains
0.1 mg/L silver. The extraction of solid samples containing concentrations of silver
50 mg/kg should be treated in a similar manner. Also, the extraction of tin from solid samples should be prepared again using aliquots
1 g when determined sample concentrations exceed 1%.
1.8 The total recoverable sample digestion procedure given in this method will solubilize and hold in solution only minimal concentrations of barium in the presence of free sulfate. For the analysis of barium in samples having varying and unknown concentrations of sulfate, analysis should be completed as soon as possible after sample preparation.
1.9 The total recoverable sample digestion procedure given in this method is not suitable for the determination of volatile organo-mercury compounds. However, if digestion is not required (turbidity
1 NTU), the combined concentrations of inorganic and organo-mercury in solution can be determined by “direct analysis” pneumatic nebulization provided the sample solution is adjusted to contain the same mixed acid
(HNO
3
+ HCl) matrix as the total recoverable calibration standards and blank solutions.
1.10 Detection limits and linear ranges for the elements will vary with the wavelength selected, the spectrometer, and the matrices. Table 1 provides estimated instrument detection limits for the listed wavelengths.
7
However, actual method detection limits and linear working ranges will be dependent on the sample matrix, instrumentation, and selected operating conditions.
1.11 Users of the method data should state the data-quality objectives prior to analysis. Users of the method must document and have on file the required initial demonstration performance data described in Section 9.2 prior to using the method for analysis.

# 2.0 Summary of Method
2.1 An aliquot of a well mixed, homogeneous aqueous or solid sample is accurately weighed or measured for sample processing. For total recoverable analysis of a solid or an aqueous sample containing undissolved material, analytes are first solubilized by gentle refluxing with nitric and hydrochloric acids. After cooling, the sample is made up to volume, is mixed and centrifuged or allowed to settle overnight prior to analysis. For the determination of dissolved analytes in a filtered aqueous sample aliquot, or for the “direct analysis” total recoverable determination of analytes in drinking water where sample turbidity is
1 NTU, the sample is made ready for analysis by the appropriate addition of nitric acid, and then diluted to a predetermined volume and mixed before analysis.
2.2 The analysis described in this method involves multielemental determinations by ICP-AES using sequential or simultaneous instruments. The instruments measure characteristic atomic-line emission spectra by optical spectrometry. Samples are nebulized and the resulting aerosol is transported to the plasma torch. Element specific emission spectra are produced by a radio-frequency inductively coupled plasma. The spectra are dispersed by a grating spectrometer, and the intensities of the line spectra are monitored at specific wavelengths by a photosensitive device. Photocurrents from the photosensitive device are processed and controlled by a computer system. A background correction technique is required to compensate for variable background contribution to the determination of the analytes. Background must be measured adjacent to the analyte wavelength during analysis. Various interferences must be considered and addressed appropriately as discussed in Sections 4.0, 7.0, 9.0, 10.0, and 11.0.

# 3.0 Definitions
3.1 Calibration Blank—A volume of reagent water acidified with the same acid matrix as in the calibration standards. The calibration blank is a zero standard and is used to calibrate the ICP instrument (Section 7.10.1).
3.2 Calibration Standard (CAL)—A solution prepared from the dilution of stock standard solutions. The CAL solutions are used to calibrate the instrument response with respect to analyte concentration (Section 7.9).
3.3 Dissolved Analyte—The concentration of analyte in an aqueous sample that will pass through a 0.45 µm membrane filter assembly prior to sample acidification (Section 11.1).
3.4 Field Reagent Blank (FRB)—An aliquot of reagent water or other blank matrix that is placed in a sample container in the laboratory and treated as a sample in all respects, including shipment to the sampling site, exposure to the sampling site conditions, storage, preservation, and all analytical procedures. The purpose of the FRB is to determine if method analytes or other interferences are present in the field environment (Section 8.5).
3.5 Instrument Detection Limit (IDL)—The concentration equivalent to the analyte signal which is equal to three times the standard deviation of a series of 10 replicate measurements of the calibration blank signal at the same wavelength (Table 1.).
3.6 Instrument Performance Check (IPC) Solution—A solution of method analytes, used to evaluate the performance of the instrument system with respect to a defined set of method criteria (Sections 7.11 and 9.3.4).
3.7 Internal Standard—Pure analyte(s) added to a sample, extract, or standard solution in known amount(s) and used to measure the relative responses of other method analytes that are components of the same sample or solution. The internal standard must be an analyte that is not a sample component (Section 11.5).
3.8 Laboratory Duplicates (LD1 and LD2)—Two aliquots of the same sample taken in the laboratory and analyzed separately with identical procedures. Analyses of LD1 and LD2 indicate precision associated with laboratory procedures, but not with sample collection, preservation, or storage procedures.
3.9 Laboratory Fortified Blank (LFB)—An aliquot of LRB to which known quantities of the method analytes are added in the laboratory. The LFB is analyzed exactly like a sample, and its purpose is to determine whether the methodology is in control and whether the laboratory is capable of making accurate and precise measurements (Sections 7.10.3 and 9.3.2).
3.10 Laboratory Fortified Sample Matrix (LFM)—An aliquot of an environmental sample to which known quantities of the method analytes are added in the laboratory. The
LFM is analyzed exactly like a sample, and its purpose is to determine whether the sample matrix contributes bias to the analytical results. The background concentrations of the analytes in the sample matrix must be determined in a separate aliquot and the measured values in the LFM corrected for background concentrations (Section 9.4).
3.11 Laboratory Reagent Blank (LRB)—An aliquot of reagent water or other blank matrices that are treated exactly as a sample including exposure to all glassware, equipment, solvents, reagents, and internal standards that are used with other samples. The LRB is used to determine if method analytes or other interferences are present in the laboratory environment, reagents, or apparatus (Sections 7.10.2 and 9.3.1).
3.12 Linear Dynamic Range (LDR)—The concentration range over which the instrument response to an analyte is linear (Section 9.2.2).
3.13 Method Detection Limit (MDL)—The minimum concentration of an analyte that can be identified, measured, and reported with 99% confidence that the analyte concentration is greater than zero (Section 9.2.4 and Table 4.).
3.14 Plasma Solution—A solution that is used to determine the optimum height above the work coil for viewing the plasma (Sections 7.15 and 10.2.3).
3.15 Quality Control Sample (QCS)—A solution of method analytes of known concentrations which is used to fortify an aliquot of LRB or sample matrix. The QCS is obtained from a source external to the laboratory and different from the source of calibration standards. It is used to check either laboratory or instrument performance (Sections 7.12 and 9.2.3).
3.16 Solid Sample—For the purpose of this method, a sample taken from material classified as soil, sediment or sludge.
3.17 Spectral Interference Check (SIC) Solution—A solution of selected method analytes of higher concentrations which is used to evaluate the procedural routine for correcting known interelement spectral interferences with respect to a defined set of method criteria (Sections 7.13, 7.14 and 9.3.5).
3.18 Standard Addition—The addition of a known amount of analyte to the sample in order to determine the relative response of the detector to an analyte within the sample matrix. The relative response is then used to assess either an operative matrix effect or the sample analyte concentration (Sections 9.5.1 and 11.5).
3.19 Stock Standard Solution—A concentrated solution containing one or more method analytes prepared in the laboratory using assayed reference materials or purchased from a reputable commercial source (Section 7.8).
3.20 Total Recoverable Analyte—The concentration of analyte determined either by “direct analysis” of an unfiltered acid preserved drinking water sample with turbidity of
1 NTU (Section 11.2.1), or by analysis of the solution extract of a solid sample or an unfiltered aqueous sample following digestion by refluxing with hot dilute mineral acid(s) as specified in the method (Sections 11.2 and 11.3).
3.21 Water Sample—For the purpose of this method, a sample taken from one of the following sources: drinking, surface, ground, storm runoff, industrial or domestic wastewater.

# 4.0 Interferences
4.1 Spectral interferences are caused by background emission from continuous or recombination phenomena, stray light from the line emission of high concentration elements, overlap of a spectral line from another element, or unresolved overlap of molecular band spectra.
4.1.1 Background emission and stray light can usually be compensated for by subtracting the background emission determined by measurement(s) adjacent to the analyte wavelength peak. Spectral scans of samples or single element solutions in the analyte regions may indicate not only when alternate wavelengths are desirable because of severe spectral interference, but also will show whether the most appropriate estimate of the background emission is provided by an interpolation from measurements on both sides of the wavelength peak or by the measured emission on one side or the other. The location(s) selected for the measurement of background intensity will be determined by the complexity of the spectrum adjacent to the wavelength peak. The location(s) used for routine measurement must be free of off-line spectral interference (interelement or molecular) or adequately corrected to reflect the same change in background intensity as occurs at the wavelength peak.
4.1.2 Spectral overlaps may be avoided by using an alternate wavelength or can be compensated for by equations that correct for interelement contributions, which involves measuring the interfering elements. Some potential on-line spectral interferences observed for the recommended wavelengths are given in Table 2. When operative and uncorrected, these interferences will produce false-positive determinations and be reported as analyte concentrations. The interferences listed are only those that occur between method analytes. Only interferences of a direct overlap nature that were observed with a single instrument having a working resolution of 0.035 nm are listed. More extensive information on interferant effects at various wavelengths and resolutions is available in Boumans' Tables.
8
Users may apply interelement correction factors determined on their instruments within tested concentration ranges to compensate (off-line or
on-line) for the effects of interfering elements.
4.1.3 When interelement corrections are applied, there is a need to verify their accuracy by analyzing spectral interference check solutions as described in Section 7.13. Interelement corrections will vary for the same emission line among instruments because of differences in resolution, as determined by the grating plus the entrance and exit slit widths, and by the order of dispersion. Interelement corrections will also vary depending upon the choice of background correction points. Selecting a background correction point where an interfering emission line may appear should be avoided when practical. Interelement corrections that constitute a major portion of an emission signal may not yield accurate data. Users should not forget that some samples may contain uncommon elements that could contribute spectral interferences.
7 8
4.1.4 The interference effects must be evaluated for each individual instrument whether configured as a sequential or simultaneous instrument. For each instrument, intensities will vary not only with optical resolution but also with operating conditions (such as power, viewing height and argon flow rate). When using the recommended wavelengths given in Table 1, the analyst is required to determine and document for each wavelength the effect from the known interferences given in Table 2, and to utilize a computer routine for their automatic correction on all analyses. To determine the appropriate location for off-line background correction, the user must scan the area on either side adjacent to the wavelength and record the apparent emission intensity from all other method analytes. This spectral information must be documented and kept on file. The location selected for background correction must be either free of off-line interelement spectral interference or a computer routine must be used for their automatic correction on all determinations. If a wavelength other than the recommended wavelength is used, the user must determine and document both the on-line and off-line spectral interference effect from all method analytes and provide for their automatic correction on all analyses. Tests to determine the spectral interference must be done using analyte concentrations that will adequately describe the interference. Normally, 100 mg/L single element solutions are sufficient, however, for analytes such as iron that may be found at high concentration a more appropriate test would be to use a concentration near the upper LDR limit. See Section 10.4 for required spectral interference test criteria.
4.1.5 When interelement corrections are not used, either on-going SIC solutions (Section 7.14) must be analyzed to verify the absence of interelement spectral interference or a computer software routine must be employed for comparing the determinative data to limits files for notifying the analyst when an interfering element is detected in the sample at a concentration that will produce either an apparent false positive concentration, greater than the analyte IDL, or false negative analyte concentration, less than the 99% lower control limit of the calibration blank. When the interference accounts for 10% or more of the analyte concentration, either an alternate wavelength free of interference or another approved test procedure must be used to complete the analysis. For example, the copper peak at 213.853 nm could be mistaken for the zinc peak at 213.856 nm in solutions with high copper and low zinc concentrations. For this example, a spectral scan in the 213.8 nm region would not reveal the misidentification because a single peak near the zinc location would be observed. The possibility of this misidentification of copper for the zinc peak at 213.856 nm can be identified by measuring the copper at another emission line, e.g., 324.754 nm. Users should be aware that, depending upon the instrumental resolution, alternate wavelengths with adequate sensitivity and freedom from interference may not be available for all matrices. In these circumstances the analyte must be determined using another approved test procedure.
4.2 Physical interferences are effects associated with the sample nebulization and transport processes. Changes in viscosity and surface tension can cause significant inaccuracies, especially in samples containing high dissolved solids or high acid concentrations. If physical interferences are present, they must be reduced by such means as a high-solids nebulizer, diluting the sample, using a peristaltic pump, or using an appropriate internal standard element. Another problem that can occur with high dissolved solids is salt buildup at the tip of the nebulizer, which affects aerosol flow rate and causes instrumental drift. This problem can be controlled by a high-solids nebulizer, wetting the argon prior to nebulization, using a tip washer, or diluting the sample. Also, it has been reported that better control of the argon flow rates, especially for the nebulizer, improves instrument stability and precision; this is accomplished with the use of mass flow controllers.
4.3 Chemical interferences include molecular-compound formation, ionization effects, and solute-vaporization effects. Normally, these effects are not significant with the ICP-AES technique. If observed, they can be minimized by careful selection of operating conditions (such as incident power and observation height), by buffering of the sample, by matrix matching, and by standard-addition
procedures. Chemical interferences are highly dependent on matrix type and the specific analyte element.
4.4 Memory interferences result when analytes in a previous sample contribute to the signals measured in a new sample. Memory effects can result from sample deposition on the uptake tubing to the nebulizer, and from the buildup of sample material in the plasma torch and spray chamber. The site where these effects occur is dependent on the element and can be minimized by flushing the system with a rinse blank between samples (Section 7.10.4). The possibility of memory interferences should be recognized within an analytical run and suitable rinse times should be used to reduce them. The rinse times necessary for a particular element must be estimated prior to analysis. This may be achieved by aspirating a standard containing elements corresponding to either their LDR or a concentration ten times those usually encountered. The aspiration time should be the same as a normal sample analysis period, followed by analysis of the rinse blank at designated intervals. The length of time required to reduce analyte signals to within a factor of two of the method detection limit, should be noted. Until the required rinse time is established, this method requires a rinse period of at least 60 seconds between samples and standards. If a memory interference is suspected, the sample must be re-analyzed after a long rinse period.

# 5.0 Safety
5.1 The toxicity or carcinogenicity of each reagent used in this method have not been fully established. Each chemical should be regarded as a potential health hazard and exposure to these compounds should be as low as reasonably achievable. Each laboratory is responsible for maintaining a current awareness file of OSHA regulations regarding the safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method.
9-12
A reference file of material data handling sheets should also be made available to all personnel involved in the chemical analysis. Specifically, concentrated nitric and hydrochloric acids present various hazards and are moderately toxic and extremely irritating to skin and mucus membranes. Use these reagents in a fume hood whenever possible and if eye or skin contact occurs, flush with large volumes of water. Always wear safety glasses or a shield for eye protection, protective clothing and observe proper mixing when working with these reagents.
5.2 The acidification of samples containing reactive materials may result in the release of toxic gases, such as cyanides or sulfides. Acidification of samples should be done in a fume hood.
5.3 All personnel handling environmental samples known to contain or to have been in contact with human waste should be immunized against known disease causative agents.
5.4 The inductively coupled plasma should only be viewed with proper eye protection from the ultraviolet emissions.
5.5 It is the responsibility of the user of this method to comply with relevant disposal and waste regulations. For guidance see Sections 14.0 and 15.0.

# 6.0 Equipment and Supplies
6.1 Inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometer:
6.1.1 Computer-controlled emission spectrometer with background-correction capability.
The spectrometer must be capable of meeting and complying with the requirements described and referenced in Section 2.2.
6.1.2 Radio-frequency generator compliant with FCC regulations.
6.1.3 Argon gas supply—High purity grade (99.99%). When analyses are conducted frequently, liquid argon is more economical and requires less frequent replacement of tanks than compressed argon in conventional cylinders.
6.1.4 A variable speed peristaltic pump is required to deliver both standard and sample solutions to the nebulizer.
6.1.5 (Optional) Mass flow controllers to regulate the argon flow rates, especially the aerosol transport gas, are highly recommended. Their use will provide more exacting control of reproducible plasma conditions.
6.2 Analytical balance, with capability to measure to 0.1 mg, for use in weighing solids, for preparing standards, and for determining dissolved solids in digests or extracts.
6.3 A temperature adjustable hot plate capable of maintaining a temperature of 95 °C.
6.4 (Optional) A temperature adjustable block digester capable of maintaining a temperature of 95 °C and equipped with 250 mL constricted digestion tubes.
6.5 (Optional) A steel cabinet centrifuge with guard bowl, electric timer and brake.
6.6 A gravity convection drying oven with thermostatic control capable of maintaining 180 °C ±5 °C.
6.7 (Optional) An air displacement pipetter capable of delivering volumes ranging from 0.1-2500 µL with an assortment of high quality disposable pipet tips.
6.8 Mortar and pestle, ceramic or nonmetallic material.
6.9 Polypropylene sieve, 5-mesh (4 mm opening).
6.10 Labware—For determination of trace levels of elements, contamination and loss are of prime consideration. Potential contamination sources include improperly cleaned laboratory apparatus and general
contamination within the laboratory environment from dust, etc. A clean laboratory work area designated for trace element sample handling must be used. Sample containers can introduce positive and negative errors in the determination of trace elements by contributing contaminants through surface desorption or leaching, or depleting element concentrations through adsorption processes. All reusable labware (glass, quartz, polyethylene, PTFE, FEP, etc.) should be sufficiently clean for the task objectives. Several procedures found to provide clean labware include washing with a detergent solution, rinsing with tap water, soaking for four hours or more in 20% (v/v) nitric acid or a mixture of HNO
3
and HCl (1 + 2 + 9), rinsing with reagent water and storing clean.
2 3
Chromic acid cleaning solutions must be avoided because chromium is an analyte.
6.10.1 Glassware—Volumetric flasks, graduated cylinders, funnels and centrifuge tubes (glass and/or metal-free plastic).
6.10.2 Assorted calibrated pipettes.
6.10.3 Conical Phillips beakers (Corning 1080-250 or equivalent), 250 mL with 50 mm watch glasses.
6.10.4 Griffin beakers, 250 mL with 75 mm watch glasses and (optional) 75 mm ribbed watch glasses.
6.10.5 (Optional) PTFE and/or quartz Griffin beakers, 250 mL with PTFE covers.
6.10.6 Evaporating dishes or high-form crucibles, porcelain, 100 mL capacity.
6.10.7 Narrow-mouth storage bottles, FEP (fluorinated ethylene propylene) with screw closure, 125 mL to 1 L capacities.
6.10.8 One-piece stem FEP wash bottle with screw closure, 125 mL capacity.

# 7.0 Reagents and Standards
7.1 Reagents may contain elemental impurities which might affect analytical data. Only high-purity reagents that conform to the American Chemical Society specifications
13
should be used whenever possible. If the purity of a reagent is in question, analyze for contamination. All acids used for this method must be of ultra high-purity grade or equivalent. Suitable acids are available from a number of manufacturers. Redistilled acids prepared by sub-boiling distillation are acceptable.
7.2 Hydrochloric acid, concentrated (sp.gr. 1.19)—HCl.
7.2.1 Hydrochloric acid (1 + 1)—Add 500 mL concentrated HCl to 400 mL reagent water and dilute to 1 L.
7.2.2 Hydrochloric acid (1 + 4)—Add 200 mL concentrated HCl to 400 mL reagent water and dilute to 1 L.
7.2.3 Hydrochloric acid (1 + 20)—Add 10 mL concentrated HCl to 200 mL reagent water.
7.3 Nitric acid, concentrated (sp.gr. 1.41)—HNO
3
.
7.3.1 Nitric acid (1 + 1)—Add 500 mL concentrated HNO
3
to 400 mL reagent water and dilute to 1 L.
7.3.2 Nitric acid (1 + 2)—Add 100 mL concentrated HNO
3
to 200 mL reagent water.
7.3.3 Nitric acid (1 + 5)—Add 50 mL concentrated HNO
3
to 250 mL reagent water.
7.3.4 Nitric acid (1 + 9)—Add 10 mL concentrated HNO
3
to 90 mL reagent water.
7.4 Reagent water. All references to water in this method refer to ASTM Type I grade water.
14
7.5 Ammonium hydroxide, concentrated (sp.gr. 0.902).
7.6 Tartaric acid, ACS reagent grade.
7.7 Hydrogen peroxide, 50%, stabilized certified reagent grade.
7.8 Standard Stock Solutions—Stock standards may be purchased or prepared from ultra-high purity grade chemicals (99.99-99.999% pure). All compounds must be dried for one hour at 105 °C, unless otherwise specified. It is recommended that stock solutions be stored in FEP bottles. Replace stock standards when succeeding dilutions for preparation of calibration standards cannot be verified.
CAUTION: Many of these chemicals are extremely toxic if inhaled or swallowed (Section 5.1). Wash hands thoroughly after handling.
Typical stock solution preparation procedures follow for 1 L quantities, but for the purpose of pollution prevention, the analyst is encouraged to prepare smaller quantities when possible. Concentrations are calculated based upon the weight of the pure element or upon the weight of the compound multiplied by the fraction of the analyte in the compound
From pure element,
ER18MY12.001
where: gravimetric factor = the weight fraction of the analyte in the compound
7.8.1 Aluminum solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Al: Dissolve 1.000 g of aluminum metal, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in an acid mixture of 4.0 mL of (1 + 1) HCl and 1 mL of concentrated HNO
3
in a beaker. Warm beaker slowly to effect solution. When dissolution is complete, transfer solution quantitatively to a 1 L flask, add an additional 10.0 mL of (1 + 1) HCl and dilute to volume with reagent water.
7.8.2 Antimony solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Sb: Dissolve 1.000 g of antimony powder, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 20.0 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
and 10.0 mL concentrated HCl. Add 100 mL reagent water and 1.50 g tartaric acid. Warm solution slightly to effect complete dissolution. Cool solution and add reagent water to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask.
7.8.3 Arsenic solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg As: Dissolve 1.320 g of As
2
O
3
(As fraction = 0.7574), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 100 mL of reagent water containing 10.0 mL concentrated NH
4
OH. Warm the solution gently to effect dissolution. Acidify the solution with 20.0 mL concentrated HNO
3
and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.4 Barium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ba: Dissolve 1.437 g BaCO
3
(Ba fraction = 0.6960), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 150 mL (1 + 2) HNO
3
with heating and stirring to degas and dissolve compound. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water in 1 L volumetric flask.
7.8.5 Beryllium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Be:
DO NOT DRY.
Dissolve 19.66 g BeSO
4
•4H
2
O (Be fraction = 0.0509), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water, add 10.0 mL concentrated HNO
3
, and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.6 Boron solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg B:
DO NOT DRY.
Dissolve 5.716 g anhydrous H
3
BO
3
(B fraction = 0.1749), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water and dilute in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water. Transfer immediately after mixing to a clean FEP bottle to minimize any leaching of boron from the glass volumetric container. Use of a nonglass volumetric flask is recommended to avoid boron contamination from glassware.
7.8.7 Cadmium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Cd: Dissolve 1.000 g Cd metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 9) HNO
3
, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
with heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water in a 1 L volumetric flask.
7.8.8 Calcium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ca: Suspend 2.498 g CaCO
3
(Ca fraction = 0.4005), dried at 180 °C for one hour before weighing, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water and dissolve cautiously with a minimum amount of (1 + 1) HNO
3
. Add 10.0 mL concentrated HNO
3
and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.9 Cerium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ce: Slurry 1.228 g CeO
2
(Ce fraction = 0.8141), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 100 mL concentrated HNO
3
and evaporate to dryness. Slurry the residue in 20 mL H
2
O, add 50 mL concentrated HNO
3
, with heat and stirring add 60 mL 50% H
2
O
2
dropwise in 1 mL increments allowing periods of stirring between the 1 mL additions. Boil off excess H
2
O
2
before diluting to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.10 Chromium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Cr: Dissolve 1.923 g CrO
3
(Cr fraction = 0.5200), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 120 mL (1 + 5) HNO
3
. When solution is complete, dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.11 Cobalt solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Co: Dissolve 1.000 g Co metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 9) HNO
3
, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50.0 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
. Let solution cool and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.12 Copper solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Cu: Dissolve 1.000 g Cu metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 9) HNO
3
, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50.0 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
with heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.13 Iron solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Fe: Dissolve 1.000 g Fe metal, acid cleaned
with (1 + 1) HCl, weighed accurately to four significant figures, in 100 mL (1 + 1) HCl with heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water in a 1 L volumetric flask.
7.8.14 Lead solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Pb: Dissolve 1.599 g Pb(NO
3
)
2
(Pb fraction = 0.6256), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in a minimum amount of (1 + 1) HNO
3
. Add 20.0 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.15 Lithium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Li: Dissolve 5.324 g Li
2
CO
3
(Li fraction = 0.1878), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in a minimum amount of (1 + 1) HCl and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.16 Magnesium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Mg: Dissolve 1.000 g cleanly polished Mg ribbon, accurately weighed to at least four significant figures, in slowly added 5.0 mL (1 + 1) HCl (CAUTION: reaction is vigorous). Add 20.0 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.17 Manganese solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Mn: Dissolve 1.000 g of manganese metal, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.18 Mercury solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Hg:
DO NOT DRY.
CAUTION: highly toxic element. Dissolve 1.354 g HgCl
2
(Hg fraction = 0.7388) in reagent water. Add 50.0 mL concentrated HNO
3
and dilute to volume in 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.19 Molybdenum solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Mo: Dissolve 1.500 g MoO
3
(Mo fraction = 0.6666), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in a mixture of 100 mL reagent water and 10.0 mL concentrated NH
4
OH, heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water in a 1 L volumetric flask.
7.8.20 Nickel solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ni: Dissolve 1.000 g of nickel metal, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 20.0 mL hot concentrated HNO
3
, cool, and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.21 Phosphorus solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg P: Dissolve 3.745 g NH
4
H
2
PO
4
(P fraction = 0.2696), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 200 mL reagent water and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.22 Potassium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg K: Dissolve 1.907 g KCl (K fraction = 0.5244) dried at 110 °C, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water, add 20 mL (1 + 1) HCl and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.23 Selenium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Se: Dissolve 1.405 g SeO
2
(Se fraction = 0.7116), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 200 mL reagent water and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.24 Silica solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg SiO
2
:
DO NOT DRY.
Dissolve 2.964 g (NH
4
)
2
SiF
6
, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 200 mL (1 + 20) HCl with heating at 85 °C to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.25 Silver solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ag: Dissolve 1.000 g Ag metal, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 80 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
with heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water in a 1 L volumetric flask. Store solution in amber bottle or wrap bottle completely with aluminum foil to protect solution from light.
7.8.26 Sodium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Na: Dissolve 2.542 g NaCl (Na fraction = 0.3934), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water. Add 10.0 mL concentrated HNO
3
and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.27 Strontium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Sr: Dissolve 1.685 g SrCO
3
(Sr fraction = 0.5935), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 200 mL reagent water with dropwise addition of 100 mL (1 + 1) HCl. Dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.28 Thallium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Tl: Dissolve 1.303 g TlNO
3
(Tl fraction = 0.7672), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water. Add 10.0 mL concentrated HNO
3
and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.29 Tin solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Sn: Dissolve 1.000 g Sn shot, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in an acid mixture of 10.0 mL concentrated HCl and 2.0 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
with heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool, add 200 mL concentrated HCl, and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.30 Titanium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ti:
DO NOT DRY.
Dissolve 6.138 g (NH
4
)
2
TiO(C
2
O
4
)
2
•H
2
O (Ti fraction = 0.1629), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 100 mL reagent water. Dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.31 Vanadium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg V: Dissolve 1.000 g V metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 9) HNO
3
, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
with heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask.
7.8.32 Yttrium solution, stock 1 mL = 1000 µg Y: Dissolve 1.270 g Y
2
O
3
(Y fraction = 0.7875), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
, heating to effect dissolution. Cool and dilute
to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
7.8.33 Zinc solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Zn: Dissolve 1.000 g Zn metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 9) HNO
3
, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
with heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask.
7.9 Mixed Calibration Standard Solutions—For the analysis of total recoverable digested samples prepare mixed calibration standard solutions (see Table 3) by combining appropriate volumes of the stock solutions in 500 mL volumetric flasks containing 20 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
and 20 mL (1 + 1) HCl and dilute to volume with reagent water. Prior to preparing the mixed standards, each stock solution should be analyzed separately to determine possible spectral interferences or the presence of impurities. Care should be taken when preparing the mixed standards to ensure that the elements are compatible and stable together. To minimize the opportunity for contamination by the containers, it is recommended to transfer the mixed-standard solutions to acid-cleaned, never-used FEP fluorocarbon (FEP) bottles for storage. Fresh mixed standards should be prepared, as needed, with the realization that concentrations can change on aging. Calibration standards not prepared from primary standards must be initially verified using a certified reference solution. For the recommended wavelengths listed in Table 1 some typical calibration standard combinations are given in Table 3.
Note: If the addition of silver to the recommended mixed-acid calibration standard results in an initial precipitation, add 15 mL of reagent water and warm the flask until the solution clears. For this acid combination, the silver concentration should be limited to 0.5 mg/L.
7.10 Blanks—Four types of blanks are required for the analysis. The calibration blank is used in establishing the analytical curve, the laboratory reagent blank is used to assess possible contamination from the sample preparation procedure, the laboratory fortified blank is used to assess routine laboratory performance and a rinse blank is used to flush the instrument uptake system and nebulizer between standards, check solutions, and samples to reduce memory interferences.
7.10.1 The calibration blank for aqueous samples and extracts is prepared by acidifying reagent water to the same concentrations of the acids as used for the standards. The calibration blank should be stored in a FEP bottle.
7.10.2 The laboratory reagent blank (LRB) must contain all the reagents in the same volumes as used in the processing of the samples. The LRB must be carried through the same entire preparation scheme as the samples including sample digestion, when applicable.
7.10.3 The laboratory fortified blank (LFB) is prepared by fortifying an aliquot of the laboratory reagent blank with all analytes to a suitable concentration using the following recommended criteria: Ag 0.1 mg/L, K 5.0 mg/L and all other analytes 0.2 mg/L or a concentration approximately 100 times their respective MDL, whichever is greater. The LFB must be carried through the same entire preparation scheme as the samples including sample digestion, when applicable.
7.10.4 The rinse blank is prepared by acidifying reagent water to the same concentrations of acids as used in the calibration blank and stored in a convenient manner.
7.11 Instrument Performance Check (IPC) Solution—The IPC solution is used to periodically verify instrument performance during analysis. It should be prepared in the same acid mixture as the calibration standards by combining method analytes at appropriate concentrations. Silver must be limited to
0.5 mg/L; while potassium and phosphorus because of higher MDLs and silica because of potential contamination should be at concentrations of 10 mg/L. For other analytes a concentration of 2 mg/L is recommended. The IPC solution should be prepared from the same standard stock solutions used to prepare the calibration standards and stored in an FEP bottle. Agency programs may specify or request that additional instrument performance check solutions be prepared at specified concentrations in order to meet particular program needs.
7.12 Quality Control Sample (QCS)—Analysis of a QCS is required for initial and periodic verification of calibration standards or stock standard solutions in order to verify instrument performance. The QCS must be obtained from an outside source different from the standard stock solutions and prepared in the same acid mixture as the calibration standards. The concentration of the analytes in the QCS solution should be 1 mg/L, except silver, which must be limited to a concentration of 0.5 mg/L for solution stability. The QCS solution should be stored in a FEP bottle and analyzed as needed to meet data-quality needs. A fresh solution should be prepared quarterly or more frequently as needed.
7.13 Spectral Interference Check (SIC) Solutions—When interelement corrections are applied, SIC solutions are needed containing concentrations of the interfering elements at levels that will provide an adequate test of the correction factors.
7.13.1 SIC solutions containing (a) 300 mg/L Fe; (b) 200 mg/L AL; (c) 50 mg/L Ba; (d) 50 mg/L Be; (e) 50 mg/L Cd; (f) 50 mg/L Ce; (g) 50 mg/L Co; (h) 50 mg/L Cr; (i) 50 mg/L Cu; (j) 50
mg/L Mn; (k) 50 mg/L Mo; (l) 50 mg/L Ni; (m) 50 mg/L Sn; (n) 50 mg/L SiO
2
; (o) 50 mg/L Ti; (p) 50 mg/L Tl and (q) 50 mg/L V should be prepared in the same acid mixture as the calibration standards and stored in FEP bottles. These solutions can be used to periodically verify a partial list of the on-line (and possible off-line) interelement spectral correction factors for the recommended wavelengths given in Table 1. Other solutions could achieve the same objective as well. (Multielement SIC solutions
3
may be prepared and substituted for the single element solutions provided an analyte is not subject to interference from more than one interferant in the solution.)
Note: If wavelengths other than those recommended in Table 1 are used, other solutions different from those above (a through q) may be required.
7.13.2 For interferences from iron and aluminum, only those correction factors (positive or negative) when multiplied by 100 to calculate apparent analyte concentrations that exceed the determined analyte IDL or fall below the lower 3-sigma control limit of the calibration blank need be tested on a daily basis.
7.13.3 For the other interfering elements, only those correction factors (positive or negative) when multiplied by 10 to calculate apparent analyte concentrations that exceed the determined analyte IDL or fall below the lower 3-sigma control limit of the calibration blank need be tested on a daily basis.
7.13.4 If the correction routine is operating properly, the determined apparent analyte(s) concentration from analysis of each interference solution (a through q) should fall within a specific concentration range bracketing the calibration blank. This concentration range is calculated by multiplying the concentration of the interfering element by the value of the correction factor being tested and dividing by 10. If after subtraction of the calibration blank the apparent analyte concentration is outside (above or below) this range, a change in the correction factor of more than 10% should be suspected. The cause of the change should be determined and corrected and the correction factor should be updated.
Note: The SIC solution should be analyzed more than once to confirm a change has occurred with adequate rinse time between solutions and before subsequent analysis of the calibration blank.
7.13.5 If the correction factors tested on a daily basis are found to be within the 10% criteria for five consecutive days, the required verification frequency of those factors in compliance may be extended to a weekly basis. Also, if the nature of the samples analyzed is such (e.g., finished drinking water) that they do not contain concentrations of the interfering elements at the 10 mg/L level, daily verification is not required; however, all interelement spectral correction factors must be verified annually and updated, if necessary.
7.13.6 If the instrument does not display negative concentration values, fortify the SIC solutions with the elements of interest at 1 mg/L and test for analyte recoveries that are below 95%. In the absence of measurable analyte, over-correction could go undetected because a negative value could be reported as zero.
7.14 For instruments without interelement correction capability or when interelement corrections are not used, SIC solutions (containing similar concentrations of the major components in the samples, e.g., 10 mg/L) can serve to verify the absence of effects at the wavelengths selected. These data must be kept on file with the sample analysis data. If the SIC solution confirms an operative interference that is 10% of the analyte concentration, the analyte must be determined using a wavelength and background correction location free of the interference or by another approved test procedure. Users are advised that high salt concentrations can cause analyte signal suppressions and confuse interference tests.
7.15 Plasma Solution—The plasma solution is used for determining the optimum viewing height of the plasma above the work coil prior to using the method (Section 10.2). The solution is prepared by adding a 5 mL aliquot from each of the stock standard solutions of arsenic, lead, selenium, and thallium to a mixture of 20 mL (1 + 1) nitric acid and 20 mL (1 + 1) hydrochloric acid and diluting to 500 mL with reagent water. Store in a FEP bottle.

# 8.0 Sample Collection, Preservation, and Storage
8.1 Prior to the collection of an aqueous sample, consideration should be given to the type of data required, (
i.e.,
dissolved or total recoverable), so that appropriate preservation and pretreatment steps can be taken. The pH of all aqueous samples must be tested immediately prior to aliquoting for processing or “direct analysis” to ensure the sample has been properly preserved. If properly acid preserved, the sample can be held up to six months before analysis.
8.2 For the determination of the dissolved elements, the sample must be filtered through a 0.45 µm pore diameter membrane filter at the time of collection or as soon thereafter as practically possible. (Glass or plastic filtering apparatus are recommended to avoid possible contamination. Only plastic apparatus should be used when the determinations of boron and silica are critical.) Use a portion of the filtered sample to rinse the filter flask, discard this portion and collect the required volume of filtrate. Acidify
the filtrate with (1 + 1) nitric acid immediately following filtration to pH
2.
8.3 For the determination of total recoverable elements in aqueous samples, samples are not filtered, but acidified with (1 + 1) nitric acid to pH
2 (normally, 3 mL of (1 + 1) acid per liter of sample is sufficient for most ambient and drinking water samples). Preservation may be done at the time of collection, however, to avoid the hazards of strong acids in the field, transport restrictions, and possible contamination it is recommended that the samples be returned to the laboratory within two weeks of collection and acid preserved upon receipt in the laboratory. Following acidification, the sample should be mixed, held for 16 hours, and then verified to be pH
2 just prior withdrawing an aliquot for processing or “direct analysis”. If for some reason such as high alkalinity the sample pH is verified to be
2, more acid must be added and the sample held for 16 hours until verified to be pH
2. See Section 8.1.
Note: When the nature of the sample is either unknown or is known to be hazardous, acidification should be done in a fume hood. See Section 5.2.
8.4 Solid samples require no preservation prior to analysis other than storage at 4 °C. There is no established holding time limitation for solid samples.
8.5 For aqueous samples, a field blank should be prepared and analyzed as required by the data user. Use the same container and acid as used in sample collection.

# 9.0 Quality Control
9.1 Each laboratory using this method is required to operate a formal quality control (QC) program. The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability, and the periodic analysis of laboratory reagent blanks, fortified blanks and other laboratory solutions as a continuing check on performance. The laboratory is required to maintain performance records that define the quality of the data thus generated.
9.2 Initial Demonstration of Performance (mandatory).
9.2.1 The initial demonstration of performance is used to characterize instrument performance (determination of linear dynamic ranges and analysis of quality control samples) and laboratory performance (determination of method detection limits) prior to analyses conducted by this method.
9.2.2 Linear dynamic range (LDR)—The upper limit of the LDR must be established for each wavelength utilized. It must be determined from a linear calibration prepared in the normal manner using the established analytical operating procedure for the instrument. The LDR should be determined by analyzing succeedingly higher standard concentrations of the analyte until the observed analyte concentration is no more than 10% below the stated concentration of the standard. Determined LDRs must be documented and kept on file. The LDR which may be used for the analysis of samples should be judged by the analyst from the resulting data. Determined sample analyte concentrations that are greater than 90% of the determined upper LDR limit must be diluted and reanalyzed. The LDRs should be verified annually or whenever, in the judgment of the analyst, a change in analytical performance caused by either a change in instrument hardware or operating conditions would dictate they be redetermined.
9.2.3 Quality control sample (QCS)—When beginning the use of this method, on a quarterly basis, after the preparation of stock or calibration standard solutions or as required to meet data-quality needs, verify the calibration standards and acceptable instrument performance with the preparation and analyses of a QCS (Section 7.12). To verify the calibration standards the determined mean concentrations from three analyses of the QCS must be within 5% of the stated values. If the calibration standard cannot be verified, performance of the determinative step of the method is unacceptable. The source of the problem must be identified and corrected before either proceeding on with the initial determination of method detection limits or continuing with on-going analyses.
9.2.4 Method detection limit (MDL)—MDLs must be established for all wavelengths utilized, using reagent water (blank) fortified at a concentration of two to three times the estimated instrument detection limit.
15
To determine MDL values, take seven replicate aliquots of the fortified reagent water and process through the entire analytical method. Perform all calculations defined in the method and report the concentration values in the appropriate units. Calculate the MDL as follows:
MDL = (t) × (S)
where:
t = students' t value for a 99% confidence level and a standard deviation estimate with n-1 degrees of freedom [t = 3.14 for seven replicates]
S = standard deviation of the replicate analyses
Note: If additional confirmation is desired, reanalyze the seven replicate aliquots on two more nonconsecutive days and again calculate the MDL values for each day. An average of the three MDL values for each analyte may provide for a more appropriate MDL estimate. If the relative standard deviation (RSD) from the analyses of the seven aliquots is
10%, the concentration used to determine the analyte MDL may have been inappropriately high for the determination. If so, this could result in the calculation of
an unrealistically low MDL. Concurrently, determination of MDL in reagent water represents a best case situation and does not reflect possible matrix effects of real world samples. However, successful analyses of LFMs (Section 9.4) and the analyte addition test described in Section 9.5.1 can give confidence to the MDL value determined in reagent water. Typical single laboratory MDL values using this method are given in Table 4.
The MDLs must be sufficient to detect analytes at the required levels according to compliance monitoring regulation (Section 1.2). MDLs should be determined annually, when a new operator begins work or whenever, in the judgment of the analyst, a change in analytical performance caused by either a change in instrument hardware or operating conditions would dictate they be redetermined.
9.3 Assessing Laboratory Performance (mandatory)
9.3.1 Laboratory reagent blank (LRB)—The laboratory must analyze at least one LRB (Section 7.10.2) with each batch of 20 or fewer samples of the same matrix. LRB data are used to assess contamination from the laboratory environment. LRB values that exceed the MDL indicate laboratory or reagent contamination should be suspected. When LRB values constitute 10% or more of the analyte level determined for a sample or is 2.2 times the analyte MDL whichever is greater, fresh aliquots of the samples must be prepared and analyzed again for the affected analytes after the source of contamination has been corrected and acceptable LRB values have been obtained.
9.3.2 Laboratory fortified blank (LFB)—The laboratory must analyze at least one LFB (Section 7.10.3) with each batch of samples. Calculate accuracy as percent recovery using the following equation:
ER18MY12.002
where:
R = percent recovery
LFB = laboratory fortified blank
LRB = laboratory reagent blank
s = concentration equivalent of analyte added to fortify the LBR solution
If the recovery of any analyte falls outside the required control limits of 85-115%, that analyte is judged out of control, and the source of the problem should be identified and resolved before continuing analyses.
9.3.3 The laboratory must use LFB analyses data to assess laboratory performance against the required control limits of 85-115% (Section 9.3.2). When sufficient internal performance data become available (usually a minimum of 20-30 analyses), optional control limits can be developed from the mean percent recovery (x) and the standard deviation (S) of the mean percent recovery. These data can be used to establish the upper and lower control limits as follows:
UPPER CONTROL LIMIT = x + 3S
LOWER CONTROL LIMIT = x − 3S
The optional control limits must be equal to or better than the required control limits of 85-115%. After each five to 10 new recovery measurements, new control limits can be calculated using only the most recent 20-30 data points. Also, the standard deviation (S) data should be used to establish an on-going precision statement for the level of concentrations included in the LFB. These data must be kept on file and be available for review.
9.3.4 Instrument performance check (IPC) solution—For all determinations the laboratory must analyze the IPC solution (Section 7.11) and a calibration blank immediately following daily calibration, after every 10th sample (or more frequently, if required) and at the end of the sample run. Analysis of the calibration blank should always be
the analyte IDL, but greater than the lower 3-sigma control limit of the calibration blank. Analysis of the IPC solution immediately following calibration must verify that the instrument is within 5% of calibration with a relative standard deviation
3% from replicate integrations 4. Subsequent analyses of the IPC solution must be within 10% of calibration. If the calibration cannot be verified within the specified limits, reanalyze either or both the IPC solution and the calibration blank. If the second analysis of the IPC solution or the calibration blank confirm calibration to be outside the limits, sample analysis must be discontinued, the cause determined, corrected and/or the instrument recalibrated. All samples following the last acceptable IPC solution must be reanalyzed. The analysis data of the calibration blank and IPC solution must be kept on file with the sample analyses data.
9.3.5 Spectral interference check (SIC) solution—For all determinations the laboratory must periodically verify the interelement spectral interference correction routine by analyzing SIC solutions. The preparation and required periodic analysis of SIC solutions and test criteria for verifying the interelement interference correction routine are given in Section 7.13. Special cases where on-going verification is required are described in Section 7.14.
9.4 Assessing Analyte Recovery and Data Quality.
9.4.1 Sample homogeneity and the chemical nature of the sample matrix can affect analyte recovery and the quality of the data. Taking separate aliquots from the sample for replicate and fortified analyses can in some cases assess the effect. Unless otherwise specified by the data user, laboratory or program, the following laboratory fortified matrix (LFM) procedure (Section 9.4.2) is required. Also, other tests such as the analyte addition test (Section 9.5.1) and sample dilution test (Section 9.5.2) can indicate if matrix effects are operative.
9.4.2 The laboratory must add a known amount of each analyte to a minimum of 10% of the routine samples. In each case the LFM aliquot must be a duplicate of the aliquot used for sample analysis and for total recoverable determinations added prior to sample preparation. For water samples, the added analyte concentration must be the same as that used in the laboratory fortified blank (Section 7.10.3). For solid samples, however, the concentration added should be expressed as mg/kg and is calculated for a one gram aliquot by multiplying the added analyte concentration (mg/L) in solution by the conversion factor 100 (mg/L × 0.1L/0.001kg = 100, Section 12.5). (For notes on Ag, Ba, and Sn see Sections 1.7 and 1.8.) Over time, samples from all routine sample sources should be fortified.
Note: The concentration of calcium, magnesium, sodium and strontium in environmental waters, along with iron and aluminum in solids can vary greatly and are not necessarily predictable. Fortifying these analytes in routine samples at the same concentration used for the LFB may prove to be of little use in assessing data quality for these analytes. For these analytes sample dilution and reanalysis using the criteria given in Section 9.5.2 is recommended. Also, if specified by the data user, laboratory or program, samples can be fortified at higher concentrations, but even major constituents should be limited to
25 mg/L so as not to alter the sample matrix and affect the analysis.
9.4.3 Calculate the percent recovery for each analyte, corrected for background concentrations measured in the unfortified sample, and compare these values to the designated LFM recovery range of 70-130% or a 3-sigma recovery range calculated from the regression equations given in Table 9.
16
Recovery calculations are not required if the concentration added is less than 30% of the sample background concentration. Percent recovery may be calculated in units appropriate to the matrix, using the following equation:
ER18MY12.003
where:
R = percent recovery
C
s
= fortified sample concentration
C = sample background concentration
s = concentration equivalent of analyte added to fortify the sample
9.4.4 If the recovery of any analyte falls outside the designated LFM recovery range, and the laboratory performance for that analyte is shown to be in control (Section 9.3), the recovery problem encountered with the fortified sample is judged to be matrix related, not system related. The data user should be informed that the result for that analyte in the unfortified sample is suspect due to either the heterogeneous nature of the sample or matrix effects and analysis by method of standard addition or the use of an internal standard(s) (Section 11.5) should be considered.
9.4.5 Where reference materials are available, they should be analyzed to provide additional performance data. The analysis of reference samples is a valuable tool for demonstrating the ability to perform the method acceptably. Reference materials containing high concentrations of analytes can provide additional information on the performance of the spectral interference correction routine.
9.5 Assess the possible need for the method of standard additions (MSA) or internal standard elements by the following tests. Directions for using MSA or internal standard(s) are given in Section 11.5.
9.5.1 Analyte addition test: An analyte(s) standard added to a portion of a prepared sample, or its dilution, should be recovered to within 85% to 115% of the known value. The analyte(s) addition should produce a
minimum level of 20 times and a maximum of 100 times the method detection limit. If the analyte addition is
20% of the sample analyte concentration, the following dilution test should be used. If recovery of the analyte(s) is not within the specified limits, a matrix effect should be suspected, and the associated data flagged accordingly. The method of additions or the use of an appropriate internal standard element may provide more accurate data.
9.5.2 Dilution test: If the analyte concentration is sufficiently high (minimally, a factor of 50 above the instrument detection limit in the original solution but
90% of the linear limit), an analysis of a 1 + 4 dilution should agree (after correction for the fivefold dilution) within 10% of the original determination. If not, a chemical or physical interference effect should be suspected and the associated data flagged accordingly. The method of standard additions or the use of an internal-standard element may provide more accurate data for samples failing this test.

# 10.0 Calibration and Standardization
10.1 Specific wavelengths are listed in Table 1. Other wavelengths may be substituted if they can provide the needed sensitivity and are corrected for spectral interference. However, because of the difference among various makes and models of spectrometers, specific instrument operating conditions cannot be given. The instrument and operating conditions utilized for determination must be capable of providing data of acceptable quality to the program and data user. The analyst should follow the instructions provided by the instrument manufacturer unless other conditions provide similar or better performance for a task. Operating conditions for aqueous solutions usually vary from 1100-1200 watts forward power, 15-16 mm viewing height, 15-19 L/min. argon coolant flow, 0.6-1 L/min. argon aerosol flow, 1-1.8 mL/min. sample pumping rate with a one minute preflush time and measurement time near 1 s per wavelength peak (for sequential instruments) and near 10 s per sample (for simultaneous instruments). Use of the Cu/Mn intensity ratio at 324.754 nm and 257.610 nm (by adjusting the argon aerosol flow) has been recommended as a way to achieve repeatable interference correction factors.
17
10.2 Prior to using this method optimize the plasma operating conditions. The following procedure is recommended for vertically configured plasmas. The purpose of plasma optimization is to provide a maximum signal-to-background ratio for the least sensitive element in the analytical array. The use of a mass flow controller to regulate the nebulizer gas flow rate greatly facilitates the procedure.
10.2.1 Ignite the plasma and select an appropriate incident rf power with minimum reflected power. Allow the instrument to become thermally stable before beginning. This usually requires at least 30 to 60 minutes of operation. While aspirating the 1000 µg/mL solution of yttrium (Section 7.8.32), follow the instrument manufacturer's instructions and adjust the aerosol carrier gas flow rate through the nebulizer so a definitive blue emission region of the plasma extends approximately from 5-20 mm above the top of the work coil.
18
Record the nebulizer gas flow rate or pressure setting for future reference.
10.2.2 After establishing the nebulizer gas flow rate, determine the solution uptake rate of the nebulizer in mL/min. by aspirating a known volume calibration blank for a period of at least three minutes. Divide the spent volume by the aspiration time (in minutes) and record the uptake rate. Set the peristaltic pump to deliver the uptake rate in a steady even flow.
10.2.3 After horizontally aligning the plasma and/or optically profiling the spectrometer, use the selected instrument conditions from Sections 10.2.1 and 10.2.2, and aspirate the plasma solution (Section 7.15), containing 10 µg/mL each of As, Pb, Se and Tl. Collect intensity data at the wavelength peak for each analyte at 1 mm intervals from 14-18 mm above the top of the work coil. (This region of the plasma is commonly referred to as the analytical zone.)
19
Repeat the process using the calibration blank. Determine the net signal to blank intensity ratio for each analyte for each viewing height setting. Choose the height for viewing the plasma that provides the largest intensity ratio for the least sensitive element of the four analytes. If more than one position provides the same ratio, select the position that provides the highest net intensity counts for the least sensitive element or accept a compromise position of the intensity ratios of all four analytes.
10.2.4 The instrument operating condition finally selected as being optimum should provide the lowest reliable instrument detection limits and method detection limits. Refer to Tables 1 and 4 for comparison of IDLs and MDLs, respectively.
10.2.5 If either the instrument operating conditions, such as incident power and/or nebulizer gas flow rate are changed, or a new torch injector tube having a different orifice i.d. is installed, the plasma and plasma viewing height should be reoptimized.
10.2.6 Before daily calibration and after the instrument warmup period, the nebulizer gas flow must be reset to the determined optimized flow. If a mass flow controller is being used, it should be reset to the recorded optimized flow rate. In order to maintain valid spectral interelement correction routines the nebulizer gas flow rate should be
the same from day-to-day (
2% change). The change in signal intensity with a change in nebulizer gas flow rate for both “hard” (Pb 220.353 nm) and “soft” (Cu 324.754) lines is illustrated in Figure 1.
10.3 Before using the procedure (Section 11.0) to analyze samples, there must be data available documenting initial demonstration of performance. The required data and procedure is described in Section 9.2. This data must be generated using the same instrument operating conditions and calibration routine (Section 11.4) to be used for sample analysis. These documented data must be kept on file and be available for review by the data user.
10.4 After completing the initial demonstration of performance, but before analyzing samples, the laboratory must establish and initially verify an interelement spectral interference correction routine to be used during sample analysis. A general description concerning spectral interference and the analytical requirements for background correction and for correction of interelement spectral interference in particular are given in Section 4.1. To determine the appropriate location for background correction and to establish the interelement interference correction routine, repeated spectral scan about the analyte wavelength and repeated analyses of the single element solutions may be required. Criteria for determining an interelement spectral interference is an apparent positive or negative concentration on the analyte that is outside the 3-sigma control limits of the calibration blank for the analyte. (The upper-control limit is the analyte IDL.) Once established, the entire routine must be initially and periodically verified annually, or whenever there is a change in instrument operating conditions (Section 10.2.5). Only a portion of the correction routine must be verified more frequently or on a daily basis. Test criteria and required solutions are described in Section 7.13. Initial and periodic verification data of the routine should be kept on file. Special cases where on-going verification are required is described in Section 7.14.

# 11.0 Procedure

# 11.1 Aqueous Sample Preparation—Dissolved Analytes
11.1.1 For the determination of dissolved analytes in ground and surface waters, pipet an aliquot (20 mL) of the filtered, acid preserved sample into a 50 mL polypropylene centrifuge tube. Add an appropriate volume of (1 + 1) nitric acid to adjust the acid concentration of the aliquot to approximate a 1% (v/v) nitric acid solution (e.g., add 0.4 mL (1 + 1) HNO
3
to a 20 mL aliquot of sample). Cap the tube and mix. The sample is now ready for analysis (Section 1.3). Allowance for sample dilution should be made in the calculations. (If mercury is to be determined, a separate aliquot must be additionally acidified to contain 1% (v/v) HCl to match the signal response of mercury in the calibration standard and reduce memory interference effects. Section 1.9).

# Note:
If a precipitate is formed during acidification, transport, or storage, the sample aliquot must be treated using the procedure described in Sections 11.2.2 through 11.2.7 prior to analysis.

# 11.2 Aqueous Sample Preparation—Total Recoverable Analytes
11.2.1 For the “direct analysis” of total recoverable analytes in drinking water samples containing turbidity
1 NTU, treat an unfiltered acid preserved sample aliquot using the sample preparation procedure described in Section 11.1.1 while making allowance for sample dilution in the data calculation (Section 1.2). For the determination of total recoverable analytes in all other aqueous samples or for preconcentrating drinking water samples prior to analysis follow the procedure given in Sections 11.2.2 through 11.2.7.
11.2.2 For the determination of total recoverable analytes in aqueous samples (other than drinking water with
1 NTU turbidity), transfer a 100 mL (1 mL) aliquot from a well mixed, acid preserved sample to a 250 mL Griffin beaker (Sections 1.2, 1.3, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, and 1.9). (When necessary, smaller sample aliquot volumes may be used.)

# Note:
If the sample contains
undissolved
solids
1%, a well mixed, acid preserved aliquot containing no more than 1 g particulate material should be cautiously evaporated to near 10 mL and extracted using the acid-mixture procedure described in Sections 11.3.3 through 11.3.6.
11.2.3 Add 2 mL (1 + 1) nitric acid and 1.0 mL of (1 + 1) hydrochloric acid to the beaker containing the measured volume of sample. Place the beaker on the hot plate for solution evaporation. The hot plate should be located in a fume hood and previously adjusted to provide evaporation at a temperature of approximately but no higher than 85 °C. (See the following note.) The beaker should be covered with an elevated watch glass or other necessary steps should be taken to prevent sample contamination from the fume hood environment.

# Note:
For proper heating adjust the temperature control of the hot plate such that an uncovered Griffin beaker containing 50 mL of water placed in the center of the hot plate can be maintained at a temperature approximately but no higher than 85 °C. (Once the beaker is covered with a watch glass the temperature of the water will rise to approximately 95 °C.)
11.2.4 Reduce the volume of the sample aliquot to about 20 mL by gentle heating at 85 °C.
DO NOT BOIL.
This step takes about two hours for a 100 mL aliquot with the rate of evaporation rapidly increasing as the sample volume approaches 20 mL. (A spare beaker containing 20 mL of water can be used as a gauge.)
11.2.5 Cover the lip of the beaker with a watch glass to reduce additional evaporation and gently reflux the sample for 30 minutes. (Slight boiling may occur, but vigorous boiling must be avoided to prevent loss of the HCl-H
2
O azeotrope.)
11.2.6 Allow the beaker to cool. Quantitatively transfer the sample solution to a 50 mL volumetric flask, make to volume with reagent water, stopper and mix.
11.2.7 Allow any undissolved material to settle overnight, or centrifuge a portion of the prepared sample until clear. (If after centrifuging or standing overnight the sample contains suspended solids that would clog the nebulizer, a portion of the sample may be filtered for their removal prior to analysis. However, care should be exercised to avoid potential contamination from filtration.) The sample is now ready for analysis. Because the effects of various matrices on the stability of diluted samples cannot be characterized, all analyses should be performed as soon as possible after the completed preparation.

# 11.3 Solid Sample Preparation—Total Recoverable Analytes
11.3.1 For the determination of total recoverable analytes in solid samples, mix the sample thoroughly and transfer a portion (
20 g) to tared weighing dish, weigh the sample and record the wet weight (WW). (For samples with
35% moisture a 20 g portion is sufficient. For samples with moisture
35% a larger aliquot 50-100 g is required.) Dry the sample to a constant weight at 60 °C and record the dry weight (DW) for calculation of percent solids (Section 12.6). (The sample is dried at 60 °C to prevent the loss of mercury and other possible volatile metallic compounds, to facilitate sieving, and to ready the sample for grinding.)
11.3.2 To achieve homogeneity, sieve the dried sample using a 5-mesh polypropylene sieve and grind in a mortar and pestle. (The sieve, mortar and pestle should be cleaned between samples.) From the dried, ground material weigh accurately a representative 1.0 ±0.01 g aliquot (W) of the sample and transfer to a 250 mL Phillips beaker for acid extraction (Sections 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, and 1.9).
11.3.3 To the beaker add 4 mL of (1 + 1) HNO
3
and 10 mL of (1 + 4) HCl. Cover the lip of the beaker with a watch glass. Place the beaker on a hot plate for reflux extraction of the analytes. The hot plate should be located in a fume hood and previously adjusted to provide a reflux temperature of approximately 95 °C. (See the following note.)

# Note:
For proper heating adjust the temperature control of the hot plate such that an uncovered Griffin beaker containing 50 mL of water placed in the center of the hot plate can be maintained at a temperature approximately but no higher than 85 °C. (Once the beaker is covered with a watch glass the temperature of the water will rise to approximately 95 °C.) Also, a block digester capable of maintaining a temperature of 95 °C and equipped with 250 mL constricted volumetric digestion tubes may be substituted for the hot plate and conical beakers in the extraction step.
11.3.4 Heat the sample and gently reflux for 30 minutes. Very slight boiling may occur, however vigorous boiling must be avoided to prevent loss of the HCl-H
2
O azeotrope. Some solution evaporation will occur (3-4 mL).
11.3.5 Allow the sample to cool and quantitatively transfer the extract to a 100 mL volumetric flask. Dilute to volume with reagent water, stopper and mix.
11.3.6 Allow the sample extract solution to stand overnight to separate insoluble material or centrifuge a portion of the sample solution until clear. (If after centrifuging or standing overnight the extract solution contains suspended solids that would clog the nebulizer, a portion of the extract solution may be filtered for their removal prior to analysis. However, care should be exercised to avoid potential contamination from filtration.) The sample extract is now ready for analysis. Because the effects of various matrices on the stability of diluted samples cannot be characterized, all analyses should be performed as soon as possible after the completed preparation.

# 11.4 Sample Analysis
11.4.1 Prior to daily calibration of the instrument inspect the sample introduction system including the nebulizer, torch, injector tube and uptake tubing for salt deposits, dirt and debris that would restrict solution flow and affect instrument performance. Clean the system when needed or on a daily basis.
11.4.2 Configure the instrument system to the selected power and operating conditions as determined in Sections 10.1 and 10.2.
11.4.3 The instrument must be allowed to become thermally stable before calibration and analyses. This usually requires at least 30 to 60 minutes of operation. After instrument warmup, complete any required optical profiling or alignment particular to the instrument.
11.4.4 For initial and daily operation calibrate the instrument according to the instrument manufacturer's recommended procedures, using mixed calibration standard solutions (Section 7.9) and the calibration blank (Section 7.10.1). A peristaltic pump must be used to introduce all solutions to the nebulizer. To allow equilibrium to be reached in the plasma, aspirate all solutions for 30 seconds after reaching the plasma before beginning integration of the background corrected signal to accumulate data. When possible, use the average value of replicate integration periods of the signal to be correlated to the analyte concentration. Flush the system with the rinse blank (Section 7.10.4) for a minimum of 60 seconds (Section 4.4) between each standard. The calibration line should consist of a minimum of a calibration blank and a high standard. Replicates of the blank and highest standard provide an optimal distribution of calibration standards to minimize the confidence band for a straight-line calibration in a response region with uniform variance.
20
11.4.5 After completion of the initial requirements of this method (Sections 10.3 and 10.4), samples should be analyzed in the same operational manner used in the calibration routine with the rinse blank also being used between all sample solutions, LFBs, LFMs, and check solutions (Section 7.10.4).
11.4.6 During the analysis of samples, the laboratory must comply with the required quality control described in Sections 9.3 and 9.4. Only for the determination of dissolved analytes or the “direct analysis” of drinking water with turbidity of
1 NTU is the sample digestion step of the LRB, LFB, and LFM not required.
11.4.7 Determined sample analyte concentrations that are 90% or more of the upper limit of the analyte LDR must be diluted with reagent water that has been acidified in the same manner as calibration blank and reanalyzed (see Section 11.4.8). Also, for the interelement spectral interference correction routines to remain valid during sample analysis, the interferant concentration must not exceed its LDR. If the interferant LDR is exceeded, sample dilution with acidified reagent water and reanalysis is required. In these circumstances analyte detection limits are raised and determination by another approved test procedure that is either more sensitive and/or interference free is recommended.
11.4.8 When it is necessary to assess an operative matrix interference (e.g., signal reduction due to high dissolved solids), the tests described in Section 9.5 are recommended.
11.4.9 Report data as directed in Section 12.0.
11.5 If the method of standard additions (MSA) is used, standards are added at one or more levels to portions of a prepared sample. This technique
21
compensates for enhancement or depression of an analyte signal by a matrix. It will not correct for additive interferences such as contamination, interelement interferences, or baseline shifts. This technique is valid in the linear range when the interference effect is constant over the range, the added analyte responds the same as the endogenous analyte, and the signal is corrected for additive interferences. The simplest version of this technique is the single-addition method. This procedure calls for two identical aliquots of the sample solution to be taken. To the first aliquot, a small volume of standard is added; while to the second aliquot, a volume of acid blank is added equal to the standard addition. The sample concentration is calculated by the following:
ER18MY12.004
where:
C = Concentration of the standard solution (mg/L)
S
1
= Signal for fortified aliquot
S
2
= Signal for unfortified aliquot
V
1
= Volume of the standard addition (L)
V
2
= Volume of the sample aliquot (L) used for MSA
For more than one fortified portion of the prepared sample, linear regression analysis can be applied using a computer or calculator program to obtain the concentration of the sample solution. An alternative to using the method of standard additions is use of the internal standard technique by adding one or more elements (not in the samples and verified not to cause an uncorrected interelement spectral interference) at the same concentration (which is sufficient for optimum precision) to the prepared samples (blanks and standards) that are affected the same as the analytes by the sample matrix. Use the ratio of analyte signal to the internal standard signal for calibration and quantitation.

# 12.0 Data Analysis and Calculations
12.1 Sample data should be reported in units of mg/L for aqueous samples and mg/kg dry weight for solid samples.
12.2 For dissolved aqueous analytes (Section 11.1) report the data generated directly from the instrument with allowance for sample dilution. Do not report analyte concentrations below the IDL.
12.3 For total recoverable aqueous analytes (Section 11.2), multiply solution analyte concentrations by the dilution factor 0.5, when 100 mL aliquot is used to produce the 50 mL final solution, and report data as instructed in Section 12.4. If a different aliquot volume other than 100 mL is used for sample preparation, adjust the dilution factor accordingly. Also, account for any additional dilution of the prepared sample solution needed to complete the determination of analytes exceeding 90% or more of the LDR upper limit. Do not report data below the determined analyte MDL concentration or below an adjusted detection limit reflecting smaller sample aliquots used in processing or additional dilutions required to complete the analysis.
12.4 For analytes with MDLs
0.01 mg/L, round the data values to the thousandth place and report analyte concentrations up to three significant figures. For analytes with MDLs
0.01 mg/L round the data values to the 100th place and report analyte concentrations up to three significant figures. Extract concentrations for solids data should be rounded in a similar manner before calculations in Section 12.5 are performed.
12.5 For total recoverable analytes in solid samples (Section 11.3), round the solution analyte concentrations (mg/L) as instructed in Section 12.4. Report the data up to three significant figures as mg/kg dry-weight basis unless specified otherwise by the program or data user. Calculate the concentration using the equation below:
ER18MY12.005
where:
C = Concentration in extract (mg/L)
V = Volume of extract (L, 100 mL = 0.1L)
D = Dilution factor (undiluted = 1)
W = Weight of sample aliquot extracted (g × 0.001 = kg)
Do not report analyte data below the estimated solids MDL or an adjusted MDL because of additional dilutions required to complete the analysis.
12.6 To report percent solids in solid samples (Section 11.3) calculate as follows:
ER18MY12.006
where:
DW = Sample weight (g) dried at 60 ºC
WW = Sample weight (g) before drying
Note: If the data user, program or laboratory requires that the reported percent solids be determined by drying at 105 °C, repeat the procedure given in Section 11.3 using a separate portion (
20 g) of the sample and dry to constant weight at 103-105 °C.
12.7 The QC data obtained during the analyses provide an indication of the quality of the sample data and should be provided with the sample results.

# 13.0 Method Performance
13.1 Listed in Table 4 are typical single laboratory total recoverable MDLs determined for the recommended wavelengths using simultaneous ICP-AES and the operating conditions given in Table 5. The MDLs were determined in reagent blank matrix (best case situation). PTFE beakers were used to avoid boron and silica contamination from glassware with the final dilution to 50 mL completed in polypropylene centrifuged tubes. The listed MDLs for solids are estimates and were calculated from the aqueous MDL determinations.
13.2 Data obtained from single laboratory method testing are summarized in Table 6 for five types of water samples consisting of drinking water, surface water, ground water, and two wastewater effluents. The data presented cover all analytes except cerium and titanium. Samples were prepared using the procedure described in Section 11.2. For each matrix, five replicate aliquots were prepared, analyzed and the average of the five determinations used to define the sample background concentration of each analyte. In addition, two pairs of duplicates were fortified at different concentration levels. For each method analyte, the sample background concentration, mean percent recovery, standard
deviation of the percent recovery, and relative percent difference between the duplicate fortified samples are listed in Table 6. The variance of the five replicate sample background determinations is included in the calculated standard deviation of the percent recovery when the analyte concentration in the sample was greater than the MDL. The tap and well waters were processed in Teflon and quartz beakers and diluted in polypropylene centrifuged tubes. The nonuse of borosilicate glassware is reflected in the precision and recovery data for boron and silica in those two sample types.
13.3 Data obtained from single laboratory method testing are summarized in Table 7 for three solid samples consisting of EPA 884 Hazardous Soil, SRM 1645 River Sediment, and EPA 286 Electroplating Sludge. Samples were prepared using the procedure described in Section 11.3. For each method analyte, the sample background concentration, mean percent recovery of the fortified additions, the standard deviation of the percent recovery, and relative percent difference between duplicate additions were determined as described in Section 13.2. Data presented are for all analytes except cerium, silica, and titanium. Limited comparative data to other methods and SRM materials are presented in Reference 23 of Section 16.0.
13.4 Performance data for aqueous solutions independent of sample preparation from a multilaboratory study are provided in Table 8.
22
13.5 Listed in Table 9 are regression equations for precision and bias for 25 analytes abstracted from EPA Method Study 27, a multilaboratory validation study of Method 200.7.
1
These equations were developed from data received from 12 laboratories using the total recoverable sample preparation procedure on reagent water, drinking water, surface water and three industrial effluents. For a complete review and description of the study, see Reference 16 of Section 16.0.

# 14.0 Pollution Prevention
14.1 Pollution prevention encompasses any technique that reduces or eliminates the quantity or toxicity of waste at the point of generation. Numerous opportunities for pollution prevention exist in laboratory operation. The EPA has established a preferred hierarchy of environmental management techniques that places pollution prevention as the management option of first choice. Whenever feasible, laboratory personnel should use pollution prevention techniques to address their waste generation (e.g., Section 7.8). When wastes cannot be feasibly reduced at the source, the Agency recommends recycling as the next best option.
14.2 For information about pollution prevention that may be applicable to laboratories and research institutions, consult “Less is Better: Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction”, available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW., Washington, DC 20036, (202) 872-4477.

# 15.0 Waste Management
15.1 The Environmental Protection Agency requires that laboratory waste management practices be conducted consistent with all applicable rules and regulations. The Agency urges laboratories to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from hoods and bench operations, complying with the letter and spirit of any sewer discharge permits and regulations, and by complying with all solid and hazardous waste regulations, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions. For further information on waste management consult “The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel”, available from the American Chemical Society at the address listed in the Section 14.2.

# 16.0 References
1. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Inductively Coupled Plasma—Atomic Emission Spectrometric Method for Trace Element Analysis of Water and Wastes—Method 200.7, Dec. 1982. EPA-600/4-79-020, revised March 1983.
2. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectroscopy Method 6010, SW-846 Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, 3rd Edition, 1986.
3. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Method 200.7: Determination of Metals and Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma—Atomic Emission Spectrometry, revision 3.3, EPA 600 4-91/010, June 1991.
4. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Inductively Coupled Plasma—Atomic Emission Spectrometry Method for the Analysis of Waters and Solids, EMMC, July 1992.
5. Fassel, V.A. et al. Simultaneous Determination of Wear Metals in Lubricating Oils by Inductively-Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectrometry. Anal. Chem.
48:
516-519, 1976.
6. Merryfield, R.N. and R.C. Loyd. Simultaneous Determination of Metals in Oil by Inductively Coupled Plasma Emission Spectrometry. Anal. Chem.
51:
1965-1968, 1979.
7. Winge, R.K. et al. Inductively Coupled Plasma—Atomic Emission Spectroscopy: An Atlas of Spectral Information, Physical Science Data 20. Elsevier Science Publishing, New York, New York, 1985.
8. Boumans, P.W.J.M. Line Coincidence Tables for Inductively Coupled Plasma
Atomic Emission Spectrometry, 2nd edition. Pergamon Press, Oxford, United Kingdom, 1984.
9. Carcinogens—Working With Carcinogens, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service, Center for Disease Control, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Publication No. 77-206, Aug. 1977. Available from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) as PB-277256.
10. OSHA Safety and Health Standards, General Industry, (29 CFR 1910), Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA 2206, (Revised, January 1976).
11. Safety in Academic Chemistry Laboratories, American Chemical Society Publication, Committee on Chemical Safety, 3rd Edition, 1979.
12. Proposed OSHA Safety and Health Standards, Laboratories, Occupational Safety and Health Administration,
Federal Register,
July 24, 1986.
13. Rohrbough, W.G. et al. Reagent Chemicals, American Chemical Society Specifications, 7th edition. American Chemical Society, Washington, DC, 1986.
14. American Society for Testing and Materials. Standard Specification for Reagent Water, D1193-77. Annual Book of ASTM Standards, Vol. 11.01. Philadelphia, PA, 1991.
15. Code of Federal Regulations
40,
Ch. 1, Pt. 136 Appendix B.
16. Maxfield, R. and B. Mindak. EPA Method Study 27, Method 200.7 Trace Metals by ICP, Nov. 1983. Available from National Technical Information Service (NTIS) as PB 85-248-656.
17. Botto, R.I. Quality Assurance in Operating a Multielement ICP Emission Spectrometer. Spectrochim. Acta, 39B(1):95-113, 1984.
18. Wallace, G.F., Some Factors Affecting the Performance of an ICP Sample Introduction System. Atomic Spectroscopy, Vol. 4, p. 188-192, 1983.
19. Koirtyohann, S.R. et al. Nomenclature System for the Low-Power Argon Inductively Coupled Plasma, Anal. Chem.
52:
1965, 1980.
20. Deming, S.N. and S.L. Morgan. Experimental Design for Quality and Productivity in Research, Development, and Manufacturing, Part III, pp. 119-123. Short course publication by Statistical Designs, 9941 Rowlett, Suite 6, Houston, TX 77075, 1989.
21. Winefordner, J.D., Trace Analysis: Spectroscopic Methods for Elements, Chemical Analysis, Vol. 46, pp. 41-42.
22. Jones, C.L. et al. An Interlaboratory Study of Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectroscopy Method 6010 and Digestion Method 3050. EPA-600/4-87-032, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Las Vegas, Nevada, 1987.
23. Martin, T.D., E.R. Martin and SE. Long.
Method 200.2: Sample Preparation Procedure for Spectrochemical Analyses of Total Recoverable Elements,
EMSL ORD, USEPA, 1989.

# 17.0 Tables, Diagrams, Flowcharts, and Validation Data
Table 1—Wavelengths, Estimated Instrument Detection Limits, and Recommended Calibration
Analyte
Wavelength
a
(nm)
Estimated
detection
limit
b
(µg/L)
Calibrate
c
to (mg/L)
Aluminum
308.215
45
10
Antimony
206.833
32
5
Arsenic
193.759
53
10
Barium
493.409
2.3
1
Beryllium
313.042
0.27
1
Boron
249.678
5.7
1
Cadmium
226.502
3.4
2
Calcium
315.887
30
10
Cerium
413.765
48
2
Chromium
205.552
6.1
5
Cobalt
228.616
7.0
2
Copper
324.754
5.4
2
Iron
259.940
6.2
10
Lead
220.353
42
10
Lithium
670.784
d
3.7
5
Magnesium
279.079
30
10
Manganese
257.610
1.4
2
Mercury
194.227
2.5
2
Molybdenum
203.844
12
10
Nickel
231.604
15
2
Phosphorus
214.914
76
10
Potassium
766.491
e
700
20
Selenium
196.090
75
5
Silica (SiO
2
)
251.611
d
26 (SiO
2
)
10
Silver
328.068
7.0
0.5
Sodium
588.995
29
10
Strontium
421.552
0.77
1
Thallium
190.864
40
5
Tin
189.980
25
4
Titanium
334.941
3.8
10
Vanadium
292.402
7.5
2
Zinc
213.856
1.8
5
a
The wavelengths listed are recommended because of their sensitivity and overall acceptability. Other wavelengths may be substituted if they can provide the needed sensitivity and are treated with the same corrective techniques for spectral interference (see Section 4.1).
b
These estimated 3-sigma instrumental detection limits
16
are provided only as a guide to instrumental limits. The method detection limits are sample dependent and may vary as the sample matrix varies.
Detection limits for solids
can be estimated by dividing these values by the grams extracted per liter, which depends upon the extraction procedure. Divide solution detection limits by 10 for 1 g extracted to 100 mL for solid detection limits.
c
Suggested concentration for instrument calibration.
2
Other calibration limits in the linear ranges may be used.
d
Calculated from 2-sigma data.
5
e
Highly dependent on operating conditions and plasma position.
TABLE 2—On-Line Method Interelement Spectral Interferances Arising From Interferants at the 100 mg/L Level
Analyte
Wavelength (nm)
Interferant*
Ag
Al
As
B
Ba
Be
Ca
Cd
Ce
Co
Cr
Cu
Fe
Hg
K
Li
Mg
Mn
Mo
Na
Ni
P
Pb
Sb
Se
SiO
2
Sn
Sr
Tl
Ti
V
Zn
328.068
308.215
193.759
249.678
493.409
313.042
315.887
226.502
413.765
228.616
205.552
324.754
259.940
194.227
766.491
670.784
279.079
257.610
203.844
588.995
231.604
214.914
220.353
206.833
196.099
251.611
189.980
421.552
190.864
334.941
292.402
213.856
Ce, Ti, Mn
V, Mo, Ce, Mn
V, Al, Co, Fe, Ni
None
None
V, Ce
Co, Mo, Ce
Ni, Ti, Fe, Ce
None
Ti, Ba, Cd, Ni, Cr, Mo, Ce
Be, Mo, Ni
Mo, Ti
None
V, Mo
None
None
Ce
Ce
Ce
None
Co, Tl
Cu, Mo
Co, Al, Ce, Cu, Ni, Ti, Fe
Cr, Mo, Sn, Ti, Ce, Fe
Fe
None
Mo, Ti, Fe, Mn, Si
None
Ti, Mo, Co, Ce, Al, V, Mn
None
Mo, Ti, Cr, Fe, Ce
Ni, Cu, Fe
* These on-line interferences from method analytes and titanium only were observed using an instrument with 0.035 nm resolution (see Section 4.1.2). Interferant ranked by magnitude of intensity with the most severe interferant listed first in the row.
TABLE 3—Mixed Standard Solutions
Solution
Analytes
I
II
III
IV
V
Ag, As, B, Ba, Ca, Cd, Cu, Mn, Sb, and Se
K, Li, Mo, Na, Sr, and Ti
Co, P, V, and Ce
Al, Cr, Hg, SiO
2
, Sn, and Zn
Be, Fe, Mg, Ni, Pb, and Tl
TABLE 4—Total Recoverable Method Detection Limits (MDL)
Analyte
MDLs
Aqueous, mg/L
(1)
Solids, mg/kg
(2)
Ag
0.002
0.3
Al
0.02
3
As
0.008
2
B
0.003
—
Ba
0.001
0.2
Be
0.0003
0.1
Ca
0.01
2
Cd
0.001
0.2
Ce
0.02
3
Co
0.002
0.4
Cr
0.004
0.8
Cu
0.003
0.5
Fe
*0.03
6
Hg
0.007
2
K
0.3
60
Li
0.001
0.2
Mg
0.02
3
Mn
0.001
0.2
Mo
0.004
1
Na
0.03
6
Ni
0.005
1
P
0.06
12
Pb
0.01
2
Sb
0.008
2
Se
0.02
5
SiO
2
0.02
—
Sn
0.007
2
Sr
0.0003
0.1
Tl
0.001
0.2
Ti
0.02
3
V
0.003
1
Zn
0.002
0.3
(1)
MDL concentrations are computed for original matrix with allowance for 2x sample preconcentration during preparation. Samples were processed in PTFE and diluted in 50-mL plastic centrifuge tubes.
(2)
Estimated, calculated from aqueous MDL determinations.
— Boron not reported because of glassware contamination. Silica not determined in solid samples.
* Elevated value due to fume-hood contamination.
TABLE 5—Inductively Coupled Plasma Instrument Operating Conditions
Incident rf power
1100 watts
Reflected rf power
5 watts
Viewing height above work coil
15 mm
Injector tube orifice i.d.
1 mm
Argon supply
liquid argon
Argon pressure
40 psi
Coolant argon flow rate
19 L/min.
Aerosol carrier argon flow rate
620 mL/min.
Auxiliary (plasma) argon flow rate
300 mL/min.
Sample uptake rate controlled to
1.2 mL/min.
Table 6—Precision and Recovery Data in Aqueous Matrices
Analyte
Sample conc.
mg/L
Low spike
mg/L
Average
recovery
R (%)
S (R)
RPD
High spike
mg/L
Average
recovery
R (%)
S (R)
RPD
Tap Water
Ag
0.002
0.05
95
0.7
2.1
0.2
96
0.0
0.0
Al
0.185
0.05
98
8.8
1.7
0.2
105
3.0
3.1
As
0.008
0.05
108
1.4
3.7
0.2
101
0.7
2.0
B
0.023
0.1
98
0.2
0.0
0.4
98
0.2
0.5
Ba
0.042
0.05
102
1.6
2.2
0.2
98
0.4
0.8
Be
0.0003
0.01
100
0.0
0.0
0.1
99
0.0
0.0
Ca
35.2
5.0
101
8.8
1.7
20.0
103
2.0
0.9
Cd
0.001
0.01
105
3.5
9.5
0.1
98
0.0
0.0
Co
0.002
0.02
100
0.0
0.0
0.2
99
0.5
1.5
Cr
0.004
0.01
110
0.0
0.0
0.1
102
0.0
0.0
Cu
0.003
0.02
103
1.8
4.9
0.2
101
1.2
3.5
Fe
0.008
0.1
106
1.0
1.8
0.4
105
0.3
0.5
Hg
0.007
0.05
103
0.7
1.9
0.2
100
0.4
1.0
K
1.98
5.0
109
1.4
2.3
20.
107
0.7
1.7
Li
0.006
0.02
103
6.9
3.8
0.2
110
1.9
4.4
Mg
8.08
5.0
104
2.2
1.5
20.0
100
0.7
1.1
Mn
0.001
0.01
100
0.0
0.0
0.1
99
0.0
0.0
Mo
0.004
0.02
95
3.5
10.5
0.2
108
0.5
1.4
Na
10.3
5.0
99
3.0
2.0
20.0
106
1.0
1.6
Ni
0.005
0.02
108
1.8
4.7
0.2
104
1.1
2.9
P
0.045
0.1
102
13.1
9.4
0.4
104
3.2
1.3
Pb
0.01
0.05
95
0.7
2.1
0.2
100
0.2
0.5
Sb
0.008
0.05
99
0.7
2.0
0.2
102
0.7
2.0
Se
0.02
0.1
87
1.1
3.5
0.4
99
0.8
2.3
SiO
2
6.5
5.0
104
3.3
3.4
20.0
96
1.1
2.3
Sn
0.007
0.05
103
2.1
5.8
0.2
101
1.8
5.0
Sr
0.181
0.1
102
3.3
2.1
0.4
105
0.8
1.0
Tl
0.02
0.1
101
3.9
10.9
0.4
101
0.1
0.3
V
0.003
0.05
101
0.7
2.0
0.2
99
0.2
0.5
Zn
0.005
0.05
101
3.7
9.0
0.2
98
0.9
2.5
Pond Water
Ag
0.002
0.05
92
0.0
0.0
0.2
94
0.0
0.0
Al
0.819
0.2
88
10.0
5.0
0.8
100
2.9
3.7
As
0.008
0.05
102
0.0
0.0
0.2
98
1.4
4.1
B
0.034
0.1
111
8.9
6.9
0.4
103
2.0
0.0
Ba
0.029
0.05
96
0.9
0.0
0.2
97
0.3
0.5
Be
0.0003
0.01
95
0.4
1.1
0.2
95
0.0
0.0
Ca
53.9
5.0
*
*
0.7
20.0
100
2.0
1.5
Cd
0.001
0.01
107
0.0
0.0
0.1
97
0.0
0.0
Co
0.002
0.02
100
2.7
7.5
0.2
97
0.7
2.1
Cr
0.004
0.01
105
3.5
9.5
0.1
103
1.1
2.9
Cu
0.003
0.02
98
2.1
4.4
0.2
100
0.5
1.5
Fe
0.875
0.2
95
8.9
2.8
0.8
97
3.2
3.6
Hg
0.007
0.05
97
3.5
10.3
0.2
98
0.0
0.0
K
2.48
5.0
106
0.3
0.1
20.0
103
0.2
0.4
Li
0.001
0.02
110
0.0
0.0
0.2
106
0.2
0.5
Mg
10.8
5.0
102
0.5
0.0
20.0
96
0.7
1.3
Mn
0.632
0.01
*
*
0.2
0.1
97
2.3
0.3
Mo
0.004
0.02
105
3.5
9.5
0.2
103
0.4
1.0
Na
17.8
5.0
103
1.3
0.4
20.0
94
0.3
0.0
Ni
0.005
0.02
96
5.6
9.1
0.2
100
0.7
1.5
P
0.196
0.1
91
14.7
0.3
0.4
108
3.9
1.3
Pb
0.01
0.05
96
2.6
7.8
0.2
100
0.7
2.0
Sb
0.008
0.05
102
2.8
7.8
0.2
104
0.4
1.0
Se
0.02
0.1
104
2.1
5.8
0.4
103
1.6
4.4
SiO
2
7.83
5.0
151
1.6
1.3
20.0
117
0.4
0.6
Sn
0.007
0.05
98
0.0
0.0
0.2
99
1.1
3.0
Sr
0.129
0.1
105
0.4
0.0
0.4
99
0.1
0.2
Tl
0.02
0.1
103
1.1
2.9
0.4
97
1.3
3.9
V
0.003
0.05
94
0.4
0.0
0.2
98
0.1
0.0
Zn
0.006
0.05
97
1.6
1.8
0.2
94
0.4
0.0
Well Water
Ag
0.002
0.05
97
0.7
2.1
0.2
96
0.2
0.5
Al
0.036
0.05
107
7.6
10.1
0.2
101
1.1
0.8
As
0.008
0.05
107
0.7
1.9
0.2
104
0.4
1.0
B
0.063
0.1
97
0.6
0.7
0.4
98
0.8
2.1
Ba
0.102
0.05
102
3.0
0.0
0.2
99
0.9
1.0
Be
0.0003
0.01
100
0.0
0.0
0.1
100
0.0
0.0
Ca
93.8
5.0
*
*
2.1
20.0
100
4.1
0.1
Cd
0.002
0.01
90
0.0
0.0
0.1
96
0.0
0.0
Co
0.002
0.02
94
0.4
1.1
0.2
94
0.4
1.1
Cr
0.004
0.01
100
7.1
20.0
0.1
100
0.4
1.0
Cu
0.005
0.02
100
1.1
0.4
0.2
96
0.5
1.5
Fe
0.042
0.1
99
2.3
1.4
0.4
97
1.4
3.3
Hg
0.007
0.05
94
2.8
8.5
0.2
93
1.2
3.8
K
6.21
5.0
96
3.4
3.6
20.0
101
1.2
2.3
Li
0.001
0.02
100
7.6
9.5
0.2
104
1.0
1.9
Mg
24.5
5.0
95
5.6
0.3
20.0
93
1.6
1.2
Mn
2.76
0.01
*
*
0.4
0.1
*
*
0.7
Mo
0.004
0.02
108
1.8
4.7
0.2
101
0.2
0.5
Na
35.0
5.0
101
11.4
0.8
20.0
100
3.1
1.5
Ni
0.005
0.02
112
1.8
4.4
0.2
96
0.2
0.5
P
0.197
0.1
95
12.7
1.9
0.4
98
3.4
0.9
Pb
0.01
0.05
87
4.9
16.1
0.2
95
0.2
0.5
Sb
0.008
0.05
98
2.8
8.2
0.2
99
1.4
4.0
Se
0.02
0.1
102
0.4
1.0
0.4
94
1.1
3.4
SiO
2
13.1
5.0
93
4.8
2.8
20.0
99
0.8
0.0
Sn
0.007
0.05
98
2.8
8.2
0.2
94
0.2
0.5
Sr
0.274
0.1
94
5.7
2.7
0.4
95
1.7
2.2
Tl
0.02
0.1
92
0.4
1.1
0.4
95
1.1
3.2
V
0.003
0.05
98
0.0
0.0
0.2
99
0.4
1.0
Zn
0.538
0.05
*
*
0.7
0.2
99
2.5
1.1
Sewage Treatment Effluent
Ag
0.009
0.05
92
1.5
3.6
0.2
95
0.1
0.0
Al
1.19
0.05
*
*
0.9
0.2
113
12.4
2.1
As
0.008
0.05
99
2.1
6.1
0.2
93
2.1
6.5
B
0.226
0.1
217
16.3
9.5
0.4
119
13.1
20.9
Ba
0.189
0.05
90
6.8
1.7
0.2
99
1.6
0.5
Be
0.0003
0.01
94
0.4
1.1
0.1
100
0.4
1.0
Ca
87.9
5.0
*
*
0.6
20.0
101
3.7
0.0
Cd
0.009
0.01
89
2.6
2.3
0.1
97
0.4
1.0
Co
0.016
0.02
95
3.1
0.0
0.2
93
0.4
0.5
Cr
0.128
0.01
*
*
1.5
0.1
97
2.4
2.7
Cu
0.174
0.02
98
33.1
4.7
0.2
98
3.0
1.4
Fe
1.28
0.1
*
*
2.8
0.4
111
7.0
0.6
Hg
0.007
0.05
102
1.4
3.9
0.2
98
0.5
1.5
K
10.6
5.0
104
2.8
1.3
20.0
101
0.6
0.0
Li
0.011
0.02
103
8.5
3.2
0.2
105
0.8
0.5
Mg
22.7
5.0
100
4.4
0.0
20.0
92
1.1
0.2
Mn
0.199
0.01
*
*
2.0
0.1
104
1.9
0.3
Mo
0.125
0.02
110
21.2
6.8
0.2
102
1.3
0.9
Na
0.236
5.0
*
*
0.0
20.0
*
*
0.4
Ni
0.087
0.02
122
10.7
4.5
0.2
98
0.8
1.1
P
4.71
0.1
*
*
2.6
0.4
*
*
1.4
Pb
0.015
0.05
91
3.5
5.0
0.2
96
1.3
2.9
Sb
0.008
0.05
97
0.7
2.1
0.2
103
1.1
2.9
Se
0.02
0.1
108
3.9
10.0
0.4
101
2.6
7.2
SiO
2
16.7
5.0
124
4.0
0.9
20.0
108
1.1
0.8
Sn
0.016
0.05
90
3.8
0.0
0.2
95
1.0
0.0
Sr
0.515
0.1
103
6.4
0.5
0.4
96
1.6
0.2
Tl
0.02
0.1
105
0.4
1.0
0.4
95
0.0
0.0
V
0.003
0.05
93
0.9
2.0
0.2
97
0.2
0.5
Zn
0.160
0.05
98
3.3
1.9
0.2
101
1.0
1.4
Industrial Effluent
Ag
0.0003
0.05
88
0.0
0.0
0.2
84
0.9
3.0
Al
0.054
0.05
88
11.7
12.2
0.2
90
3.9
8.1
As
0.02
0.05
82
2.8
9.8
0.2
88
0.5
1.7
B
0.17
0.1
162
17.6
13.9
0.4
92
4.7
9.3
Ba
0.083
0.05
86
8.2
1.6
0.2
85
2.3
2.4
Be
0.0006
0.01
94
0.4
1.1
0.1
82
1.4
4.9
Ca
500
5.0
*
*
2.8
20.0
*
*
2.3
Cd
0.008
0.01
85
4.7
6.1
0.1
82
1.4
4.4
Co
0.004
0.02
93
1.8
5.4
0.2
83
0.4
1.2
Cr
0.165
0.01
*
*
4.5
0.1
106
6.6
5.6
Cu
0.095
0.02
93
23.3
0.9
0.2
95
2.7
2.8
Fe
0.315
0.1
88
16.4
1.0
0.4
99
6.5
8.0
Hg
0.01
0.05
87
0.7
2.3
0.2
86
0.4
1.2
K
2.87
5.0
101
3.4
2.4
20.0
100
0.8
0.4
Li
0.069
0.02
103
24.7
5.6
0.2
104
2.5
2.2
Mg
6.84
5.0
87
3.1
0.0
20.0
87
0.9
1.2
Mn
0.141
0.01
*
*
1.2
0.1
89
6.6
4.8
Mo
1.27
0.02
*
*
0.0
0.2
100
15.0
2.7
Na
1500
5.0
*
*
2.7
20.0
*
*
2.0
Ni
0.014
0.02
98
4.4
3.0
0.2
87
0.5
1.1
P
0.326
0.1
105
16.0
4.7
0.4
97
3.9
1.4
Pb
0.251
0.05
80
19.9
1.4
0.2
88
5.0
0.9
Sb
2.81
0.05
*
*
0.4
0.2
*
*
2.0
Se
0.021
0.1
106
2.6
3.2
0.4
105
1.9
4.6
SiO
2
6.83
5.0
99
6.8
1.7
20.0
100
2.2
3.0
Sn
0.01
0.05
87
0.7
2.3
0.2
86
0.4
1.2
Sr
6.54
0.1
*
*
2.0
0.4
*
*
2.7
Tl
0.03
0.1
87
1.8
5.8
0.4
84
1.1
3.6
V
0.005
0.05
90
1.4
4.4
0.2
84
1.1
3.6
Zn
0.024
0.05
89
6.0
4.4
0.2
91
3.5
8.9
S (R) Standard deviation of percent recovery.
RPD Relative percent difference between duplicate spike determinations.
Sample concentration below established method detection limit.
* Spike concentration
10% of sample background concentration.
Table 7—Precision and Recovery Data in Solid Matrices
Analyte
Sample conc.
mg/kg
Low + spike
mg/kg
Average
recovery R (%)
S (R)
RPD
High + spike
mg/kg
Average
recovery R (%)
S (R)
RPD
EPA Hazardous Soil #884
Ag
1.1
20
98
0.7
1.0
100
96
0.2
0.6
Al
5080
20
*
*
7.2
100
*
*
5.4
As
5.7
20
95
5.4
10.6
100
96
1.4
3.6
B
20.4
100
93
2.7
5.3
400
100
2.1
5.5
Ba
111
20
98
71.4
22.2
100
97
10.0
1.0
Be
0.66
20
97
0.7
2.3
100
99
0.1
0.2
Ca
85200
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
Cd
2
20
93
0.7
1.0
100
94
0.2
0.4
Co
5.5
20
96
3.5
7.7
100
93
0.8
2.1
Cr
79.7
20
87
28.8
16.5
100
104
1.3
1.1
Cu
113
20
110
16.2
4.4
100
104
4.0
4.2
Fe
16500
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
Hg
1.4
10
92
2.5
7.7
40
98
0.0
0.0
K
621
500
121
1.3
0.0
2000
107
0.9
1.8
Li
6.7
10
113
3.5
4.4
40
106
0.6
0.6
Mg
24400
500
*
*
8.4
2000
*
*
10.1
Mn
343
20
*
*
8.5
100
95
11.0
1.6
Mo
5.3
20
88
5.3
13.2
100
91
1.4
4.1
Na
195
500
102
2.2
2.4
2000
100
1.5
3.7
Ni
15.6
20
100
1.8
0.0
100
94
1.5
3.6
P
595
500
106
13.4
8.0
2000
103
3.2
2.7
Pb
145
20
88
51.8
17.9
100
108
15.6
17.4
Sb
6.1
20
83
3.9
7.5
100
81
1.9
5.9
Se
5
20
79
14.7
52.4
100
99
0.7
2.1
Sn
16.6
20
91
34.6
5.8
80
112
8.7
2.8
Sr
102
100
84
9.6
10.8
400
94
2.5
4.6
Tl
4
20
92
4.8
14.6
100
91
1.5
4.6
V
16.7
20
104
4.2
5.4
100
99
0.8
1.7
Zn
131
20
103
31.2
7.3
100
104
7.2
6.4
EPA Electroplating Sludge #286
Ag
6
20
96
0.2
0.4
100
93
0.1
0.4
Al
4980
20
*
*
4.4
100
*
*
5.6
As
32
20
94
1.3
0.8
100
97
0.7
1.6
B
210
100
113
2.0
1.6
400
98
1.9
3.5
Ba
39.8
20
0
6.8
0.3
100
0
1.6
5.7
Be
0.32
20
96
0.2
0.5
100
101
0.7
2.0
Ca
48500
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
Cd
108
20
98
2.5
0.8
100
96
0.5
0.5
Co
5.9
20
93
2.9
5.7
100
93
0.6
1.5
Cr
7580
20
*
*
0.7
100
*
*
1.3
Cu
806
20
*
*
1.5
100
94
8.3
0.7
Fe
31100
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
Hg
6.1
10
90
2.5
4.0
40
97
1.7
4.3
K
2390
500
75
8.3
4.0
2000
94
2.9
3.8
Li
9.1
10
101
2.8
0.5
40
106
1.6
3.1
Mg
1950
500
110
2.0
0.8
2000
108
2.3
3.2
Mn
262
20
*
*
1.8
100
91
1.2
0.9
Mo
13.2
20
92
2.1
2.9
100
92
0.3
0.0
Na
73400
500
*
*
1.7
2000
*
*
1.4
Ni
456
20
*
*
0.4
100
88
2.7
0.9
P
9610
500
*
*
2.9
2000
114
7.4
3.4
Pb
1420
20
*
*
2.1
100
*
*
1.3
Sb
2
20
76
0.9
3.3
100
75
2.8
10.7
Se
6.3
20
86
9.0
16.6
100
103
1.6
2.7
Sn
24.0
20
87
4.0
2.7
80
92
0.7
0.0
Sr
145
100
90
8.1
8.1
400
93
2.4
4.6
Tl
16
20
89
4.6
5.3
100
92
0.8
0.9
V
21.7
20
95
1.2
1.0
100
96
0.4
0.9
Zn
12500
20
*
*
0.8
100
*
*
0.8
NBS 1645 River Sediment
Ag
1.6
20
92
0.4
1.0
100
96
0.3
0.9
Al
5160
20
*
*
8.4
100
*
*
2.4
As
62.8
20
89
14.4
9.7
100
97
2.9
5.0
B
31.9
100
116
7.1
13.5
400
95
0.6
1.5
Ba
54.8
20
95
6.1
2.8
100
98
1.2
1.3
Be
0.72
20
101
0.4
1.0
100
103
1.4
3.9
Ca
28000
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
Cd
9.7
20
100
1.1
0.0
100
101
0.7
1.8
Co
9.4
20
98
3.8
4.8
100
98
0.9
1.8
Cr
28500
20
*
*
0.4
100
*
*
0.7
Cu
109
20
115
8.5
0.0
100
102
1.8
1.0
Fe
84800
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
Hg
3.1
10
99
4.3
7.7
40
96
0.7
1.0
K
452
500
98
4.1
2.0
2000
106
1.4
2.3
Li
3.7
10
101
2.0
0.7
40
108
1.3
3.0
Mg
6360
500
*
*
1.8
2000
93
2.7
1.0
Mn
728
20
*
*
3.5
100
97
12.4
2.2
Mo
17.9
20
97
12.5
18.5
100
98
0.6
0.0
Na
1020
500
92
2.6
0.0
2000
97
1.1
1.7
Ni
36.2
20
94
5.9
4.0
100
100
1.1
1.5
P
553
500
102
1.4
0.9
2000
100
0.8
1.6
Pb
707
20
*
*
0.8
100
103
5.9
0.4
Sb
22.8
20
86
2.3
0.0
100
88
0.6
0.9
Se
6.7
20
103
14.3
27.1
100
98
3.1
7.6
Sn
309
20
*
*
1.0
80
101
7.9
2.7
Sr
782
100
91
12.3
3.0
400
96
3.3
2.6
Tl
4
20
90
0.0
0.0
100
95
1.3
4.0
V
20.1
20
89
5.4
5.8
100
98
0.7
0.0
Zn
1640
20
*
*
1.8
100
*
*
1.1
S (R) Standard deviation of percent recovery.
RPD Relative percent difference between duplicate spike determinations.
Sample concentration below established method detection limit.
* Spike concentration
10% of sample background concentration.
− Not spiked.
+ Equivalent.
Table 8—ICP-AES Instrumental Precision and Accuracy for Aqueous Solutions
a
Element
Mean conc.
(mg/L)
N
b
RSD (%)
Accurace
c
(% of Nominal)
Al
14.8
8
6.3
100
Sb
15.1
8
7.7
102
As
14.7
7
6.4
99
Ba
3.66
7
3.1
99
Be
3.78
8
5.8
102
Cd
3.61
8
7.0
97
Ca
15.0
8
7.4
101
Cr
3.75
8
8.2
101
Co
3.52
8
5.9
95
Cu
3.58
8
5.6
97
Fe
14.8
8
5.9
100
Pb
14.4
7
5.9
97
Mg
14.1
8
6.5
96
Mn
3.70
8
4.3
100
Mo
3.70
8
6.9
100
Ni
3.70
7
5.7
100
K
14.1
8
6.6
95
Se
15.3
8
7.5
104
Na
14.0
8
4.2
95
Tl
15.1
7
8.5
102
V
3.51
8
6.6
95
Zn
3.57
8
8.3
96
a
These performance values are independent of sample preparation because the labs analyzed portions of the same solutions using sequential or simultaneous instruments.
b
N = Number of measurements for mean and relative standard deviation (RSD).
c
Accuracy is expressed as a percentage of the nominal value for each analyte in the acidified, multi-element solutions.
Table 9—Multilaboratory ICP Precision and Accuracy Data*
Analyte
Concentration
µg/L
Total recoverable digestion
µ/L
Aluminum
69-4792
X = 0.9380 (C) + 22.1
SR = 0.0481 (X) + 18.8
Antimony
77-1406
0.8908 (C) + 0.9
SR = 0.0682 (X) + 2.5
Arsenic
69-1887
X = 1.0175 (C) + 3.9
SR = 0.0643 (X) + 10.3
Barium
9-377
X = 0.8.80 (C) + 1.68
SR = 0.0826 (X) + 3.54
Beryllium
3-1906
X = 1.0177 (C) − 0.55
SR = 0.0445 (X) − 0.10
Boron
19-5189
X = 0.9676 (C) + 18.7
SR = 0.0743 (X) + 21.1
Cadmium
9-1943
X = 1.0137 (C) − 0.65
SR = 0.0332 (X) + 0.90
Calcium
17-47170
X = 0.9658 (C) + 0.8
SR = 0.0327 (X) + 10.1
Chromium
13-1406
X = 1.0049 (C) − 1.2
SR = 0.0571 (X) + 1.0
Cobalt
17-2340
X = 0.9278 (C) + 1.5
SR = 0.0407 (X) + 0.4
Copper
8-1887
X = 0.9647 (C) − 3.64
SR = 0.0406 (X) + 0.96
Iron
13-9359
X = 0.9830 (C) + 5.7
SR = 0.0790 (X) + 11.5
Lead
42-4717
X = 1.0056 (C) + 4.1
SR = 0.0448 (X) + 3.5
Magnesium
34-13868
X = 0.9879 (C) + 2.2
SR = 0.0268 (X) + 8.1
Manganese
4-1887
X = 0.9725 (C) + 0.07
SR = 0.0400 (X) + 0.82
Molybdenum
17-1830
X = 0.9707 (C) − 2.3
SR = 0.0529 (X) + 2.1
Nickel
17-47170
X = 0.9869 (C) + 1.5
SR = 0.0393 (X) + 2.2
Potassium
347-14151
X = 0.9355 (C) − 183.1
SR = 0.0329 (X) + 60.9
Selenium
69-1415
X = 0.9737 (C) − 1.0
SR = 0.0443 (X) + 6.6
Silicon
189-9434
X = 0.9737 (C) − 22.6
SR = 0.2133 (X) + 22.6
Silver
8-189
X = 0.3987 (C) + 8.25
SR = 0.1836 (X) − 0.27
Sodium
35-47170
X = 1.0526 (C) + 26.7
SR = 0.0884 (X) + 50.5
Thallium
79-1434
X = 0.9238 (C) + 5.5
SR = 0.0106 (X) + 48.0
Vanadium
13-4698
X = 0.9551 (C) + 0.4
SR = 0.0472 (X) + 0.5
Zinc
7-7076
X = 0.9500 (C) + 1.82
SR = 0.0153 (X) + 7.78
*—Regression equations abstracted from Reference 16.
X = Mean Recovery, µg/L.
C = True Value for the Concentration, µg/L.
SR = Single-analyst Standard Deviation, µg/L.
ER18MY12.007
[77 FR 29813, May 18, 2012]
Pt. 136, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 136—Precision and Recovery Statements for Methods for Measuring Metals
Two selected methods from “Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes,” EPA-600/4-79-020 (1979) have been subjected to interlaboratory method validation studies. The two selected methods are for Thallium and Zinc. The following precision and recovery statements are presented in this appendix and incorporated into Part 136:

# Method 279.2
For Thallium, Method 279.2 (Atomic Absorption, Furnace Technique) replace the Precision and Accuracy Section statement with the following:

# Precision and Accuracy
An interlaboratory study on metal analyses by this method was conducted by the Quality Assurance Branch (QAB) of the Environmental Monitoring Systems Laboratory—Cincinnati (EMSL-CI). Synthetic concentrates containing various levels of this element were added to reagent water, surface water, drinking water and three effluents. These samples were digested by the total digestion procedure, 4.1.3 in this manual. Results for the reagent water are given below. Results for other water types and study details are found in “EPA Method Study 31, Trace Metals by Atomic Absorption (Furnace Techniques),” National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161 Order No. PB 86-121 704/AS, by Copeland, F.R. and Maney, J.P., January 1986.
For a concentration range of 10.00-252 µg/L
X = 0.8781(C) − 0.715
S = 0.1112(X) + 0.669
SR = 0.1005(X) + 0.241
Where:
C = True Value for the Concentration, µg/L
X = Mean Recovery, µg/L
S = Multi-laboratory Standard Deviation, µg/L
SR = Single-analyst Standard Deviation, µg/L

# Method 289.2
For Zinc, Method 289.2 (Atomic Absorption, Furnace Technique) replace the Precision and Accuracy Section statement with the following:

# Precision and Accuracy
An interlaboratory study on metal analyses by this method was conducted by the Quality Assurance Branch (QAB) of the Environmental Monitoring Systems Laboratory—Cincinnati (EMSL-CI). Synthetic concentrates containing various levels of this element were added to reagent water, surface water, drinking water and three effluents. These samples were digested by the total digestion procedure, 4.1.3 in this manual. Results for the reagent water are given below. Results for other water types and study details are found in “EPA Method Study 31, Trace Metals by Atomic Absorption (Furnace Techniques),” National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161 Order No. PB 86-121 704/AS, by Copeland, F.R. and Maney, J.P., January 1986.
For a concentration range of 0.51-189 µg/L
X = 1.6710(C) + 1.485
S = 0.6740(X) − 0.342
SR = 0.3895(X)− 0.384
Where:
C = True Value for the Concentration, µg/L
X = Mean Recovery, µg/L
S = Multi-laboratory Standard Deviation, µg/L
SR = Single-analyst Standard Deviation, µg/L
[77 FR 29833, May 18, 2012]
Pt. 139

# PART 139—DISCHARGES INCIDENTAL TO THE NORMAL OPERATION OF VESSELS

# Subpart A—Scope
Sec.
139.1
Coverage.
139.2
Definitions.
139.3
Other Federal laws.

# Subpart B—General Standards for Discharges Incidental to the Normal Operation of a Vessel
139.4
General operation and maintenance.
139.5
Biofouling management.
139.6
Oil management.

# Subpart C—Standards for Specific Discharges Incidental to the Normal Operation of a Vessel
139.10
Ballast tanks.
139.11
Bilges.
139.12
Boilers.
139.13
Cathodic protection.
139.14
Chain lockers.
139.15
Decks.
139.16
Desalination and purification systems.
139.17
Elevator pits.
139.18
Exhaust gas emission control systems.
139.19
Fire protection equipment.
139.20
Gas turbines.
139.21
Graywater systems.
139.22
Hulls and associated niche areas.
139.23
Inert gas systems.
139.24
Motor gasoline and compensating systems.
139.25
Non-oily machinery.
139.26
Pools and spas.
139.27
Refrigeration and air conditioning.
139.28
Seawater piping.
139.29
Sonar domes.

# Subpart D—Special Area Requirements
139.40
Federally-protected waters.

# Subpart E—Procedures for States to Request Changes to Standards, Regulations, or Policy Promulgated by the Administrator
139.50
Petition by a Governor for the Administrator to establish an emergency order or review a standard, regulation, or policy.
139.51
Petition by a Governor for the Administrator to establish enhanced Great Lakes System requirements.
139.52
Application by a State for the Administrator to establish a State no-discharge zone.
Appendix A to Part 139—Federally-Protected Waters

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.

# Source:
89 FR 82131, Oct. 9, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Scope
§ 139.1
Coverage.
(a)
Vessel discharges.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this part applies to:
(1) Any discharge incidental to the normal operation of a vessel; and
(2) Any discharge incidental to the normal operation of a vessel (such as most graywater) that is commingled with sewage, subject to the conditions that:
(i) Nothing in this part prevents a State from regulating sewage discharges; and
(ii) Any such commingled discharge must comply with all applicable requirements of:
(A) This part; and
(B) Any law applicable to the discharge of sewage.
(b)
Exclusions.
This part does not apply to any discharge:
(1) Incidental to the normal operation of:
(i) A vessel of the Armed Forces subject to 33 U.S.C. 1322(n);
(ii) A recreational vessel subject to 33 U.S.C. 1322(o);
(iii) A small vessel or fishing vessel, except that this part applies to any discharge of ballast water from a small vessel or fishing vessel; or
(iv) A floating craft that is permanently moored to a pier, including, but not limited to, a floating casino, hotel, restaurant, or bar; or
(2) That results from, or contains material derived from, an activity other than the normal operation of the vessel, such as material resulting from an industrial or manufacturing process onboard the vessel; or
(3) If compliance with this part would compromise the safety of life at sea.
(c)
Area of coverage.
The standards in this part apply to any vessel identified in paragraph (a) of this section, not otherwise excluded in paragraph (b) of this section, while operating in the waters of the United States or the waters of the contiguous zone.
(d)
Effective date.
(1) The standards in this part are effective beginning on the date upon which regulations promulgated by the Secretary governing the design, construction, testing, approval, installation, and use of marine pollution control devices as necessary to ensure compliance with the standards are final, effective, and enforceable.
(2) As of the effective date identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the requirements of the Vessel General Permit and all regulations promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to section 1101 of the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 4711), including the regulations contained in 46 CFR 162.060 and 33 CFR part 151 subparts C and D, as in effect on December 3, 2018, shall be deemed repealed and have no force or effect.
§ 139.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for the purposes of this part. Terms not defined in this section have the meaning as defined under the Clean Water Act (CWA) and applicable regulations.
Active discharge of biofouling
means the discharge of biofouling from a vessel resulting from in-water cleaning activities.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Anti-fouling coating
means a coating or paint designed to prevent, repel, or facilitate the detachment of biofouling from hull and niche areas that are typically or occasionally submerged.
Anti-fouling system
means a coating, paint, surface treatment, surface, or device that is used on a vessel to control or prevent attachment of organisms.
Aquatic nuisance species (ANS)
means a nonindigenous species that threatens the diversity or abundance of a native species; the ecological stability of waters of the United States or the waters of the contiguous zone; or a commercial, agricultural, aquacultural, or recreational activity that is dependent on waters of the United States or the waters of the contiguous zone.
Ballast tank
means any tank or hold on a vessel used for carrying ballast water, whether or not the tank or hold was designed for that purpose.
Ballast water
means any water, to include suspended matter and other materials taken onboard a vessel, to control or maintain trim, draft, stability, or stresses of the vessel, regardless of the means by which any such water or suspended matter is carried; or taken onboard a vessel during the cleaning, maintenance, or other operation of a ballast tank or ballast water management system of the vessel. The term does not include any substance that is added to that water that is directly related to the operation of a properly functioning ballast water management system.
Ballast water exchange
means the replacement of ballast water in a ballast tank using one of the following methods:
(1) Flow-through exchange, in which ballast water is flushed out by pumping in midocean water at the bottom of the tank if practicable, and continuously overflowing the tank from the top, until three full volumes of tank water have been changed.
(2) Empty and refill exchange, in which ballast water is pumped out until the pump loses suction, after which the ballast tank is refilled with water from the midocean.
Ballast water management system (BWMS)
means any marine pollution control device (including all ballast water treatment equipment, ballast tanks, pipes, pumps, and all associated control and monitoring equipment) that processes ballast water to kill, render nonviable, or remove organisms; or to avoid the uptake or discharge of organisms.
Bioaccumulative
means the failure to meet one or more of the criteria established in the definition of
not bioaccumulative.
Biodegradable
for the following classes of substances, means (all percentages are on a weight/weight concentration basis):
(1) For oils: At least 90% of the formulation (for any substances present above 0.1%) demonstrates, within 28 days, either the removal of at least 70% of dissolved organic carbon (DOC), production of at least 60% of the theoretical carbon dioxide, or consumption of at least 60% of the theoretical oxygen demand). Up to 5% of the formulation may be non-biodegradable but may not be bioaccumulative. The remaining 5% must be inherently biodegradable.
(2) For greases: At least 75% of the formulation (for any substances present above 0.1%) demonstrates, within 28 days, either the removal of at least 70% of DOC, production of at least 60% of the theoretical carbon dioxide, or consumption of at least 60% of the theoretical oxygen demand). Up to 25% of the formulation may be non-biodegradable or inherently biodegradable but may not be bioaccumulative.
(3) For soaps, cleaners, and detergents: A product that demonstrates, within 28 days, either the removal of at least 70% of DOC, production of at least 60% of the theoretical carbon dioxide, or consumption of at least 60% of the theoretical oxygen demand.
(4) For biocides: A compound or mixture that, within 28 days, demonstrates removal of at least 70% of DOC and production of at least 60% of the theoretical carbon dioxide.
Biofouling
means the accumulation of aquatic organisms, such as microorganisms, plants, and animals, on surfaces
and structures immersed in or exposed to the aquatic environment.
Broom clean
means a condition in which care has been taken to prevent or eliminate any visible concentration of tank or cargo residues, so that any remaining tank or cargo residues consist only of dust, powder, or isolated and random pieces, none of which exceeds one inch in diameter.
Captain of the Port (COTP) Zone
means such zone as established by the Secretary or Commandant of the Coast Guard pursuant to sections 501, 503, and 504 of title 14, United States Code, as reorganized in Title I of the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018).
Commercial vessel
means, except as the term is used in § 139.10(g), any vessel used in the business of transporting property for compensation or hire, or in transporting property in the business of the owner, lessee, or operator of the vessel. As used in § 139.10(g), the term
commercial vessel
means a vessel operating between:
(1) Two ports or places of destination within the Pacific Region; or
(2) A port or place of destination within the Pacific Region and a port or place of destination on the Pacific Coast of Canada or Mexico north of parallel 20 degrees north latitude, inclusive of the Gulf of California.
Constructed
with respect to a vessel means a stage of construction when one of the following occurs:
(1) The keel of a vessel is laid;
(2) Construction identifiable with the specific vessel begins;
(3) Assembly of the vessel has commenced and comprises at least 50 tons or 1 percent of the estimated mass of all structural material, whichever is less; or
(4) The vessel undergoes a major conversion.
Contiguous zone
means the entire zone established by the United States under Article 24 of the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone.
Discharge
means
discharge incidental to the normal operation of a vessel
as defined in this section.
Discharge incidental to the normal operation of a vessel
means a discharge, including:
(1) Graywater, bilgewater, cooling water, weather deck runoff, ballast water, oil water separator effluent, and any other pollutant discharge from the operation of a marine propulsion system, shipboard maneuvering system, crew habitability system, or installed major equipment, such as an aircraft carrier elevator or a catapult, or from a protective, preservative, or absorptive application to the hull of the vessel; and
(2) A discharge in connection with the testing, maintenance, and repair of a system described in clause (1):
(i) Whenever the vessel is waterborne; and does not include:
(A) A discharge of rubbish, trash, garbage, or other such material discharged overboard;
(B) An air emission resulting from the operation of a vessel propulsion system, motor driven equipment, or incinerator; or
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) A discharge that is not covered by § 122.3 of this chapter (as in effect on February 10, 1996).
Discharge of oil in such quantities as may be harmful
means any discharge of oil, including an oily mixture, in such quantities identified in 40 CFR 110.3 and excluding those discharges specified in 40 CFR 110.5.
Empty ballast tank
means a tank that has previously held ballast water that has been drained to the limit of the functional or operational capabilities of the tank (such as loss of pump suction); is recorded as empty on a vessel log; and may contain unpumpable residual ballast water and sediment.
Environmentally acceptable lubricant (EAL)
means a lubricant or hydraulic fluid, including any oil or grease, that is “biodegradable,” “minimally-toxic,” and “not bioaccumulative,” as these terms are defined in this section.
Exclusive Economic Zone (
EEZ
)
means the area established by Presidential Proclamation Number 5030, dated March 10, 1983, that extends from the base line of the territorial sea of the United States seaward 200 nautical miles, and the equivalent zone of Canada.
Existing vessel
means a vessel constructed, or where construction has begun, prior to the date identified in
regulations promulgated by the Secretary as described in § 139.1(e).
Federally-protected waters
means any waters of the United States or the waters of the contiguous zone subject to Federal protection, in whole or in part, for conservation purposes, located within any area listed in appendix A, as designated under:
(1) National Marine Sanctuaries designated under the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
);
(2) Marine National Monuments designated under the Antiquities Act of 1906;
(3) A unit of the National Park System, including but not limited to National Preserves and National Monuments, designated by the National Park Service within the U.S. Department of the Interior;
(4) A unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System, including Wetland Management Districts, Waterfowl Production Areas, National Game Preserves, Wildlife Management Areas, and National Fish and Wildlife Refuges designated under the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 as amended by the National Wildlife Refuge System Improvement Act of 1997;
(5) National Wilderness Areas designated under the Wilderness Act of 1964 (16 U.S.C. 1131-1136); and
(6) Any component designated under the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968, 16 U.S.C. 1273.
Ferry
means a vessel that is used on a regular schedule to:
(1) Provide transportation only between places than are not more than 300 miles apart; and
(2) Transport only:
(i) Passengers; or
(ii) Vehicles or railroad cars that are being used, or have been used, in transporting passengers or goods.
Fire protection equipment
includes all components used for fire protection including but not limited to firemain systems, sprinkler systems, extinguishers, and firefighting agents such as foam.
Graywater
means drainage from galley, shower, laundry, bath, water fountain, and sink drains, and other similar sources.
Great Lakes
means Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron (including Lake Saint Clair), Lake Michigan, Lake Superior, and the connecting channels (Saint Mary's River, Saint Clair River, Detroit River, Niagara River, and Saint Lawrence River to the Canadian border), and includes all other bodies of water within the drainage basin of such lakes and connecting channels.
Great Lakes State
means any of the states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Gross register tonnage (GRT)
means the gross tonnage measurement of the vessel under the Regulatory Measurement System.
Gross tonnage (GT)
means the gross tonnage measurement of the vessel under the Convention Measurement System.
Impaired waterbody
means a waterbody identified by a State, tribe, or EPA pursuant to section 303(d) of the CWA as not meeting applicable State or Tribal water quality standards (these waters are called “water quality limited segments” under 40 CFR 130.2(j)) and includes both waters with approved or established Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs) and those for which a TMDL has not yet been approved or established.
Inherently biodegradable
means the property of being able to be biodegraded when subjected to sunlight, water, and naturally occurring microbes to the following level: greater than 70% biodegraded after 28 days using Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Test Guidelines 302C or greater than 20% but less than 60% biodegraded after 28 days using OECD Test Guidelines 301 A-F.
Internal waters
means:
(1) With respect to the United States, the waters shoreward of the territorial sea baseline, including waters of the Great Lakes extending to the maritime boundary with Canada; and
(2) With respect to any other nation, the waters shoreward of its territorial sea baseline, as recognized by the United States.
In-water cleaning with capture (IWCC)
means the use and operation of a cleaning system for vessel surfaces that is
designed to capture and transport coatings and biofouling organisms to an adjacent barge or shore-based facility for collection and processing.
In-water cleaning without capture
means any in-water cleaning of vessel surfaces that does not use in-water cleaning with capture.
Live or living,
notwithstanding any other provision of law (including regulations), does not:
(1) Include an organism that has been rendered nonviable; or
(2) Preclude the consideration of any method of measuring the concentration of organisms in ballast water that are capable of reproduction.
Macrofouling
means biofouling caused by the attachment and subsequent growth of visible plants and animals on surfaces and structures immersed in or exposed to the aquatic environment. Macrofouling includes large, distinct multicellular individual or colonial organisms visible to the human eye, such as barnacles, tubeworms, mussels, fronds/filaments of algae, bryozoans, sea squirts, and other large attached, encrusting, or mobile organisms.
Major conversion
means a conversion of an existing vessel:
(1) That substantially alters the dimensions or carrying capacity of the vessel; or
(2) That changes the type of the vessel; or
(3) The intent of which, in the opinion of the government of the country under whose authority the vessel is operating, is substantially to prolong its life; or
(4) Which otherwise so alters the vessel that, if it were a new vessel, it would become subject to relevant provisions of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) not applicable to it as an existing vessel.
Marine Growth Prevention System (MGPS)
means an anti-fouling system used for the prevention of biofouling accumulation in seawater piping systems and sea chests.
Marine Inspector
means any person from the civilian or military branch of the Coast Guard assigned under the superintendence and direction of an Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, or any other person as may be designated for the performance of duties with respect to inspection, enforcement, and administration of Subtitle II of Title 46, United States Code, Title 46 and Title 33 United States Code, and regulations issued under these statutes.
Marine pollution control device (MPCD)
means any equipment or management practice (or combination of equipment and management practice) for installation and use onboard a vessel that is:
(1) Designed to receive, retain, treat, control, or discharge a discharge incidental to the normal operation of a vessel; and
(2) Determined by the Administrator and the Secretary to be the most effective equipment or management practice (or combination of equipment and a management practice) to reduce the environmental impacts of the discharge, consistent with the factors considered in developing the standards in this part.
Master
means the officer having command of a vessel.
Microfouling
means biofouling caused by bacteria, fungi, microalgae, protozoans, and other microscopic organisms on structures and surfaces immersed in or exposed to the aquatic environment that creates a biofilm, also called a slime layer.
Midocean
means greater than 200 nautical miles (NM) from any shore, except when a ballast water exchange or saltwater flush outside of 50 NM is authorized in this part, then it means greater than 50 NM from any shore.
Minimally-toxic
means, for lubricants (all percentages are on a weight/weight basis):
(1) If both the complete formulation and the main constituents (that is constituents making up greater than or equal to 5% of the complete formulation) are evaluated, then the acute aquatic toxicity of lubricants, other than greases and total loss lubricants, must be at least 100 mg/L and the LC50 of greases and total loss lubricants must be at least 1000 mg/L; or
(2) If each constituent is evaluated, rather than the complete formulation and main constituents, then for each constituent present above 0.1%: up to 20% of the formulation can have an LC50 greater than 10 mg/L but less than 100 mg/L and an NOEC greater than 1
mg/L but less than 10 mg/L; up to 5% of the formulation can have an LC50 greater than 1 mg/L but less than 10 mg/L and an NOEC greater than 0.1 mg/L but less than 1 mg/L; and up to 1% of the formulation can have an LC50 less than 1 mg/L and an NOEC less than 0.1 mg/L.
Minimally-toxic, phosphate-free, and biodegradable
means properties of a substance or mixture of substances that:
(1) Have an acute aquatic toxicity value corresponding to a concentration greater than 10 ppm;
(2) Do not produce residuals with an LC50 less than 10 ppm;
(3) Are not bioaccumulative;
(4) Do not cause the pH of the receiving water to go below 6.0 or above 9.0;
(5) Contain, by weight, 0.5% or less of phosphates or derivatives of phosphate; and
(6) Are biodegradable.
Minimize
means to reduce or eliminate to the extent achievable using any control measure that is technologically available and economically practicable and achievable and supported by demonstrated best management practices such that compliance can be documented in shipboard logs and plans.
New ferry
means a ferry that is constructed after the effective date of USCG regulations promulgated pursuant to CWA section 312(p)(5)(A)(i).
New Laker
means a vessel 3,000 GT and above, and that operates exclusively in the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River west of a rhumb line drawn from Cap des Rosiers to Pointe-de-l'Ouest (West Point), Anticosti Island, and west of a line along 63° W longitude from Anticosti Island to the north shore of the St. Lawrence River, and constructed after the effective date of USCG regulations promulgated pursuant to CWA section 312(p)(5)(A)(i).
Niche areas
means a subset of the submerged surface area on a vessel that may be more susceptible to biofouling than the main hull due to structural complexity, different or variable hydrodynamic forces, susceptibility to anti-fouling coating wear or damage, or inadequate or no protection by an anti-fouling system.
Not bioaccumulative
means any of the following:
(1) The partition coefficient in the marine environment is log KOW less than 3 or greater than 7;
(2) The molecular mass is greater than 800 Daltons;
(3) The molecular diameter is greater than 1.5 nanometer;
(4) The bioconcentration factor (BCF) or bioaccumulation factor (BAF) is less than 100 L/kg; or
(5) The polymer with molecular weight fraction below 1,000 g/mol is less than 1%.
Oil
means oil of any kind or in any form, including but not limited to any petroleum, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse, and oil mixed with wastes other than dredged spoil.
Oil-to-sea interface
means any seal or surface on shipboard equipment where the design is such that oil or oily mixtures can escape directly into surrounding waters. Oil-to-sea interfaces are found on equipment that is subject to submersion as well as equipment above the surface line that extends overboard or is mounted to the exterior of the hull.
Oily mixture
means a mixture, in any form, with any oil content, including but not limited to:
(1) Slops from bilges;
(2) Slops from oil cargoes (such as cargo tank washings, oily waste, and oily refuse);
(3) Oil residue; and
(4) Oily ballast water from cargo or fuel oil tanks.
Organism
means an animal, including fish and fish eggs and larvae; a plant; a pathogen; a microbe; a virus; a prokaryote (including any archean or bacterium); a fungus; and a protist.
Pacific Region
means any Federal or State water adjacent to the State of Alaska, California, Hawaii, Oregon, or Washington; and extending from shore. The term includes the entire exclusive economic zone (as defined in section 1001 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701)) adjacent to each Pacific Region State identified herein.
Passenger vessel
means a vessel of at least 100 gross tons:
(1) Carrying more than 12 passengers, including at least one passenger for hire;
(2) That is chartered and carrying more than 12 passengers;
(3) That is a submersible vessel carrying at least one passenger for hire; or
(4) That is a ferry carrying a passenger.
Passive discharge of biofouling
means the discharge of biofouling from a vessel (for example, sloughing) during a period in which the vessel is not undergoing active cleaning activities.
Port or place of destination
means a port or place to which a vessel is bound to anchor, to moor, or be otherwise secured.
Reception facility
refers to any fixed, floating, or mobile facility capable of receiving wastes and residues from vessels and fit for that purpose.
Render nonviable
means, with respect to an organism in ballast water, the action of a ballast water management system that renders the organism permanently incapable of reproduction following treatment.
Saltwater flush
means the addition of as much midocean water into each empty ballast tank of a vessel as is safe for the vessel and crew; and the mixing of the flush water with residual ballast water and sediment through the motion of the vessel; and the discharge of that mixed water, such that the resultant residual water remaining in the tank has the highest salinity possible; and is at least 30 parts per thousand. A saltwater flush may require more than one fill-mix-empty sequence, particularly if only small quantities of water can be safely taken onboard a vessel at one time.
Seagoing vessel
means a vessel in commercial service that operates beyond either the boundary line established by 46 CFR part 7 or the St. Lawrence River west of a rhumb line drawn from Cap des Rosiers to Pointe-de-l'Ouest (West Point), Anticosti Island, and west of a line along 63° W longitude from Anticosti Island to the north shore of the St. Lawrence River. It does not include a vessel that navigates exclusively on internal waters.
Seawater piping system
means a system onboard a vessel that provides seawater for other vessel uses (e.g., ballast, engines, hydraulic systems, firefighting capacity, cleaning equipment, air conditioning, refrigeration, toilet systems) and includes any sea chest, grate, and similar appurtenances (e.g., strainers, filters, valves). Some components of a seawater piping system including sea chests, sea inlet pipes, and overboard discharges are also considered niche areas.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the department in which the United States Coast Guard (USCG) is operating.
Small vessel or fishing vessel
means a vessel with a vessel length that is less than 79 feet; or a fishing vessel, fish processing vessel, or fish tender vessel (as those terms are defined in section 2101 of title 46, United States Code), regardless of the vessel length.
Toxic or hazardous materials
means any toxic pollutant as defined in 40 CFR 401.15 or any hazardous material as defined in 49 CFR 171.8.
Underway
means a vessel is not at anchor, or made fast to the shore, or aground.
Vessel General Permit
(VGP) means the permit that is the subject of the notice of final permit issuance entitled “Final National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) General Permit for Discharges Incidental to the Normal Operation of a Vessel” (
Federal Register
publication on April 12, 2013).
Vessel length
means the horizontal distance between the foremost part of a vessel's stem to the aftermost part of its stern, excluding fittings and attachments.
Visible sheen
means, with respect to oil and oily mixtures, a silvery or metallic sheen or gloss, increased reflectivity, visual color, iridescence, or an oil slick on the surface of the water.
Voyage
means any transit by a vessel traveling from or destined for any United States port or place.
§ 139.3
Other Federal laws.
(a) Except as expressly provided in this part, nothing in this part affects the applicability to a vessel of any other provision of Federal law, including:
(1) Sections 311 and 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321
et seq.
and 33 U.S.C. 1322
et seq.
), also known as the CWA;
(2) The Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships (33 U.S.C. 1901
et seq.
);
(3) Title X of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2010 (33 U.S.C. 3801
et
seq.
), also known as the Clean Hulls Act;
(4) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.
); and
(5) The National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
) and implementing regulations found at 15 CFR part 922 and 50 CFR part 404.
(b) Nothing in this part affects the authority of the Secretary of Commerce or the Secretary of the Interior to administer any land or waters under the administrative control of the Secretary of Commerce or the Secretary of the Interior, respectively.
(c) Nothing in this part shall be construed to affect, supersede, or relieve the master of any otherwise applicable requirements or prohibitions associated with a vessel's right to innocent passage as provided for under customary international law.

# Subpart B—General Standards for Discharges Incidental to the Normal Operation of a Vessel
§ 139.4
General operation and maintenance.
(a) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to any discharge incidental to the normal operation of a vessel subject to regulation under this part, including but not limited to those discharges identified in subpart C of this part.
(b) Vessels must implement the following practices:
(1) Minimize discharges through management practices including but not limited to storage onboard the vessel, proper storage or transfer of materials, or reduced production of discharge.
(2) Discharge while underway when practicable and as far from shore as practicable.
(3) Addition of any materials to a discharge, other than for treatment of the discharge, that is not incidental to the normal operation of the vessel is prohibited.
(4) Dilution of any discharge for the purpose of meeting any standard in this part is prohibited.
(5) Any material used onboard that will be subsequently discharged (e.g., disinfectants, cleaners, biocides, coatings, sacrificial anodes) must:
(i) Be used according to manufacturer specifications and only in the amount necessary to perform the intended function of that material;
(ii) Not contain any materials banned for use in the United States; and
(iii) If subject to FIFRA registration, be used according to the FIFRA label. Proper use includes labeling requirements for proper application sites, rates, frequency of application, and methods; maintenance; removal; and storage and disposal of wastes and containers.
(6) To minimize and prevent discharge of cargo or other onboard materials, cargo must be containerized or covered except for hopper barges without a fixed cover or where covering cargo would negatively impact safety of the vessel, risk loss of life at sea, or otherwise interfere with essential vessel operations.
(7) To minimize and prevent discharge of toxic or hazardous materials, vessels must:
(i) Store toxic or hazardous materials in appropriately sealed, labeled, and secured containers located in areas of the vessel that minimize exposure to ocean spray and precipitation consistent with vessel design, unless the master determines this would interfere with essential vessel operations or safety of the vessel or crew, or would violate any applicable regulations that establish specifications for safe transportation, handling, carriage, and storage of toxic or hazardous materials.
(ii) Ensure containers holding toxic or hazardous materials are not overfilled and incompatible materials (
i.e.,
substances which, if mixed, will create hazards greater than posed by the individual substances) are not mixed.
(8) The overboard discharge or disposal of any containers holding toxic or hazardous materials is prohibited.
(9) Prior to washing any compartment, tank, cargo or other space and discharging washwater overboard from the area, that space must be in broom clean condition or its equivalent.
(10) Topside surfaces (e.g., exposed decks, hull above waterline, tank, cargo, and related appurtenances) must
be maintained to minimize the discharge of cleaning compounds, paint chips, non-skid material fragments, and other materials associated with exterior surface preservation.
(11) Painting and coating techniques on topside surfaces must minimize the discharge of paints, coatings, surface preparation materials, and similar substances.
(12) Discharge of unused paint and coatings is prohibited.
(13) Any equipment that may release, drip, leak, or spill oil or oily mixtures, fuel, or other toxic or hazardous materials, including to the bilge, must be maintained to minimize or eliminate the discharges.
§ 139.5
Biofouling management.
(a) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to any vessel subject to regulation under this part.
(b) A biofouling management plan must be developed to minimize the discharge of biofouling organisms. The plan elements must prioritize procedures and strategies to prevent macrofouling, thereby minimizing the potential for the introduction and spread of ANS. The plan must describe the vessel-specific anti-fouling systems and biofouling management practices necessary to comply with the requirements in this section. See §§ 139.13, 139.14, 139.22, 139.28, and 139.29 for additional biofouling management requirements.
§ 139.6
Oil management.
(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section apply to vessel equipment and operations that use or discharge oil or oily mixtures.
(b) The discharge of used or spent oil no longer being used for its intended purpose is prohibited.
(c) The discharge of oil in such quantities as may be harmful is prohibited.
(d) During fueling, maintenance, and other vessel operations, control and response measures must be used to prevent, minimize, and contain spills and overflows.
(e) An environmentally acceptable lubricant (EAL) must be used in any oil-to-sea interface unless such use is technically infeasible. Operators of new build vessels should endeavor to use seawater-based systems for stern tube lubrication to eliminate the discharge of oil from these interfaces to the aquatic environment.

# Subpart C—Standards for Specific Discharges Incidental to the Normal Operation of a Vessel
§ 139.10
Ballast tanks.
(a)
Applicability.
Except for any vessel otherwise excluded in paragraph (b) of this section, the requirements in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section apply to any vessel equipped with one or more ballast tanks.
(b)
Exclusions.
The requirements of this section do not apply to the following vessels:
(1) A vessel that continuously takes on and discharges ballast water in a flow-through system, if the Administrator determines that system cannot materially contribute to the spread or introduction of ANS into waters of the United States;
(2) A vessel in the National Defense Reserve Fleet scheduled for disposal, if the vessel does not have an operable ballast water management system (BWMS);
(3) A vessel that discharges ballast water consisting solely of water taken onboard from a public or commercial source that, at the time the water is taken onboard, meets the applicable requirements or permit requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
);
(4) A vessel that carries all permanent ballast water in sealed tanks that are not subject to discharge; or
(5) A vessel that only discharges ballast water to a reception facility.
(c)
Ballast Water Best Management Practices.
(1) Any vessel equipped with ballast tanks must minimize the introduction and spread of aquatic nuisance species (ANS) by adhering to the following practices:
(i) Maintain a ballast water management plan that addresses both the uptake and discharge of ballast water. The plan must describe the vessel-specific BWMSs and practices necessary to comply with the requirements in this section.
(ii) Minimize the use of gravity to drain ballast tanks in port.
(iii) Use high sea suction in port or where clearance to the bottom of the waterbody is less than 5 meters to the lower edge of the sea chest, as practicable.
(iv) Avoid the discharge or uptake of ballast water in areas with coral reefs. Discharge and uptake should be conducted as far from coral reefs as practicable.
(v) Periodically clean ballast tanks to remove sediment. Discharge of sediment from ballast tank cleaning is prohibited.
(vi) Maintain, and keep fully intact, sea chest screens.
(2) Any new Laker equipped with ballast tanks must install, operate, and maintain a BWMS that has been type-approved by the USCG.
(d)
Ballast Water Discharge Standard.
Unless exempted in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, any ballast water discharge must meet the following numeric discharge standard:
(1) Biological parameters (expressed as instantaneous maximums).
(i) Organisms greater than or equal to 50 micrometers in minimum dimension: less than 10 living organisms per cubic meter.
(ii) Organisms less than 50 micrometers and greater than or equal to 10 micrometers: less than 10 living organisms per milliliter (mL).
(iii) Toxicogenic
Vibrio cholerae
(serotypes O1 and O139): less than 1 colony-forming unit (cfu) per 100 mL.
(iv)
Escherichia coli:
a concentration of less than 250 cfu, or Most Probable Number (MPN), per 100 mL.
(v) Intestinal enterococci: a concentration of less than 100 cfu, or MPN, per 100 mL.
(2) Biocide parameters (expressed as instantaneous maximums).
(i) Chlorine dioxide: for any discharge from a BWMS using chlorine dioxide, chlorine dioxide must not exceed 200 µg/L.
(ii) Total residual oxidizers: for any discharge from a BWMS using chlorine or ozone, total residual oxidizers must not exceed 100 µg/L.
(iii) Peracetic acid: for any discharge from a BWMS using peracetic acid, peracetic acid must not exceed 500 µg/L.
(iv) Hydrogen peroxide: for any discharge from a BWMS using peracetic acid, hydrogen peroxide must not exceed 1,000 µg/L.
(3) Exemptions: The ballast water discharge standards in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply to any vessel that:
(i) Is less than or equal to 3,000 GT (1,600 GRT if GT is not assigned), and does not operate outside of the EEZ;
(ii) Is a non-seagoing, unmanned, unpowered barge, except any barge that is part of a dedicated vessel combination such as an integrated or articulated tug and barge unit;
(iii) Takes on and discharges ballast water exclusively in the contiguous portions of a single COTP Zone;
(iv) Does not travel more than 10 NM and passes through no locks;
(v) Discharges ballast water at the same location where that ballast water originated, provided that no mixing with unmanaged ballast water or sediment from other areas has occurred;
(vi) Operates exclusively in the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River west of a rhumb line drawn from Cap des Rosiers to Pointe-de-l'Ouest (West Point), Anticosti Island, and west of a line along 63° W. longitude from Anticosti Island to the north shore of the St. Lawrence River;
(vii) Is enrolled in the USCG Shipboard Technology Evaluation Program (STEP); or
(viii) Discharges ballast water prior to an applicable ballast water discharge standard compliance date established in regulations promulgated by the Secretary as described in 139.1(d).
(e)
Ballast Water Exchange and Saltwater Flush.
Except for any vessel identified in paragraph (f) or (g) of this section, prior to an applicable ballast water discharge standard compliance date established in regulations promulgated by the Secretary as described in § 139.1(d), any vessel must meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section unless excluded under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(1) Any vessel that carries ballast water taken on in areas less than 200 NM from any shore that will subsequently operate outside the EEZ and more than 200 NM from any shore must:
(i) Conduct ballast water exchange in waters not less than 200 NM from any shore prior to discharging that ballast water; and
(ii) Commence ballast water exchange not less than 200 NM from any shore and as early in the vessel voyage as practicable.
(2) For any ballast tank that is empty or contains unpumpable residual water on a vessel bound for a port or place of destination subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, the master must, prior to arriving at that port or place of destination, either:
(i) Seal the tank so that there is no discharge or uptake and subsequent discharge of ballast water, or
(ii) Conduct a ballast water exchange or saltwater flush:
(A) Not less than 200 NM from any shore for a voyage originating outside the United States or Canadian EEZ; or
(B) Not less than 50 NM from any shore for a voyage originating within the United States or Canadian EEZ.
(3) Exceptions: Paragraphs (e)(1) and (2), do not apply under any of the following circumstances:
(i) If the unpumpable residual waters and sediments of an empty ballast tank were subject to treatment, in compliance with applicable requirements, through a BWMS approved or accepted by the Secretary;
(ii) Except as otherwise required under this part, if the unpumpable residual waters and sediments of an empty ballast tank were sourced solely within:
(A) The same port or place of destination; or
(B) Contiguous portions of a single COTP Zone;
(iii) If complying with an applicable requirement of this paragraph (e):
(A) Would compromise the safety of the vessel; or
(B) Is otherwise prohibited by any Federal, Canadian, or international law (including regulations) pertaining to vessel safety;
(iv) If design limitations of an existing vessel prevent a ballast water exchange or saltwater flush from being conducted in accordance with this paragraph (e); or
(v) If the vessel is operating exclusively within the internal waters of the United States and Canada.
(f)
Vessels entering the Great Lakes.
(1) Ballast Water Exchange: Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, any vessel entering the St. Lawrence Seaway through the mouth of the St. Lawrence River must conduct a complete ballast water exchange or saltwater flush:
(i) Not less than 200 NM from any shore for a voyage originating outside the EEZ; or
(ii) Not less than 50 NM from any shore for a voyage originating within the EEZ.
(2) Exceptions: The requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section do not apply to any vessel if:
(i) Complying with paragraph (f)(1) of this section:
(A) Would compromise the safety of the vessel; or
(B) Is otherwise prohibited by any Federal, Canadian, or international law (including regulations) pertaining to vessel safety.
(ii) Design limitations of an existing vessel prevent a ballast water exchange from being conducted in accordance with an applicable requirement of paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(iii) The vessel has no residual ballast water or sediments onboard.
(iv) The vessel retains all ballast water while in waters subject to the requirement.
(v) The empty ballast tanks on the vessel are sealed in a manner that ensures that no discharge or uptake occurs, and any subsequent discharge of ballast water is subject to the requirement.
(g)
Pacific Region.
(1) Ballast Water Exchange:
(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(1)(ii) and (g)(3) of this section, any vessel that operates either between two ports or places of destination within the Pacific Region; or a port or place of destination within the Pacific Region and a port or place of destination on the Pacific Coast of Canada or Mexico north of parallel 20 degrees north latitude, inclusive of the Gulf of California, must conduct a complete ballast water exchange in waters more than 50 NM from shore.
(ii) Exemptions: The requirements of paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section do not apply to any vessel:
(A) Using, in compliance with applicable requirements, a type-approved BWMS approved or accepted by the Secretary.
(B) Voyaging:
(
1
) Between or to a port or place of destination in the State of Washington, if the ballast water to be discharged from the commercial vessel originated solely from waters located between the parallel 46 degrees north latitude, including the internal waters of the Columbia River, and the internal waters of Canada south of parallel 50 degrees north latitude, including the waters of the Strait of Georgia and the Strait of Juan de Fuca;
(
2
) Between ports or places of destination in the State of Oregon, if the ballast water to be discharged from the commercial vessel originated solely from waters located between the parallel 40 degrees north latitude and the parallel 50 degrees north latitude;
(
3
) Between ports or places of destination in the State of California within the San Francisco Bay area east of the Golden Gate Bridge, including the Port of Stockton and the Port of Sacramento, if the ballast water to be discharged from the commercial vessel originated solely from ports or places within that area;
(
4
) Between the Port of Los Angeles, the Port of Long Beach, and the El Segundo offshore marine oil terminal, if the ballast water to be discharged from the commercial vessel originated solely from the Port of Los Angeles, the Port of Long Beach, or the El Segundo offshore marine oil terminal;
(
5
) Between a port or place of destination in the State of Alaska within a single COTP Zone;
(
6
) Between ports or places of destination in different counties of the State of Hawaii, if the vessel conducts a complete ballast water exchange in waters that are more than 10 NM from shore and at least 200 meters deep; or
(
7
) Between ports or places of destination within the same county of the State of Hawaii, if the vessel does not transit outside State marine waters during the voyage.
(2) Low-Salinity Ballast Water:
(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii) and (g)(3) of this section, a complete ballast water exchange must be conducted for any commercial vessel that transports ballast water sourced from waters with a measured salinity of less than 18 parts per thousand and voyages to a Pacific Region port or place of destination with a measured salinity of less than 18 parts per thousand:
(A) Not less than 50 NM from shore, if the ballast water was sourced from a Pacific Region port or place of destination.
(B) More than 200 NM from shore, if the ballast water was not sourced from a Pacific Region port or place of destination.
(ii) Exception: The requirements of paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section do not apply to any vessel voyaging to a port or place of destination in the Pacific Region that is using, in compliance with applicable requirements, a type-approved BWMS accepted by the Secretary, or a type-approved BWMS approved by the Secretary to achieve the following numeric discharge standard for biological parameters (expressed as instantaneous maximums):
(A) Organisms greater than or equal to 50 micrometers in minimum dimension: less than 1 living organism per 10 cubic meters.
(B) Organisms less than 50 micrometers and greater than or equal to 10 micrometers: Less than 1 living organisms per 10 milliliters (mL).
(C) Toxicogenic
Vibrio cholerae
(serotypes O1 and O139): less than 1 colony-forming unit (cfu) per 100 mL or less than 1 cfu per gram of wet weight of zoological samples.
(D)
Escherichia coli:
less than 126 cfu, or MPN, per 100 mL.
(E) Intestinal enterococci: less than 33 cfu, or MPN, per 100 mL.
(3) General Exceptions: The requirements of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply to a commercial vessel if:
(i) Complying with the requirement would compromise the safety of the commercial vessel.
(ii) If design limitations of an existing vessel, prevent a ballast water exchange from being conducted in accordance with paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable.
(iii) The commercial vessel:
(A) Has no residual ballast water or sediments onboard; or
(B) Retains all ballast water while in waters subject to those requirements.
(iv) Empty ballast tanks on the commercial vessel are sealed in a manner that ensures that:
(A) No discharge or uptake occurs; and
(B) Any subsequent discharge of ballast water is subject to those requirements.
(h)
Federally-protected waters.
Additional standards applicable to discharges from ballast tanks when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(b).
§ 139.11
Bilges.
(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section applies to bilgewater, which is the discharge of wastewater from the bilge consisting of water and residue that accumulates in a lower compartment of the vessel's hull below the waterline. This includes, but is not limited to, any water and residue from a cargo area that comes into contact with oily materials or a below-deck parking area or other storage area for motor vehicles or other motorized equipment.
(b) The discharge of bilgewater from any vessel must not contain any flocculants or other additives except when used with an oily water separator or to maintain or clean equipment. The use of any additives to remove the appearance of a visible sheen is prohibited.
(c) For any vessel of 400 GT and above, the discharge of bilgewater must:
(1) Occur when the vessel is underway;
(2) Not have an oil content that exceeds 15 ppm; and
(3) If technologically feasible, occur at least 1 NM from shore.
(d) Additional standards applicable to discharges from bilges when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(c).
§ 139.12
Boilers.
(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section apply to discharges resulting from boiler blowdown.
(b) The discharge from boiler blowdown must be minimized in port.
(c) Additional standards applicable to discharges from boilers when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(d).
§ 139.13
Cathodic protection.
(a) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to discharges resulting from a vessel's cathodic corrosion control protection device, including but not limited to sacrificial anodes and impressed current cathodic protection (ICCP) systems.
(b) Spaces between any flush-fit anode and backing must be filled to remove potential hotspots for biofouling organisms.
(c) The vessel operator must consider using, but is not required to use, less toxic metals when selecting sacrificial anodes.
§ 139.14
Chain lockers.
(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section apply to accumulated biological organisms, sediment, precipitation, and seawater that is emptied from the compartment used to store the anchor chain on a vessel and are intended to prevent the discharge of accumulated biological organisms, sediment, precipitation, and seawater when deploying the anchor in a new port or place of destination.
(b) Anchors and anchor chains must be rinsed of biofouling organisms and sediment when the anchor is retrieved.
(c) The discharge of biological organisms, sediment, precipitation, and seawater from any chain locker is prohibited in port.
(d) Anchors and anchor chains used beyond waters of the contiguous zone must be rinsed of biofouling organisms and sediment prior to entering the waters of the contiguous zone. This requirement may be satisfied by rinsing when the anchor is retrieved at the commencement of the voyage or when
the anchor was last retrieved on a previous voyage, so long as the rinsing occurs after the last use of the anchor beyond waters of the contiguous zone.
(e) Additional standards applicable to a discharge from chain lockers when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(e).
§ 139.15
Decks.
(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section apply to the discharge of washdown and runoff from decks, well decks, and bulkhead areas, including but not limited to precipitation, condensation, seawater spray and wash over, and flooding, as well as waters pumped from below deck on a barge.
(b) Coamings or drip pans must be used for machinery that is expected to leak or otherwise release oil on the deck; accumulated oil must be collected.
(c) Where required by an applicable international treaty or convention or the Secretary, the vessel must be fitted with and use physical barriers (e.g., spill rails, scuppers and scupper plugs) during any washdown.
(d) Control measures must be used to minimize the introduction of on-deck debris, garbage, residue, spills, floating solids, visible foam, halogenated phenolic compounds, dispersants, and surfactants into deck washdown and runoff.
(e) Vessel decks must be kept in broom clean condition whenever the vessel is underway and prior to any deck washdown.
(f) Discharges from deck washdowns must be minimized in port.
(g) Any soap, cleaner, or detergent used for deck washdown must be minimally-toxic, phosphate-free, and biodegradable.
(h) Barges that discharge water pumped from below deck must minimize the contact of below deck condensation with oily or toxic materials and any materials containing hydrocarbons.
(i) Additional standards applicable to discharges from decks when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(f).
§ 139.16
Desalination and purification systems.
(a) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to discharges from onboard desalination and purification systems used to generate freshwater from seawater or otherwise purify water.
(b) The discharge resulting from the cleaning of desalination and purification systems with toxic or hazardous materials is prohibited.
§ 139.17
Elevator pits.
(a) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to the liquid that accumulates in, and is discharged from, the sumps of elevator wells.
(b) The discharge of untreated accumulated water and sediment from any elevator pit is prohibited.
§ 139.18
Exhaust gas emission control systems.
(a)
Applicability.
The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section apply to discharges from the operation and cleaning of any exhaust gas cleaning system (EGCS) and exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) system.
(b)
Discharge requirements.
Unless excluded in paragraph (c) of this section, any discharge identified in paragraph (a) of this section must meet the following discharge requirements.
(1)
pH.
(i) The discharge must meet one of the following requirements:
(A) The discharge must have a pH of no less than 6.5 as measured at the vessel's overboard discharge point with the exception that during maneuvering and transit, the maximum difference of two pH units is allowed between inlet water and overboard discharge values; or
(B) The pH discharge limit is the value that will achieve a minimum pH of 6.5 at 4 meters from the overboard discharge point with the vessel stationary. This overboard pH discharge limit is to be determined at the overboard discharge monitoring point and is to be recorded as the vessel's discharge limit. The overboard pH limit can be determined either by means of direct measurement, or by using a calculation-based methodology (computational fluid dynamics or other equally
scientifically established empirical formulas).
(ii) The pH numeric discharge standard may be exceeded for up to 15 minutes in any 12-hour period.
(2)
PAHs (Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons).
(i) The maximum continuous PAH concentration in the discharge must be no greater than 50 µg/L PAHphe (phenanthrene equivalents) above the inlet water PAH concentration. This standard applies downstream of any washwater treatment equipment including any reactant dosing unit but upstream of any seawater addition for control of pH prior to discharge.
(ii) The 50 µg/L numeric discharge standard is normalized for a discharge flow rate, before any seawater neutralization for pH control, of 45 tons (t)/megawatt-hour (MWh) where the mega-watt (MW) refers to the Maximum Continuous Rating (MCR) or 80% of the power rating of the fuel oil combustion units whose EGCS discharge water PAH is being monitored at that point. In cases where sensors are installed in a separate measurement cell, the PAH limit applies to the flow in the main discharge pipe from which the water is bypassed. This numeric discharge standard is adjusted upward or downward for different discharge flow rates, pursuant to table 1 to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
Table 1 to Paragraph
(b)(2)(ii)
Discharge water flowrate before any seawater addition for pH control
(t/MWh)
Numeric discharge standard
(µg/L PAHphe equivalents)
Measurement technology
0-1
2,250
Ultraviolet light
2.5
900
- ″ -
5
450
Fluorescence
a
11.25
200
- ″ -
22.5
100
- ″ -
45
50
- ″ -
90
25
- ″ -
a
For any Flow Rate greater than 2.5 t/MWh, Fluorescence technology must be used.
(iii) The continuous PAHphe numeric discharge standard may be exceeded by 100% for up to 15 minutes in any 12-hour period.
(3)
Turbidity/suspended particulate matter.
(i) The washwater treatment system must be designed to minimize suspended particulate matter, including but not limited to heavy metals and ash.
(ii) The maximum continuous turbidity in the discharge must be no greater than 25 FNU (formazin nephlometric units) or 25 NTU (nephlometric turbidity units) or equivalent units above the inlet water turbidity. However, to account for periods of high inlet turbidity, readings must be a rolling average over a 15-minute period to a maximum of 25 FNU or NTU. This standard applies downstream of any washwater treatment equipment including any reactant dosing unit but upstream of any seawater addition for control of pH prior to discharge.
(iii) For an aggregated 15-minute period in any rolling 12-hour period, the continuous turbidity discharge limit may be exceeded by 20%.
(4)
Nitrates plus nitrites:
(i) The washwater treatment system must prevent the discharge of nitrates plus nitrites beyond that associated with a 12% removal of NO
X
from the exhaust, or beyond 60 mg/L normalized for a discharge rate of 45 tons/MWh, whichever is greater, where the MW refers to the MCR or 80% of the power rating of all those fuel oil combustion units whose EGCS discharge water nitrates plus nitrites are being monitored at that point. This standard applies downstream of any washwater treatment equipment including any reactant dosing unit but upstream of any seawater addition for control of pH prior to discharge. The 60-mg/L limit is adjusted upward for lower washwater flow rates per MWh, and vice-versa, and the applicable permit limits are contained in table 2 to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
Table 2 to Paragraph
(b)(4)(i)
Discharge water flowrate before any seawater addition for pH control
(t/MWh)
Numeric discharge standard
(mg/L nitrate + nitrite)
0-1
2,700
2.5
1,080
5
540
11.25
240
22.5
120
45
60
(5)
Discharge water from temporary storage:
(i) pH. See § 139.18(b)(1).
(ii) PAH. Maximum of 50 µg/L PAHphe before any addition of seawater (or similar) for control of pH.
(iii) Turbidity. Not greater than 25 FNU or 25 NTU or equivalent units, before any addition of seawater (or similar) for pH control.
(6)
Treatment Residuals:
Discharges of sludge or residues generated from treatment of EGCS or EGR washwater or bleed-off water are prohibited.
(c)
Exclusion.
For a vessel operating on fuel that meets the sulfur content limits specified in Regulation 14 of MARPOL Annex VI, discharge of EGR bleed-off water is excluded from paragraph (b) of this section if the vessel:
(1) Does not retain the EGR bleed-off onboard in a holding tank prior to discharge, and
(2) Is underway, and
(3) Not in port.
(d)
Prohibition.
For a vessel not operating on fuel that meets the sulfur content limits specified in Regulation 14 of MARPOL Annex VI, discharge of EGR bleed-off water which is retained in a holding tank is prohibited unless the vessel:
(1) Is underway;
(2) Not in port; and
(3) In compliance with the discharge standard in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 139.19
Fire protection equipment.
(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section apply to the discharge from fire protection equipment, including discharges for secondary purposes (e.g., anchor and anchor chain rinsing and deck washdown). As specified in § 139.1(b)(3), these requirements do not apply to discharges from fire protection equipment when used for emergencies or when compliance with such requirements would compromise the safety of the vessel or life at sea.
(b) The discharge of fluorinated firefighting foam is prohibited unless required for certification or inspection under 46 CFR 31.10 through 31.18(c), 46 CFR 107.235(b)(4), or by the marine inspector to ensure vessel safety and seaworthiness.
(c) The discharge from fire protection equipment to ensure operability (e.g., during testing, training, maintenance, inspection, or certification) is prohibited in port unless:
(1) The intake is drawn from surrounding waters or a potable water supply and contains no additives (e.g., firefighting foam); or
(2) Required in port by the Secretary for certification or inspection under 46 CFR 31.10 through 31.18(c), 46 CFR 107.235(b)(4), or by the marine inspector to ensure vessel safety.
(d) The discharge from fire protection equipment for secondary uses is prohibited in port unless:
(1) The intake is drawn from surrounding waters or a potable water supply and contains no additives (e.g., firefighting foam); and
(2) The discharge meets applicable requirements under this part for the secondary use.
(e) Additional requirements applicable to discharges from fire protection equipment when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(g).
§ 139.20
Gas turbines.
(a) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to discharges from the washing of gas turbine components.
(b) The discharge of untreated gas turbine washwater is prohibited unless infeasible.
§ 139.21
Graywater systems.
(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section apply to discharges of graywater except for graywater from any commercial vessel on the Great Lakes that is subject to the requirements in 40 CFR part 140 and 33 CFR part 159.
(b) The introduction of kitchen waste, food, oils, and oily residues to the graywater system must be minimized.
(c) Any soaps, cleaners, detergents, and other substances used by vessel operators or provided by vessel operators to persons onboard and discharged in graywater must be minimally-toxic, phosphate-free, and biodegradable.
(d) The discharge of graywater is prohibited from any vessel:
(1) Within 3 NM from shore that voyages at least 3 NM from shore and has remaining available graywater storage capacity, unless the discharge meets the standards in paragraph (f) of this section; and
(2) Within 1 NM from shore that voyages at least 1 NM from shore but not beyond 3 NM from shore and has remaining available graywater storage capacity, unless the discharge meets the standards in paragraph (f) of this section.
(e) The discharge of graywater from the following vessels must meet the numeric discharge standard established in paragraph (f) of this section:
(1) Any new vessel of 400 GT (400 GRT if GT is not assigned) and above that is certificated to carry 15 or more persons and provides overnight accommodations to those persons;
(2) Any passenger vessel, excluding any ferry, with overnight accommodations for 500 or more persons;
(3) Any passenger vessel, excluding any ferry, with overnight accommodations for 100-499 persons unless the vessel was constructed before December 19, 2008, and does not voyage beyond 1 NM from shore; and
(4) Any new ferry authorized by the Secretary to carry 250 or more persons.
(f) A vessel identified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section that is discharging graywater must meet the following numeric discharge standard:
(1)
Fecal coliform.
(i) The 30-day geometric mean must not exceed 20 cfu, or MPN, per 100 mL.
(ii) Greater than 90% of samples must not exceed 40 cfu, or MPN, per 100 mL during any 30-day period.
(2)
BOD5.
(i) The 30-day average must not exceed 30 mg/L.
(ii) The 7-day average must not exceed 45 mg/L.
(3)
Suspended solids.
(i) The 30-day average must not exceed 30 mg/L.
(ii) The 7-day average must not exceed 45 mg/L.
(4)
pH.
(i) Must be maintained between 6.0 and 9.0.
(ii) [Reserved]
(5)
Total residual oxidizers.
(i) For any discharge from a graywater system using chlorine, total residual oxidizers must not exceed 10.0 µg/L.
(ii) [Reserved]
(g) Unless from a vessel subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the discharge of graywater from any vessel operating on the Great Lakes that is not a commercial vessel must not exceed 200 fecal coliform forming units per 100 milliliters and contain no more than 150 milligrams per liter of suspended solids.
(h) Additional standards applicable to discharges from graywater systems when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(h).
§ 139.22
Hulls and associated niche areas.
(a)
Applicability.
The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section apply to the discharge of anti-fouling coatings, biofouling organisms, and other materials from vessel hull and niche areas.
(b)
Transport and passive discharge.
The transport of attached living organisms and passive discharge of biofouling must be minimized when traveling into U.S. waters from outside the EEZ or between COTP Zones. Management measures to minimize the transport of attached living organisms and the passive discharge of biofouling are described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(c)
Anti-fouling coatings.
(1) Anti-fouling coatings applied to the vessel must be specific to the operational profile of
the vessel and the equipment to which it is applied, including, for biocidal coatings, having appropriate biocide release rates and components that are biodegradable once separated from the vessel surface.
(2) Anti-fouling coatings must be applied, maintained, and reapplied consistent with manufacturer specifications, including but not limited to the thickness, the method of application, and the lifespan of the coating.
(3) Anti-fouling coatings must not contain tributyltin (TBT) or any other organotin compound used as a biocide.
(i) Any vessel hull previously covered with an anti-fouling coating containing TBT (whether or not used as a biocide) or any other organotin compound (if used as a biocide) must:
(A) Maintain an effective overcoat that forms a barrier so that no TBT or other organotin leaches from the underlying anti-fouling coating; or
(B) Remove any TBT or other organotin compound from the vessel hull.
(4) When an organotin compound other than TBT is used as a catalyst in the anti-fouling coating (e.g., dibutyltin), the anti-fouling coating must:
(i) Contain less than 2,500 mg total tin per kilogram of dry paint; and
(ii) Not be designed to slough or otherwise peel from the vessel hull, noting that incidental amounts of anti-fouling coating discharged by abrasion during cleaning or after contact with other hard surfaces (e.g., moorings) are acceptable.
(5) Anti-fouling coatings must not contain cybutryne.
(i) Any vessel that has previously applied an anti-fouling coating that contains cybutryne in the external coating layer of their hulls or external parts or surfaces must:
(A) Apply and maintain an effective overcoat that forms a barrier so that no cybutryne leaches from the underlying anti-fouling coating, noting that incidental amounts of anti-fouling coating discharged by abrasion during cleaning or after contact with other hard surfaces (e.g., moorings) are acceptable; or
(B) Remove any cybutryne coating.
(6) As appropriate based on vessel class and operations, alternatives to copper-based anti-fouling coatings (e.g., non-biocidal anti-fouling coatings) or coating with lower biocidal release rates must be considered for vessels spending 30 or more days per year in a copper-impaired waterbody or using these waters as their home port.
(d)
Cleaning.
(1) Cleanings should take place in drydock when practicable.
(2) Hulls and niche areas must be managed to minimize biofouling such as through preventative cleaning of microfouling.
(3) Hull and niche area cleanings must minimize damage to the anti-fouling coating, minimize release of biocides, and follow applicable cleaning requirements found on the coating manufacturers' instructions and any applicable FIFRA label.
(4) Any discharge from in-water cleaning without capture of macrofouling is prohibited.
(5) Any discharge from in-water cleaning without capture of any copper-based hull coating in a copper-impaired water body within the first 365 days after application of that coating is prohibited.
(6) In-water cleaning must not be conducted on any section of an anti-fouling coating that shows excessive cleaning actions (e.g., brush marks) or blistering due to the internal failure of the paint system.
(7) Any soap, cleaner, or detergent used on vessel surfaces, including but not limited to a scum line of the hull, must be minimally toxic, phosphate-free, and biodegradable.
(8) Additional standards applicable to discharges from hulls and associated niche areas when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(i).
§ 139.23
Inert gas systems.
There are no additional discharge-specific requirements that apply to the discharge of washwater from an inert gas system and deck seal water when used as an integral part of that system.
§ 139.24
Motor gasoline and compensating systems.
(a) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to the discharge of motor gasoline and compensating ambient water added to keep gasoline tanks full to prevent potentially explosive gasoline vapors from forming.
(b) Additional standards applicable to discharges from motor gasoline and compensating systems when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(j).
§ 139.25
Non-oily machinery.
(a) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to discharges from machinery that contains no oil, including but not limited to discharges from the operation of desalination systems, water chillers, valve packings, water piping, low- and high-pressure air compressors, propulsion engine jacket coolers, fire pumps, and seawater and potable water pumps.
(b) The discharge of untreated non-oily machinery wastewater and packing gland or stuffing box effluent containing toxic or bioaccumulative additives, or the discharge of oil in such quantities as may be harmful, is prohibited.
§ 139.26
Pools and spas.
(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section apply to discharges from pools and spas.
(b) Except for unintentional or inadvertent releases from overflows across the decks and into overboard drains caused by, but not limited to, weather, vessel traffic, marine wildlife avoidance or navigational maneuvering, discharge of pool and spa water must:
(1) Occur only while the vessel is underway, unless determined to be infeasible; and
(2) Meet the following numeric discharge standard:
(i) For chlorine disinfection: total residual chlorine less than 100 µg/L; and
(ii) For bromine disinfection: total residual oxidant less than 25 µg/L.
(c) Additional standards applicable to discharges from pools and spas when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(k).
§ 139.27
Refrigeration and air conditioning.
(a) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to discharges of condensation from refrigeration, air conditioning, and similar chilling equipment.
(b) The direct overboard discharge of any condensate that contacts toxic or hazardous materials is prohibited.
§ 139.28
Seawater piping.
(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section apply to discharges from seawater piping systems, including while a vessel is in port or in layup.
(b) Seawater piping systems must be inspected, maintained, and cleaned as necessary to minimize the accumulation and discharge of biofouling organisms.
(c) Seawater piping systems that accumulate macrofouling must be fitted with a Marine Growth Prevention System (MGPS).
(1) An MGPS must be selected to address:
(i) The level, frequency, and type of expected biofouling; and
(ii) The design, location, and area in which the system will be used.
(2) An MGPS must include one, or some combination of the following:
(i) Chemical injection;
(ii) Electrolysis, ultrasound, ultraviolet radiation, or electrochlorination;
(iii) Application of an antifouling coating;
(iv) Use of cupro-nickel piping; or
(v) Use of glass-reinforced/filament-wound epoxy-based composite piping.
(3) Upon identification of macrofouling in a seawater piping system, reactive measures to manage the macrofouling must be used. Discharges resulting from reactive measures to remove macrofouling are prohibited in port.
(d) Additional standards applicable to discharges from seawater piping systems when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(l).
§ 139.29
Sonar domes.
(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section apply to discharges from sonar domes.
(b) The discharge of water from inside the sonar dome is prohibited during maintenance or repair.
(c) Any discharge from the use of bioaccumulative biocides on the exterior of the sonar dome is prohibited when non-bioaccumulative alternatives are available.

# Subpart D—Special Area Requirements
§ 139.40
Federally-protected waters.
(a)
Applicability.
The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section are in addition to applicable standards in subparts B and C of this part and apply when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters.
(b)
Ballast tanks.
The discharge or uptake of ballast water in federally-protected waters must be avoided except for vessels:
(1) Operating within the boundaries of any national marine sanctuary that preserves shipwrecks or maritime heritage in the Great Lakes, unless the designation documents for such sanctuary do not allow taking up or discharging ballast water in such sanctuary, pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 1431 note (Pub. L. 113-281, title VI, § 610, Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3064, as amended by Pub. L. 114-120, title VI, § 602(1), Feb. 8, 2016, 130 Stat. 79); or
(2) That operate solely within federally-protected waters and take on and discharge ballast water exclusively in the contiguous portions of a single COTP Zone.
(c)
Bilges.
For any vessel of 400 GT and above, the discharge of bilgewater into federally-protected waters is prohibited.
(d)
Boilers.
The discharge of boiler blowdown into federally-protected waters is prohibited.
(e)
Chain lockers.
The discharge of accumulated water and sediment from any chain locker into federally-protected waters is prohibited.
(f)
Decks.
The discharge of deck washdown into federally-protected waters is prohibited except for those vessels operating exclusively within these protected waters provided the discharge is in compliance with all other requirements in § 139.15.
(g)
Fire protection equipment.
The discharge from fire protection equipment into federally-protected water is prohibited except to comply with USCG fire drill requirements or anchor and anchor chain requirements in § 139.14. When USCG fire drills are conducted, the discharge of any firefighting foam into federally-protected waters is prohibited except by any vessel owned or under contract with the United States, State, or local government to do business exclusively in any federally-protected waters.
(h)
Graywater systems.
The discharge of graywater into federally-protected waters from any vessel with remaining available graywater storage capacity is prohibited.
(i)
Hulls and associated niche areas.
The discharge from in-water cleaning of vessel hulls and niche areas into federally-protected waters is prohibited except by any vessel owned or under contract with the United States, State, or local government to do business exclusively in any federally-protected waters.
(j)
Motor gasoline and compensating systems.
The discharge of motor gasoline and compensating discharges into federally-protected waters is prohibited.
(k)
Pools and spas.
The discharge of pool or spa water into federally-protected waters is prohibited.
(l)
Seawater piping systems.
The discharge of chemical dosing, as described in § 139.28, into federally-protected waters is prohibited.

# Subpart E—Procedures for States to Request Changes to Standards, Regulations, or Policy Promulgated by the Administrator
§ 139.50
Petition by a Governor for the Administrator to establish an emergency order or review a standard, regulation, or policy.
(a) The Governor of a State (or a designee) may submit a petition to the Administrator:
(1) To issue an emergency order under CWA section 312(p)(4)(E); or
(2) To review any standard of performance, regulation, or policy promulgated by the Administrator under CWA section 312(p)(4) or (6), if there exists new information that could reasonably result in a change to:
(i) The standard of performance, regulation, or policy; or
(ii) A determination on which the standard of performance, regulation, or policy was based.
(b) A petition under paragraph (a) of this section shall be signed by the Governor (or a designee) and must include:
(1) The purpose of the petition (request for emergency order or a review of a standard, regulation, or policy);
(2) Any applicable scientific or technical information that forms the basis of the petition;
(3) The direct and indirect benefits if the requested petition were to be granted by the Administrator; and
(4) For a petition under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the costs to the affected classes, types, and/or sizes of vessels if the requested petition were to be granted by the Administrator.
(c) The Administrator shall grant or deny:
(1) A petition under paragraph (a)(1) of this section by not later than the date that is 180 days after the date on which the petition is submitted; and
(2) A petition under paragraph (a)(2) of this section by not later than the date that is one year after the date on which the petition is submitted.
(d) If the Administrator determines to grant a petition:
(1) In the case of a petition under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Administrator shall immediately issue the relevant emergency order under CWA section 312(p)(4)(E); or
(2) In the case of a petition under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Administrator shall sign a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for publication in the
Federal Register
to revise the relevant standard, requirement, regulation, or policy under CWA section 312(p)(4) or (6), as applicable, as soon as possible and not later than 30 days after the date of the determination.
(e) If the Administrator determines to deny a petition, the Administrator shall sign a notice of the determination for publication in the
Federal Register
that includes a detailed explanation of the scientific, technical, or operational factors that form the basis of the determination, as soon as possible and not later than 30 days after the date of the determination.
§ 139.51
Petition by a Governor for the Administrator to establish enhanced Great Lakes System requirements.
(a) The Governors endorsing a proposed standard or requirement under CWA section 312(p)(10)(B)(ii)(III)(bb) may jointly submit to the Administrator and the Secretary for approval each proposed standard of performance or other requirement developed and endorsed pursuant to CWA section 312(p)(10)(B)(ii) with respect to any discharge that is subject to regulation under this part and occurs within the Great Lakes System.
(b) A petition under paragraph (a) of this section must include:
(1) An explanation regarding why the applicable standard of performance or other requirement is at least as stringent as a comparable standard of performance or other requirement under this part;
(2) An explanation regarding why the standard of performance or other requirement is in accordance with maritime safety; and
(3) An explanation regarding why the standard of performance or other requirement is in accordance with applicable maritime and navigation laws and regulations.
(c) On receipt of a proposed standard of performance or other requirement under paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator and the Secretary shall sign and transmit to the Office of Federal Register for publication a joint notice that, at minimum:
(1) States that the proposed standard or requirement is publicly available; and
(2) Provides an opportunity for public comment regarding the proposed standard or requirement during the 90-day period beginning on the date of receipt by the Administrator of the proposed standard or requirement.
(d) The Administrator shall commence a review of each proposed standard of performance or other requirement covered by the notice to determine whether that standard or requirement is at least as stringent as comparable standards and requirements under this part.
(e) In carrying out paragraph (d) of this section, the Administrator:
(1) Shall consult with the Secretary,
(2) Shall consult with the Governor of each Great Lakes State and representatives from the Federal and provincial governments of Canada;
(3) Shall take into consideration any relevant data or public comments received under paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and
(4) Shall not take into consideration any preliminary assessment by the Great Lakes Commission or any dissenting opinion by a Governor of a Great Lakes State, except to the extent that such an assessment or opinion is relevant to the criteria for the applicable determination under paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) If a Governor of a Great Lakes State withdraws the endorsement by not later than 90 days after the Administrator receives the proposed standard or requirement, and the withdrawal results in the proposed standard or requirement not having the applicable number of endorsements, the Administrator shall terminate review.
(g) Upon review and determination, the Administrator and the Secretary shall approve each proposed standard or other requirement, unless the Administrator determines that the proposed standard or other requirement is not at least as stringent as comparable standards and requirements under this part or the Secretary determines that the proposed standard or requirement is not in accordance with maritime safety or is not in accordance with applicable maritime and navigation laws and regulations.
(h) If the Administrator and the Secretary approve a proposed standard or other requirement, the Administrator and the Secretary shall sign a notice of the determination and transmit the notice to the Governor of each Great Lakes State and to the Office of Federal Register for publication.
(i) If the Administrator and the Secretary disapprove a proposed standard or other requirement, the Administrator and the Secretary shall sign a notice of the determination and transmit it to the Governor of each Great Lakes State and to the Office of Federal Register for publication. The notice must include:
(1) A description of the reasons why the standard or requirement is, as applicable, less stringent than a comparable standard or requirement under this part, and
(2) Any recommendations regarding changes the Governors of the Great Lakes states could make to conform the disapproved portion of the standard or requirement to the requirements of this section.
(j) The Administrator and the Secretary shall make an approval or disapproval determination under this section and transmit a notice of such determination to the Governor of each Great Lakes State and the Office of Federal Register not later than 180 days after the date of receipt of the proposed standard or regulation.
(k) On approval by the Administrator and the Secretary of a proposed standard of performance or other requirement, the Administrator shall establish, by regulation, the proposed standard or requirement within the Great Lakes System in lieu of any comparable standard or other requirement promulgated under CWA section 312(p)(4). A requirement to prohibit one or more types of discharge, whether treated or not treated, into waters within the Great Lakes System shall not apply outside the waters of the Great Lakes states of the Governors endorsing the requirement.
§ 139.52
Application by a State for the Administrator to establish a State no-discharge zone.
(a) If any State determines that the protection and enhancement of the quality of some or all of the waters within the State require greater environmental protection, the Governor of a State (or a designee) may submit an application to the Administrator to establish a regulation prohibiting one or more discharges, whether treated or
not treated, into such waters subject to the application.
(b) A prohibition by the Administrator under paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply until the Administrator, in concurrence with the Secretary, reviews the State application and makes the applicable determinations described in paragraph (d) of this section and publishes a regulation establishing the prohibition.
(c) An application submitted by the State under paragraph (a) of this section shall be signed by the Governor (or a designee) and must include:
(1) A narrative explanation of the location of the proposed waters and a map delineating the boundaries of the requested prohibition using geographic coordinates;
(2) A certification that a prohibition of the discharge(s) would protect and enhance the quality of the specific waters within the State to a greater extent than the applicable Federal standard provides;
(3) A detailed analysis of the direct and indirect benefits of the requested prohibition for each individual discharge for which the State is seeking a prohibition;
(4) A table identifying the types and number of vessels operating in the waterbody and a table identifying the types and number of vessels that would be subject to the prohibition;
(5) A table identifying the location, operating schedule, draft requirements, pumpout capacity, pumpout flow rate, connections, and fee structure of each existing facility capable of servicing the vessels that would be subject to the prohibition and available to receive the prohibited discharge;
(6) A description of the wastewater handling procedures of each facility identified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, including information on how wastewater is stored, transported, treated, and/or disposed by each facility;
(7) A map indicating the location of each stationary facility, and the coverage area of each mobile facility, identified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section within the proposed waters;
(8) A detailed analysis of the impacts to vessels subject to the prohibition, including a discussion of how these vessels may feasibly collect and store the discharge, the extent to which retrofitting may be required, costs that are incurred as a result of the discharge prohibition, and any safety implications.
(d) On application of a State, the Administrator, in concurrence with the Secretary, shall, by regulation, prohibit the discharge from a vessel of one or more discharges subject to regulation under this part, whether treated or not treated, into the waters covered by the application if the Administrator determines that:
(1) The prohibition of the discharge(s) would protect and enhance the quality of the specified waters within the State;
(2) Adequate facilities for the safe and sanitary removal and treatment of the prohibited discharge(s) are reasonably available, including taking costs into consideration, for the water and all vessels to which the prohibition would apply. A determination of adequacy shall consider, at a minimum, water depth, dock size, pumpout facility capacity and flow rate, availability of year-round operations, proximity to navigation routes, the availability of operational changes as a means to reduce the discharge, and the ratio of pumpout facilities to the population and discharge capacity of vessels operating in those waters;
(3) The discharge(s) can be safely collected and stored until a vessel reaches an appropriate facility or location for discharge;
(4) In the case of an application for the prohibition of the discharge of ballast water in port (or in any other location where cargo, passengers, or fuel are loaded and unloaded):
(i) The considerations for adequate facilities described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section apply; and
(ii) The prohibition will not unreasonably interfere with the safe loading and unloading of cargo, passengers, or fuel.
(e) The Administrator shall submit to the Secretary a request for written concurrence on a determination made to establish a prohibition.
(1) A failure by the Secretary to concur with the Administrator 60 days
after the date on which the Administrator submits a request for concurrence shall not prevent the Administrator from prohibiting the discharge or discharges, subject to the condition that the Administrator shall include in the administrative record of the promulgation:
(i) Documentation of the request for concurrence; and
(ii) The response of the Administrator to any written objections received from the Secretary relating to the prohibition during the 60-day period beginning on the date of the request for concurrence.
(f) If the Administrator determines that an application meets the criteria in paragraph (c) of this section and approves the application, the Administrator shall notify the State of the tentative approval and develop a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for transmittal to the Office of the Federal Register.

# Appendix A to Part 139—Federally-Protected Waters
The asterisk (“*”) modifier in appendix A to part 139 identifies those areas vessels subject to these Federal standards may be most likely to transit based on proximity to waters where these vessels may operate.

# A.1 National Marine Sanctuaries
American Samoa National Marine Sanctuary *
Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary *
Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary *
Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary *
Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary *
Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary *
Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary *
Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary *
Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary *

# A.2 Marine National Monuments
Mariana Trench Marine National Monument *
Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument *
Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument *
Papaha
naumokua
kea Marine National Monument *
Rose Atoll Marine National Monument

# A.3 National Parks (National Reserves and Monuments)

# Alabama
Birmingham Civil Rights National Monument
Freedom Riders National Monument
Horseshoe Bend National Military Park
Little River Canyon National Preserve
Muscle Shoals National Heritage Area
Natchez Trace National Scenic Trail *
Russell Cave National Monument
Selma to Montgomery National Historic Trail
Trail of Tears National Historic Trail
Tuskegee Airmen National Historic Site
Tuskegee Institute National Historic Site

# Alaska
Aleutian World War II National Historic Area
Aniakchak National Monument and Preserve *
Bering Land Bridge National Preserve *
Cape Krusenstern National Monument *
Chilkoot National Historic Trail
Denali National Park and Preserve
Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve *
Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve *
Iditarod National Historic Trail
Inupiat Heritage Center
Katmai National Park and Preserve *
Kenai Fjords National Park *
Kenai Mountains-Turnagain Arm National Heritage Area
Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park *
Kobuk Valley National Park *
Lake Clark National Park and Preserve *
Noatak National Preserve *
Sitka National Historical Park *
Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve *
Yukon-Charley Rivers National Preserve *

# American Samoa
National Park of American Samoa *

# Arizona
Arizona National Scenic Trail
Butterfield Overland National Historic Trail
Canyon de Chelly National Monument
Casa Grande Ruins National Monument
Chiricahua National Monument
Coronado National Memorial
Fort Bowie National Historic Site
Glen Canyon National Recreation Area
Grand Canyon-Parashant National Monument
Grand Canyon National Park
Hohokam Pima National Monument
Hubbell Trading Post National Historic Site
Lake Mead National Recreation Area
Montezuma Castle National Monument
Navajo National Monument
Old Spanish National Historic Trail
Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument
Petrified Forest National Park
Pipe Spring National Monument
Saguaro National Park
Santa Cruz Valley National Heritage Area
Sunset Crater Volcano National Monument
Tonto National Monument
Tumacacori National Historical Park
Tuzigoot National Monument
Walnut Canyon National Monument
Wupatki National Monument
Yuma Crossing National Heritage Area

# Arkansas
Arkansas Post National Memorial *
Buffalo National River *
Butterfield Overland National Historic Trail
Charleston National Commemorative Site
Fort Smith National Historic Site *
Hot Springs National Park
Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site
Mississippi Delta National Heritage Area
Pea Ridge National Military Park
President William Jefferson Clinton Birthplace Home National Historic Site
Trail of Tears National Historic Trail

# California
Butterfield Overland National Historic Trail
Cabrillo National Monument *
California National Historic Trail
Castle Mountains National Monument
Cesar E. Chavez National Monument
Channel Islands National Park *
Death Valley National Park
Devils Postpile National Monument
Eugene O'Neill National Historic Site
Fort Point National Historic Site *
Golden Gate National Recreation Area *
John Muir National Historic Site
Joshua Tree National Park
Juan Bautista de Anza National Historic Trail
Kings Canyon National Park
Lassen Volcanic National Park
Lava Beds National Monument
Manzanar National Historic Site
Mojave National Preserve
Muir Woods National Monument
Old Spanish National Historic Trail
Pacific Crest National Scenic Trail
Pinnacles National Park
Point Reyes National Seashore *
Pony Express National Historic Trail
Port Chicago Naval Magazine National Memorial *
Redwood National Park *
Roosevelt Campobello International Park
Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front National Historical Park *
Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta National Heritage Area
San Francisco Maritime National Historical Park *
Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area *
Sequoia National Park
Tule Lake National Monument
Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area
Yosemite National Park

# Colorado
Amache National Historic Site
Bent's Old Fort National Historic Site
Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park
Cache La Poudre River National Heritage Area
California National Historic Trail
Colorado National Monument
Continental Divide National Scenic Trail
Curecanti National Recreation Area
Dinosaur National Monument
Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument
Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve
Hovenweep National Monument
Mesa Verde National Park
Old Spanish National Historic Trail
Pony Express National Historic Trail
Rocky Mountain National Park
Sand Creek Massacre National Historic Site
Sangre de Cristo National Heritage Area
Santa Fe National Historic Trail
South Park National Heritage Area
Yucca House National Monument

# Connecticut
Appalachian National Scenic Trail *
Coltsville National Historical Park
New England National Scenic Trail
The Last Green Valley National Heritage Corridor
Upper Housantonic Valley National Heritage Area
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail
Weir Farm National Historical Park

# Delaware
Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail
First State National Historical Park *
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail

# District of Columbia
Adams Memorial
Belmont-Paul Women's Equality National Monument
Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail
Carter G. Woodson Home National Historic Site
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park *
Constitution Gardens
Desert Storm/Desert Shield Memorial
Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial
Ford's Theatre National Historic Site
Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial *
Frederick Douglass National Historic Site
George Washington Memorial Parkway
Global War on Terrorism Memorial
Korean War Veterans Memorial *
Lincoln Memorial *
Lyndon Baines Johnson Memorial Grove on the Potomac *
Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial *
Mary McLeod Bethune Council House National Historic Site
National Capital Parks—East *
National Mall and Memorial Parks
Pennsylvania Avenue National Historic Site
Potomac Heritage National Scenic Trail
Rock Creek Park
Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail
The White House and President's Park
Theodore Roosevelt Island *
Thomas Jefferson Memorial *
Vietnam Veterans Memorial
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail
Washington Monument *
World War I Memorial
World War II Memorial *

# Florida
Big Cypress National Preserve *
Biscayne National Park *
Canaveral National Seashore *
Castillo de San Marcos National Monument *
De Soto National Memorial *
Dry Tortugas National Park *
Everglades National Park *
Florida National Scenic Trail
Fort Caroline National Memorial *
Fort Matanzas National Monument *
Gulf Islands National Seashore *
Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor
Timucuan Ecological and Historic Preserve *

# Georgia
Andersonville National Historic Site
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Arabia Mountain National Heritage Area
Augusta Canal National Heritage Area
Chattahoochee River National Recreation Area
Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park *
Cumberland Island National Seashore *
Fort Frederica National Monument *
Fort Pulaski National Monument *
Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor
Jimmy Carter National Historical Park
Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park
Kettle Creek Battlefield
Martin Luther King Jr. National Historical Park
Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park *
Trail of Tears National Historic Trail

# Guam
War in the Pacific National Historical Park *

# Hawaii
Ala Kahakai National Historic Trail
Haleakala
National Park *
Hawai`i Volcanoes National Park *
Honouliuli National Historic Site
Kalaupapa National Historical Park *
Kaloko-Hono
khau National Historical Park *
Pearl Harbor National Memorial *
Pu`uhonua o Ho
naunau National Historical Park *
Pu`ukohola
Heiau National Historic Site *

# Idaho
California National Historic Trail
City of Rocks National Reserve
Continental Divide National Scenic Trail
Craters of the Moon National Monument and Preserve
Hagerman Fossil Beds National Monument
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Minidoka National Historic Site *
Nez Perce (Nee-Me-Poo) National Historic Trail
Nez Perce National Historical Park
Oregon National Historic Trail
Pacific Northwest National Scenic Trail
Yellowstone National Park

# Illinois
Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area
Chicago Portage National Historic Site
Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument
Gateway Arch National Park *
Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail *
Lincoln Home National Historic Site
Mormon Pioneer National Historic Trail
New Philadelphia National Historic Site
Pullman National Historical Park
Ronald Reagan Boyhood Home National Historic Site
Trail of Tears National Historic Trail

# Indiana
George Rogers Clark National Historical Park
Indiana Dunes National Park *
Kennedy-King National Commemorative Site
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial

# Iowa
America's Agricultural Heritage Partnership (Silos and Smokestacks National Heritage Area)
Effigy Mounds National Monument *
Herbert Hoover National Historic Site
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Mormon Pioneer National Historic Trail

# Kansas
Brown v. Board of Education National Historical Park
California National Historic Trail
Fort Larned National Historic Site
Fort Scott National Historic Site
Freedom's Frontier National Heritage Area
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Nicodemus National Historic Site
Oregon National Historic Trail
Pony Express National Historic Trail
Quindaro Townsite
Santa Fe National Historic Trail
Tallgrass Prairie National Preserve

# Kentucky
Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historical Park
Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area
Camp Nelson National Monument *
Cumberland Gap National Historical Park
Fort Donelson National Battlefield *
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Mammoth Cave National Park *
Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument *
Trail of Tears National Historic Trail

# Louisiana
Atchafalaya National Heritage Area
Cane River Creole National Historical Park
Cane River National Heritage Area
El Camino Real de los Tejas National Historic Trail
Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve *
Mississippi Delta National Heritage Area
New Orleans Jazz National Historical Park
Poverty Point National Monument
Vicksburg National Military Park *

# Maine
Acadia National Park *
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument
Saint Croix Island International Historic Site

# Maryland
Antietam National Battlefield
Appalachian Forest National Heritage Area
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Assateague Island National Seashore *
Baltimore National Heritage Area
Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail
Catoctin Mountain Park
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park
Clara Barton National Historic Site
Fort McHenry National Monument and Historic Shrine *
Fort Washington Park *
George Washington Memorial Parkway *
Greenbelt Park
Hampton National Historic Site
Harpers Ferry National Historical Park
Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Historical Park
Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area
Monocacy National Battlefield
National Capital Parks—East *
Piscataway Park *
Potomac Heritage National Scenic Trail
Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail
Thomas Stone National Historic Site
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail

# Massachusetts
Adams National Historical Park
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Boston African American National Historic Site *
Boston Harbor Islands National Recreation Area *
Boston National Historical Park *
Cape Cod National Seashore *
Essex National Heritage Area
Frederick Law Olmsted National Historic Site
Freedom's Way National Heritage Area
John Fitzgerald Kennedy National Historic Site
John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor
Longfellow—Washington's Headquarters National Historic Site
Lowell National Historical Park
Minute Man National Historical Park
New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park *
New England National Scenic Trail
Salem Maritime National Historic Site *
Saugus Iron Works National Historic Site *
Springfield Armory National Historic Site
The Last Green Valley National Heritage Corridor
Upper Housantonic Valley National Heritage Area
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail

# Michigan
Father Marquette National Memorial
Isle Royale National Park *
Keweenaw National Historical Park *
MotorCities National Heritage Area
North Country National Scenic Trail
Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore *
River Raisin National Battlefield Park *
Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore *

# Minnesota
Grand Portage National Monument *
Mississippi National River and Recreation Areas *
North Country National Scenic Trail
Pipestone National Monument
Saint Croix National Scenic Riverway
Voyageurs National Park *

# Mississippi
Brices Cross Roads National Battlefield Site
Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument
Gulf Islands National Seashore
Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home National Monument
Mississippi Delta National Heritage Area
Mississippi Gulf Coast National Heritage Area
Mississippi Hills National Heritage Area
Natchez National Historical Park *
Natchez Trace National Scenic Trail
Natchez Trace Parkway
Tupelo National Battlefield
Vicksburg National Military Park

# Missouri
Butterfield Overland National Historic Trail
California National Historic Trail
Freedom's Frontier National Heritage Area
Gateway Arch National Park
George Washington Carver National Monument
Harry S Truman National Historic Site
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Oregon National Historic Trail
Ozark National Scenic Riverways
Pony Express National Historic Trail
Santa Fe National Historic Trail
Ste. Genevieve National Historical Park
Trail of Tears National Historic Trail
Ulysses S. Grant National Historic Site
Wilson's Creek National Battlefield

# Montana
Big Hole National Battlefield
Bighorn Canyon National Recreation Area
Continental Divide National Scenic Trail
Fort Union Trading Post National Historic Site
Glacier National Park
Grant-Kohrs Ranch National Historic Site
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument
Nez Perce (Nee-Me-Poo) National Historic Trail
Nez Perce National Historical Park
Pacific Northwest National Scenic Trail
Yellowstone National Park

# Nebraska
Agate Fossil Beds National Monument
California National Historic Trail
Chimney Rock National Historic Site
Homestead National Historical Park
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Missouri National Recreational River *
Mormon Pioneer National Historic Trail
Niobrara National Scenic River
Oregon National Historic Trail
Pony Express National Historic Trail
Scotts Bluff National Monument

# Nevada
California National Historic Trail
Death Valley National Park
Great Basin National Heritage Route
Great Basin National Park
Lake Mead National Recreation Area
Old Spanish National Historic Trail
Pony Express National Historic Trail
Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument

# New Hampshire
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Freedom's Way National Heritage Area
Saint-Gaudens National Historical Park

# New Jersey
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area
Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area
Gateway National Recreation Area *
Great Egg Harbor National Scenic and Recreational River
Middle Delaware National Scenic River
Morristown National Historical Park
Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park
Pinelands National Reserve
Statue of Liberty National Monument *
Thomas Edison National Historical Park
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail

# New Mexico
Aztec Ruins National Monument
Bandelier National Monument
Butterfield Overland National Historic Trail
Capulin Volcano National Monument
Carlsbad Caverns National Park
Chaco Culture National Historical Park
Continental Divide National Scenic Trail
El Camino de Tierra Adentro National Historic Trail
El Malpais National Monument
El Morro National Monument
Fort Union National Monument
Gila Cliff Dwellings National Monument
Manhattan Project National Historical Park
Northern Rio Grande National Heritage Area
Old Spanish National Historic Trail
Pecos National Historical Park
Petroglyph National Monument
Salinas Pueblo Missions National Monument
Santa Fe National Historic Trail
Valles Caldera National Preserve
White Sands National Park

# New York
African Burial Ground National Monument
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail
Castle Clinton National Monument *
Champlain Valley National Heritage Partnership
Eleanor Roosevelt National Historic Site
Erie Canalway National Heritage Corridor
Federal Hall National Memorial
Fire Island National Seashore *
Fort Stanwix National Monument
Gateway National Recreation Area *
General Grant National Memorial
Governors Island National Monument *
Hamilton Grange National Memorial
Harriet Tubman National Historical Park
Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt National Historic Site *
Kate Mullany National Historic Site
Lower East Side Tenement National Historic Site
Martin Van Buren National Historic Site
Maurice D. Hinchey Hudson River National Heritage Area
Middle Delaware National Scenic River
Niagara Falls National Heritage Area
North Country National Scenic Trail
Sagamore Hill National Historic Site *
Saint Paul's Church National Historic Site
Saratoga National Historical Park *
Statue of Liberty National Monument *
Stonewall National Monument
Theodore Roosevelt Birthplace National Historic Site
Theodore Roosevelt Inaugural National Historic Site
Thomas Cole National Historic Site
Upper Delaware Scenic and Recreational River
Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site *
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail
Women's Rights National Historical Park *

# North Carolina
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Blue Ridge National Heritage Area
Blue Ridge Parkway
Cape Hatteras National Seashore *
Cape Lookout National Seashore *
Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site
Fort Raleigh National Historic Site *
Great Smoky Mountains National Park
Guilford Courthouse National Military Park
Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor
Moores Creek National Battlefield
Overmountain Victory National Historic Trail
Trail of Tears National Historic Trail
Wright Brothers National Memorial

# North Dakota
Fort Union Trading Post National Historic Site
International Peace Garden
Knife River Indian Villages National Historic Site
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
North Country National Scenic Trail
Northern Plains National Heritage Area
Theodore Roosevelt National Park

# Northern Mariana Islands
American Memorial Park *

# Ohio
Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument
Cuyahoga Valley National Park
Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historical Park
Fallen Timbers Battlefield and Fort Miamis National Historic Site
First Ladies National Historic Site
Hopewell Culture National Historical Park
James A. Garfield National Historic Site
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
National Aviation National Heritage Area
North Country National Scenic Trail
Ohio and Erie National Heritage Canalway
Perry's Victory and International Peace Memorial *
William Howard Taft National Historic Site

# Oklahoma
Butterfield Overland National Historic Trail
Chickasaw National Recreation Area
Fort Smith National Historic Site
Oklahoma City National Memorial
Santa Fe National Historic Trail
Trail of Tears National Historic Trail
Washita Battlefield National Historic Site

# Oregon
California National Historic Trail
Crater Lake National Park
John Day Fossil Beds National Monument
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Lewis and Clark National Historical Park *
Nez Perce (Nee-Me-Poo) National Historic Trail
Nez Perce National Historical Park
Oregon Caves National Monument and Preserve
Oregon National Historic Trail
Pacific Crest National Scenic Trail

# Pennsylvania
Allegheny Portage Railroad National Historic Site
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Benjamin Franklin National Memorial
Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail
Delaware and Lehigh National Heritage Corridor
Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area
Edgar Allan Poe National Historic Site
Eisenhower National Historic Site
Flight 93 National Memorial
Fort Necessity National Battlefield
Friendship Hill National Historic Site *
Gettysburg National Military Park
Gloria Dei (Old Swedes') Church National Historic Site
Hopewell Furnace National Historic Site
Independence National Historical Park *
Johnstown Flood National Memorial
Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area
Lackawanna Valley National Heritage Area
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Middle Delaware National Scenic River
North Country National Scenic Trail
Oil Region National Heritage Area
Potomac Heritage National Scenic Trail
Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area
Schuylkill River Valley National Heritage Area
Southwestern Pennsylvania Industrial Heritage Route (Paths of Progress National Heritage Route)
Steamtown National Historic Site
Susquehanna National Heritage Area
Thaddeus Kosciuszko National Memorial
Upper Delaware Scenic and Recreational River
Valley Forge National Historical Park
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail

# Puerto Rico
San Juan National Historic Site *

# Rhode Island
Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park
John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor
Roger Williams National Memorial
Touro Synagogue National Historic Site
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail

# South Carolina
Charles Pinckney National Historic Site
Congaree National Park *
Cowpens National Battlefield
Eutaw Springs Battlefield
Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie National Historical Park *
Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Co
Historic Camden Revolutionary War Site
Kings Mountain National Military Park
Ninety Six National Historic Site
Overmountain Victory National Historic Trail
Reconstruction Era National Historical Park *
South Carolina National Heritage Corridor

# South Dakota
Badlands National Park
Jewel Cave National Monument
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Minuteman Missile National Historic Site
Missouri National Recreational River
Mount Rushmore National Memorial
Wind Cave National Park

# Tennessee
Andrew Johnson National Historic Site
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area
Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park
Cumberland Gap National Historical Park
Fort Donelson National Battlefield
Great Smoky Mountains National Park
Manhattan Project National Historical Park *
Natchez Trace National Scenic Trail
Overmountain Victory National Historic Trail
Parkers Crossroads Battlefield
Shiloh National Military Park *
Stones River National Battlefield
Tennessee Civil War National Heritage Area
Trail of Tears National Historic Trail

# Texas
Alibates Flint Quarries National Monument
Amistad National Recreation Area *
Big Bend National Park
Big Thicket National Preserve
Blackwell School National Historic Site
Butterfield Overland National Historic Trail
Chamizal National Memorial
El Camino de Tierra Adentro National Historic Trail
El Camino Real de los Tejas National Historic Trail
Fort Davis National Historic Site
Guadalupe Mountains National Park
Lake Meredith National Recreation Area
Lyndon B. Johnson National Historical Park
Padre Island National Seashore *
Palo Alto Battlefield National Historical Park
Rio Grande Wild and Scenic River
San Antonio Missions National Historical Park
Waco Mammoth National Monument

# Utah
Arches National Park
Bryce Canyon National Park
California National Historic Trail
Canyonlands National Park
Capitol Reef National Park
Cedar Breaks National Monument
Dinosaur National Monument
Glen Canyon National Recreation Area
Golden Spike National Historical Park
Great Basin National Heritage Route
Hovenweep National Monument
Mormon Pioneer National Heritage Area
Mormon Pioneer National Historic Trail
Natural Bridges National Monument
Old Spanish National Historic Trail
Pony Express National Historic Trail
Rainbow Bridge National Monument
Timpanogos Cave National Monument
Zion National Park

# Vermont
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Champlain Valley National Heritage Partnership
Marsh-Billings-Rockefeller National Historical Park
North Country National Scenic Trail

# Virgin Islands
Buck Island Reef National Monument *
Christiansted National Historic Site *
Salt River Bay National Historical Park and Ecological Preserve *
Virgin Islands Coral Reef National Monument *
Virgin Islands National Park *

# Virginia
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Appomattox Court House National Historical Park
Arlington House, The Robert E. Lee Memorial
Assateague Island National Seashore
Blue Ridge Parkway
Booker T. Washington National Monument
Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail
Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park
Colonial National Historical Park *
Cumberland Gap National Historical Park
Fort Monroe National Monument *
Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania County Battlefields Memorial National Military Park *
George Washington Birthplace National Monument *
George Washington Memorial Parkway
Green Springs National Historic Landmark District
Harpers Ferry National Historical Park
Jamestown National Historic Site
Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area
Maggie L. Walker National Historic Site
Manassas National Battlefield Park
Natural Bridge State Park
Overmountain Victory National Historic Trail
Petersburg National Battlefield *
Potomac Heritage National Scenic Trail
Prince William Forest Park
Red Hill Patrick Henry National Memorial
Richmond National Battlefield Park *
Shenandoah National Park
Shenandoah Valley Battlefields National Historic District
Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail
Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts

# Washington
Ebey's Landing National Historical Reserve *
Fort Vancouver National Historic Site *
Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park
Lake Chelan National Recreation Area
Lake Roosevelt National Recreation Area *
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Lewis and Clark National Historical Park
Manhattan Project National Historical Park
Maritime Washington National Heritage Area
Mount Rainier National Park
Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area
Nez Perce National Historical Park
North Cascades National Park
Olympic National Park *
Oregon National Historic Trail
Pacific Crest National Scenic Trail
Pacific Northwest National Scenic Trail
Ross Lake National Recreation Area
San Juan Island National Historical Park *
Whitman Mission National Historic Site
Wing Luke Museum of the Asian Pacific American Experience

# West Virginia
Appalachian Forest National Heritage Area
Appalachian National Scenic Trail
Bluestone National Scenic River
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park
Gauley River National Recreation Area
Harpers Ferry National Historical Park
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
National Coal National Heritage Area
New River Gorge National Park and Preserve
Wheeling National Heritage Area

# Wisconsin
Apostle Islands National Lakeshore *
Ice Age National Scenic Trail
Ice Age National Scientific Reserve
North Country National Scenic Trail
Saint Croix National Scenic Riverway

# Wyoming
Bighorn Canyon National Recreation Area
California National Historic Trail
Continental Divide National Scenic Trail
Devils Tower National Monument
Fort Laramie National Historic Site
Fossil Butte National Monument
Grand Teton National Park
John D. Rockefeller Jr. Memorial Parkway
Mormon Pioneer National Historic Trail
Nez Perce (Nee-Me-Poo) National Historic Trail
Oregon National Historic Trail
Pony Express National Historic Trail
Yellowstone National Park

# A.4 National Wildlife Refuges

# Alabama
Bon Secour National Wildlife Refuge *
Cahaba River National Wildlife Refuge
Choctaw National Wildlife Refuge *
Eufaula National Wildlife Refuge *
Fern Cave National Wildlife Refuge
Grand Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Key Cave National Wildlife Refuge *
Mountain Longleaf National Wildlife Refuge
Sauta Cave National Wildlife Refuge
Watercress Darter National Wildlife Refuge
Wheeler National Wildlife Refuge *

# Alaska
Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge *
Alaska Peninsula National Wildlife Refuge *
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge *
Becharof National Wildlife Refuge *
Innoko National Wildlife Refuge *
Izembek National Wildlife Refuge *
Kanuti National Wildlife Refuge *
Kenai National Wildlife Refuge *
Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge *
Koyukuk National Wildlife Refuge *
Nowitna National Wildlife Refuge *
Selawik National Wildlife Refuge *
Tetlin National Wildlife Refuge
Togiak National Wildlife Refuge *
Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge *
Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge *

# American Samoa
Rose Atoll National Wildlife Refuge *

# Arizona
Bill Williams River National Wildlife Refuge
Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge
Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge
Cibola National Wildlife Refuge
Havasu National Wildlife Refuge
Imperial National Wildlife Refuge
Kofa National Wildlife Refuge
Leslie Canyon National Wildlife Refuge
San Bernardino National Wildlife Refuge

# Arkansas
Bald Knob National Wildlife Refuge
Big Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Cache River National Wildlife Refuge *
Dale Bumpers White River National Wildlife Refuge *
Felsenthal National Wildlife Refuge *
Holla Bend National Wildlife Refuge *
Logan Cave National Wildlife Refuge
Overflow National Wildlife Refuge
Pond Creek National Wildlife Refuge
Wapanocca National Wildlife Refuge

# California
Antioch Dunes National Wildlife Refuge *
Bitter Creek National Wildlife Refuge
Blue Ridge National Wildlife Refuge
Butte Sink Wildlife Management Area
Castle Rock National Wildlife Refuge *
Cibola National Wildlife Refuge
Clear Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Coachella Valley National Wildlife Refuge
Colusa National Wildlife Refuge
Delevan National Wildlife Refuge
Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Ellicott Slough National Wildlife Refuge
Farallon Islands National Wildlife Refuge *
Grasslands Wildlife Management Area
Guadalupe-Nipomo Dunes National Wildlife Refuge *
Havasu National Wildlife Refuge
Hopper Mountain National Wildlife Refuge
Humboldt Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Imperial National Wildlife Refuge
Kern National Wildlife Refuge
Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuge
Marin Islands National Wildlife Refuge *
Merced National Wildlife Refuge
Modoc National Wildlife Refuge
Pixley National Wildlife Refuge
Sacramento National Wildlife Refuge
Sacramento River National Wildlife Refuge *
Salinas River National Wildlife Refuge *
San Diego Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
San Diego National Wildlife Refuge
San Joaquin River National Wildlife Refuge
San Luis National Wildlife Refuge
San Pablo Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Seal Beach National Wildlife Refuge *
Sonny Bono Salton Sea National Wildlife Refuge
Steve Thompson North Central Valley Wildlife Management Area *
Stone Lakes National Wildlife Refuge *
Sutter National Wildlife Refuge
Tijuana Slough National Wildlife Refuge *
Tulare Basin Wildlife Management Area
Tule Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Willow Creek-Lurline Wildlife Management Area

# Colorado
Alamosa National Wildlife Refuge
Arapaho National Wildlife Refuge
Baca National Wildlife Refuge
Browns Park National Wildlife Refuge
Colorado River Wildlife Management Area
Monte Vista National Wildlife Refuge
Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge
Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge
San Luis Valley Conservation Area
Sangre De Cristo Conservation Area
Two Ponds National Wildlife Refuge

# Connecticut
Great Thicket National Wildlife Refuge *
Silvio O. Conte National Fish And Wildlife Refuge
Stewart B. Mckinney National Wildlife Refuge *

# Delaware
Bombay Hook National Wildlife Refuge *
Prime Hook National Wildlife Refuge *

# Florida
Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge *
Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge
Caloosahatchee National Wildlife Refuge *
Cedar Keys National Wildlife Refuge *
Chassahowitzka National Wildlife Refuge *
Crocodile Lake National Wildlife Refuge *
Crystal River National Wildlife Refuge *
Egmont Key National Wildlife Refuge *
Everglades Headwaters National Wildlife Refuge And Conservation Area
Everglades To Gulf Conservation Area
Florida Panther National Wildlife Refuge
Great White Heron National Wildlife Refuge *
Island Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
J. N. Ding Darling National Wildlife Refuge *
Key West National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Wales Ridge National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Woodruff National Wildlife Refuge *
Lower Suwannee National Wildlife Refuge *
Matlacha Pass National Wildlife Refuge *
Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Nathaniel P. Reed Hobe Sound National Wildlife Refuge *
National Key Deer Refuge *
Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge
Passage Key National Wildlife Refuge *
Pelican Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Pine Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Pinellas National Wildlife Refuge *
St. Johns National Wildlife Refuge
St. Marks National Wildlife Refuge *
St. Vincent National Wildlife Refuge *
Ten Thousand Islands National Wildlife Refuge *

# Georgia
Banks Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Blackbeard Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Bond Swamp National Wildlife Refuge *
Eufaula National Wildlife Refuge *
Harris Neck National Wildlife Refuge
Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge
Piedmont National Wildlife Refuge
Savannah National Wildlife Refuge *
Wassaw National Wildlife Refuge *
Wolf Island National Wildlife Refuge *

# Guam
Guam National Wildlife Refuge *

# Hawaii
Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge
Hanalei National Wildlife Refuge
Hawaiian Islands National Wildlife Refuge *
Hul`ia National Wildlife Refuge
James Campbell National Wildlife Refuge *
Kakahai`a National Wildlife Refuge *
Kelia Pond National Wildlife Refuge *
Kilauea Point National Wildlife Refuge *
Ohahu Forest National Wildlife Refuge
Pearl Harbor National Wildlife Refuge *

# Idaho
Bear Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Bear River Watershed Conservation Area
Camas National Wildlife Refuge
Deer Flat National Wildlife Refuge
Grays Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Kootenai National Wildlife Refuge
Minidoka National Wildlife Refuge
Oxford Slough Waterfowl Production Area

# Illinois
Chautauqua National Wildlife Refuge *
Clarence Cannon National Wildlife Refuge *
Crab Orchard National Wildlife Refuge
Cypress Creek National Wildlife Refuge *
Emiquon National Wildlife Refuge *
Great River National Wildlife Refuge *
Hackmatack National Wildlife Refuge
Kankakee National Wildlife Refuge And Conservation Area
Meredosia National Wildlife Refuge *
Middle Mississippi River National Wildlife Refuge *
Port Louisa National Wildlife Refuge
Two Rivers National Wildlife Refuge *
Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife And Fish Refuge *

# Indiana
Big Oaks National Wildlife Refuge
Muscatatuck National Wildlife Refuge
Patoka River National Wildlife Refuge and Management Area

# Iowa
Desoto National Wildlife Refuge *
Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge
Iowa Wetland Management District
Neal Smith National Wildlife Refuge
Northern Tallgrass Prairie National Wildlife Refuge
Port Louisa National Wildlife Refuge *
Union Slough National Wildlife Refuge
Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge *

# Kansas
Flint Hills Legacy Conservation Area
Flint Hills National Wildlife Refuge
Kirwin National Wildlife Refuge
Marais Des Cygnes National Wildlife Refuge
Quivira National Wildlife Refuge

# Kentucky
Clarks River National Wildlife Refuge
Green River National Wildlife Refuge *
Ohio River Islands National Wildlife Refuge *
Reelfoot National Wildlife Refuge

# Louisiana
Atchafalaya National Wildlife Refuge
Bayou Cocodrie National Wildlife Refuge
Bayou Sauvage Urban National Wildlife Refuge *
Bayou Teche National Wildlife Refuge *
Big Branch Marsh National Wildlife Refuge *
Black Bayou Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Bogue Chitto National Wildlife Refuge *
Breton National Wildlife Refuge *
Cameron Prairie National Wildlife Refuge *
Cat Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Catahoula National Wildlife Refuge
D'Arbonne National Wildlife Refuge
Delta National Wildlife Refuge *
Grand Cote National Wildlife Refuge
Handy Brake National Wildlife Refuge
Lacassine National Wildlife Refuge *
Lake Ophelia National Wildlife Refuge *
Mandalay National Wildlife Refuge *
Red River National Wildlife Refuge *
Sabine National Wildlife Refuge *
Shell Keys National Wildlife Refuge *
Tensas River National Wildlife Refuge
Upper Ouachita National Wildlife Refuge *

# Maine
Aroostook National Wildlife Refuge
Carlton Pond Waterfowl Production Area
Cross Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Franklin Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Great Thicket National Wildlife Refuge *
Moosehorn National Wildlife Refuge
Petit Manan National Wildlife Refuge *
Pond Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Rachel Carson National Wildlife Refuge *
Seal Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Sunkhaze Meadows National Wildlife Refuge
Umbagog National Wildlife Refuge

# Maryland
Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge *
Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge *
Eastern Neck National Wildlife Refuge *
Martin National Wildlife Refuge *
Patuxent Research Refuge
Susquehanna National Wildlife Refuge *

# Massachusetts
Assabet River National Wildlife Refuge
Great Meadows National Wildlife Refuge
Mashpee National Wildlife Refuge
Massasoit National Wildlife Refuge
Monomoy National Wildlife Refuge *
Nantucket National Wildlife Refuge *
Nomans Land Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Oxbow National Wildlife Refuge
Parker River National Wildlife Refuge *
Silvio O. Conte National Fish And Wildlife Refuge *
Thacher Island National Wildlife Refuge *

# Michigan
Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge *
Green Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Harbor Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Huron National Wildlife Refuge *
Kirtland's Warbler Wildlife Management Area
Michigan Islands National Wildlife Refuge *
Michigan Wetland Management District
Seney National Wildlife Refuge *
Shiawassee National Wildlife Refuge

# Minnesota
Agassiz National Wildlife Refuge
Big Stone National Wildlife Refuge
Big Stone Wetland Management District
Crane Meadows National Wildlife Refuge
Detroit Lakes Wetland Management District
Fergus Falls Wetland Management District
Glacial Ridge National Wildlife Refuge
Hamden Slough National Wildlife Refuge
Litchfield Wetland Management District
Mille Lacs National Wildlife Refuge
Minnesota Valley National Wildlife Refuge *
Minnesota Valley Wetland Management District
Morris Wetland Management District
Northern Tallgrass Prairie National Wildlife Refuge
Rice Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Rydell National Wildlife Refuge
Sherburne National Wildlife Refuge
Tamarac National Wildlife Refuge
Tamarac Wetland Management District
Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife And Fish Refuge *
Windom Wetland Management District

# Mississippi
Bogue Chitto National Wildlife Refuge *
Coldwater River National Wildlife Refuge
Dahomey National Wildlife Refuge
Grand Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Hillside National Wildlife Refuge
Holt Collier National Wildlife Refuge
Mathews Brake National Wildlife Refuge *
Mississippi Sandhill Crane National Wildlife Refuge *
Morgan Brake National Wildlife Refuge
Panther Swamp National Wildlife Refuge *
Sam D. Hamilton Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge
St. Catherine Creek National Wildlife Refuge *
Tallahatchie National Wildlife Refuge
Theodore Roosevelt National Wildlife Refuge *
Yazoo National Wildlife Refuge

# Missouri
Big Muddy National Fish And Wildlife Refuge *
Clarence Cannon National Wildlife Refuge *
Great River National Wildlife Refuge
Loess Bluffs National Wildlife Refuge
Middle Mississippi River National Wildlife Refuge *
Mingo National Wildlife Refuge
Ozark Cavefish National Wildlife Refuge
Pilot Knob National Wildlife Refuge
Swan Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Two Rivers National Wildlife Refuge

# Montana
Benton Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Benton Lake Wetland Management District
Black Coulee National Wildlife Refuge
Blackfoot Valley Conservation Area
Bowdoin National Wildlife Refuge
Bowdoin Wetland Management District
Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge
Charles M. Russell Wetland Management District
Creedman Coulee National Wildlife Refuge
Grass Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Hailstone National Wildlife Refuge
Hewitt Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Mason National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Thibadeau National Wildlife Refuge
Lamesteer National Wildlife Refuge
Lee Metcalf National Wildlife Refuge
Lost Trail Conservation Area
Lost Trail National Wildlife Refuge
Medicine Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Ninepipe National Wildlife Refuge
Northeast Montana Wetland Management District
Northwest Montana Wetland Management District
Pablo National Wildlife Refuge
Red Rock Lakes National Wildlife Refuge
Rocky Mountain Front Conservation Area
Swan River National Wildlife Refuge
Swan Valley Conservation Area
UL
Bend National Wildlife Refuge
War Horse National Wildlife Refuge

# Nebraska
Boyer Chute National Wildlife Refuge *
Crescent Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Desoto National Wildlife Refuge *
Fort Niobrara National Wildlife Refuge
John W. and Louise Seier National Wildlife Refuge
Karl E. Mundt National Wildlife Refuge
North Platte National Wildlife Refuge
Rainwater Basin Wetland Management District
Valentine National Wildlife Refuge

# Nevada
Anaho Island National Wildlife Refuge
Ash Meadows National Wildlife Refuge
Desert National Wildlife Refuge
Fallon National Wildlife Refuge
Moapa Valley National Wildlife Refuge
Pahranagat National Wildlife Refuge
Ruby Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Sheldon National Wildlife Refuge
Stillwater National Wildlife Refuge

# New Hampshire
Great Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
John Hay National Wildlife Refuge
Silvio O. Conte National Fish And Wildlife Refuge *
Umbagog National Wildlife Refuge
Wapack National Wildlife Refuge

# New Jersey
Cape May National Wildlife Refuge *
Edwin B. Forsythe National Wildlife Refuge *
Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge
Supawna Meadows National Wildlife Refuge *
Wallkill River National Wildlife Refuge

# New Mexico
Bitter Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Bosque Del Apache National Wildlife Refuge
Grulla National Wildlife Refuge
Las Vegas National Wildlife Refuge
Maxwell National Wildlife Refuge
Rio Mora National Wildlife Refuge and Conservation Area
San Andres National Wildlife Refuge
Sangre De Cristo Conservation Area
Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge
Valle De Oro National Wildlife Refuge

# New York
Amagansett National Wildlife Refuge *
Congressman Lester Wolff Oyster Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Conscience Point National Wildlife Refuge *
Elizabeth A. Morton National Wildlife Refuge *
Great Thicket National Wildlife Refuge *
Iroquois National Wildlife Refuge
Lido Beach Wildlife Management Area *
Montezuma National Wildlife Refuge *
Seatuck National Wildlife Refuge *
Shawangunk Grasslands National Wildlife Refuge
Target Rock National Wildlife Refuge *
Wallkill River National Wildlife Refuge
Wertheim National Wildlife Refuge *

# North Carolina
Alligator River National Wildlife Refuge *
Cedar Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Currituck National Wildlife Refuge *
Great Dismal Swamp National Wildlife Refuge *
Mackay Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Mattamuskeet National Wildlife Refuge
Mountain Bogs National Wildlife Refuge
Pea Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Pee Dee National Wildlife Refuge
Pocosin Lakes National Wildlife Refuge *
Roanoke River National Wildlife Refuge *
Swanquarter National Wildlife Refuge *

# North Dakota
Appert Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Ardoch National Wildlife Refuge
Arrowwood National Wildlife Refuge
Arrowwood Wetland Management District
Audubon National Wildlife Refuge
Audubon Wetland Management District
Bone Hill National Wildlife Refuge
Brumba National Wildlife Refuge
Buffalo Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Camp Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Canfield Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Chase Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Chase Lake Wetland Management District
Cottonwood Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Crosby Wetland Management District
Dakota Grassland Conservation Area
Dakota Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Dakota Tallgrass Prairie Wildlife Management Area
Des Lacs National Wildlife Refuge
Devils Lake Wetland Management District
Florence Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Half-Way Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Hiddenwood National Wildlife Refuge
Hobart Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Hutchinson Lake National Wildlife Refuge
J. Clark Salyer National Wildlife Refuge
J. Clark Salyer Wetland Management District
Johnson Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Kellys Slough National Wildlife Refuge
Kulm Wetland Management District
Lake Alice National Wildlife Refuge
Lake George National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Ilo National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Nettie National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Otis National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Patricia National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Zahl National Wildlife Refuge
Lambs Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Little Goose National Wildlife Refuge
Long Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Long Lake Wetland Management District
Lords Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Lost Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Lostwood National Wildlife Refuge
Lostwood Wetland Management District
Maple River National Wildlife Refuge
Mclean National Wildlife Refuge
North Dakota Wildlife Management Area
Pleasant Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Pretty Rock National Wildlife Refuge
Rabb Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Rock Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Rose Lake National Wildlife Refuge
School Section Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Shell Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Sheyenne Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Sibley Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Silver Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Slade National Wildlife Refuge
Snyder Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Springwater National Wildlife Refuge
Stewart Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Stoney Slough National Wildlife Refuge
Storm Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Stump Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Sunburst Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Tewaukon National Wildlife Refuge
Tewaukon Wetland Management District
Tomahawk National Wildlife Refuge
Upper Souris National Wildlife Refuge
Valley City Wetland Management District
White Horse Hill National Game Preserve
White Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Wild Rice Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Willow Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Wintering River National Wildlife Refuge
Wood Lake National Wildlife Refuge

# Ohio
Cedar Point National Wildlife Refuge *
Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge *
West Sister Island National Wildlife Refuge *

# Oklahoma
Deep Fork National Wildlife Refuge
Little River National Wildlife Refuge
Optima National Wildlife Refuge
Ozark Plateau National Wildlife Refuge
Salt Plains National Wildlife Refuge
Sequoyah National Wildlife Refuge *
Tishomingo National Wildlife Refuge
Washita National Wildlife Refuge
Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge

# Oregon
Ankeny National Wildlife Refuge *
Bandon Marsh National Wildlife Refuge *
Baskett Slough National Wildlife Refuge
Bear Valley National Wildlife Refuge
Cape Meares National Wildlife Refuge *
Cold Springs National Wildlife Refuge
Deer Flat National Wildlife Refuge
Hart Mountain National Antelope Refuge
Julia Butler Hansen Refuge For The Columbian White Tail Deer *
Klamath Marsh National Wildlife Refuge
Lewis And Clark National Wildlife Refuge *
Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuge
Malheur National Wildlife Refuge
Mckay Creek National Wildlife Refuge
Mcnary National Wildlife Refuge *
Nestucca Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Oregon Islands National Wildlife Refuge *
Sheldon National Wildlife Refuge
Siletz Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Three Arch Rocks National Wildlife Refuge *
Tualatin River National Wildlife Refuge
Umatilla National Wildlife Refuge *
Upper Klamath National Wildlife Refuge
Wapato Lake National Wildlife Refuge
William L. Finley National Wildlife Refuge

# Pennsylvania
Cherry Valley National Wildlife Refuge
Erie National Wildlife Refuge
John Heinz National Wildlife Refuge At Tinicum
Ohio River Islands National Wildlife Refuge *

# Puerto Rico
Cabo Rojo National Wildlife Refuge *
Culebra National Wildlife Refuge *
Desecheo National Wildlife Refuge *
Laguna Cartagena National Wildlife Refuge
Vieques National Wildlife Refuge *

# Rhode Island
Block Island National Wildlife Refuge *
John H. Chafee National Wildlife Refuge
Ninigret National Wildlife Refuge *
Sachuest Point National Wildlife Refuge *
Trustom Pond National Wildlife Refuge *

# South Carolina
Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge *
Carolina Sandhills National Wildlife Refuge
Ernest F. Hollings Ace Basin National Wildlife Refuge *
Pinckney Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Santee National Wildlife Refuge *
Savannah National Wildlife Refuge *
Tybee National Wildlife Refuge *
Waccamaw National Wildlife Refuge *

# South Dakota
Bear Butte National Wildlife Refuge
Dakota Grassland Conservation Area
Dakota Tallgrass Prairie Wildlife Management Area
Huron Wetland Management District
Karl E. Mundt National Wildlife Refuge
Lacreek National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Andes National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Andes Wetland Management District
Madison Wetland Management District
Sand Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Sand Lake Wetland Management District
Waubay National Wildlife Refuge
Waubay Wetland Management District

# Tennessee
Chickasaw National Wildlife Refuge *
Cross Creeks National Wildlife Refuge *
Hatchie National Wildlife Refuge
Lake Isom National Wildlife Refuge
Lower Hatchie National Wildlife Refuge *
Paint Rock River National Wildlife Refuge
Reelfoot National Wildlife Refuge
Tennessee National Wildlife Refuge *

# Texas
Anahuac National Wildlife Refuge *
Aransas National Wildlife Refuge *
Attwater Prairie Chicken National Wildlife Refuge
Balcones Canyonlands National Wildlife Refuge
Big Boggy National Wildlife Refuge *
Brazoria National Wildlife Refuge *
Buffalo Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Caddo Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Grulla National Wildlife Refuge
Hagerman National Wildlife Refuge
Laguna Atascosa National Wildlife Refuge *
Little Sandy National Wildlife Refuge
Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge *
Mcfaddin National Wildlife Refuge *
Moody National Wildlife Refuge *
Muleshoe National Wildlife Refuge
Neches River National Wildlife Refuge
San Bernard National Wildlife Refuge *
Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge
Texas Point National Wildlife Refuge *
Trinity River National Wildlife Refuge *

# United States Minor Outlying Islands
Baker Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Howland Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Jarvis Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Johnston Atoll National Wildlife Refuge *
Kingman Reef National Wildlife Refuge *
Mariana Arc Of Fire National Wildlife Refuge *
Mariana Trench National Wildlife Refuge
Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge *
Navassa Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Palmyra Atoll National Wildlife Refuge *
Wake Atoll National Wildlife Refuge *

# Utah
Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge
Bear River Watershed Conservation Area
Colorado River Wildlife Management Area
Fish Springs National Wildlife Refuge
Ouray National Wildlife Refuge

# Vermont
Missisquoi National Wildlife Refuge *
Silvio O. Conte National Fish And Wildlife Refuge *

# Virgin Islands
Buck Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Green Cay National Wildlife Refuge *
Sandy Point National Wildlife Refuge *

# Virginia
Back Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge *
Eastern Shore Of Virginia National Wildlife Refuge *
Elizabeth Hartwell Mason Neck National Wildlife Refuge *
Featherstone National Wildlife Refuge *
Fisherman Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Great Dismal Swamp National Wildlife Refuge *
James River National Wildlife Refuge *
Mackay Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Martin National Wildlife Refuge *
Nansemond National Wildlife Refuge *
Occoquan Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Plum Tree Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Presquile National Wildlife Refuge *
Rappahannock River Valley National Wildlife Refuge *
Wallops Island National Wildlife Refuge *

# Washington
Billy Frank Jr. Nisqually National Wildlife Refuge *
Columbia National Wildlife Refuge
Conboy Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Copalis National Wildlife Refuge *
Dungeness National Wildlife Refuge *
Flattery Rocks National Wildlife Refuge *
Franz Lake National Wildlife Refuge *
Grays Harbor National Wildlife Refuge *
Julia Butler Hansen Refuge For The Columbian White Tail Deer
Little Pend Oreille National Wildlife Refuge
Mcnary National Wildlife Refuge *
Pierce National Wildlife Refuge
Protection Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Quillayute Needles National Wildlife Refuge *
Ridgefield National Wildlife Refuge *
Saddle Mountain National Wildlife Refuge
San Juan Islands National Wildlife Refuge *
Steigerwald Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Toppenish National Wildlife Refuge
Turnbull National Wildlife Refuge
Umatilla National Wildlife Refuge *
Willapa National Wildlife Refuge *

# West Virginia
Canaan Valley National Wildlife Refuge
Ohio River Islands National Wildlife Refuge *

# Wisconsin
Fox River National Wildlife Refuge
Gravel Island National Wildlife Refuge *
Green Bay National Wildlife Refuge *
Hackmatack National Wildlife Refuge
Horicon National Wildlife Refuge
Leopold Wetland Management District
Necedah National Wildlife Refuge
St. Croix Wetland Management District
Trempealeau National Wildlife Refuge *
Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife And Fish Refuge *
Whittlesey Creek National Wildlife Refuge *

# Wyoming
Bamforth National Wildlife Refuge
Bear River Watershed Conservation Area
Cokeville Meadows National Wildlife Refuge
Hutton Lake National Wildlife Refuge
Mortenson Lake National Wildlife Refuge
National Elk Refuge
Pathfinder National Wildlife Refuge
Seedskadee National Wildlife Refuge
Wyoming Toad Conservation Area

# A.5 National Wilderness Areas

# Alabama
Cheaha Wilderness
Dugger Mountain Wilderness
Sipsey Wilderness

# Alaska
Aleutian Islands Wilderness *
Andreafsky Wilderness
Becharof Wilderness *
Bering Sea Wilderness *
Bogoslof Wilderness *
Chamisso Wilderness *
Chuck River Wilderness *
Coronation Island Wilderness *
Denali Wilderness
Endicott River Wilderness
Forrester Island Wilderness *
Gates of the Arctic Wilderness *
Glacier Bay Wilderness *
Hazy Islands Wilderness *
Innoko Wilderness
Izembek Wilderness *
Jay S. Hammond Wilderness *
Karta River Wilderness *
Katmai Wilderness *
Kenai Wilderness *
Kobuk Valley Wilderness *
Kootznoowoo Wilderness *
Koyukuk Wilderness *
Kuiu Wilderness *
Maurelle Islands Wilderness *
Misty Fjords National Monument Wilderness *
Mollie Beattie Wilderness *
Noatak Wilderness
Nunivak Wilderness *
Petersburg Creek-Duncan Salt Chuck Wilderness *
Pleasant/Lemusurier/Inian Islands Wilderness *
Russell Fjord Wilderness *
Saint Lazaria Wilderness *
Selawik Wilderness
Semidi Wilderness *
Simeonof Wilderness *
South Baranof Wilderness *
South Etolin Wilderness *
South Prince of Wales Wilderness *
Stikine-LeConte Wilderness *
Tebenkof Bay Wilderness *
Togiak Wilderness
Tracy Arm-Fords Terror Wilderness *
Tuxedni Wilderness *
Unimak Wilderness *
Warren Island Wilderness *
West Chichagof-Yakobi Wilderness *
Wrangell-Saint Elias Wilderness *

# Arizona
Apache Creek Wilderness
Aravaipa Canyon Wilderness
Arrastra Mountain Wilderness
Aubrey Peak Wilderness
Baboquivari Peak Wilderness
Bear Wallow Wilderness
Beaver Dam Mountains Wilderness
Big Horn Mountains Wilderness
Cabeza Prieta Wilderness
Castle Creek Wilderness
Cedar Bench Wilderness
Chiricahua National Monument Wilderness
Chiricahua Wilderness
Cottonwood Point Wilderness
Coyote Mountains Wilderness
Dos Cabezas Mountains Wilderness
Eagletail Mountains Wilderness
East Cactus Plain Wilderness
Escudilla Wilderness
Fishhooks Wilderness
Fossil Springs Wilderness
Four Peaks Wilderness
Galiuro Wilderness
Gibraltar Mountain Wilderness
Grand Wash Cliffs Wilderness
Granite Mountain Wilderness
Harcuvar Mountains Wilderness
Harquahala Mountains Wilderness
Hassayampa River Canyon Wilderness
Havasu Wilderness
Hells Canyon Wilderness
Hellsgate Wilderness
Hummingbird Springs Wilderness
Imperial Refuge Wilderness
Juniper Mesa Wilderness
Kachina Peaks Wilderness
Kanab Creek Wilderness
Kendrick Mountain Wilderness
Kofa Wilderness
Mazatzal Wilderness
Miller Peak Wilderness
Mount Baldy Wilderness
Mount Logan Wilderness
Mount Nutt Wilderness
Mount Tipton Wilderness
Mount Trumbull Wilderness
Mount Wilson Wilderness
Mt. Wrightson Wilderness
Muggins Mountain Wilderness
Munds Mountain Wilderness
Needle's Eye Wilderness
New Water Mountains Wilderness
North Maricopa Mountains Wilderness
North Santa Teresa Wilderness
Organ Pipe Cactus Wilderness
Paiute Wilderness
Pajarita Wilderness
Paria Canyon-Vermilion Cliffs Wilderness
Peloncillo Mountains Wilderness
Petrified Forest National Wilderness Area
Pine Mountain Wilderness
Pusch Ridge Wilderness
Rawhide Mountains Wilderness
Red Rock-Secret Mountain Wilderness
Redfield Canyon Wilderness
Rincon Mountain Wilderness
Saddle Mountain Wilderness
Saguaro Wilderness
Salome Wilderness
Salt River Canyon Wilderness
Santa Teresa Wilderness
Sierra Ancha Wilderness
Sierra Estrella Wilderness
Signal Mountain Wilderness
South Maricopa Mountains Wilderness
Strawberry Crater Wilderness
Superstition Wilderness
Swansea Wilderness
Sycamore Canyon Wilderness
Table Top Wilderness
Tres Alamos Wilderness
Trigo Mountain Wilderness
Upper Burro Creek Wilderness
Wabayuma Peak Wilderness
Warm Springs Wilderness
West Clear Creek Wilderness
Wet Beaver Wilderness
White Canyon Wilderness
Woodchute Wilderness
Woolsey Peak Wilderness

# Arkansas
Big Lake Wilderness
Black Fork Mountain Wilderness
Buffalo National River Wilderness *
Caney Creek Wilderness
Dry Creek Wilderness
East Fork Wilderness
Flatside Wilderness
Hurricane Creek Wilderness
Leatherwood Wilderness
Poteau Mountain Wilderness
Richland Creek Wilderness
Upper Buffalo Wilderness

# California
Agua Tibia Wilderness
Ansel Adams Wilderness
Argus Range Wilderness
Avawatz Mountains Wilderness
Beauty Mountain Wilderness
Big Maria Mountains Wilderness
Bigelow Cholla Garden Wilderness
Bighorn Mountain Wilderness
Black Mountain Wilderness
Bright Star Wilderness
Bristol Mountains Wilderness
Bucks Lake Wilderness
Buzzards Peak Wilderness
Cache Creek Wilderness
Cadiz Dunes Wilderness
Cahuilla Mountain Wilderness
Caribou Wilderness
Carrizo Gorge Wilderness
Carson-Iceberg Wilderness
Castle Crags Wilderness
Cedar Roughs Wilderness
Chanchelulla Wilderness
Chemehuevi Mountains Wilderness
Chimney Peak Wilderness
Chuckwalla Mountains Wilderness
Chumash Wilderness
Cleghorn Lakes Wilderness
Clipper Mountain Wilderness
Coso Range Wilderness
Coyote Mountains Wilderness
Cucamonga Wilderness
Darwin Falls Wilderness
Dead Mountains Wilderness
Death Valley Wilderness
Desolation Wilderness
Dick Smith Wilderness
Dinkey Lakes Wilderness
Domeland Wilderness
El Paso Mountains Wilderness
Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness
Emigrant Wilderness
Farallon Wilderness *
Fish Creek Mountains Wilderness
Funeral Mountains Wilderness
Garcia Wilderness
Golden Trout Wilderness
Golden Valley Wilderness
Granite Chief Wilderness
Granite Mountain Wilderness
Grass Valley Wilderness
Great Falls Basin Wilderness
Hain Wilderness
Hauser Wilderness
Havasu Wilderness
Hollow Hills Wilderness
Hoover Wilderness
Ibex Wilderness
Imperial Refuge Wilderness
Indian Pass Wilderness
Inyo Mountains Wilderness
Ishi Wilderness
Jacumba Wilderness *
Jennie Lakes Wilderness
John Krebs Wilderness
John Muir Wilderness
Joshua Tree Wilderness
Kaiser Wilderness
Kelso Dunes Wilderness
Kiavah Wilderness
King Range Wilderness *
Kingston Range Wilderness
Lassen Volcanic Wilderness
Lava Beds Wilderness
Little Chuckwalla Mountains Wilderness
Little Picacho Wilderness
Machesna Mountain Wilderness
Magic Mountain Wilderness
Malpais Mesa Wilderness
Manly Peak Wilderness
Marble Mountain Wilderness
Matilija Wilderness
Mecca Hills Wilderness
Mesquite Wilderness
Milpitas Wash Wilderness
Mojave Wilderness
Mokelumne Wilderness
Monarch Wilderness
Mount Lassic Wilderness
Mt. Shasta Wilderness
Newberry Mountains Wilderness
Nopah Range Wilderness
North Algodones Dunes Wilderness
North Fork Wilderness
North Mesquite Mountains Wilderness
Old Woman Mountains Wilderness
Orocopia Mountains Wilderness
Otay Mountain Wilderness *
Owens Peak Wilderness
Owens River Headwaters Wilderness
Pahrump Valley Wilderness
Palen/McCoy Wilderness
Palo Verde Mountains Wilderness
Phillip Burton Wilderness *
Picacho Peak Wilderness
Pine Creek Wilderness
Pinto Mountains Wilderness
Piper Mountain Wilderness
Piute Mountains Wilderness
Pleasant View Ridge Wilderness
Red Buttes Wilderness
Resting Spring Range Wilderness
Rice Valley Wilderness
Riverside Mountains Wilderness
Rocks and Islands Wilderness *
Rodman Mountains Wilderness
Russian Wilderness
Sacatar Trail Wilderness
Saddle Peak Hills Wilderness
San Gabriel Wilderness
San Gorgonio Wilderness
San Jacinto Wilderness
San Mateo Canyon Wilderness
San Rafael Wilderness
Sanhedrin Wilderness
Santa Lucia Wilderness
Santa Rosa Wilderness
Sawtooth Mountains Wilderness
Sequoia-Kings Canyon Wilderness
Sespe Wilderness
Sheep Mountain Wilderness
Sheephole Valley Wilderness
Silver Peak Wilderness
Siskiyou Wilderness
Snow Mountain Wilderness
Soda Mountains Wilderness
South Fork Eel River Wilderness
South Fork San Jacinto Wilderness
South Nopah Range Wilderness
South Sierra Wilderness
South Warner Wilderness
Stateline Wilderness
Stepladder Mountains Wilderness
Surprise Canyon Wilderness
Sylvania Mountains Wilderness
Thousand Lakes Wilderness
Trilobite Wilderness
Trinity Alps Wilderness
Turtle Mountains Wilderness
Ventana Wilderness
Whipple Mountains Wilderness
White Mountains Wilderness
Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel Wilderness
Yosemite Wilderness
Yuki Wilderness

# Colorado
Black Canyon of the Gunnison Wilderness
Black Ridge Canyons Wilderness
Buffalo Peaks Wilderness
Byers Peak Wilderness
Cache La Poudre Wilderness
Collegiate Peaks Wilderness
Comanche Peak Wilderness
Dominguez Canyon Wilderness
Eagles Nest Wilderness
Flat Tops Wilderness
Fossil Ridge Wilderness
Great Sand Dunes Wilderness
Greenhorn Mountain Wilderness
Gunnison Gorge Wilderness
Hermosa Creek Wilderness
Holy Cross Wilderness
Hunter-Fryingpan Wilderness
Indian Peaks Wilderness
James Peak Wilderness
La Garita Wilderness
Lizard Head Wilderness
Lost Creek Wilderness
Maroon Bells-Snowmass Wilderness
Mesa Verde Wilderness
Mount Evans Wilderness
Mount Massive Wilderness
Mount Sneffels Wilderness
Mount Zirkel Wilderness
Neota Wilderness
Never Summer Wilderness
Platte River Wilderness
Powderhorn Wilderness
Ptarmigan Peak Wilderness
Raggeds Wilderness
Rawah Wilderness
Rocky Mountain National Park Wilderness
Sangre de Cristo Wilderness
Sarvis Creek Wilderness
South San Juan Wilderness
Spanish Peaks Wilderness
Uncompahgre Wilderness
Vasquez Peak Wilderness
Weminuche Wilderness
West Elk Wilderness

# Florida
Alexander Springs Wilderness *
Big Gum Swamp Wilderness
Billies Bay Wilderness
Bradwell Bay Wilderness
Cedar Keys Wilderness *
Chassahowitzka Wilderness *
Florida Keys Wilderness *
Island Bay Wilderness *
J.N. “Ding” Darling Wilderness *
Juniper Prairie Wilderness
Lake Woodruff Wilderness *
Little Lake George Wilderness *
Marjory Stoneman Douglas Wilderness *
Mud Swamp/New River Wilderness
Passage Key Wilderness *
Pelican Island Wilderness *
St. Marks Wilderness *

# Georgia
Big Frog Wilderness
Blackbeard Island Wilderness *
Blood Mountain Wilderness
Brasstown Wilderness
Cohutta Wilderness
Cumberland Island Wilderness *
Ellicott Rock Wilderness
Mark Trail Wilderness
Okefenokee Wilderness
Raven Cliffs Wilderness
Rich Mountain Wilderness
Southern Nantahala Wilderness
Tray Mountain Wilderness
Wolf Island Wilderness *

# Hawaii
Haleakalā Wilderness
Hawai`i Volcanoes Wilderness *

# Idaho
Big Jacks Creek Wilderness
Bruneau-Jarbidge Rivers Wilderness
Cecil D. Andrus-White Clouds Wilderness
Craters of the Moon National Wilderness Area
Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness
Gospel-Hump Wilderness
Hells Canyon Wilderness
Hemingway-Boulders Wilderness
Jim McClure-Jerry Peak Wilderness
Little Jacks Creek Wilderness
North Fork Owyhee Wilderness
Owyhee River Wilderness
Pole Creek Wilderness
Sawtooth Wilderness
Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness

# Illinois
Bald Knob Wilderness
Bay Creek Wilderness
Burden Falls Wilderness
Clear Springs Wilderness
Crab Orchard Wilderness
Garden of the Gods Wilderness
Lusk Creek Wilderness
Panther Den Wilderness

# Indiana
Charles C. Deam Wilderness

# Kentucky
Beaver Creek Wilderness
Clifty Wilderness

# Louisiana
Breton Wilderness *
Kisatchie Hills Wilderness
Lacassine Wilderness

# Maine
Caribou-Speckled Mountain Wilderness
Moosehorn (Baring Unit) Wilderness
Moosehorn Wilderness *

# Massachusetts
Monomoy Wilderness *

# Michigan
Beaver Basin Wilderness *
Big Island Lake Wilderness
Delirium Wilderness
Horseshoe Bay Wilderness *
Huron Islands Wilderness *
Isle Royale Wilderness *
Mackinac Wilderness
McCormick Wilderness
Michigan Islands Wilderness *
Nordhouse Dunes Wilderness *
Rock River Canyon Wilderness
Round Island Wilderness *
Seney Wilderness
Sleeping Bear Dunes Wilderness *
Sturgeon River Gorge Wilderness
Sylvania Wilderness

# Minnesota
Agassiz Wilderness
Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness *
Tamarac Wilderness

# Mississippi
Black Creek Wilderness
Gulf Islands Wilderness *
Leaf Wilderness

# Missouri
Bell Mountain Wilderness
Devils Backbone Wilderness
Hercules-Glades Wilderness
Irish Wilderness
Mingo Wilderness
Paddy Creek Wilderness
Piney Creek Wilderness
Rockpile Mountain Wilderness

# Montana
Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness
Anaconda Pintler Wilderness
Bob Marshall Wilderness
Cabinet Mountains Wilderness
Gates of the Mountains Wilderness
Great Bear Wilderness
Lee Metcalf Wilderness
Medicine Lake Wilderness
Mission Mountains Wilderness
Rattlesnake Wilderness
Red Rock Lakes Wilderness
Scapegoat Wilderness
Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness
UL Bend Wilderness
Welcome Creek Wilderness

# Nebraska
Fort Niobrara Wilderness
Soldier Creek Wilderness

# Nevada
Alta Toquima Wilderness
Arc Dome Wilderness
Arrow Canyon Wilderness
Bald Mountain Wilderness
Becky Peak Wilderness
Big Rocks Wilderness
Black Canyon Wilderness
Black Rock Desert Wilderness
Boundary Peak Wilderness
Bridge Canyon Wilderness
Bristlecone Wilderness
Cain Mountain Wilderness
Calico Mountains Wilderness
Clan Alpine Mountains Wilderness
Clover Mountains Wilderness
Currant Mountain Wilderness
Death Valley Wilderness
Delamar Mountains Wilderness
Desatoya Mountains Wilderness
East Fork High Rock Canyon Wilderness
East Humboldts Wilderness
Eldorado Wilderness
Far South Egans Wilderness
Fortification Range Wilderness
Goshute Canyon Wilderness
Government Peak Wilderness
Grant Range Wilderness
High Rock Canyon Wilderness
High Rock Lake Wilderness
High Schells Wilderness
Highland Ridge Wilderness
Ireteba Peaks Wilderness
Jarbidge Wilderness
Jimbilnan Wilderness
Jumbo Springs Wilderness
La Madre Mountain Wilderness
Lime Canyon Wilderness
Little High Rock Canyon Wilderness
Meadow Valley Range Wilderness
Mormon Mountains Wilderness
Mount Grafton Wilderness
Mt. Charleston Wilderness
Mt. Irish Wilderness
Mt. Moriah Wilderness
Mt. Rose Wilderness
Muddy Mountains Wilderness
Nellis Wash Wilderness
North Black Rock Range Wilderness
North Jackson Mountains Wilderness
North McCullough Wilderness
Pahute Peak Wilderness
Parsnip Peak Wilderness
Pine Forest Range Wilderness
Pinto Valley Wilderness
Quinn Canyon Wilderness
Rainbow Mountain Wilderness
Red Mountain Wilderness
Ruby Mountains Wilderness
Santa Rosa-Paradise Peak Wilderness
Shellback Wilderness
South Egan Range Wilderness
South Jackson Mountains Wilderness
South McCullough Wilderness
South Pahroc Range Wilderness
Spirit Mountain Wilderness
Table Mountain Wilderness
Tunnel Spring Wilderness
Wee Thump Joshua Tree Wilderness
Weepah Spring Wilderness
White Pine Range Wilderness
White Rock Range Wilderness
Worthington Mountains Wilderness
Wovoka Wilderness

# New Hampshire
Great Gulf Wilderness
Pemigewasset Wilderness
Presidential Range-Dry River Wilderness
Sandwich Range Wilderness
Wild River Wilderness

# New Jersey
Brigantine Wilderness *
Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge Wilderness

# New Mexico
Aden Lava Flow Wilderness
Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness
Aldo Leopold Wilderness
Apache Kid Wilderness
Bandelier Wilderness
Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness
Blue Range Wilderness
Bosque del Apache Wilderness
Broad Canyon Wilderness
Capitan Mountains Wilderness
Carlsbad Caverns Wilderness
Cebolla Wilderness
Cerro del Yuta Wilderness
Chama River Canyon Wilderness
Cinder Cone Wilderness
Columbine-Hondo Wilderness
Cruces Basin Wilderness
Dome Wilderness
East Potrillo Mountains Wilderness
Gila Wilderness
Latir Peak Wilderness
Manzano Mountain Wilderness
Mount Riley Wilderness
Ojito Wilderness
Organ Mountains Wilderness
Pecos Wilderness
Potrillo Mountains Wilderness
Rio San Antonio Wilderness
Robledo Mountains Wilderness
Sabinoso Wilderness
Salt Creek Wilderness
San Pedro Parks Wilderness
Sandia Mountain Wilderness
Sierra de las Uvas Wilderness
West Malpais Wilderness
Wheeler Peak Wilderness
White Mountain Wilderness
Whitethorn Wilderness
Withington Wilderness

# New York
Otis Pike Fire Island High Dune Wilderness *

# North Carolina
Birkhead Mountains Wilderness
Catfish Lake South Wilderness
Ellicott Rock Wilderness
Joyce Kilmer-Slickrock Wilderness
Linville Gorge Wilderness
Middle Prong Wilderness
Pocosin Wilderness
Pond Pine Wilderness
Sheep Ridge Wilderness
Shining Rock Wilderness
Southern Nantahala Wilderness
Swanquarter Wilderness *

# North Dakota
Chase Lake Wilderness
Lostwood Wilderness
Theodore Roosevelt Wilderness

# Ohio
West Sister Island Wilderness *

# Oklahoma
Black Fork Mountain Wilderness
Upper Kiamichi River Wilderness
Wichita Mountains Wilderness

# Oregon
Badger Creek Wilderness
Black Canyon Wilderness
Boulder Creek Wilderness
Bridge Creek Wilderness
Bull of the Woods Wilderness
Clackamas Wilderness
Copper Salmon Wilderness
Cummins Creek Wilderness
Devil's Staircase Wilderness *
Diamond Peak Wilderness
Drift Creek Wilderness
Eagle Cap Wilderness
Gearhart Mountain Wilderness
Grassy Knob Wilderness
Hells Canyon Wilderness
Kalmiopsis Wilderness
Lower White River Wilderness
Mark O. Hatfield Wilderness *
Menagerie Wilderness
Middle Santiam Wilderness
Mill Creek Wilderness
Monument Rock Wilderness
Mount Hood Wilderness
Mount Jefferson Wilderness
Mount Thielsen Wilderness
Mount Washington Wilderness
Mountain Lakes Wilderness
North Fork John Day Wilderness
North Fork Umatilla Wilderness
Opal Creek Wilderness
Oregon Badlands Wilderness
Oregon Islands Wilderness *
Red Buttes Wilderness
Roaring River Wilderness
Rock Creek Wilderness
Rogue-Umpqua Divide Wilderness
Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness
Sky Lakes Wilderness
Soda Mountain Wilderness
Spring Basin Wilderness
Steens Mountain Wilderness
Strawberry Mountain Wilderness
Table Rock Wilderness
Three Arch Rocks Wilderness *
Three Sisters Wilderness
Waldo Lake Wilderness
Wenaha-Tucannon Wilderness
Wild Rogue Wilderness

# Pennsylvania
Allegheny Islands Wilderness
Hickory Creek Wilderness

# Puerto Rico
El Toro Wilderness

# South Carolina
Cape Romain Wilderness *
Congaree National Park Wilderness *
Ellicott Rock Wilderness
Hell Hole Bay Wilderness
Little Wambaw Swamp Wilderness
Wambaw Creek Wilderness
Wambaw Swamp Wilderness

# South Dakota
Badlands Wilderness
Black Elk Wilderness

# Tennessee
Bald River Gorge Wilderness
Big Frog Wilderness
Big Laurel Branch Wilderness
Citico Creek Wilderness
Cohutta Wilderness
Gee Creek Wilderness
Joyce Kilmer-Slickrock Wilderness
Little Frog Mountain Wilderness
Pond Mountain Wilderness
Sampson Mountain Wilderness
Unaka Mountain Wilderness
Upper Bald River Wilderness

# Texas
Big Slough Wilderness
Guadalupe Mountains Wilderness
Indian Mounds Wilderness
Little Lake Creek Wilderness
Turkey Hill Wilderness
Upland Island Wilderness

# Utah
Ashdown Gorge Wilderness
Beartrap Canyon Wilderness
Beaver Dam Mountains Wilderness
Big Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness
Black Ridge Canyons Wilderness
Blackridge Wilderness
Box-Death Hollow Wilderness
Canaan Mountain Wilderness
Cedar Mountain Wilderness Area
Cold Wash Wilderness
Cottonwood Canyon Wilderness
Cottonwood Forest Wilderness
Cougar Canyon Wilderness
Dark Canyon Wilderness
Deep Creek North Wilderness
Deep Creek Wilderness
Deseret Peak Wilderness
Desolation Canyon Wilderness
Devil's Canyon Wilderness
Doc's Pass Wilderness
Eagle Canyon Wilderness
Goose Creek Wilderness
High Uintas Wilderness
Horse Valley Wilderness
Labyrinth Canyon Wilderness
LaVerkin Creek Wilderness
Little Ocean Draw Wilderness
Little Wild Horse Canyon Wilderness
Lone Peak Wilderness
Lower Last Chance Wilderness
Mexican Mountain Wilderness
Middle Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness
Mount Naomi Wilderness
Mount Nebo Wilderness
Mount Olympus Wilderness
Mount Timpanogos Wilderness
Muddy Creek Wilderness
Nelson Mountain Wilderness
Paria Canyon-Vermilion Cliffs Wilderness
Pine Valley Mountain Wilderness
Red's Canyon Wilderness
Red Butte Wilderness
Red Mountain Wilderness
San Rafael Reef Wilderness
Sid's Mountain Wilderness
Slaughter Creek Wilderness
Taylor Creek Wilderness
Turtle Canyon Wilderness
Twin Peaks Wilderness
Wellsville Mountain Wilderness
Zion Wilderness

# Vermont
Big Branch Wilderness
Breadloaf Wilderness
Bristol Cliffs Wilderness
George D. Aiken Wilderness
Glastenbury Wilderness
Joseph Battell Wilderness
Lye Brook Wilderness
Peru Peak Wilderness

# Virginia
Barbours Creek Wilderness
Beartown Wilderness
Brush Mountain East Wilderness
Brush Mountain Wilderness
Garden Mountain Wilderness
Hunting Camp Creek Wilderness
James River Face Wilderness
Kimberling Creek Wilderness
Lewis Fork Wilderness
Little Dry Run Wilderness
Little Wilson Creek Wilderness
Mountain Lake Wilderness
Peters Mountain Wilderness
Priest Wilderness
Raccoon Branch Wilderness
Ramseys Draft Wilderness
Rich Hole Wilderness
Rough Mountain Wilderness
Saint Mary's Wilderness
Shawvers Run Wilderness
Shenandoah Wilderness
Stone Mountain Wilderness
Three Ridges Wilderness
Thunder Ridge Wilderness

# Washington
Alpine Lakes Wilderness
Boulder River Wilderness
Buckhorn Wilderness
Clearwater Wilderness
Colonel Bob Wilderness
Daniel J. Evans Wilderness *
Glacier Peak Wilderness
Glacier View Wilderness
Goat Rocks Wilderness
Henry M. Jackson Wilderness
Indian Heaven Wilderness
Juniper Dunes Wilderness
Lake Chelan-Sawtooth Wilderness
Mount Adams Wilderness
Mount Baker Wilderness *
Mount Rainier Wilderness
Mount Skokomish Wilderness
Noisy-Diobsud Wilderness
Norse Peak Wilderness
Pasayten Wilderness *
Salmo-Priest Wilderness *
San Juan Wilderness *
Stephen Mather Wilderness *
Tatoosh Wilderness
The Brothers Wilderness
Trapper Creek Wilderness
Washington Islands Wilderness *
Wenaha-Tucannon Wilderness
Wild Sky Wilderness
William O. Douglas Wilderness
Wonder Mountain Wilderness

# West Virginia
Big Draft Wilderness
Cranberry Wilderness
Dolly Sods Wilderness
Laurel Fork North Wilderness
Laurel Fork South Wilderness
Mountain Lake Wilderness
Otter Creek Wilderness
Roaring Plains West Wilderness
Spice Run Wilderness

# Wisconsin
Blackjack Springs Wilderness
Gaylord Nelson Wilderness *
Headwaters Wilderness
Porcupine Lake Wilderness
Rainbow Lake Wilderness
Whisker Lake Wilderness
Wisconsin Islands Wilderness *

# Wyoming
Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness
Bridger Wilderness
Cloud Peak Wilderness
Encampment River Wilderness
Fitzpatrick Wilderness
Gros Ventre Wilderness
Huston Park Wilderness
Jedediah Smith Wilderness
North Absaroka Wilderness
Platte River Wilderness
Popo Agie Wilderness
Savage Run Wilderness
Teton Wilderness
Washakie Wilderness
Winegar Hole Wilderness

# A.6 National Wild and Scenic River

# Alabama
Sipsey Fork of the West Fork River

# Alaska
Alagnak River
Alatna River
Andreafsky River *
Aniakchak River
Beaver Creek
Birch Creek
Charley River *
Chilikadrotna River
Delta River
Fortymile River *
Gulkana River
Ivishak River
John River
Kobuk River
Mulchatna River
Noatak River
North Fork Koyukuk River *
Nowitna River
Salmon River *
Selawik River
Sheenjek River
Tinayguk River
Tlikakila River *
Unalakleet River
Wind River

# Arizona
Fossil Creek
Verde River

# Arkansas
Big Piney Creek
Buffalo River
Cossatot River
Hurricane Creek
Little Missouri River
Mulberry River
North Sylamore Creek
Richland Creek

# California
Amargosa River
American (Lower) River *
Bautista Creek
Big Sur River
Black Butte River
Cottonwood Creek
Deep Creek
Eel River *
Feather River
Fuller Mill Creek
Kern River
Kings River
Klamath River *
Merced River
North Fork American River *
North Fork San Jacinto River
Owens River Headwaters
Palm Canyon Creek
Piru Creek
Sespe Creek
Sisquoc River
Smith River *
Surprise Canyon Creek
Trinity River
Tuolumne River
Whitewater River

# Colorado
Cache la Poudre River

# Connecticut
Eightmile River *
Farmington (Lower) River and Salmon Brook *
Housatonic River
West Branch Farmington River
Wood-Pawcatuck Rivers Watershed *

# Delaware
White Clay Creek *

# Florida
Loxahatchee River
Wekiva River *

# Georgia
Chattooga River

# Idaho
Battle Creek
Big Jacks Creek
Bruneau River
Cottonwood Creek
Deep Creek
Dickshooter Creek
Duncan Creek
Jarbidge River
Little Jacks Creek
Middle Fork Clearwater River
Middle Fork Salmon River
North Fork Owyhee River
Owyhee River
Rapid River
Red Canyon
Saint Joe River *
Salmon River
Sheep Creek
Snake River *
South Fork Owyhee River
West Fork Bruneau River
Wickahoney Creek

# Illinois
Middle Fork Vermilion River

# Kentucky
Red River

# Louisiana
Saline Bayou

# Maine
Allagash River
York River *

# Massachusetts
Nashua, Squannacook and Nissitissit Rivers
Sudbury, Assabet and Concord Rivers
Taunton River *
Westfield River

# Michigan
Au Sable River
Bear Creek
Black River *
Carp River *
East Branch Tahquamenon River
Indian River
Manistee River
Ontonagon River
Paint River
Pere Marquette River
Pine River
Presque Isle River
Sturgeon River (Hiawatha National Forest) *
Sturgeon River (Ottawa National Forest) *
Whitefish River *
Yellow Dog River

# Minnesota
St. Croix River *

# Mississippi
Black Creek

# Missouri
Eleven Point River

# Montana
East Rosebud Creek
Flathead River
Missouri River *

# Nebraska
Missouri River *
Niobrara River

# New Hampshire
Lamprey River *
Nashua, Squannacook and Nissitissit Rivers
Wildcat River

# New Jersey
Delaware (Lower) River *
Delaware (Middle) River
Great Egg Harbor River *
Maurice River *
Musconetcong River

# New Mexico
East Fork Jemez River
Pecos River
Rio Chama
Rio Grande

# New York
Delaware (Upper) River

# North Carolina
Chattooga River
Horsepasture River
Lumber River
New River
Wilson Creek

# Ohio
Big and Little Darby Creeks
Little Beaver Creek *
Little Miami River *

# Oregon
Big Marsh Creek
Chetco River
Clackamas River
Collawash River
Crescent Creek
Crooked River
Deschutes River
Donner und Blitzen River
Eagle Creek (Mt. Hood National Forest)
Eagle Creek (Wallowa-Whitman National Forest)
East Fork Hood River
Elk Creek
Elk River
Elkhorn Creek
Fifteenmile Creek
Fish Creek
Franklin Creek *
Grande Ronde River
Illinois River *
Imnaha River
Jenny Creek
John Day River
Joseph Creek
Klamath River
Little Deschutes River
Lobster Creek
Lostine River
Malheur River
McKenzie River
Metolius River
Middle Fork Hood River
Minam River
Molalla River
Nestucca River
North Fork Crooked River
North Fork John Day River
North Fork Malheur River
North Fork Middle Fork Willamette River
North Fork Owyhee River
North Fork Silver Creek
North Fork Smith River
North Fork Sprague River
North Powder River
North Umpqua River
Owyhee River
Powder River
Quartzville Creek
River Styx
Roaring River
Rogue (Upper) River
Rogue River *
Salmon River
Sandy River
Snake River *
South Fork Clackamas River
South Fork John Day River
South Fork Roaring River
Spring Creek
Sycan River
Walker Creek
Wallowa River
Wasson Creek
Wenaha River
West Little Owyhee River
White River
Whychus Creek
Wildhorse and Kiger Creeks
Zig Zag River

# Pennsylvania
Allegheny River *
Clarion River
Delaware (Lower) River *
Delaware (Middle) River
Delaware (Upper) River
White Clay Creek

# Puerto Rico
Rio de la Mina
Rio Icacos
Rio Mameyes

# Rhode Island
Wood-Pawcatuck Rivers Watershed *

# South Carolina
Chattooga River

# South Dakota
Missouri River *

# Tennessee
Obed River

# Texas
Rio Grande

# Utah
Green River
Virgin River

# Vermont
Missisquoi and Trout Rivers

# Washington
Illabot Creek
Klickitat River *
Middle Fork Snoqualmie River
Pratt River
Skagit River *
White Salmon River

# West Virginia
Bluestone River

# Wisconsin
St. Croix River *
Wolf River

# Wyoming
Clarks Fork River
Snake River Headwaters
Pt. 140

# PART 140—MARINE SANITATION DEVICE STANDARD
Sec.
140.1
Definitions.
140.2
Scope of standard.
140.3
Standard.
140.4
Complete prohibition.
140.5
Analytical procedures.

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 1322, as amended.

# Source:
41 FR 4453, Jan. 29, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 140.1
Definitions.
For the purpose of these standards the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Sewage
means human body wastes and the wastes from toilets and other receptacles intended to receive or retain body wastes;
(b)
Discharge
includes, but is not limited to, any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, or dumping;
(c)
Marine sanitation device
includes any equipment for installation onboard a vessel and which is designed to receive, retain, treat, or discharge sewage and any process to treat such sewage;
(d)
Vessel
includes every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on waters of the United States;
(e)
New vessel
refers to any vessel on which construction was initiated on or after January 30, 1975;
(f)
Existing vessel
refers to any vessel on which construction was initiated before January 30, 1975;
(g)
Fecal coliform bacteria
are those organisms associated with the intestines of warm-blooded animals that are commonly used to indicate the presence of fecal material and the potential presence of organisms capable of causing human disease.
§ 140.2
Scope of standard.
The standard adopted herein applies only to vessels on which a marine sanitation device has been installed. The standard does not require the installation of a marine sanitation device on any vessel that is not so equipped. The standard applies to vessels owned and operated by the United States unless the Secretary of Defense finds that compliance would not be in the interest of national security.
§ 140.3
Standard.
(a) (1) In freshwater lakes, freshwater reservoirs or other freshwater impoundments whose inlets or outlets are such as to prevent the ingress or egress by vessel traffic subject to this regulation, or in rivers not capable of navigation by interstate vessel traffic subject to this regulation, marine sanitation devices certified by the U.S. Coast Guard (see 33 CFR part 159, published in 40 FR 4622, January 30, 1975), installed on all vessels shall be designed and operated to prevent the overboard discharge of sewage, treated or untreated, or of any waste derived from sewage. This shall not be construed to prohibit the carriage of Coast Guard-certified flow-through treatment devices which have been secured so as to prevent such discharges.
(2) In all other waters, Coast Guard-certified marine sanitation devices installed on all vessels shall be designed and operated to either retain, dispose of, or discharge sewage. If the device has a discharge, subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the effluent shall not have a fecal coliform bacterial count of greater than 1,000 per 100 milliliters nor visible floating solids. Waters where a Coast Guard-certified marine sanitation device permitting discharge is allowed include coastal waters and estuaries, the Great Lakes and inter-connected waterways, fresh-water lakes and impoundments accessible through locks, and other flowing waters that are navigable interstate by vessels subject to this regulation.
(b) This standard shall become effective on January 30, 1977 for new vessels and on January 30, 1980 for existing vessels (or, in the case of vessels owned and operated by the Department of Defense, two years and five years, for new and existing vessels, respectively, after promulgation of implementing regulations by the Secretary of Defense under section 312(d) of the Act).
(c) Any vessel which is equipped as of the date of promulgation of this regulation with a Coast Guard-certified flow-through marine sanitation device meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall not be required to comply with the provisions designed to prevent the overboard discharge of sewage, treated or untreated, in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for the operable life of that device.
(d) After January 30, 1980, subject to paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, marine sanitation devices on all vessels on waters that are not subject to a prohibition of the overboard discharge of sewage, treated or untreated, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, shall be designed and operated to
either retain, dispose of, or discharge sewage, and shall be certified by the U.S. Coast Guard. If the device has a discharge, the effluent shall not have a fecal coliform bacterial count of greater than 200 per 100 milliliters, nor suspended solids greater than 150 mg/1.
(e) Any existing vessel on waters not subject to a prohibition of the overboard discharge of sewage in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and which is equipped with a certified device on or before January 30, 1978, shall not be required to comply with paragraph (d) of this section, for the operable life of that device.
(f) Any new vessel on waters not subject to the prohibition of the overboard discharge of sewage in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and on which construction is initiated before January 31, 1980, which is equipped with a marine sanitation device before January 31, 1980, certified under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall not be required to comply with paragraph (d) of this section, for the operable life of that device.
(g) The degrees of treatment described in paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section are “appropriate standards” for purposes of Coast Guard and Department of Defense certification pursuant to section 312(g)(2) of the Act.
[41 FR 4453, Jan. 29, 1976, as amended at 60 FR 33932, June 29, 1995]
§ 140.4
Complete prohibition.
(a) Prohibition pursuant to CWA section 312(f)(3): a State may completely prohibit the discharge from all vessels of any sewage, whether treated or not, into some or all of the waters within such State by making a written application to the Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency, and by receiving the Administrator's affirmative determination pursuant to section 312(f)(3) of the Act. Upon receipt of an application under section 312(f)(3) of the Act, the Administrator will determine within 90 days whether adequate facilities for the safe and sanitary removal and treatment of sewage from all vessels using such waters are reasonably available. Applications made by States pursuant to section 312(f)(3) of the Act shall include:
(1) A certification that the protection and enhancement of the waters described in the petition require greater environmental protection than the applicable Federal standard;
(2) A map showing the location of commercial and recreational pump-out facilities;
(3) A description of the location of pump-out facilities within waters designated for no discharge;
(4) The general schedule of operating hours of the pump-out facilities;
(5) The draught requirements on vessels that may be excluded because of insufficient water depth adjacent to the facility;
(6) Information indicating that treatment of wastes from such pump-out facilities is in conformance with Federal law; and
(7) Information on vessel population and vessel usage of the subject waters.
(b) Prohibition pursuant to CWA section 312(f)(4)(A): a State may make a written application to the Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency, under section 312(f)(4)(A) of the Act, for the issuance of a regulation completely prohibiting discharge from a vessel of any sewage, whether treated or not, into particular waters of the United States or specified portions thereof, which waters are located within the boundaries of such State. Such application shall specify with particularly the waters, or portions thereof, for which a complete prohibition is desired. The application shall include identification of water recreational areas, drinking water intakes, aquatic sanctuaries, identifiable fish-spawning and nursery areas, and areas of intensive boating activities. If, on the basis of the State's application and any other information available to him, the Administrator is unable to make a finding that the waters listed in the application require a complete prohibition of any discharge in the waters or portions thereof covered by the application, he shall state the reasons why he cannot make such a finding, and shall deny the application. If the Administrator makes a finding that the waters listed in the application require a complete prohibition of any discharge in all or any part of the waters or portions thereof covered by
the State's application, he shall publish notice of such findings together with a notice of proposed rule making, and then shall proceed in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553. If the Administrator's finding is that applicable water quality standards require a complete prohibition covering a more restricted or more expanded area than that applied for by the State, he shall state the reasons why his finding differs in scope from that requested in the State's application.
(1) For the following waters the discharge from a vessel of any sewage (whether treated or not) is completely prohibited pursuant to CWA section 312(f)(4)(A):
(i) Boundary Waters Canoe Area, formerly designated as the Superior, Little Indian Sioux, and Caribou Roadless Areas, in the Superior National Forest, Minnesota, as described in 16 U.S.C. 577-577d1.
(ii) Waters of the State of Florida within the boundaries of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary as delineated on a map of the Sanctuary at
http://www.fknms.nos.noaa.gov
/.
(2)(i) For the marine waters of the State of California, the following vessels are completely prohibited from discharging any sewage (whether treated or not):
(A) A large passenger vessel;
(B) A large oceangoing vessel equipped with a holding tank which has not fully used the holding tank's capacity, or which contains more than
de minimis
amounts of sewage generated while the vessel was outside of the marine waters of the State of California.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section:
(A) “Marine waters of the State of California” means the territorial sea measured from the baseline as determined in accordance with the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone and extending seaward a distance of three miles, and all enclosed bays and estuaries subject to tidal influences from the Oregon border (41.999325 North Latitude, 124.212110 West Longitude, decimal degrees, NAD 1983) to the Mexican border (32.471231 North Latitude, 117.137814 West Longitude, decimal degrees, NAD 1983). A map illustrating these waters can be obtained from EPA or viewed at
http://www.epa.gov/region9/water/no-discharge/overview.html.
(B) A “large passenger vessel” means a passenger vessel, as defined in section 2101(22) of title 46, United States Code, of 300 gross tons or more, as measured under the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, 1969, measurement system in 46 U.S.C. 14302, or the regulatory measurement system of 46 U.S.C. 14502 for vessels not measured under 46 U.S.C. 14302, that has berths or overnight accommodations for passengers.
(C) A “large oceangoing vessel” means a private, commercial, government, or military vessel of 300 gross tons or more, as measured under the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, 1969, measurement system in 46 U.S.C. 14302, or the regulatory measurement system of 46 U.S.C. 14502 for vessels not measured under 46 U.S.C.14302, that is not a large passenger vessel.
(D) A “holding tank” means a tank specifically designed, constructed, and fitted for the retention of treated or untreated sewage, that has been designated and approved by the ship's flag Administration on the ship's stability plan; a designated ballast tank is not a holding tank for this purpose.
(c)(1)
Prohibition pursuant to CWA
section 312(f)(4)(B): A State may make written application to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under section 312(f)(4)(B) of the Act for the issuance of a regulation establishing a drinking water intake no discharge zone which completely prohibits discharge from a vessel of any sewage, whether treated or untreated, into that zone in particular waters, or portions thereof, within such State. Such application shall:
(i) Identify and describe exactly and in detail the location of the drinking water supply intake(s) and the community served by the intake(s), including average and maximum expected amounts of inflow;
(ii) Specify and describe exactly and in detail, the waters, or portions thereof, for which a complete prohibition is desired, and where appropriate, average, maximum and low flows in million
gallons per day (MGD) or the metric equivalent;
(iii) Include a map, either a USGS topographic quadrant map or a NOAA nautical chart, as applicable, clearly marking by latitude and longitude the waters or portions thereof to be designated a drinking water intake zone; and
(iv) Include a statement of basis justifying the size of the requested drinking water intake zone, for example, identifying areas of intensive boating activities.
(2) If the Administrator finds that a complete prohibition is appropriate under this paragraph, he or she shall publish notice of such finding together with a notice of proposed rulemaking, and then shall proceed in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553. If the Administrator's finding is that a complete prohibition covering a more restricted or more expanded area than that applied for by the State is appropriate, he or she shall also include a statement of the reasons why the finding differs in scope from that requested in the State's application.
(3) If the Administrator finds that a complete prohibition is inappropriate under this paragraph, he or she shall deny the application and state the reasons for such denial.
(4) For the following waters the discharge from a vessel of any sewage, whether treated or not, is completely prohibited pursuant to CWA section 312(f)(4)(B):
(i) Two portions of the Hudson River in New York State, the first is bounded by an east-west line through the most northern confluence of the Mohawk River which will be designated by the Troy-Waterford Bridge (126th Street Bridge) on the south and Lock 2 on the north, and the second of which is bounded on the north by the southern end of Houghtaling Island and on the south by a line between the Village of Roseton on the western shore and Low Point on the eastern shore in the vicinity of Chelsea, as described in Items 2 and 3 of 6 NYCRR Part 858.4.
(ii) [Reserved]
[41 FR 4453, Jan. 29, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 43837, Aug. 31, 1977; 60 FR 63945, Dec. 13, 1995; 63 FR 1320, Jan. 8, 1998; 67 FR 35743, May 21, 2002; 77 FR 11411, Feb. 27, 2012]
§ 140.5
Analytical procedures.
In determining the composition and quality of effluent discharge from marine sanitation devices, the procedures contained in 40 CFR part 136, “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants,” or subsequent revisions or amendments thereto, shall be employed.
Pt. 141

# PART 141—NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
141.1
Applicability.
141.2
Definitions.
141.3
Coverage.
141.4
Variances and exemptions.
141.5
Siting requirements.
141.6
Effective dates.

# Subpart B—Maximum Contaminant Levels
141.11
Maximum contaminant levels for inorganic chemicals.
141.12
[Reserved]
141.13
Maximum contaminant levels for turbidity.

# Subpart C—Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
141.21
Coliform sampling.
141.22
Turbidity sampling and analytical requirements.
141.23
Inorganic chemical sampling and analytical requirements.
141.24
Organic chemicals, sampling and analytical requirements.
141.25
Analytical methods for radioactivity.
141.26
Monitoring frequency and compliance requirements for radionuclides in community water systems
141.27
Alternate analytical techniques.
141.28
Certified laboratories.
141.29
Monitoring of consecutive public water systems.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 141—Alternative Testing Methods Approved for Analyses Under the Safe Drinking Water Act

# Subpart D—Reporting and Recordkeeping
141.31
Reporting requirements.
141.32
[Reserved]
141.33
Record maintenance.
141.34
[Reserved]
141.35
Reporting for unregulated contaminant monitoring results.

# Subpart E—Special Regulations, Including Monitoring
141.40
Monitoring requirements for unregulated contaminants.
141.41
Special monitoring for sodium.
141.42
Special monitoring for corrosivity characteristics.

# Subpart F—Maximum Contaminant Level Goals and Maximum Residual Disinfectant Level Goals
141.50
Maximum contaminant level goals for organic contaminants.
141.51
Maximum contaminant level goals for inorganic contaminants.
141.52
Maximum contaminant level goals for microbiological contaminants.
141.53
Maximum contaminant level goals for disinfection byproducts.
141.54
Maximum residual disinfectant level goals for disinfectants.
141.55
Maximum contaminant level goals for radionuclides.

# Subpart G—National Primary Drinking Water Regulations: Maximum Contaminant Levels and Maximum Residual Disinfectant Levels
141.60
Effective dates.
141.61
Maximum contaminant levels for organic contaminants.
141.62
Maximum contaminant levels for inorganic contaminants.
141.63
Maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) for microbiological contaminants.
141.64
Maximum contaminant levels for disinfection byproducts.
141.65
Maximum residual disinfectant levels.
141.66
Maximum contaminant levels for radionuclides.

# Subpart H—Filtration and Disinfection
141.70
General requirements.
141.71
Criteria for avoiding filtration.
141.72
Disinfection.
141.73
Filtration.
141.74
Analytical and monitoring requirements.
141.75
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
141.76
Recycle provisions.

# Subpart I—Control of Lead and Copper
141.80
General requirements and action level.
141.81
Applicability of corrosion control treatment steps to small, medium, and large water systems.
141.82
Description of corrosion control treatment requirements.
141.83
Source water treatment requirements.
141.84
Service line inventory and replacement requirements.
141.85
Public education and supplemental monitoring and mitigation requirements.
141.86
Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in tap water.
141.87
Monitoring requirements for water quality parameters.
141.88
Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in source water.
141.89
Analytical methods.
141.90
Reporting requirements.
141.91
Recordkeeping requirements.
141.92
Monitoring for lead in schools and child care facilities.
141.93
Small water system compliance flexibility.

# Subpart J—Use of Non-Centralized Treatment Devices
141.100
Criteria and procedures for public water systems using point-of-entry devices.
141.101
Use of bottled water.

# Subpart K—Treatment Techniques
141.110
General requirements.
141.111
Treatment techniques for acrylamide and epichlorohydrin.

# Subpart L—Disinfectant Residuals, Disinfection Byproducts, and Disinfection Byproduct Precursors
141.130
General requirements.
141.131
Analytical requirements.
141.132
Monitoring requirements.
141.133
Compliance requirements.
141.134
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
141.135
Treatment technique for control of disinfection byproduct (DBP) precursors.
Subparts M-N [Reserved]

# Subpart O—Consumer Confidence Reports
141.151
Purpose and applicability of this subpart.
141.152
Compliance dates.
141.153
Content of the reports.
141.154
Required additional health information.
141.155
Report delivery and recordkeeping.
141.156
Summary of report contents.
Appendix A to Subpart O of Part 141—Regulated Contaminants

# Subpart P—Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection—Systems Serving 10,000 or More People
141.170
General requirements.
141.171
Criteria for avoiding filtration.
141.172
Disinfection profiling and benchmarking.
141.173
Filtration.
141.174
Filtration sampling requirements.
141.175
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

# Subpart Q—Public Notification of Drinking Water Violations
141.201
General public notification requirements.
141.202
Tier 1 Public Notice
—Form, manner, and frequency of notice.
141.203
Tier 2 Public Notice
—Form, manner, and frequency of notice.
141.204
Tier 3 Public Notice
—Form, manner, and frequency of notice.
141.205
Content of the public notice.
141.206
Notice to new billing units or new customers.
141.207
Special notice of the availability of unregulated contaminant monitoring results.
141.208
Special notice for exceedance of the SMCL for fluoride.
141.209
Special notice for nitrate exceedances above MCL by non-community water systems (NCWS), where granted permission by the primacy agency under § 141.11(d).
141.210
Notice by primacy agency on behalf of the public water system.
141.211
Special notice for repeated failure to conduct monitoring of the source water for
Cryptosporidium
and for failure to determine bin classification or mean
Cryptosporidium
level.
Appendix A to Subpart Q of Part 141—NPDWR Violations and Situations Requiring Public Notice
Appendix B to Subpart Q of Part 141—Standard Health Effects Language for Public Notification
Appendix C to Subpart Q of Part 141—List of Acronyms Used in Public Notification Regulation
Subpart R [Reserved]

# Subpart S—Ground Water Rule
141.400
General requirements and applicability.
141.401
Sanitary surveys for ground water systems.
141.402
Ground water source microbial monitoring and analytical methods.
141.403
Treatment technique requirements for ground water systems.
141.404
Treatment technique violations for ground water systems.
141.405
Reporting and recordkeeping for ground water systems.

# Subpart T—Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection—Systems Serving Fewer Than 10,000 People

# General Requirements
141.500
General requirements.
141.501
Who is subject to the requirements of subpart T?
141.502
When must my system comply with these requirements?
141.503
What does subpart T require?

# Finished Water Reservoirs
141.510
Is my system subject to the new finished water reservoir requirements?
141.511
What is required of new finished water reservoirs?

# Additional Watershed Control Requirements for Unfiltered Systems
141.520
Is my system subject to the updated watershed control requirements?
141.521
What updated watershed control requirements must my unfiltered system implement to continue to avoid filtration?
141.522
How does the State determine whether my system's watershed control requirements are adequate?

# Disinfection Profile
141.530
What is a disinfection profile and who must develop one?
141.531
What criteria must a State use to determine that a profile is unnecessary?
141.532
How does my system develop a disinfection profile and when must it begin?
141.533
What data must my system collect to calculate a disinfection profile?
141.534
How does my system use this data to calculate an inactivation ratio?
141.535
What if my system uses chloramines, ozone, or chlorine dioxide for primary disinfection?
141.536
My system has developed an inactivation ratio; what must we do now?

# Disinfection Benchmark
141.540
Who has to develop a disinfection benchmark?
141.541
What are significant changes to disinfection practice?
141.542
What must my system do if we are considering a significant change to disinfection practices?
141.543
How is the disinfection benchmark calculated?
141.544
What if my system uses chloramines, ozone, or chlorine dioxide for primary disinfection?

# Combined Filter Effluent Requirements
141.550
Is my system required to meet subpart T combined filter effluent turbidity limits?
141.551
What strengthened combined filter effluent turbidity limits must my system meet?
141.552
My system consists of “alternative filtration” and is required to conduct a demonstration—what is required of my system and how does the State establish my turbidity limits?
141.553
My system practices lime softening—is there any special provision regarding my combined filter effluent?

# Individual Filter Turbidity Requirements
141.560
Is my system subject to individual filter turbidity requirements?
141.561
What happens if my system's turbidity monitoring equipment fails?
141.562
My system only has two or fewer filters—is there any special provision regarding individual filter turbidity monitoring?
141.563
What follow-up action is my system required to take based on continuous turbidity monitoring?
141.564
My system practices lime softening—is there any special provision regarding my individual filter turbidity monitoring?

# Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
141.570
What does subpart T require that my system report to the State?
141.571
What records does subpart T require my system to keep?

# Subpart U—Initial Distribution System Evaluations
141.600
General requirements.
141.601
Standard monitoring.
141.602
System specific studies.
141.603
40/30 certification.
141.604
Very small system waivers.
141.605
Subpart V compliance monitoring location recommendations.

# Subpart V—Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
141.620
General requirements.
141.621
Routine monitoring.
141.622
Subpart V monitoring plan.
141.623
Reduced monitoring.
141.624
Additional requirements for consecutive systems.
141.625
Conditions requiring increased monitoring.
141.626
Operational evaluation levels.
141.627
Requirements for remaining on reduced TTHM and HAA5 monitoring based on subpart L results.
141.628
Requirements for remaining on increased TTHM and HAA5 monitoring based on subpart L results.
141.629
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

# Subpart W—Enhanced Treatment for
Cryptosporidium

# General Requirements
141.700
General requirements.

# Source Water Monitoring Requirements
141.701
Source water monitoring.
141.702
Sampling schedules.
141.703
Sampling locations.
141.704
Analytical methods.
141.705
Approved laboratories.
141.706
Reporting source water monitoring results.
141.707
Grandfathering previously collected data.

# Disinfection Profiling and Benchmarking Requirements
141.708
Requirements when making a significant change in disinfection practice.
141.709
Developing the disinfection profile and benchmark.

# Treatment Technique Requirements
141.710
Bin classification for filtered systems.
141.711
Filtered system additional
Cryptosporidium
treatment requirements.
141.712
Unfiltered system
Cryptosporidium
treatment requirements.
141.713
Schedule for compliance with
Cryptosporidium
treatment requirements.
141.714
Requirements for uncovered finished water storage facilities.

# Requirements for Microbial Toolbox Components
141.715
Microbial toolbox options for meeting
Cryptosporidium
treatment requirements.
141.716
Source toolbox components.
141.717
Pre-filtration treatment toolbox components.
141.718
Treatment performance toolbox components.
141.719
Additional filtration toolbox components.
141.720
Inactivation toolbox components.

# Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
141.721
Reporting requirements.
141.722
Recordkeeping requirements.

# Requirements for Sanitary Surveys Performed by EPA
141.723
Requirements to respond to significant deficiencies identified in sanitary surveys performed by EPA.

# Subpart X—Aircraft Drinking Water Rule
141.800
Applicability and compliance date.
141.801
Definitions.
141.802
Coliform sampling plan.
141.803
Coliform sampling.
141.804
Aircraft water system operations and maintenance plan.
141.805
Notification to passengers and crew.
141.806
Reporting requirements.
141.807
Recordkeeping requirements.
141.808
Audits and inspections.
141.809
Supplemental treatment.
141.810
Violations.

# Subpart Y—Revised Total Coliform Rule
141.851
General.
141.852
Analytical methods and laboratory certification.
141.853
General monitoring requirements for all public water systems.
141.854
Routine monitoring requirements for non-community water systems serving 1,000 or fewer people using only ground water.
141.855
Routine monitoring requirements for community water systems serving 1,000 or fewer people using only ground water.
141.856
Routine monitoring requirements for subpart H public water systems serving 1,000 or fewer people.
141.857
Routine monitoring requirements for public water systems serving more than 1,000 people.
141.858
Repeat monitoring and
E. coli
requirements.
141.859
Coliform treatment technique triggers and assessment requirements for protection against potential fecal contamination.
141.860
Violations.
141.861
Reporting and recordkeeping.

# Subpart Z—Control of Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS)
141.900
General requirements.
141.901
Analytical requirements.
141.902
Monitoring requirements.
141.903
Compliance requirements.
141.904
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
141.905
Violations.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 300f, 300g-1, 300g-2, 300g-3, 300g-4, 300g-5, 300g-6, 300j-4, 300j-9, and 300j-11.

# Source:
40 FR 59570, Dec. 24, 1975, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 141 appear at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004.

# Note:
For community water systems serving 75,000 or more persons, monitoring must begin 1 year following promulgation and the effective date of the MCL is 2 years following promulgation. For community water systems serving 10,000 to 75,000 persons, monitoring must begin within 3 years from the date of promulgation and the effective date of the MCL is 4 years from the date of promulgation. Effective immediately, systems that plan to make significant modifications to their treatment processes for the purpose of complying with the TTHM MCL are required to seek and obtain State approval of their treatment modification plans. This note affects §§ 141.2, 141.6, 141.12, 141.24 and 141.30. For additional information see 44 FR 68641, Nov. 29, 1979.

# Subpart A—General
§ 141.1
Applicability.
This part establishes primary drinking water regulations pursuant to section 1412 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by the Safe Drinking Water Act (Pub. L. 93-523); and related regulations applicable to public water systems.
§ 141.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
Act
means the Public Health Service Act, as amended by the Safe Drinking Water Act, Public Law 93-523.
Action level,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means the concentrations of lead or copper in water as specified in § 141.80(c) which determines requirements under subpart I of this part. The lead action level is 0.010 mg/L and the copper action level is 1.3 mg/L.
Aerator
means the device embedded in the water faucet to enhance air flow with the water stream and to prevent splashing.
Bag filters
are pressure-driven separation devices that remove particulate matter larger than 1 micrometer using an engineered porous filtration media. They are typically constructed of a non-rigid, fabric filtration media housed in a pressure vessel in which the direction of flow is from the inside of the bag to outside.
Bank filtration
is a water treatment process that uses a well to recover surface water that has naturally infiltrated into ground water through a river bed or bank(s). Infiltration is typically enhanced by the hydraulic gradient imposed by a nearby pumping water supply or other well(s).
Best available technology
or
BAT
means the best technology, treatment techniques, or other means which the Administrator finds, after examination for efficacy under field conditions and not solely under laboratory conditions, are available (taking cost into consideration). For the purposes of setting MCLs for synthetic organic chemicals, any BAT must be at least as effective as granular activated carbon.
Cartridge filters
are pressure-driven separation devices that remove particulate matter larger than 1 micrometer using an engineered porous filtration media. They are typically constructed as rigid or semi-rigid, self-supporting filter elements housed in pressure vessels in which flow is from the outside of the cartridge to the inside.
Child care facility,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a location that houses a provider of child care, day care, or early learning services to children, as licensed by the State, local, or Tribal licensing agency.
Clean compliance history
is, for the purposes of subpart Y, a record of no MCL violations under § 141.63; no monitoring violations under § 141.21 or subpart Y; and no coliform treatment technique trigger exceedances or treatment technique violations under subpart Y.
Coagulation
means a process using coagulant chemicals and mixing by which colloidal and suspended materials are destabilized and agglomerated into flocs.
Combined distribution system
is the interconnected distribution system consisting of the distribution systems of wholesale systems and of the consecutive systems that receive finished water.
Community water system
means a public water system which serves at least 15 service connections used by year-round residents or regularly serves at least 25 year-round residents.
Compliance cycle
means the nine-year calendar year cycle during which public water systems must monitor. Each compliance cycle consists of three three-year compliance periods. The first calendar year cycle begins January 1, 1993 and ends December 31, 2001; the second begins January 1, 2002 and ends December 31, 2010; the third begins January 1, 2011 and ends December 31, 2019.
Compliance period
means a three-year calendar year period within a compliance cycle. Each compliance cycle has three three-year compliance periods. Within the first compliance cycle, the first compliance period runs from January 1, 1993 to December 31, 1995; the second from January 1, 1996 to December 31, 1998; the third from January 1, 1999 to December 31, 2001.
Comprehensive performance evaluation (CPE)
is a thorough review and analysis of a treatment plant's performance-based capabilities and associated administrative, operation and maintenance practices. It is conducted to identify factors that may be adversely impacting a plant's capability to achieve compliance and emphasizes approaches that can be implemented without significant capital improvements. For purpose of compliance with subparts P and T of this part, the comprehensive performance evaluation must consist of at least the following components: Assessment of plant performance; evaluation of major unit processes; identification and prioritization of performance limiting factors; assessment of the applicability of comprehensive technical assistance; and preparation of a CPE report.
Confluent growth
means a continuous bacterial growth covering the entire filtration area of a membrane filter, or a portion thereof, in which bacterial colonies are not discrete.
Connector,
also referred to as a gooseneck or pigtail, means a short segment of piping not exceeding three feet that can be bent and is used for connections between service piping, typically connecting the
service line
to the main. For purposes of subpart I of this part, lead connectors are not considered to be part of the service line.
Consecutive system
is a public water system that receives some or all of its
finished water from one or more wholesale systems. Delivery may be through a direct connection or through the distribution system of one or more consecutive systems.
Contaminant
means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter in water.
Conventional filtration treatment
means a series of processes including coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation, and filtration resulting in substantial particulate removal.
Corrosion inhibitor
means a substance capable of reducing the corrosivity of water toward metal plumbing materials, especially lead and copper, by forming a protective film on the interior surface of those materials.
CT
or
CTcalc
is the product of “residual disinfectant concentration” (C) in mg/1 determined before or at the first customer, and the corresponding “disinfectant contact time” (T) in minutes,
i.e.
, “C” × “T”. If a public water system applies disinfectants at more than one point prior to the first customer, it must determine the CT of each disinfectant sequence before or at the first customer to determine the total percent inactivation or “total inactivation ratio.” In determining the total inactivation ratio, the public water system must determine the residual disinfectant concentration of each disinfection sequence and corresponding contact time before any subsequent disinfection application point(s). “CT
99.9
” is the CT value required for 99.9 percent (3-log) inactivation of
Giardia lamblia
cysts. CT
99.9
for a variety of disinfectants and conditions appear in tables 1.1-1.6, 2.1, and 3.1 of § 141.74(b)(3).
EC15NO91.129
is the inactivation ratio. The sum of the inactivation ratios, or total inactivation ratio shown as
EC15NO91.130
is calculated by adding together the inactivation ratio for each disinfection sequence. A total inactivation ratio equal to or greater than 1.0 is assumed to provide a 3-log inactivation of
Giardia lamblia
cysts.
Diatomaceous earth filtration
means a process resulting in substantial particulate removal in which (1) a precoat cake of diatomaceous earth filter media is deposited on a support membrane (septum), and (2) while the water is filtered by passing through the cake on the septum, additional filter media known as body feed is continuously added to the feed water to maintain the permeability of the filter cake.
Direct filtration
means a series of processes including coagulation and filtration but excluding sedimentation resulting in substantial particulate removal.
Disinfectant
means any oxidant, including but not limited to chlorine, chlorine dioxide, chloramines, and ozone added to water in any part of the treatment or distribution process, that is intended to kill or inactivate pathogenic microorganisms.
Disinfectant contact time
(“T” in CT calculations) means the time in minutes that it takes for water to move from the point of disinfectant application or the previous point of disinfectant residual measurement to a point before or at the point where residual disinfectant concentration (“C”) is measured. Where only one “C” is measured, “T” is the time in minutes that it takes for water to move from the point of disinfectant application to a point before or at where residual disinfectant concentration (“C”) is measured. Where more than one “C” is measured, “T” is (a) for the first measurement of “C”, the time in minutes that it takes for water to move from the first or only point of disinfectant application to a point before or at the point where the first “C” is measured and (b) for subsequent measurements of “C”, the time in minutes that it takes for water to move from the previous “C” measurement point to the “C” measurement point for which the particular “T” is being calculated. Disinfectant contact time in pipelines must be calculated based on “plug flow” by dividing the internal volume of the pipe by the maximum hourly flow rate through that pipe. Disinfectant contact time within mixing basins
and storage reservoirs must be determined by tracer studies or an equivalent demonstration.
Disinfection
means a process which inactivates pathogenic organisms in water by chemical oxidants or equivalent agents.
Disinfection profile
is a summary of
Giardia lamblia
inactivation through the treatment plant. The procedure for developing a disinfection profile is contained in § 141.172 (Disinfection profiling and benchmarking) in subpart P and §§ 141.530-141.536 (Disinfection profile) in subpart T of this part.
Distribution System and Site Assessment
means the requirements under subpart I of this part, pursuant to § 141.82(j), that water systems must perform at every tap sampling site that yields a lead result above the lead action level of 0.010 mg/L.
Domestic or other non-distribution system plumbing problem
means a coliform contamination problem in a public water system with more than one service connection that is limited to the specific service connection from which the coliform-positive sample was taken.
Dose equivalent
means the product of the absorbed dose from ionizing radiation and such factors as account for differences in biological effectiveness due to the type of radiation and its distribution in the body as specified by the International Commission on Radiological Units and Measurements (ICRU).
Dual sample set
is a set of two samples collected at the same time and same location, with one sample analyzed for TTHM and the other sample analyzed for HAA5. Dual sample sets are collected for the purposes of conducting an IDSE under subpart U of this part and determining compliance with the TTHM and HAA5 MCLs under subpart V of this part.
Effective corrosion inhibitor residual,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a concentration sufficient to form a passivating film on the interior walls of a pipe.
Elementary school,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a
school
classified as elementary by State and local practice and composed of any span of grades (including pre-school) not above grade 8.
Enhanced coagulation
means the addition of sufficient coagulant for improved removal of disinfection byproduct precursors by conventional filtration treatment.
Enhanced softening
means the improved removal of disinfection byproduct precursors by precipitative softening.
Fifth liter sample,
for purposes of subpart I of this part, means a one-liter sample of tap water collected in accordance with § 141.86(b).
Filter profile
is a graphical representation of individual filter performance, based on continuous turbidity measurements or total particle counts versus time for an entire filter run, from startup to backwash inclusively, that includes an assessment of filter performance while another filter is being backwashed.
Filtration
means a process for removing particulate matter from water by passage through porous media.
Finished water
is water that is introduced into the distribution system of a public water system and is intended for distribution and consumption without further treatment, except as treatment necessary to maintain water quality in the distribution system (e.g., booster disinfection, addition of corrosion control chemicals).
First-liter sample,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a sample collected of the first one-liter volume of tap water drawn in accordance with § 141.86(b).
Flocculation
means a process to enhance agglomeration or collection of smaller floc particles into larger, more easily settleable particles through gentle stirring by hydraulic or mechanical means.
Flowing stream
is a course of running water flowing in a definite channel.
GAC10
means granular activated carbon filter beds with an empty-bed contact time of 10 minutes based on average daily flow and a carbon reactivation frequency of every 180 days, except that the reactivation frequency for GAC10 used as a best available technology for compliance with subpart V MCLs under § 141.64(b)(2) shall be 120 days.
GAC20
means granular activated carbon filter beds with an empty-bed contact time of 20 minutes based on average daily flow and a carbon reactivation frequency of every 240 days.
Galvanized requiring replacement service line,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a
galvanized service line
that currently is or ever was downstream of a
lead service line;
or is currently downstream of a
lead status unknown service line.
For this definition, downstream means in the direction of flow through the service line. If the water system is unable to demonstrate that the
galvanized service line
was never downstream of a
lead service line,
it is a
galvanized requiring replacement service line
for purposes of the service line inventory and replacement requirements pursuant to § 141.84.
Galvanized service line,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a
service line
that is made of iron or steel that has been dipped in zinc to prevent corrosion and rusting.
Ground water under the direct influence of surface water
(GWUDI) means any water beneath the surface of the ground with significant occurrence of insects or other macroorganisms, algae, or large-diameter pathogens such as
Giardia lamblia
or
Cryptosporidium,
or significant and relatively rapid shifts in water characteristics such as turbidity, temperature, conductivity, or pH which closely correlate to climatological or surface water conditions. Direct influence must be determined for individual sources in accordance with criteria established by the State. The State determination of direct influence may be based on site-specific measurements of water quality and/or documentation of well construction characteristics and geology with field evaluation.
Gross alpha particle activity
means the total radioactivity due to alpha particle emission as inferred from measurements on a dry sample.
Gross beta particle activity
means the total radioactivity due to beta particle emission as inferred from measurements on a dry sample.
Haloacetic acids (five) (HAA5)
mean the sum of the concentrations in milligrams per liter of the haloacetic acid compounds (monochloroacetic acid, dichloroacetic acid, trichloroacetic acid, monobromoacetic acid, and dibromoacetic acid), rounded to two significant figures after addition.
Halogen
means one of the chemical elements chlorine, bromine or iodine.
Hazard Index (HI)
is the sum of component hazard quotients (HQs), which are calculated by dividing the measured regulated PFAS component contaminant concentration in water (e.g., expressed as parts per trillion (ppt) or nanograms per liter (ng/l)) by the associated health-based water concentration (HBWC) expressed in the same units as the measured concentration (e.g., ppt or ng/l). For PFAS, a mixture Hazard Index greater than 1 (unitless) is an exceedance of the MCL.
Hazard quotient (HQ)
means the ratio of the measured concentration in drinking water to the health-based water concentration (HBWC).
Health-based water concentration (HBWC)
means level below which there are no known or anticipated adverse health effects over a lifetime of exposure, including sensitive populations and life stages, and allows for an adequate margin of safety.
HFPO-DA
or
GenX chemicals
means Chemical Abstract Service registration number 122499-17-6, chemical formula C6F11O3-, International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry preferred name 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-2-(heptafluoropropoxy)propanoate, along with its conjugate acid and any salts, derivatives, isomers, or combinations thereof.
Initial compliance period
means the first full three-year compliance period which begins at least 18 months after promulgation, except for contaminants listed at § 141.61(a) (19)-(21), (c) (19)-(33), and § 141.62(b) (11)-(15), initial compliance period means the first full three-year compliance period after promulgation for systems with 150 or more service connections (January 1993-December 1995), and first full three-year compliance period after the effective date of the regulation (January 1996-December 1998) for systems having fewer than 150 service connections.
Lake/reservoir
refers to a natural or man made basin or hollow on the Earth's surface in which water collects
or is stored that may or may not have a current or single direction of flow.
Large water system,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a water system that serves more than 50,000 persons.
Lead service line,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a
service line
that is made of lead or where a portion of the
service line
is made of lead. A lead-lined galvanized service line is defined as a
lead service line.
Lead status unknown service line,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a
service line
whose pipe material has not been demonstrated to be a
lead service line, galvanized requiring replacement service line,
or a non-lead service line pursuant to § 141.84(a)(3).
Legionella
means a genus of bacteria, some species of which have caused a type of pneumonia called Legionnaires Disease.
Level 1 assessment
is an evaluation to identify the possible presence of sanitary defects, defects in distribution system coliform monitoring practices, and (when possible) the likely reason that the system triggered the assessment. It is conducted by the system operator or owner. Minimum elements include review and identification of atypical events that could affect distributed water quality or indicate that distributed water quality was impaired; changes in distribution system maintenance and operation that could affect distributed water quality (including water storage); source and treatment considerations that bear on distributed water quality, where appropriate (e.g., whether a ground water system is disinfected); existing water quality monitoring data; and inadequacies in sample sites, sampling protocol, and sample processing. The system must conduct the assessment consistent with any State directives that tailor specific assessment elements with respect to the size and type of the system and the size, type, and characteristics of the distribution system.
Level 2 assessment
is an evaluation to identify the possible presence of sanitary defects, defects in distribution system coliform monitoring practices, and (when possible) the likely reason that the system triggered the assessment. A Level 2 assessment provides a more detailed examination of the system (including the system's monitoring and operational practices) than does a Level 1 assessment through the use of more comprehensive investigation and review of available information, additional internal and external resources, and other relevant practices. It is conducted by an individual approved by the State, which may include the system operator. Minimum elements include review and identification of atypical events that could affect distributed water quality or indicate that distributed water quality was impaired; changes in distribution system maintenance and operation that could affect distributed water quality (including water storage); source and treatment considerations that bear on distributed water quality, where appropriate (e.g., whether a ground water system is disinfected); existing water quality monitoring data; and inadequacies in sample sites, sampling protocol, and sample processing. The system must conduct the assessment consistent with any State directives that tailor specific assessment elements with respect to the size and type of the system and the size, type, and characteristics of the distribution system. The system must comply with any expedited actions or additional actions required by the State in the case of an
E. coli
MCL violation.
Locational running annual average
(LRAA) is the average of sample analytical results for samples taken at a particular monitoring location during the previous four calendar quarters.
Man-made beta particle and photon emitters
means all radionuclides emitting beta particles and/or photons listed in Maximum Permissible Body Burdens and Maximum Permissible Concentration of Radionuclides in Air or Water for Occupational Exposure, NBS Handbook 69, except the daughter products of thorium-232, uranium-235 and uranium-238.
Maximum contaminant level
means the maximum permissible level of a contaminant in water which is delivered to any user of a public water system.
Maximum contaminant level goal
or
MCLG
means the maximum level of a
contaminant in drinking water at which no known or anticipated adverse effect on the health of persons would occur, and which allows an adequate margin of safety. Maximum contaminant level goals are nonenforceable health goals.
Maximum residual disinfectant level (MRDL)
means a level of a disinfectant added for water treatment that may not be exceeded at the consumer's tap without an unacceptable possibility of adverse health effects. For chlorine and chloramines, a PWS is in compliance with the MRDL when the running annual average of monthly averages of samples taken in the distribution system, computed quarterly, is less than or equal to the MRDL. For chlorine dioxide, a PWS is in compliance with the MRDL when daily samples are taken at the entrance to the distribution system and no two consecutive daily samples exceed the MRDL. MRDLs are enforceable in the same manner as maximum contaminant levels under Section 1412 of the Safe Drinking Water Act. There is convincing evidence that addition of a disinfectant is necessary for control of waterborne microbial contaminants. Notwithstanding the MRDLs listed in § 141.65, operators may increase residual disinfectant levels of chlorine or chloramines (but not chlorine dioxide) in the distribution system to a level and for a time necessary to protect public health to address specific microbiological contamination problems caused by circumstances such as distribution line breaks, storm runoff events, source water contamination, or cross-connections.
Maximum residual disinfectant level goal (MRDLG)
means the maximum level of a disinfectant added for water treatment at which no known or anticipated adverse effect on the health of persons would occur, and which allows an adequate margin of safety. MRDLGs are nonenforceable health goals and do not reflect the benefit of the addition of the chemical for control of waterborne microbial contaminants.
Maximum Total Trihalomethane Potential (MTP)
means the maximum concentration of total trihalomethanes produced in a given water containing a disinfectant residual after 7 days at a temperature of 25 °C or above.
Medium water system,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a water system that serves greater than 10,000 persons and less than or equal to 50,000 persons.
Membrane filtration
is a pressure or vacuum driven separation process in which particulate matter larger than 1 micrometer is rejected by an engineered barrier, primarily through a size-exclusion mechanism, and which has a measurable removal efficiency of a target organism that can be verified through the application of a direct integrity test. This definition includes the common membrane technologies of microfiltration, ultrafiltration, nanofiltration, and reverse osmosis.
Method detection limit (MDL)
means the minimum concentration of a substance that can be measured and reported with 99 percent confidence that the analyte concentration is greater than zero and is determined from analysis of a sample in a given matrix containing the analyte.
Near the first service connection
means at one of the 20 percent of all service connections in the entire system that are nearest the water supply treatment facility, as measured by water transport time within the distribution system.
Newly regulated public water system,
for the purpose of subpart I only, refers to either:
(1) An existing
public water system
that was not subject to National Primary Drinking Water Regulations in this part on October 16, 2024, because the system met the requirements of section 1411 of the Safe Drinking Water Act and § 141.3; or
(2) An existing water system that did not meet the definition of a
public water system
in § 141.2 on October 16, 2024. This term does not include existing water systems under new or restructured ownership or management.
Non-community water system
means a public water system that is not a community water system. A non-community water system is either a “transient non-community water system (TWS)” or a “non-transient non-community water system (NTNCWS).”
Non-transient non-community water system
or
NTNCWS
means a public water system that is not a community water system and that regularly serves at least 25 of the same persons over 6 months per year.
Optimal corrosion control treatment (OCCT),
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means the corrosion control treatment that minimizes the lead and copper concentrations at users' taps while ensuring that the treatment does not cause the water system to violate any National Primary Drinking Water Regulations in this part.
Partial service line replacement,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means replacement of any portion of a
lead service line
or
galvanized requiring replacement service line,
as defined in this section, that leaves in service any length of lead or galvanized requiring replacement service line upon completion of the work.
Performance evaluation sample
means a reference sample provided to a laboratory for the purpose of demonstrating that the laboratory can successfully analyze the sample within limits of performance specified by the Agency. The true value of the concentration of the reference material is unknown to the laboratory at the time of the analysis.
Person
means an individual; corporation; company; association; partnership; municipality; or State, Federal, or tribal agency.
PFBS
means Chemical Abstract Service registration number 45187-15-3, chemical formula C4F9SO3-, perfluorobutane sulfonate, along with its conjugate acid and any salts, derivatives, isomers, or combinations thereof.
PFHxS
means Chemical Abstract Service registration number 108427-53-8, chemical formula C6F13SO3-, perfluorohexane sulfonate, along with its conjugate acid and any salts, derivatives, isomers, or combinations thereof.
PFNA
means Chemical Abstract Service registration number 72007-68-2, chemical formula C9F17O2-, perfluorononanoate, along with its conjugate acid and any salts, derivatives, isomers, or combinations thereof.
PFOA
means Chemical Abstract Service registration number 45285-51-6, chemical formula C8F15O2-, perfluorooctanoate, along with its conjugate acid and any salts, derivatives, isomers, or combinations thereof.
PFOS
means Chemical Abstract Service registration number 45298-90-6, chemical formula C8F17SO3-, perfluorooctanesulfonate, along with its conjugate acid and any salts, derivatives, isomers, or combinations thereof.
Picocurie (pCi)
means the quantity of radioactive material producing 2.22 nuclear transformations per minute.
Pitcher filter
means a non-plumbed water filtration device, which consists of a gravity fed water filtration cartridge and a filtered drinking water reservoir, that is certified by an American National Standards Institute accredited certifier to reduce lead in drinking water.
Plant intake
refers to the works or structures at the head of a conduit through which water is diverted from a source (e.g., river or lake) into the treatment plant.
Point of disinfectant application
is the point where the disinfectant is applied and water downstream of that point is not subject to recontamination by surface water runoff.
Point-of-entry treatment device (POE)
is a treatment device applied to the drinking water entering a house or building for the purpose of reducing contaminants in the drinking water distributed throughout the house or building.
Point-of-use treatment device or point of use device (POU)
is a water treatment device physically installed or connected to a single fixture, outlet, or tap to reduce or remove contaminants in drinking water. For the purposes of subpart I of this part, it must be certified by an American National Standards Institute accredited certifier to reduce lead in drinking water.
Practical quantitation limit (PQL)
means the minimum concentration of an analyte (substance) that can be measured with a high degree of confidence that the analyte is present at or above that concentration.
Presedimentation
is a preliminary treatment process used to remove gravel, sand and other particulate material from the source water through settling before the water enters the primary clarification and filtration processes in a treatment plant.
Pre-stagnation flushing
is the opening of tap(s) to flush standing water from plumbing prior to the minimum 6-hour stagnation period in anticipation of lead and copper tap sampling under subpart I of this part.
Public water system
means a system for the provision to the public of water for human consumption through pipes or, after August 5, 1998, other constructed conveyances, if such system has at least fifteen service connections or regularly serves an average of at least twenty-five individuals daily at least 60 days out of the year. Such term includes: any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with such system; and any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control which are used primarily in connection with such system. Such term does not include any “special irrigation district.” A public water system is either a “community water system” or a “noncommunity water system.”
Rem
means the unit of dose equivalent from ionizing radiation to the total body or any internal organ or organ system. A “millirem (mrem)” is
1/1000
of a rem.
Repeat compliance period
means any subsequent compliance period after the initial compliance period.
Residual disinfectant concentration
(“C” in CT calculations) means the concentration of disinfectant measured in mg/l in a representative sample of water.
Sanitary defect
is a defect that could provide a pathway of entry for microbial contamination into the distribution system or that is indicative of a failure or imminent failure in a barrier that is already in place.
Sanitary survey
means an onsite review of the water source, facilities, equipment, operation and maintenance of a public water system for the purpose of evaluating the adequacy of such source, facilities, equipment, operation and maintenance for producing and distributing safe drinking water.
School,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means any building(s) associated with public, private, or charter institutions that primarily provides teaching and learning for elementary or secondary students.
Seasonal system
is a non-community water system that is not operated as a public water system on a year-round basis and starts up and shuts down at the beginning and end of each operating season.
Secondary school,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a school comprising any span of grades beginning with the next grade following an elementary school (usually 7, 8, or 9) and ending with grade 12. Secondary schools include both junior high schools and senior high schools and typically span grades 7 through 12.
Sedimentation
means a process for removal of solids before filtration by gravity or separation.
Service connection,
as used in the definition of
public water system,
does not include a connection to a system that delivers water by a constructed conveyance other than a pipe if:
(1) The water is used exclusively for purposes other than residential uses (consisting of drinking, bathing, and cooking, or other similar uses);
(2) The State determines that alternative water to achieve the equivalent level of public health protection provided by the applicable national primary drinking water regulation is provided for residential or similar uses for drinking and cooking; or
(3) The State determines that the water provided for residential or similar uses for drinking, cooking, and bathing is centrally treated or treated at the point of entry by the provider, a pass-through entity, or the user to achieve the equivalent level of protection provided by the applicable national primary drinking water regulations.
Service line,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a portion of pipe that connects the water main (or other conduit for distributing water to individual consumers or groups of consumers) to the building inlet. Where a
building is not present, the service line connects the water main (or other conduit for distributing water to individual consumers or groups of consumers) to the outlet.
Single family structure,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a building constructed as a single-family residence that is currently used as either a residence or a place of business.
Slow sand filtration
means a process involving passage of raw water through a bed of sand at low velocity (generally less than 0.4 m/h) resulting in substantial particulate removal by physical and biological mechanisms.
Small water system,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means a water system that serves 10,000 persons or fewer.
Special irrigation district
means an irrigation district in existence prior to May 18, 1994 that provides primarily agricultural service through a piped water system with only incidental residential or similar use where the system or the residential or similar users of the system comply with the exclusion provisions in section 1401(4)(B)(i)(II) or (III).
Standard sample
means the aliquot of finished drinking water that is examined for the presence of coliform bacteria.
State
means the agency of the State or Tribal government which has jurisdiction over public water systems. During any period when a State or Tribal government does not have primary enforcement responsibility pursuant to section 1413 of the Act, the term “State” means the Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Subpart H systems
means public water systems using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water as a source that are subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part.
Supplier of water
means any person who owns or operates a public water system.
Surface water
means all water which is open to the atmosphere and subject to surface runoff.
SUVA
means Specific Ultraviolet Absorption at 254 nanometers (nm), an indicator of the humic content of water. It is a calculated parameter obtained by dividing a sample's ultraviolet absorption at a wavelength of 254 nm (UV
254
) (in m
= 1
) by its concentration of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) (in mg/L).
System with a single service connection
means a system which supplies drinking water to consumers via a single service line.
System without corrosion control treatment,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part, means a water system that does not have or purchases all of its water from a system that does not have:
(1) An optimal corrosion control treatment approved by the State; or
(2) Any pH adjustment, alkalinity adjustment, and/or corrosion inhibitor addition resulting from other water quality adjustments as part of its treatment train infrastructure.
Tap monitoring period,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means the period of time during which each water system must conduct tap sampling for lead and copper analysis. The applicable tap monitoring period is determined by lead and copper concentrations in tap samples. The length of the tap monitoring period can range from six months to nine years.
Tap sampling period,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means the time period, within a tap monitoring period, during which the water system is required to collect samples for lead and copper analysis.
Tap sampling protocol
means the method for collecting tap samples pursuant to § 141.86(b).
Too numerous to count
means that the total number of bacterial colonies exceeds 200 on a 47-mm diameter membrane filter used for coliform detection.
Total Organic Carbon (TOC)
means total organic carbon in mg/L measured using heat, oxygen, ultraviolet irradiation, chemical oxidants, or combinations of these oxidants that convert organic carbon to carbon dioxide, rounded to two significant figures.
Total trihalomethanes
(TTHM) means the sum of the concentration in milligrams per liter of the trihalomethane compounds (trichloromethane [chloroform], dibromochloromethane,
bromodichloromethane and tribromomethane [bromoform]), rounded to two significant figures.
Transient non-community water system
or
TWS
means a non-community water system that does not regularly serve at least 25 of the same persons over six months per year.
Trihalomethane
(THM) means one of the family of organic compounds, named as derivatives of methane, wherein three of the four hydrogen atoms in methane are each substituted by a halogen atom in the molecular structure.
Two-stage lime softening
is a process in which chemical addition and hardness precipitation occur in each of two distinct unit clarification processes in series prior to filtration.
Uncovered finished water storage facility
is a tank, reservoir, or other facility used to store water that will undergo no further treatment to reduce microbial pathogens except residual disinfection and is directly open to the atmosphere.
Virus
means a virus of fecal origin which is infectious to humans by waterborne transmission.
Waterborne disease outbreak
means the significant occurrence of acute infectious illness, epidemiologically associated with the ingestion of water from a public water system which is deficient in treatment, as determined by the appropriate local or State agency.
Wholesale system
is a public water system that treats source water as necessary to produce finished water and then delivers some or all of that finished water to another public water system. Delivery may be through a direct connection or through the distribution system of one or more consecutive systems.
Wide-mouth bottles,
for the purpose of subpart I of this part only, means bottles one liter in volume that have a mouth with an inner diameter that measures at least 40 millimeters wide.
[40 FR 59570, Dec. 24, 1975]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 141.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 141.3
Coverage.
This part shall apply to each public water system, unless the public water system meets all of the following conditions:
(a) Consists only of distribution and storage facilities (and does not have any collection and treatment facilities);
(b) Obtains all of its water from, but is not owned or operated by, a public water system to which such regulations apply:
(c) Does not sell water to any person; and
(d) Is not a carrier which conveys passengers in interstate commerce.
§ 141.4
Variances and exemptions.
(a) Variances or exemptions from certain provisions of these regulations may be granted pursuant to sections 1415 and 1416 of the Act and subpart K of part 142 of this chapter (for small system variances) by the entity with primary enforcement responsibility, except that variances or exemptions from the MCLs for total coliforms and
E. coli
and variances from any of the treatment technique requirements of subpart H of this part may not be granted.
(b) EPA has stayed the effective date of this section relating to the total coliform MCL of § 141.63(a) for systems that demonstrate to the State that the violation of the total coliform MCL is due to a persistent growth of total coliforms in the distribution system rather than fecal or pathogenic contamination, a treatment lapse or deficiency, or a problem in the operation or maintenance of the distribution system. This is stayed until March 31, 2016, at which time the total coliform MCL is no longer effective.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
As provided in § 142.304(a), small system variances are not available for rules addressing microbial contaminants, which would include subparts H, P, S, T, W, and Y of this part.
[78 FR 10346, Feb. 13, 2013]
§ 141.5
Siting requirements.
Before a person may enter into a financial commitment for or initiate
construction of a new public water system or increase the capacity of an existing public water system, he shall notify the State and, to the extent practicable, avoid locating part or all of the new or expanded facility at a site which:
(a) Is subject to a significant risk from earthquakes, floods, fires or other disasters which could cause a breakdown of the public water system or a portion thereof; or
(b) Except for intake structures, is within the floodplain of a 100-year flood or is lower than any recorded high tide where appropriate records exist. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will not seek to override land use decisions affecting public water systems siting which are made at the State or local government levels.
§ 141.6
Effective dates.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section the regulations set forth in this part take effect on June 24, 1977.
(b) The regulations for total trihalomethanes set forth in § 141.12(c) shall take effect 2 years after the date of promulgation of these regulations for community water systems serving 75,000 or more individuals, and 4 years after the date of promulgation for communities serving 10,000 to 74,999 individuals.
(c) The regulations set forth in §§ 141.11(d); 141.21(a), (c) and (i); 141.22(a) and (e); 141.23(a)(3) and (a)(4); 141.23(f); 141.24(e) and (f); 141.25(e); 141.27(a); 141.28(a) and (b); 141.31(a), (d) and (e); 141.32(b)(3); and 141.32(d) shall take effect immediately upon promulgation.
(d) The regulations set forth in § 141.41 shall take effect 18 months from the date of promulgation. Suppliers must complete the first round of sampling and reporting within 12 months following the effective date.
(e) The regulations set forth in § 141.42 shall take effect 18 months from the date of promulgation. All requirements in § 141.42 must be completed within 12 months following the effective date.
(f) The regulations set forth in § 141.11(c) and § 141.23(g) are effective May 2, 1986. Section 141.23(g)(4) is effective October 2, 1987.
(g) The regulations contained in § 141.6, paragraph (c) of the table in § 141.12, and § 141.62(b)(1) are effective July 1, 1991. The regulations contained in §§ 141.11(b), 141.23, 141.24, 142.57(b), 143.4(b)(12) and (b)(13), are effective July 30, 1992. The regulations contained in the revisions to §§ 141.32(e) (16), (25) through (27) and (46); 141.61(c)(16); and 141.62(b)(3) are effective January 1, 1993. The effective date of regulations contained in § 141.61(c) (2), (3), and (4) is postponed.
(h) Regulations for the analytic methods listed at § 141.23(k)(4) for measuring antimony, beryllium, cyanide, nickel, and thallium are effective August 17, 1992. Regulations for the analytic methods listed at § 141.24(f)(16) for dichloromethane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 1,1,2-trichloroethane are effective August 17, 1992. Regulations for the analytic methods listed at § 141.24(h)(12) for measuring dalapon, dinoseb, diquat, endothall, endrin, glyphosate, oxamyl, picloram, simazine, benzo(a)pyrene, di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate, di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate, hexachlorobenzene, hexachlorocyclopentadiene, and 2,3,7,8-TCDD are effective August 17, 1992. The revision to § 141.12(a) promulgated on July 17, 1992 is effective on August 17, 1992.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) The arsenic maximum contaminant levels (MCL) listed in § 141.62 is effective for the purpose of compliance on January 23, 2006. Requirements relating to arsenic set forth in §§ 141.23(i)(4), 141.23(k)(3) introductory text, 141.23(k)(3)(ii), 141.51(b), 141.62(b), 141.62(b)(16), 141.62(c), 141.62(d), and 142.62(b) revisions in appendix A of subpart O for the consumer confidence rule, and appendices A and B of subpart Q for the public notification rule are effective for the purpose of compliance on January 23, 2006. However, the consumer confidence rule reporting requirements relating to arsenic listed in § 141.154(b) and (f) are effective for the purpose of compliance on February 22, 2002.
(k) Regulations set forth in §§ 141.23(i)(1), 141.23(i)(2), 141.24(f)(15),
141.24(f)(22), 141.24(h)(11), 141.24(h)(20), 142.16(e), 142.16(j), and 142.16(k) are effective for the purpose of compliance on January 22, 2004.
(l) The regulations pertaining to the per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) chemicals set forth in subpart Z of this part are effective June 25, 2024. See § 141.900 for the compliance dates for provisions under subpart Z. Compliance with reporting requirements under subpart Z, in accordance with subparts O (the consumer confidence rule) and Q (the public notification rule) of this part are required on April 26, 2027, except for notification requirements in § 141.203 related to violations of the MCLs. The compliance date for the PFAS MCLs in § 141.61, as specified in § 141.60, and for § 141.203 notifications of violations of the PFAS MCLs is April 26, 2029.
[44 FR 68641, Nov. 29, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 57342, Aug. 27, 1980; 47 FR 10998, Mar. 12, 1982; 51 FR 11410, Apr. 2, 1986; 56 FR 30274, July 1, 1991; 57 FR 22178, May 27, 1992; 57 FR 31838, July 17, 1992; 59 FR 34322, July 1, 1994; 61 FR 24368, May 14, 1996; 66 FR 7061, Jan. 22, 2001; 66 FR 28350, May 22, 2001; 89 FR 32744, Apr. 26, 2024]

# Subpart B—Maximum Contaminant Levels
§ 141.11
Maximum contaminant levels for inorganic chemicals.
(a) The maximum contaminant level for arsenic applies only to community water systems. The analyses and determination of compliance with the 0.05 milligrams per liter maximum contaminant level for arsenic use the requirements of § 141.23.
(b) The maximum contaminant level for arsenic is 0.05 milligrams per liter for community water systems until January 23, 2006.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) At the discretion of the State, nitrate levels not to exceed 20 mg/l may be allowed in a non-community water system if the supplier of water demonstrates to the satisfaction of the State that:
(1) Such water will not be available to children under 6 months of age; and
(2) The non-community water system is meeting the public notification requirements under § 141.209, including continuous posting of the fact that nitrate levels exceed 10 mg/l and the potential health effects of exposure; and
(3) Local and State public health authorities will be notified annually of nitrate levels that exceed 10 mg/l; and
(4) No adverse health effects shall result.
[40 FR 59570, Dec. 24, 1975, as amended at 45 FR 57342, Aug. 27, 1980; 47 FR 10998, Mar. 12, 1982; 51 FR 11410, Apr. 2, 1986; 56 FR 3578, Jan. 30, 1991; 56 FR 26548, June 7, 1991; 56 FR 30274, July 1, 1991; 56 FR 32113, July 15, 1991; 60 FR 33932, June 29, 1995; 65 FR 26022, May 4, 2000; 66 FR 7061, Jan. 22, 2001]
§ 141.12
[Reserved]
§ 141.13
Maximum contaminant levels for turbidity.
The maximum contaminant levels for turbidity are applicable to both community water systems and non-community water systems using surface water sources in whole or in part. The maximum contaminant levels for turbidity in drinking water, measured at a representative entry point(s) to the distribution system, are:
(a) One turbidity unit (TU), as determined by a monthly average pursuant to § 141.22, except that five or fewer turbidity units may be allowed if the supplier of water can demonstrate to the State that the higher turbidity does not do any of the following:
(1) Interfere with disinfection;
(2) Prevent maintenance of an effective disinfectant agent throughout the distribution system; or
(3) Interfere with microbiological determinations.
(b) Five turbidity units based on an average for two consecutive days pursuant to § 141.22.
[40 FR 59570, Dec. 24, 1975]

# Subpart C—Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
§ 141.21
Coliform sampling.
(a)
Routine monitoring.
(1) Public water systems must collect total coliform samples at sites which are representative of water throughout the distribution system according to a written sample siting plan. These plans are subject to State review and revision.
(2) The monitoring frequency for total coliforms for community water systems is based on the population served by the system, as follows:
Total Coliform Monitoring Frequency for Community Water Systems
Population served
Minimum number of samples per month
25 to 1,000
1
1
1,001 to 2,500
2
2,501 to 3,300
3
3,301 to 4,100
4
4,101 to 4,900
5
4,901 to 5,800
6
5,801 to 6,700
7
6,701 to 7,600
8
7,601 to 8,500
9
8,501 to 12,900
10
12,901 to 17,200
15
17,201 to 21,500
20
21,501 to 25,000
25
25,001 to 33,000
30
33,001 to 41,000
40
41,001 to 50,000
50
50,001 to 59,000
60
59,001 to 70,000
70
70,001 to 83,000
80
83,001 to 96,000
90
96,001 to 130,000
100
130,001 to 220,000
120
220,001 to 320,000
150
320,001 to 450,000
180
450,001 to 600,000
210
600,001 to 780,000
240
780,001 to 970,000
270
970,001 to 1,230,000
300
1,230,001 to 1,520,000
330
1,520,001 to 1,850,000
360
1,850,001 to 2,270,000
390
2,270,001 to 3,020,000
420
3,020,001 to 3,960,000
450
3,960,001 or more
480
1
Includes public water systems which have at least 15 service connections, but serve fewer than 25 persons.
If a community water system serving 25 to 1,000 persons has no history of total coliform contamination in its current configuration and a sanitary survey conducted in the past five years shows that the system is supplied solely by a protected groundwater source and is free of sanitary defects, the State may reduce the monitoring frequency specified above, except that in no case may the State reduce the monitoring frequency to less than one sample per quarter. The State must approve the reduced monitoring frequency in writing.
(3) The monitoring frequency for total coliforms for non-community water systems is as follows:
(i) A non-community water system using only ground water (except ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2) and serving 1,000 persons or fewer must monitor each calendar quarter that the system provides water to the public, except that the State may reduce this monitoring frequency, in writing, if a sanitary survey shows that the system is free of sanitary defects. Beginning June 29, 1994, the State cannot reduce the monitoring frequency for a non-community water system using only ground water (except ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2) and serving 1,000 persons or fewer to less than once/year.
(ii) A non-community water system using only ground water (except ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2) and serving more than 1,000 persons during any month must monitor at the same frequency as a like-sized community water system, as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, except the State may reduce this monitoring frequency, in writing, for any month the system serves 1,000 persons or fewer. The State cannot reduce the monitoring frequency to less than once/year. For systems using ground water under the direct influence of surface water, paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section applies.
(iii) A non-community water system using surface water, in total or in part, must monitor at the same frequency as a like-sized community water system, as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, regardless of the number of persons it serves.
(iv) A non-community water system using ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2, must monitor at the same frequency as a like-sized community water system, as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The system must begin monitoring at this frequency beginning six months after the State determines that the ground water is under the direct influence of surface water.
(4) The public water system must collect samples at regular time intervals throughout the month, except that a
system which uses only ground water (except ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2), and serves 4,900 persons or fewer, may collect all required samples on a single day if they are taken from different sites.
(5) A public water system that uses surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2, and does not practice filtration in compliance with Subpart H must collect at least one sample near the first service connection each day the turbidity level of the source water, measured as specified in § 141.74(b)(2), exceeds 1 NTU. This sample must be analyzed for the presence of total coliforms. When one or more turbidity measurements in any day exceed 1 NTU, the system must collect this coliform sample within 24 hours of the first exceedance, unless the State determines that the system, for logistical reasons outside the system's control, cannot have the sample analyzed within 30 hours of collection. Sample results from this coliform monitoring must be included in determining compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63.
(6) Special purpose samples, such as those taken to determine whether disinfection practices are sufficient following pipe placement, replacement, or repair, shall not be used to determine compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63. Repeat samples taken pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section are not considered special purpose samples, and must be used to determine compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63.
(b)
Repeat monitoring.
(1) If a routine sample is total coliform-positive, the public water system must collect a set of repeat samples within 24 hours of being notified of the positive result. A system which collects more than one routine sample/month must collect no fewer than three repeat samples for each total coliform-positive sample found. A system which collects one routine sample/month or fewer must collect no fewer than four repeat samples for each total coliform-positive sample found. The State may extend the 24-hour limit on a case-by-case basis if the system has a logistical problem in collecting the repeat samples within 24 hours that is beyond its control. In the case of an extension, the State must specify how much time the system has to collect the repeat samples.
(2) The system must collect at least one repeat sample from the sampling tap where the original total coliform-positive sample was taken, and at least one repeat sample at a tap within five service connections upstream and at least one repeat sample at a tap within five service connections downstream of the original sampling site. If a total coliform-positive sample is at the end of the distribution system, or one away from the end of the distribution system, the State may waive the requirement to collect at least one repeat sample upstream or downstream of the original sampling site.
(3) The system must collect all repeat samples on the same day, except that the State may allow a system with a single service connection to collect the required set of repeat samples over a four-day period or to collect a larger volume repeat sample(s) in one or more sample containers of any size, as long as the total volume collected is at least 400 ml (300 ml for systems which collect more than one routine sample/month).
(4) If one or more repeat samples in the set is total coliform-positive, the public water system must collect an additional set of repeat samples in the manner specified in paragraphs (b) (1)-(3) of this section. The additional samples must be collected within 24 hours of being notified of the positive result, unless the State extends the limit as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The system must repeat this process until either total coliforms are not detected in one complete set of repeat samples or the system determines that the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63 has been exceeded and notifies the State.
(5) If a system collecting fewer than five routine samples/month has one or more total coliform-positive samples and the State does not invalidate the sample(s) under paragraph (c) of this section, it must collect at least five routine samples during the next month
the system provides water to the public, except that the State may waive this requirement if the conditions of paragraph (b)(5) (i) or (ii) of this section are met. The State cannot waive the requirement for a system to collect repeat samples in paragraphs (b) (1)-(4) of this section.
(i) The State may waive the requirement to collect five routine samples the next month the system provides water to the public if the State, or an agent approved by the State, performs a site visit before the end of the next month the system provides water to the public. Although a sanitary survey need not be performed, the site visit must be sufficiently detailed to allow the State to determine whether additional monitoring and/or any corrective action is needed. The State cannot approve an employee of the system to perform this site visit, even if the employee is an agent approved by the State to perform sanitary surveys.
(ii) The State may waive the requirement to collect five routine samples the next month the system provides water to the public if the State has determined why the sample was total coliform-positive and establishes that the system has corrected the problem or will correct the problem before the end of the next month the system serves water to the public. In this case, the State must document this decision to waive the following month's additional monitoring requirement in writing, have it approved and signed by the supervisor of the State official who recommends such a decision, and make this document available to the EPA and public. The written documentation must describe the specific cause of the total coliform-positive sample and what action the system has taken and/or will take to correct this problem. The State cannot waive the requirement to collect five routine samples the next month the system provides water to the public solely on the grounds that all repeat samples are total coliform-negative. Under this paragraph, a system must still take at least one routine sample before the end of the next month it serves water to the public and use it to determine compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63, unless the State has determined that the system has corrected the contamination problem before the system took the set of repeat samples required in paragraphs (b) (1)-(4) of this section, and all repeat samples were total coliform-negative.
(6) After a system collects a routine sample and before it learns the results of the analysis of that sample, if it collects another routine sample(s) from within five adjacent service connections of the initial sample, and the initial sample, after analysis, is found to contain total coliforms, then the system may count the subsequent sample(s) as a repeat sample instead of as a routine sample.
(7) Results of all routine and repeat samples not invalidated by the State must be included in determining compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63.
(c)
Invalidation of total coliform samples.
A total coliform-positive sample invalidated under this paragraph (c) does not count towards meeting the minimum monitoring requirements of this section.
(1) The State may invalidate a total coliform-positive sample only if the conditions of paragraph (c)(1) (i), (ii), or (iii) of this section are met.
(i) The laboratory establishes that improper sample analysis caused the total coliform-positive result.
(ii) The State, on the basis of the results of repeat samples collected as required by paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section, determines that the total coliform-positive sample resulted from a domestic or other non-distribution system plumbing problem. The State cannot invalidate a sample on the basis of repeat sample results unless all repeat sample(s) collected at the same tap as the original total coliform-positive sample are also total coliform-positive, and all repeat samples collected within five service connections of the original tap are total coliform-negative (e.g., a State cannot invalidate a total coliform-positive sample on the basis of repeat samples if all the repeat samples are total coliform-negative, or if the public water system has only one service connection).
(iii) The State has substantial grounds to believe that a total coliform-positive result is due to a circumstance or condition which does not reflect water quality in the distribution system. In this case, the system must still collect all repeat samples required under paragraphs (b) (1)-(4) of this section, and use them to determine compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63. To invalidate a total coliform-positive sample under this paragraph, the decision with the rationale for the decision must be documented in writing, and approved and signed by the supervisor of the State official who recommended the decision. The State must make this document available to EPA and the public. The written documentation must state the specific cause of the total coliform-positive sample, and what action the system has taken, or will take, to correct this problem. The State may not invalidate a total coliform-positive sample solely on the grounds that all repeat samples are total coliform-negative.
(2) A laboratory must invalidate a total coliform sample (unless total coliforms are detected) if the sample produces a turbid culture in the absence of gas production using an analytical method where gas formation is examined (e.g., the Multiple-Tube Fermentation Technique), produces a turbid culture in the absence of an acid reaction in the Presence-Absence (P-A) Coliform Test, or exhibits confluent growth or produces colonies too numerous to count with an analytical method using a membrane filter (e.g., Membrane Filter Technique). If a laboratory invalidates a sample because of such interference, the system must collect another sample from the same location as the original sample within 24 hours of being notified of the interference problem, and have it analyzed for the presence of total coliforms. The system must continue to re-sample within 24 hours and have the samples analyzed until it obtains a valid result. The State may waive the 24-hour time limit on a case-by-case basis.
(d)
Sanitary surveys.
(1)(i) Public water systems which do not collect five or more routine samples/month must undergo an initial sanitary survey by June 29, 1994, for community public water systems and June 29, 1999, for non-community water systems. Thereafter, systems must undergo another sanitary survey every five years, except that non-community water systems using only protected and disinfected ground water, as defined by the State, must undergo subsequent sanitary surveys at least every ten years after the initial sanitary survey. The State must review the results of each sanitary survey to determine whether the existing monitoring frequency is adequate and what additional measures, if any, the system needs to undertake to improve drinking water quality.
(ii) In conducting a sanitary survey of a system using ground water in a State having an EPA-approved wellhead protection program under section 1428 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, information on sources of contamination within the delineated wellhead protection area that was collected in the course of developing and implementing the program should be considered instead of collecting new information, if the information was collected since the last time the system was subject to a sanitary survey.
(2) Sanitary surveys must be performed by the State or an agent approved by the State. The system is responsible for ensuring the survey takes place.
(3) Sanitary surveys conducted by the State under the provisions of § 142.16(o)(2) of this chapter may be used to meet the sanitary survey requirements of this section.
(e)
Fecal coliforms/Escherichia coli (E. coli) testing.
(1) If any routine or repeat sample is total coliform-positive, the system must analyze that total coliform-positive culture medium to determine if fecal coliforms are present, except that the system may test for
E. coli
in lieu of fecal coliforms. If fecal coliforms or
E. coli
are present, the system must notify the State by the end of the day when the system is notified of the test result, unless the system is notified of the result after the State office is closed, in which case the system must notify the State before the end of the next business day.
(2) The State has the discretion to allow a public water system, on a case-by-case basis, to forgo fecal coliform or
E. coli
testing on a total coliform-positive sample if that system assumes that the total coliform-positive sample is fecal coliform-positive or
E. coli
-positive. Accordingly, the system must notify the State as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and the provisions of § 141.63(b) apply.
(f)
Analytical methodology.
(1) The standard sample volume required for total coliform analysis, regardless of analytical method used, is 100 ml.
(2) Public water systems need only determine the presence or absence of total coliforms; a determination of total coliform density is not required.
(3) Public water systems must conduct total coliform analyses in accordance with one of the analytical methods in the following table or one of the alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C of this part.
Organism
Methodology
12
Citation
1
Total Coliforms
2
Total Coliform Fermentation Technique
3 4 5
9221A, B.
Total Coliform Membrane Filter Technique
6
9222A, B, C.
Presence-Absence (P-A) Coliform Test
5 7
9221D.
ONPG-MUG Test
8
9223.
Colisure Test.
9
E*Colite ® Test.
10
m-ColiBlue24 ® Test.
11
Readycult ® Coliforms 100 Presence/Absence Test.
13
Membrane Filter Technique using Chromocult ® Coliform Agar.
14
Colitag ® Test.
15
The procedures shall be done in accordance with the documents listed below. The incorporation by reference of the following documents listed in footnotes 1, 6, 8, 9, 10 , 11, 13, 14 and 15 was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the documents may be obtained from the sources listed below. Information regarding obtaining these documents can be obtained from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 800-426-4791. Documents may be inspected at EPA's Drinking Water Docket, EPA West, 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW., EPA West, Room B102, Washington DC 20460 (Telephone: 202-566-2426); or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
1
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
18th edition (1992), 19th edition (1995), or 20th edition (1998). American Public Health Association, 1015 Fifteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005. The cited methods published in any of these three editions may be used. In addition, the following online versions may also be used: 9221 A, B, D-99, 9222 A, B, C-97, and 9223 B-97. Standard Methods Online are available at
http://www.standardmethods.org.
The year in which each method was approved by the Standard Methods Committee is designated by the last two digits in the method number. The methods listed are the only Online versions that may be used.
2
The time from sample collection to initiation of analysis may not exceed 30 hours. Systems are encouraged but not required to hold samples below 10 deg. C during transit.
3
Lactose broth, as commercially available, may be used in lieu of lauryl tryptose broth, if the system conducts at least 25 parallel tests between this medium and lauryl tryptose broth using the water normally tested, and this comparison demonstrates that the false-positive rate and false-negative rate for total coliform, using lactose broth, is less than 10 percent.
4
If inverted tubes are used to detect gas production, the media should cover these tubes at least one-half to two-thirds after the sample is added.
5
No requirement exists to run the completed phase on 10 percent of all total coliform-positive confirmed tubes.
6
MI agar also may be used. Preparation and use of MI agar is set forth in the article, “New medium for the simultaneous detection of total coliform and
Escherichia coli
in water” by Brenner, K.P.,
et. al.,
1993, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 59:3534-3544. Also available from the Office of Water Resource Center (RC-4100T), 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20460, EPA/600/J-99/225. Verification of colonies is not required.
7
Six-times formulation strength may be used if the medium is filter-sterilized rather than autoclaved.
8
The ONPG-MUG Test is also known as the Autoanalysis Collect System.
9
A description of the Colisure Test, Feb 28, 1994, may be obtained from IDEXX Laboratories, Inc., One IDEXX Drive, Westbrook, Maine 04092. The Colisure Test may be read after an incubation time of 24 hours.
10
A description of the E*Colite ® Test, “Presence/Absence for Coliforms and
E. Coli
in Water,” Dec 21, 1997, is available from Charm Sciences, Inc., 36 Franklin Street, Malden, MA 02148-4120.
11
A description of the m-ColiBlue24 ® Test, Aug 17, 1999, is available from the Hach Company, 100 Dayton Avenue, Ames, IA 50010.
12
EPA strongly recommends that laboratories evaluate the false-positive and negative rates for the method(s) they use for monitoring total coliforms. EPA also encourages laboratories to establish false-positive and false-negative rates within their own laboratory and sample matrix (drinking water or source water) with the intent that if the method they choose has an unacceptable false-positive or negative rate, another method can be used. The Agency suggests that laboratories perform these studies on a minimum of 5% of all total coliform-positive samples, except for those methods where verification/confirmation is already required, e.g., the M-Endo and LES Endo Membrane Filter Tests, Standard Total Coliform Fermentation Technique, and Presence-Absence Coliform Test. Methods for establishing false-positive and negative-rates may be based on lactose fermentation, the rapid test for β-galactosidase and cytochrome oxidase, multi-test identification systems, or equivalent confirmation tests. False-positive and false-negative information is often available in published studies and/or from the manufacturer(s).
13
The Readycult ® Coliforms 100 Presence/Absence Test is described in the document, “Readycult ® Coliforms 100 Presence/Absence Test for Detection and Identification of Coliform Bacteria and
Escherichla coli
in Finished Waters”, November 2000, Version 1.0, available from EM Science (an affiliate of Merck KGgA, Darmstadt Germany), 480 S. Democrat Road, Gibbstown, NJ 08027-1297. Telephone number is (800) 222-0342, e-mail address is:
adellenbusch@emscience.com.
14
Membrane Filter Technique using Chromocult ® Coliform Agar is described in the document, “Chromocult ® Coliform Agar Presence/Absence Membrane Filter Test Method for Detection and Identification of Coliform Bacteria and
Escherichla coli
in Finished Waters”, November 2000, Version 1.0, available from EM Science (an affiliate of Merck KGgA, Darmstadt Germany), 480 S. Democrat Road, Gibbstown, NJ 08027-1297. Telephone number is (800) 222-0342, e-mail address is:
adellenbusch@emscience.com.
15
Colitag ® product for the determination of the presence/absence of total coliforms and
E. coli
is described in “Colitag ® Product as a Test for Detection and Identification of Coliforms and
E. coli
Bacteria in Drinking Water and Source Water as Required in National Primary Drinking Water Regulations,” August 2001, available from CPI International, Inc., 5580 Skylane Blvd., Santa Rosa, CA, 95403, telephone (800) 878-7654, Fax (707) 545-7901, Internet address
http://www.cpiinternational.com.
(4) [Reserved]
(5) Public water systems must conduct fecal coliform analysis in accordance with the following procedure. When the MTF Technique or Presence-Absence (PA) Coliform Test is used to test for total coliforms, shake the lactose-positive presumptive tube or P-A vigorously and transfer the growth with a sterile 3-mm loop or sterile applicator stick into brilliant green lactose bile broth and EC medium to determine the presence of total and fecal coliforms, respectively. For EPA-approved analytical methods which use a membrane filter, transfer the total coliform-positive culture by one of the following methods: remove the membrane containing the total coliform colonies from the substrate with a sterile forceps and carefully curl and insert the membrane into a tube of EC medium (the laboratory may first remove a small portion of selected colonies for verification), swab the entire membrane filter surface with a sterile cotton swab and transfer the inoculum to EC medium (do not leave the cotton swab in the EC medium), or inoculate individual total coliform-positive colonies into EC Medium. Gently shake the inoculated tubes of EC medium to insure adequate mixing and incubate in a waterbath at 44.5 ±0.2 °C for 24 ±2 hours. Gas production of any amount in the inner fermentation tube of the EC medium indicates a positive fecal coliform test. The preparation of EC medium is described in Method 9221E (paragraph 1a) in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 18th edition (1992), 19th edition (1995), and 20th edition (1998); the cited method in any one of these three editions may be used. Public water systems need only determine the presence or absence of fecal coliforms; a determination of fecal coliform density is not required.
(6) Public water systems must conduct analysis of Escherichia coli in accordance with one of the following analytical methods or one of the alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C of this part.
(i) EC medium supplemented with 50 µg/mL of 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D-glucuronide (MUG) (final concentration), as described in Method 9222G in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 19th edition (1995) and 20th edition (1998). Either edition may be used. Alternatively, the 18th edition (1992) may be used if at least 10 mL of EC medium, as described in paragraph (f)(5) of this section, is supplemented with 50 µg/mL of MUG before autoclaving. The inner inverted fermentation tube may be omitted. If the 18th edition is used, apply the procedure in paragraph (f)(5) of this section for transferring a total coliform-positive culture to EC medium supplemented with MUG, incubate the tube at 44.5 ±0.2 °C for 24 ±2 hours, and then observe fluorescence with an ultraviolet light (366 nm) in the dark. If fluorescence is visible, E. coli are present.
(ii) Nutrient agar supplemented with 100 µg/mL of 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D-glucuronide (MUG) (final concentration), as described in Method 9222G in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 19th edition (1995) and 20th edition (1998). Either edition may be used for determining if a total coliform-positive sample, as determined by a membrane filter technique, contains E. coli. Alternatively, the 18th edition (1992) may be used if the membrane filter containing a total coliform-positive colony(ies) is transferred to nutrient agar, as described in Method 9221B (paragraph 3) of Standard Methods (18th edition), supplemented with 100 µg/mL of MUG. If the 18th edition is used, incubate the agar plate at 35 °C for 4 hours and then observe the colony(ies) under ultraviolet light (366 nm) in the dark for fluorescence. If fluorescence is visible, E. coli are present.
(iii) Minimal Medium ONPG-MUG (MMO-MUG) Test, as set forth in the article “National Field Evaluation of a Defined Substrate Method for the Simultaneous Detection of Total Coliforms and
Escherichia coli
from Drinking Water: Comparison with Presence-
Absence Techniques” (Edberg et al.), Applied and Environmental Microbiology, Volume 55, pp. 1003-1008, April 1989. (Note: The Autoanalysis Colilert System is an MMO-MUG test). If the MMO-MUG test is total coliform-positive after a 24-hour incubation, test the medium for fluorescence with a 366-nm ultraviolet light (preferably with a 6-watt lamp) in the dark. If fluorescence is observed, the sample is
E. coli
-positive. If fluorescence is questionable (cannot be definitively read) after 24 hours incubation, incubate the culture for an additional four hours (but not to exceed 28 hours total), and again test the medium for fluorescence. The MMO-MUG Test with hepes buffer in lieu of phosphate buffer is the only approved formulation for the detection of
E. coli.
(iv)
The Colisure Test.
A description of the Colisure Test may be obtained from the Millipore Corporation, Technical Services Department, 80 Ashby Road, Bedford, MA 01730.
(v) The membrane filter method with MI agar, a description of which is cited in footnote 6 to the table in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(vi) E*Colite ® Test, a description of which is cited in footnote 10 to the table at paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(vii) m-ColiBlue24 ® Test, a description of which is cited in footnote 11 to the table in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(viii) Readycult ® Coliforms 100 Presence/Absence Test, a description of which is cited in footnote 13 to the table at paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(ix) Membrane Filter Technique using Chromocult ® Coliform Agar, a description of which is cited in footnote 14 to the table at paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(x) Colitag ®, a description of which is cited in footnote 15 to the table at paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(7) As an option to paragraph (f)(6)(iii) of this section, a system with a total coliform-positive, MUG-negative, MMO-MUG test may further analyze the culture for the presence of
E. coli
by transferring a 0.1 ml, 28-hour MMO-MUG culture to EC Medium + MUG with a pipet. The formulation and incubation conditions of EC Medium + MUG, and observation of the results are described in paragraph (f)(6)(i) of this section.
(8) The following materials are incorporated by reference in this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the analytical methods cited in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater (18th, 19th, and 20th editions) may be obtained from the American Public Health Association
et al.
; 1015 Fifteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005-2605. Copies of the MMO-MUG Test, as set forth in the article “National Field Evaluation of a Defined Substrate Method for the Simultaneous Enumeration of Total Coliforms and Escherichia coli from Drinking Water: Comparison with the Standard Multiple Tube Fermentation Method” (Edberg
et al.
) may be obtained from the American Water Works Association Research Foundation, 6666 West Quincy Avenue, Denver, CO 80235. Copies of the MMO-MUG Test as set forth in the article “National Field Evaluation of a Defined Substrate Method for the Simultaneous Enumeration of Total Coliforms and
Escherichia coli
from Drinking Water: Comparison with the Standard Multiple Tube Fermentation Method” (Edberg
et al.
) may be obtained from the American Water Works Association Research Foundation, 6666 West Quincy Avenue, Denver, CO 80235. A description of the Colisure Test may be obtained from the Millipore Corp., Technical Services Department, 80 Ashby Road, Bedford, MA 01730. Copies may be inspected at EPA's Drinking Water Docket; 401 M St., SW.; Washington, DC 20460, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(g)
Response to violation.
(1) A public water system which has exceeded the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63 must report the violation to the State no later than the end of the next business day after it learns of the violation, and notify the public in accordance with subpart Q.
(2) A public water system which has failed to comply with a coliform monitoring requirement, including the sanitary survey requirement, must report the monitoring violation to the State within ten days after the system discovers the violation, and notify the public in accordance with subpart Q.
(h) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section are applicable until March 31, 2016. The provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (e), (f), and (g) of this section are applicable until all required repeat monitoring under paragraph (b) of this section and fecal coliform or
E. coli
testing under paragraph (e) of this section that was initiated by a total coliform-positive sample taken before April 1, 2016 is completed, as well as analytical method, reporting, recordkeeping, public notification, and consumer confidence report requirements associated with that monitoring and testing. Beginning April 1, 2016, the provisions of subpart Y of this part are applicable, with systems required to begin regular monitoring at the same frequency as the system-specific frequency required on March 31, 2016.
[54 FR 27562, June 29, 1989]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 141.21, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 141.22
Turbidity sampling and analytical requirements.
The requirements in this section apply to unfiltered systems until December 30, 1991, unless the State has determined prior to that date, in writing pursuant to section 1412(b)(7)(iii), that filtration is required. The requirements in this section apply to filtered systems until June 29, 1993. The requirements in this section apply to unfiltered systems that the State has determined, in writing pursuant to section 1412(b)(7)(C)(iii), must install filtration, until June 29, 1993, or until filtration is installed, whichever is later.
(a) Samples shall be taken by suppliers of water for both community and non-community water systems at a representative entry point(s) to the water distribution system at least once per day, for the purposes of making turbidity measurements to determine compliance with § 141.13. If the State determines that a reduced sampling frequency in a non-community will not pose a risk to public health, it can reduce the required sampling frequency. The option of reducing the turbidity frequency shall be permitted only in those public water systems that practice disinfection and which maintain an active residual disinfectant in the distribution system, and in those cases where the State has indicated in writing that no unreasonable risk to health existed under the circumstances of this option. Turbidity measurements shall be made as directed in § 141.74(a)(1).
(b) If the result of a turbidity analysis indicates that the maximum allowable limit has been exceeded, the sampling and measurement shall be confirmed by resampling as soon as practicable and preferably within one hour. If the repeat sample confirms that the maximum allowable limit has been exceeded, the supplier of water shall report to the State within 48 hours. The repeat sample shall be the sample used for the purpose of calculating the monthly average. If the monthly average of the daily samples exceeds the maximum allowable limit, or if the average of two samples taken on consecutive days exceeds 5 TU, the supplier of water shall report to the State and notify the public as directed in § 141.31 and subpart Q.
(c) Sampling for non-community water systems shall begin within two years after the effective date of this part.
(d) The requirements of this § 141.22 shall apply only to public water systems which use water obtained in whole or in part from surface sources.
(e) The State has the authority to determine compliance or initiate enforcement action based upon analytical results or other information compiled by their sanctioned representatives and agencies.
[40 FR 59570, Dec. 24, 1975, as amended at 45 FR 57344, Aug. 27, 1980; 47 FR 8998, Mar. 3, 1982; 47 FR 10998, Mar. 12, 1982; 54 FR 27527, June 29, 1989; 59 FR 62466, Dec. 5, 1994; 65 FR 26022, May 4, 2000]
§ 141.23
Inorganic chemical sampling and analytical requirements.
Community water systems shall conduct monitoring to determine compliance with the maximum contaminant levels specified in § 141.62 in accordance with this section. Non-transient, non-community water systems shall conduct monitoring to determine compliance with the maximum contaminant levels specified in § 141.62 in accordance with this section. Transient, non-community water systems shall conduct monitoring to determine compliance with the nitrate and nitrite maximum contaminant levels in §§ 141.11 and 141.62 (as appropriate) in accordance with this section.
(a) Monitoring shall be conducted as follows:
(1) Groundwater systems shall take a minimum of one sample at every entry point to the distribution system which is representative of each well after treatment (hereafter called a sampling point) beginning in the initial compliance period. The system shall take each sample at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source or treatment plant.
(2) Surface water systems shall take a minimum of one sample at every entry point to the distribution system after any application of treatment or in the distribution system at a point which is representative of each source after treatment (hereafter called a sampling point) beginning in the initial compliance period. The system shall take each sample at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source or treatment plant.

# Note:
For purposes of this paragraph, surface water systems include systems with a combination of surface and ground sources.
(3) If a system draws water from more than one source and the sources are combined before distribution, the system must sample at an entry point to the distribution system during periods of normal operating conditions (
i.e.
, when water is representative of all sources being used).
(4) The State may reduce the total number of samples which must be analyzed by allowing the use of compositing. Composite samples from a maximum of five samples are allowed, provided that the detection limit of the method used for analysis is less than one-fifth of the MCL. Compositing of samples must be done in the laboratory.
(i) If the concentration in the composite sample is greater than or equal to one-fifth of the MCL of any inorganic chemical, then a follow-up sample must be taken within 14 days at each sampling point included in the composite. These samples must be analyzed for the contaminants which exceeded one-fifth of the MCL in the composite sample. Detection limits for each analytical method and MCLs for each inorganic contaminant are the following:
Detection Limits for Inorganic Contaminants
Contaminant
MCL (mg/l)
Methodology
Detection limit (mg/l)
Antimony
0.006
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
0.003
Atomic Absorption; Platform
0.0008
5
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
0.0004
Hydride-Atomic Absorption
0.001
Arsenic
0.010
6
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
0.001
Atomic Absorption; Platform—Stabilized Temperature
0.0005
7
Atomic Absorption; Gaseous Hydride
0.001
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
0.0014
8
Asbestos
7 MFL
1
Transmission Electron Microscopy
0.01 MFL
Barium
2
Atomic Absorption; furnace technique
0.002
Atomic Absorption; direct aspiration
0.1
Inductively Coupled Plasma
0.002 (0.001)
Beryllium
0.004
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
0.0002
Atomic Absorption; Platform
0.00002
5
Inductively Coupled Plasma
2
0.0003
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
0.0003
Cadmium
0.005
Atomic Absorption; furnace technique
0.0001
Inductively Coupled Plasma
0.001
Chromium
0.1
Atomic Absorption; furnace technique
0.001
Inductively Coupled Plasma
0.007 (0.001)
Cyanide
0.2
Distillation, Spectrophotometric
3
0.02
Distillation, Automated, Spectrophotometric
3
0.005
Distillation, Amenable, Spectrophotometric
4
0.02
Distillation, Selective Electrode
3 4
0.05
UV, Distillation, Spectrophotometric
9
0.0005
Micro Distillation, Flow Injection, Spectrophotometric
3
0.0006
Ligand Exchange with Amperometry
4
0.0005
Mercury
0.002
Manual Cold Vapor Technique
0.0002
Automated Cold Vapor Technique
0.0002
Nickel
xl
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
0.001
Atomic Absorption; Platform
0.0006
5
Inductively Coupled Plasma
2
0.005
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
0.0005
Nitrate
10 (as N)
Manual Cadmium Reduction
0.01
Automated Hydrazine Reduction
0.01
Automated Cadmium Reduction
0.05
Ion Selective Electrode
1
Ion Chromatography
0.01
Capillary Ion Electrophoresis
0.076
Nitrite
1 (as N)
Spectrophotometric
0.01
Automated Cadmium Reduction
0.05
Manual Cadmium Reduction
0.01
Ion Chromatography
0.004
Capillary Ion Electrophoresis
0.103
Selenium
0.05
Atomic Absorption; furnace
0.002
Atomic Absorption; gaseous hydride
0.002
Thallium
0.002
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
0.001
Atomic Absorption; Platform
0.0007
5
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
0.0003
1
MFL = million fibers per liter
10 µm.
2
Using a 2X preconcentration step as noted in Method 200.7. Lower MDLs may be achieved when using a 4X preconcentration.
3
Screening method for total cyanides.
4
Measures “free” cyanides when distillation, digestion, or ligand exchange is omitted.
5
Lower MDLs are reported using stabilized temperature graphite furnace atomic absorption.
6
The value for arsenic is effective January 23, 2006. Unit then, the MCL is 0.05 mg/L.
7
The MDL reported for EPA method 200.9 (Atomic Absorption; Platform—Stablized Temperature) was determined using a 2x concentration step during sample digestion. The MDL determined for samples analyzed using direct analyses (
i.e.
, no sample digestion) will be higher. Using multiple depositions, EPA 200.9 is capable of obtaining MDL of 0.0001 mg/L.
8
Using selective ion monitoring, EPA Method 200.8 (ICP-MS) is capable of obtaining a MDL of 0.0001 mg/L.
9
Measures total cyanides when UV-digestor is used, and “free” cyanides when UV-digestor is bypassed.
(ii) If the population served by the system is
3,300 persons, then compositing may only be permitted by the State at sampling points within a single system. In systems serving ≤3,300 persons, the State may permit compositing among different systems provided the 5-sample limit is maintained.
(iii) If duplicates of the original sample taken from each sampling point used in the composite sample are available, the system may use these instead of resampling. The duplicates must be analyzed and the results reported to the State within 14 days after completing analysis of the composite sample, provided the holding time of the sample is not exceeded.
(5) The frequency of monitoring for asbestos shall be in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section: the frequency of monitoring for antimony, arsenic, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cyanide, fluoride, mercury, nickel, selenium and thallium shall be in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; the frequency of monitoring for nitrate shall be in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; and the frequency of monitoring for nitrite shall be in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) The frequency of monitoring conducted to determine compliance with the maximum contaminant level for asbestos specified in § 141.62(b) shall be conducted as follows:
(1) Each community and non-transient, non-community water system is required to monitor for asbestos during the first three-year compliance period
of each nine-year compliance cycle beginning in the compliance period starting January 1, 1993.
(2) If the system believes it is not vulnerable to either asbestos contamination in its source water or due to corrosion of asbestos-cement pipe, or both, it may apply to the State for a waiver of the monitoring requirement in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If the State grants the waiver, the system is not required to monitor.
(3) The State may grant a waiver based on a consideration of the following factors:
(i) Potential asbestos contamination of the water source, and
(ii) The use of asbestos-cement pipe for finished water distribution and the corrosive nature of the water.
(4) A waiver remains in effect until the completion of the three-year compliance period. Systems not receiving a waiver must monitor in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(5) A system vulnerable to asbestos contamination due solely to corrosion of asbestos-cement pipe shall take one sample at a tap served by asbestos-cement pipe and under conditions where asbestos contamination is most likely to occur.
(6) A system vulnerable to asbestos contamination due solely to source water shall monitor in accordance with the provision of paragraph (a) of this section.
(7) A system vulnerable to asbestos contamination due both to its source water supply and corrosion of asbestos-cement pipe shall take one sample at a tap served by asbestos-cement pipe and under conditions where asbestos contamination is most likely to occur.
(8) A system which exceeds the maximum contaminant levels as determined in § 141.23(i) of this section shall monitor quarterly beginning in the next quarter after the violation occurred.
(9) The State may decrease the quarterly monitoring requirement to the frequency specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section provided the State has determined that the system is reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level. In no case can a State make this determination unless a groundwater system takes a minimum of two quarterly samples and a surface (or combined surface/ground) water system takes a minimum of four quarterly samples.
(10) If monitoring data collected after January 1, 1990 are generally consistent with the requirements of § 141.23(b), then the State may allow systems to use that data to satisfy the monitoring requirement for the initial compliance period beginning January 1, 1993.
(c) The frequency of monitoring conducted to determine compliance with the maximum contaminant levels in § 141.62 for antimony, arsenic, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cyanide, fluoride, mercury, nickel, selenium and thallium shall be as follows:
(1) Groundwater systems shall take one sample at each sampling point during each compliance period. Surface water systems (or combined surface/ground) shall take one sample annually at each sampling point.
(2) The system may apply to the State for a waiver from the monitoring frequencies specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. States may grant a public water system a waiver for monitoring of cyanide, provided that the State determines that the system is not vulnerable due to lack of any industrial source of cyanide.
(3) A condition of the waiver shall require that a system shall take a minimum of one sample while the waiver is effective. The term during which the waiver is effective shall not exceed one compliance cycle (
i.e.
, nine years).
(4) The State may grant a waiver provided surface water systems have monitored annually for at least three years and groundwater systems have conducted a minimum of three rounds of monitoring. (At least one sample shall have been taken since January 1, 1990). Both surface and groundwater systems shall demonstrate that all previous analytical results were less than the maximum contaminant level. Systems that use a new water source are not eligible for a waiver until three rounds of monitoring from the new source have been completed.
(5) In determining the appropriate reduced monitoring frequency, the State shall consider:
(i) Reported concentrations from all previous monitoring;
(ii) The degree of variation in reported concentrations; and
(iii) Other factors which may affect contaminant concentrations such as changes in groundwater pumping rates, changes in the system's configuration, changes in the system's operating procedures, or changes in stream flows or characteristics.
(6) A decision by the State to grant a waiver shall be made in writing and shall set forth the basis for the determination. The determination may be initiated by the State or upon an application by the public water system. The public water system shall specify the basis for its request. The State shall review and, where appropriate, revise its determination of the appropriate monitoring frequency when the system submits new monitoring data or when other data relevant to the system's appropriate monitoring frequency become available.
(7) Systems which exceed the maximum contaminant levels as calculated in § 141.23(i) of this section shall monitor quarterly beginning in the next quarter after the violation occurred.
(8) The State may decrease the quarterly monitoring requirement to the frequencies specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section provided it has determined that the system is reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level. In no case can a State make this determination unless a groundwater system takes a minimum of two quarterly samples and a surface water system takes a minimum of four quarterly samples.
(9) All new systems or systems that use a new source of water that begin operation after January 22, 2004 must demonstrate compliance with the MCL within a period of time specified by the State. The system must also comply with the initial sampling frequencies specified by the State to ensure a system can demonstrate compliance with the MCL. Routine and increased monitoring frequencies shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements in this section.
(d) All public water systems (community; non-transient, non-community; and transient, non-community systems) shall monitor to determine compliance with the maximum contaminant level for nitrate in § 141.62.
(1) Community and non-transient, non-community water systems served by groundwater systems shall monitor annually beginning January 1, 1993; systems served by surface water shall monitor quarterly beginning January 1, 1993.
(2) For community and non-transient, non-community water systems, the repeat monitoring frequency for groundwater systems shall be quarterly for at least one year following any one sample in which the concentration is ≥50 percent of the MCL. The State may allow a groundwater system to reduce the sampling frequency to annually after four consecutive quarterly samples are reliably and consistently less than the MCL.
(3) For community and non-transient, non-community water systems, the State may allow a surface water system to reduce the sampling frequency to annually if all analytical results from four consecutive quarters are
50 percent of the MCL. A surface water system shall return to quarterly monitoring if any one sample is ≥50 percent of the MCL.
(4) Each transient non-community water system shall monitor annually beginning January 1, 1993.
(5) After the initial round of quarterly sampling is completed, each community and non-transient non-community system which is monitoring annually shall take subsequent samples during the quarter(s) which previously resulted in the highest analytical result.
(e) All public water systems (community; non-transient, non-community; and transient, non-community systems) shall monitor to determine compliance with the maximum contaminant level for nitrite in § 141.62(b).
(1) All public water systems shall take one sample at each sampling point in the compliance period beginning January 1, 1993 and ending December 31, 1995.
(2) After the initial sample, systems where an analytical result for nitrite is
50 percent of the MCL shall monitor at the frequency specified by the State.
(3) For community, non-transient, non-community, and transient non-community water systems, the repeat monitoring frequency for any water system shall be quarterly for at least one year following any one sample in which the concentration is ≥50 percent of the MCL. The State may allow a system to reduce the sampling frequency to annually after determining the system is reliably and consistently less than the MCL.
(4) Systems which are monitoring annually shall take each subsequent sample during the quarter(s) which previously resulted in the highest analytical result.
(f) Confirmation samples:
(1) Where the results of sampling for antimony, arsenic, asbestos, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cyanide, fluoride, mercury, nickel, selenium or thallium indicate an exceedance of the maximum contaminant level, the State may require that one additional sample be collected as soon as possible after the initial sample was taken (but not to exceed two weeks) at the same sampling point.
(2) Where nitrate or nitrite sampling results indicate an exceedance of the maximum contaminant level, the system shall take a confirmation sample within 24 hours of the system's receipt of notification of the analytical results of the first sample. Systems unable to comply with the 24-hour sampling requirement must immediately notify persons served by the public water system in accordance with § 141.202 and meet other Tier 1 public notification requirements under subpart Q of this part. Systems exercising this option must take and analyze a confirmation sample within two weeks of notification of the analytical results of the first sample.
(3) If a State-required confirmation sample is taken for any contaminant, then the results of the initial and confirmation sample shall be averaged. The resulting average shall be used to determine the system's compliance in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section. States have the discretion to delete results of obvious sampling errors.
(g) The State may require more frequent monitoring than specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this section or may require confirmation samples for positive and negative results at its discretion.
(h) Systems may apply to the State to conduct more frequent monitoring than the minimum monitoring frequencies specified in this section.
(i) Compliance with § 141.11 or § 141.62(b) (as appropriate) shall be determined based on the analytical result(s) obtained at each sampling point.
(1) For systems which are conducting monitoring at a frequency greater than annual, compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for antimony, arsenic, asbestos, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cyanide, fluoride, mercury, nickel, selenium or thallium is determined by a running annual average at any sampling point. If the average at any sampling point is greater than the MCL, then the system is out of compliance. If any one sample would cause the annual average to be exceeded, then the system is out of compliance immediately. Any sample below the method detection limit shall be calculated at zero for the purpose of determining the annual average. If a system fails to collect the required number of samples, compliance (average concentration) will be based on the total number of samples collected.
(2) For systems which are monitoring annually, or less frequently, the system is out of compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for antimony, arsenic, asbestos, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cyanide, fluoride, mercury, nickel, selenium or thallium if the level of a contaminant is greater than the MCL. If confirmation samples are required by the State, the determination of compliance will be based on the annual average of the initial MCL exceedance and any State-required confirmation samples. If a system fails to collect the required number of samples, compliance (average concentration) will be based on the total number of samples collected.
(3) Compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for nitrate and nitrate is determined based on one sample if the levels of these contaminants are below the MCLs. If the levels of nitrate and/or nitrite exceed the MCLs in
the initial sample, a confirmation sample is required in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section, and compliance shall be determined based on the average of the initial and confirmation samples.
(4) Arsenic sampling results will be reported to the nearest 0.001 mg/L.
(j) Each public water system shall monitor at the time designated by the State during each compliance period.
(k) Inorganic analysis:
(1) Analysis for the following contaminants shall be conducted in accordance with the methods in the following table, or the alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C of this part, or their equivalent as determined by EPA. Criteria for analyzing arsenic, barium, beryllium, cadmium, calcium, chromium, copper, lead, nickel, selenium, sodium, and thallium with digestion or directly without digestion, and other analytical test procedures are contained in
Technical Notes on Drinking Water Methods,
EPA-600/R-94-173, October 1994. This document is available from the National Service Center for Environmental Publications (NSCEP), P.O. Box 42419, Cincinnati, OH 45242-0419 or
http://www.epa.gov/nscep/.
Contaminant
Methodology
13
EPA
ASTM
3
SM
4
(18th, 19th ed.)
SM
4
(20th ed.)
SM Online
22
Other
1. Alkalinity
Titrimetric
D1067-92, 02 B
2320 B
2320 B
2320 B-97
Electrometric titration
I-1030-85
5
2. Antimony
Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP)—Mass Spectrometry
200.8
2
Hydride-Atomic Absorption
D3697-92, 02
Atomic Absorption; Platform
200.9
2
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B-99
3. Arsenic
14
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
200.8
2
Atomic Absorption; Platform
200.9
2
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
D2972-97, 03 C
3113 B
3113 B-99
Hydride Atomic Absorption
D1972-97, 03 B
3114 B
3114 B-97
4. Asbestos
Transmission Electron Microscopy
100.1
9
Transmission Electron Microscopy
100.2
10
5. Barium
Inductively Coupled Plasma
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
200.8
2
Atomic Absorption; Direct
3111D
3111 D-99
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B-99
6. Beryllium
Inductively Coupled Plasma
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
200.8
2
Atomic Absorption; Platform
200.9
2
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
D3645-97, 03 B
3113 B
3113 B-99
7. Cadmium
Inductively Coupled Plasma
200.7
2
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
200.8
2
Atomic Absorption; Platform
200.9
2
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B-99
8. Calcium
EDTA titrimetric
D511-93, 03 A
3500-Ca D
3500-Ca B
3500-Ca B-97
Atomic Absorption; Direct Aspiration
D511-93, 03 B
3111 B
3111 B-99
Inductively Coupled Plasma
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
Ion Chromatography
D6919-03
9. Chromium
Inductively Coupled Plasma
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
200.8
2
Atomic Absorption; Platform
200.9
2
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B-99
10. Copper
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
D1688-95, 02 C
3113 B
3113 B-99
Atomic Absorption; Direct Aspiration
D1688-95, 02 A
3111 B
3111 B-99
Inductively Coupled Plasma
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
ICP-Mass spectrometry
200.8
2
Atomic Absorption; Platform
200.9
2
11. Conductivity
Conductance
D1125-95 (Reapproved 1999) A
2510 B
2510 B
2510 B-97
12. Cyanide
Manual Distillation followed by
D2036-98 A
4500-CN
−
C
4500-CN
−
C
Spectrophotometric, Amenable
D2036-98 B
4500-CN
−
G
4500-CN
−
G
4500-CN
−
G-99
Spectro-photometric Manual
D2036-98 A
4500-CN
−
E
4500-CN
−
E
4500-CN
−
E-99
I-3300-85
5
Spectro-photometric Semi-automated
335.4
6
Selective Electrode
4500-CN
−
F
4500-CN
−
F
4500-CN
−
F-99
UV, Distillation, Spectrophotometric
Kelada-01
17
Micro Distillation, Flow Injection, Spectrophotometric
QuikChem 10-204-00-1-X
18
Ligand Exchange and Amperometry
21
D6888-04
OIA-1677, DW
20
13. Fluoride
Ion Chromatography
300.0
6
, 300.1
19
D4327-97, 03
4110 B
4110 B
4110 B-00
Manual Distill.; Color. SPADNS
4500-F
−
B, D
4500-F
−
B, D
4500-F
−
B, D-97
Manual Electrode
D1179-93, 99 B
4500-F
−
C
4500-F
−
C
4500-F
−
C-97
Automated Electrode
380-75WE
11
Automated Alizarin
4500-F
−
E
4500-F
−
E
4500-F
−
E-97
129-71W
11
Capillary Ion Electrophoresis
D6508, Rev. 2
23
14. Lead
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
D3559-96, 03 D
3113 B
3113 B-99
ICP-Mass spectrometry
200.8
2
Atomic Absorption; Platform
200.9
2
Differential Pulse Anodic Stripping Voltametry
Method 1001
16
15. Magnesium
Atomic Absorption
D511-93, 03 B
3111 B
3111 B-99
ICP
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
Complexation Titrimetric Methods
D511-93, 03 A
3500-Mg E
3500-Mg B
3500-Mg B-97
Ion Chromatography
D6919-03
16. Mercury
Manual, Cold Vapor
245.1
2
D3223-97, 02
3112 B
3112 B-99
Automated, Cold Vapor
245.2
1
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
200.8
2
17. Nickel
Inductively Coupled Plasma
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
200.8
2
Atomic Absorption; Platform
200.9
2
Atomic Absorption; Direct
3111 B
3111 B-99
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B-99
18. Nitrate
Ion Chromatography
300.0
6
, 300.1
19
D4327-97, 03
4110 B
4110 B
4110 B-00
B-1011
8
Automated Cadmium Reduction
353.2
6
D3867-90 A
4500-NO
3
−
F
4500-NO
3
−
F
4500-NO
3
−
F-00
Ion Selective Electrode
4500-NO
3
−
D
4500-NO
3
−
D
4500-NO
3
−
D-00
601
7
Manual Cadmium Reduction
D3867-90 B
4500-NO
3
−
E
4500-NO
3
−
E
4500-NO
3
−
E-00
Capillary Ion Electrophoresis
D6508-00.
19. Nitrite
Ion Chromatography
300.0
6
, 300.1
19
D4327-97, 03
4110 B
4110 B
4110 B-00
B-1011
8
Automated Cadmium Reduction
353.2
6
D3867-90 A
4500-NO
3
−
F
4500-NO
3
−
F
4500-NO
3
−
F-00
Manual Cadmium Reduction
D3867-90 B
4500-NO
3
−
E
4500-NO
3
−
E
4500-NO
3
−
E-00
Spectrophotometric
4500-NO
2
−
B
4500-NO
2
−
B
4500-NO
2
−
B-00
Capillary Ion Electrophoresis
D6508-00
20. Ortho-phosphate
Colorimetric, Automated, Ascorbic Acid
365.1
6
4500-P F
4500-P F
Colorimetric, ascorbic acid, single reagent
D515-88 A
4500-P E
4500-P E
Colorimetric Phosphomolybdate; Automated-segmented flow; Automated Discrete
I-1601-85
5
I-2601-90
5
I-2598-85
5
Ion Chromatography
300.0
6
, 300.1
19
D4327-97, 03
4110 B
4110 B
4110 B-00
Capillary Ion Electrophoresis
D6508-00
21. pH
Electrometric
150.1, 150.2
1
D1293-95, 99
4500-H
+
B
4500-H
+
B
4500-H
+
B-00
22. Selenium
Hydride-Atomic Absorption
D3859-98, 03 A
3114 B
3114 B-97
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
200.8
2
Atomic Absorption; Platform
200.9
2
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
D3859-98, 03 B
3113 B
3113 B-99
23. Silica
Colorimetric, Molybdate Blue
I-1700-85
5
Automated-segmented Flow
I-2700-85
5
Colorimetric
D859-94, 00
Molybdosilicate
4500-Si D
4500-SiO
2
C
4500-SiO
2
C-97
Heteropoly blue
4500-Si E
4500-SiO
2
D
4500-SiO
2
D-97
Automated for Molybdate-reactive Silica
4500-Si F
4500-SiO
2
E
4500-SiO
2
E-97
Inductively Coupled Plasma
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
24. Sodium
Inductively Coupled Plasma
200.7
2
Atomic Absorption; Direct Aspiration
3111 B
3111 B-99
Ion Chromatography
D6919-03
25. Temperature
Thermometric
2550
2550
2550-00
26. Thallium
ICP-Mass Spectrometry
200.8
2
Atomic Absorption; Platform
200.9
2
The procedures shall be done in accordance with the documents listed below. The incorporation by reference of the following documents listed in footnotes 1-11, 16-20, and 22-23 was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the documents may be obtained from the sources listed below. Information regarding obtaining these documents can be obtained from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 800-426-4791. Documents may be inspected at EPA's Drinking Water Docket, EPA West, 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room 3334, Washington, DC 20460 (Telephone: 202-566-2426); or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
1
“Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes,” EPA/600/4-79/020, March 1983. Available at NTIS, PB84-128677.
2
“Methods for the Determination of Metals in Environmental Samples—Supplement I,” EPA/600/R-94/111, May 1994. Available at NTIS, PB95-125472.
3
Annual Book of ASTM Standards,
ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428,
http://www.astm.org.;
Annual Book of ASTM Standards 1994, Vols. 11.01 and 11.02; Annual Book of ASTM Standards 1996, Vols. 11.01 and 11.02; Annual Book of ASTM Standards 1999, Vols. 11.01 and 11.02; Annual Book of ASTM Standards 2003, Vols. 11.01 and 11.02.
4
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
American Public Health Association, 800 I Street NW., Washington, DC 20001-3710;
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
18th edition (1992);
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
19th edition (1995);
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
20th edition (1998).The following methods from this edition cannot be used: 3111 B, 3111 D, 3113 B, and 3114 B.
5
U.S. Geological Survey, Federal Center, Box 25286, Denver, CO 80225-0425; Methods for Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory—Determination of Inorganic and Organic Constituents in Water and Fluvial Sediment, Open File Report 93-125, 1993; Techniques of Water Resources Investigation of the U.S. Geological Survey, Book 5, Chapter A-1, 3rd edition, 1989.
6
“Methods for the Determination of Inorganic Substances in Environmental Samples,” EPA/600/R-93/100, August 1993. Available as Technical Report PB94-120821 at National Technical Information Service (NTIS), 5301 Shawnee Road, Alexandria, VA 22312.
http://www.ntis.gov.
7
The procedure shall be done in accordance with the Technical Bulletin 601 “Standard Method of Test for Nitrate in Drinking Water,” July 1994, PN 221890-001, Analytical Technology, Inc. Copies may be obtained from ATI Orion, 529 Main Street, Boston, MA 02129.
8
Method B-1011. “Waters Test Method for Determination of Nitrite/Nitrate in Water Using Single Column Ion Chromatography,” August, 1987. Copies may be obtained from Waters Corporation, Technical Services Division, 34 Maple Street, Milford, MA 01757, Telephone: 508/482-2963, Fax: 508/482-4056.
9
Method 100.1, “Analytical Method For Determination of Asbestos Fibers in Water,” EPA/600/4-83/043, EPA, September 1983. Available at NTIS, PB83-260471.
10
Method 100.2, “Determination of Asbestos Structure Over 10-μm In Length In Drinking Water,” EPA/600/R-94/134, June 1994. Available at NTIS, PB94-201902.
11
Industrial Method No. 129-71W, “Fluoride in Water and Wastewater,” December 1972, and Method No. 380-75WE, “Fluoride in Water and Wastewater,” February 1976, Technicon Industrial Systems. Copies may be obtained from Bran
Luebbe, 1025 Busch Parkway, Buffalo Grove, IL 60089.
12
Unfiltered, no digestion or hydrolysis.
13
Because MDLs reported in EPA Methods 200.7 and 200.9 were determined using a 2x preconcentration step during sample digestion, MDLs determined when samples are analyzed by direct analysis (
i.e.,
no sample digestion) will be higher. For direct analysis of cadmium and arsenic by Method 200.7, and arsenic by Method 3120 B, sample preconcentration using pneumatic nebulization may be required to achieve lower detection limits. Preconcentration may also be required for direct analysis of antimony, lead, and thallium by Method 200.9; antimony and lead by Method 3113 B; and lead by Method D3559-90D, unless multiple in-furnace depositions are made.
14
If ultrasonic nebulization is used in the determination of arsenic by Method 200.8, the arsenic must be in the pentavalent state to provide uniform signal response. For direct analysis of arsenic with Method 200.8 using ultrasonic nebulization, samples and standards must contain 1 mg/L of sodium hypochlorite.
15
[Reserved]
16
The description for Method Number 1001 for lead is available from Palintest, LTD, 21 Kenton Lands Road, P.O. Box 18395, Erlanger, KY 41018. Or from the Hach Company, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, CO 80539.
17
The description for the Kelada-01 Method, “Kelada Automated Test Methods for Total Cyanide, Acid Dissociable Cyanide, And Thiocyanate,” Revision 1.2, August 2001, EPA # 821-B-01-009 for cyanide is available from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS), PB 2001-108275, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. The toll free telephone number is 800-553-6847.
Note:
A 450-W UV lamp may be used in this method instead of the 550-W lamp specified if it provides performance within the quality control (QC) acceptance criteria of the method in a given instrument. Similarly, modified flow cell configurations and flow conditions may be used in the method, provided that the QC acceptance criteria are met.
18
The description for the QuikChem Method 10-204-00-1-X, “Digestion and distillation of total cyanide in drinking and wastewaters using MICRO DIST and determination of cyanide by flow injection analysis,” Revision 2.1, November 30, 2000, for cyanide is available from Lachat Instruments, 6645 W. Mill Rd., Milwaukee, WI 53218. Telephone: 414-358-4200.
19
“Methods for the Determination of Organic and Inorganic Compounds in Drinking Water,” Vol. 1, EPA 815-R-00-014, August 2000. Available as Technical Report PB2000-106981 at National Technical Information Service (NTIS), 5301 Shawnee Road, Alexandria, VA 22312.
http://www.ntis.gov.
20
Method OIA-1677, DW “Available Cyanide by Flow Injection, Ligand Exchange, and Amperometry,” January 2004. EPA-821-R-04-001, Available from ALPKEM, A Division of OI Analytical, P.O. Box 9010, College Station, TX 77842-9010.
21
Sulfide levels below those detected using lead acetate paper may produce positive method interferences. Test samples using a more sensitive sulfide method to determine if a sulfide interference is present, and treat samples accordingly.
22
Standard Methods Online, American Public Health Association, 800 I Street NW., Washington, DC 20001, available at
http://www.standardmethods.org.
The year in which each method was approved by the Standard Methods Committee is designated by the last two digits in the method number. The methods listed are the only online versions that may be used.
(2) Sample collection for antimony, arsenic, asbestos, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cyanide, fluoride, mercury, nickel, nitrate, nitrite, selenium, and thallium under this section shall be conducted using the sample preservation, container, and maximum holding time procedures specified in the table below:
Contaminant
Preservative
1
Container
2
Time
3
Antimony
HNO
3
P or G
6 months
Arsenic
Conc HNO
3
to pH
2
P or G
6 months
Asbestos
4 °C
P or G
48 hours
4
Barium
HNO
3
P or G
6 months
Beryllium
HNO
3
P or G
6 months
Cadmium
HNO
3
P or G
6 months
Chromium
HNO
3
P or G
6 months
Cyanide
4 °C, NaOH
P or G
14 days
Fluoride
None
P or G
1 month
Mercury
HNO
3
P or G
28 days
Nickel
HNO
3
P or G
6 months
Nitrate
4 °C
P or G
48 hours
5
Nitrate-Nitrite
6
H
2
SO
4
P or G
28 days
Nitrite
4 °C
P or G
48 hours
Selenium
HNO
3
P or G
6 months
Thallium
HNO
3
P or G
6 months
1
For cyanide determinations samples must be adjusted with sodium hydroxide to pH 12 at the time off collection. When chilling is indicated the sample must be shipped and stored at 4 °C or less. Acidification of nitrate or metals samples may be with a concentrated acid or a dilute (50% by volume) solution of the applicable concentrated acid. Acidification of samples for metals analysis is encouraged and allowed at the laboratory rather than at the time of sampling provided the shipping time and other instructions in Section 8.3 of EPA Methods 200.7 or 200.8 or 200.9 are followed.
2
P = plastic, hard or soft; G = glass, hard or soft.
3
In all cases samples should be analyzed as soon after collection as possible. Follow additional (if any) information on preservation, containers or holding times that is specified in method.
4
Instructions for containers, preservation procedures and holding times as specified in Method 100.2 must be adhered to for all compliance analyses including those conducted with Method 100.1.
5
If the sample is chlorinated, the holding time for an unacidified sample kept at 4 °C is extended to 14 days.
6
Nitrate-Nitrite refers to a measurement of total nitrate.
(3) Analysis under this section shall only be conducted by laboratories that have been certified by EPA or the State. Laboratories may conduct sample analysis under provisional certification until January 1, 1996. To receive certification to conduct analyses for antimony, arsenic, asbestos, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cyanide, fluoride, mercury, nickel, nitrate, nitrite and selenium and thallium, the laboratory must:
(i) Analyze Performance Evaluation (PE) samples provided by EPA, the State or by a third party (with the approval of the State or EPA) at least once a year.
(ii) For each contaminant that has been included in the PE sample and for each method for which the laboratory desires certification achieve quantitative results on the analyses that are within the following acceptance limits:
Contaminant
Acceptance limit
Antimony
±30 at ≥0.006 mg/1
Arsenic
±30 at ≥0.003 mg/L
Asbestos
2 standard deviations based on study statistics.
Barium
±15% at ≥0.15 mg/1
Beryllium
±15% at ≥0.001 mg/1
Cadmium
±20% at ≥0.002 mg/1
Chromium
±15% at ≥0.01 mg/1
Cyanide
±25% at ≥0.1 mg/1
Fluoride
±10% at ≥1 to 10 mg/1
Mercury
±30% at ≥0.0005 mg/1
Nickel
±15% at ≥0.01 mg/1
Nitrate
±10% at ≥0.4 mg/1
Nitrite
±15% at ≥0.4 mg/1
Selenium
±20% at ≥0.01 mg/1
Thallium
±30% at ≥0.002 mg/1
(l) Analyses for the purpose of determining compliance with § 141.11 shall be conducted using the requirements specified in paragraphs (l) through (q) of this section.
(1) Analyses for all community water systems utilizing surface water sources shall be completed by June 24, 1978. These analyses shall be repeated at yearly intervals.
(2) Analyses for all community water systems utilizing only ground water sources shall be completed by June 24, 1979. These analyses shall be repeated at three-year intervals.
(3) For non-community water systems, whether supplied by surface or ground sources, analyses for nitrate shall be completed by December 24, 1980. These analyses shall be repeated at intervals determined by the State.
(4) The State has the authority to determine compliance or initiate enforcement action based upon analytical results and other information compiled by their sanctioned representatives and agencies.
(m) If the result of an analysis made under paragraph (l) of this section indicates that the level of any contaminant listed in § 141.11 exceeds the maximum contaminant level, the supplier of the water shall report to the State within 7 days and initiate three additional analyses at the same sampling point within one month.
(n) When the average of four analyses made pursuant to paragraph (m) of this section, rounded to the same number of significant figures as the maximum contaminant level for the substance in question, exceeds the maximum contaminant level, the supplier of water shall notify the State pursuant to § 141.31 and give notice to the public pursuant to subpart Q. Monitoring after public notification shall be at a frequency designated by the State and shall continue until the maximum contaminant level has not been exceeded in two successive samples or until a monitoring schedule as a condition to a variance, exemption or enforcement action shall become effective.
(o) The provisions of paragraphs (m) and (n) of this section notwithstanding, compliance with the maximum contaminant level for nitrate shall be determined on the basis of the mean of two analyses. When a level exceeding the maximum contaminant level for nitrate is found, a second analysis shall be initiated within 24 hours, and if the mean of the two analyses exceeds the maximum contaminant level, the supplier of water shall report his findings to the State pursuant to § 141.31 and shall notify the public pursuant to subpart Q.
(p) For the initial analyses required by paragraph (l) (1), (2) or (3) of this section, data for surface waters acquired within one year prior to the effective date and data for ground waters acquired within 3 years prior to the effective date of this part may be substituted at the discretion of the State.
(q) [Reserved]
[56 FR 3579, Jan. 30, 1991]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 141.23, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 141.24
Organic chemicals, sampling and analytical requirements.
(a)-(d) [Reserved]
(e) Analyses for the contaminants in this section shall be conducted using the methods listed in the following table, or the alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C of this part, or their equivalent as determined by EPA.
(1) The following documents are incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be inspected at EPA's Drinking Water Docket, 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW., EPA West, Room 3334, Washington, DC 20460 (Telephone: 202-566-2426); or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Method 508A and 515.1 are in
Methods for the Determination of Organic Compounds in Drinking Water,
EPA/600/4-88-039, December 1988, Revised, July 1991. Methods 547, 550 and 550.1 are in
Methods for the Determination of Organic Compounds in Drinking Water—Supplement I,
EPA/600-4-90-020, July 1990. Methods 548.1, 549.1, 552.1 and 555 are in
Methods for the Determination of Organic Compounds in Drinking Water—Supplement II,
EPA/600/R-92-129, August 1992. Methods 502.2, 504.1, 505, 506, 507, 508, 508.1, 515.2, 524.2 525.2, 531.1, 551.1 and 552.2 are in
Methods for the Determination of Organic Compounds in Drinking Water--Supplement III,
EPA/600/R-95-131, August 1995. Method 1613 is titled “Tetra-through Octa-Chlorinated Dioxins and Furans by Isotope-Dilution HRGC/HRMS,” EPA/821-B-94-005, October 1994. These documents are available from the National Technical Information Service, NTIS PB91-231480, PB91-146027, PB92-207703, PB95-261616 and PB95-104774, U.S. Department of Commerce, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia 22161. The toll free number is: 800-553-6847. Method 6651 shall be followed in accordance with
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
18th edition (1992), 19th edition (1995), or 20th edition (1998), American Public Health Association (APHA); any of these three editions may be used. Method 6610 shall be followed in accordance with
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
(18th Edition Supplement) (1994), or with the 19th edition (1995) or 20th edition (1998) of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater;
any of these publications may be used. The APHA documents are available from APHA, 1015 Fifteenth Street NW., Washington, DC 20005. Other required analytical test procedures germane to the conduct of these analyses are contained in
Technical Notes on Drinking Water Methods,
EPA/600/R-94-173, October 1994, NTIS PB95-104766. EPA Methods 515.3 and 549.2 are available from U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Exposure Research Laboratory (NERL)-Cincinnati, 26 West Martin Luther King Drive, Cincinnati, OH 45268. ASTM Method D 5317-93, 98 (Reapproved 2003) is available in the
Annual Book of ASTM Standards,
(1999), Vol. 11.02, ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428, any edition containing the cited version of the method may be used. EPA Method 515.4, “Determination of Chlorinated Acids in Drinking Water by Liquid-Liquid Microextraction, Derivatization and Fast Gas Chromatography with Electron Capture Detection,” Revision 1.0, April 2000, EPA/815/B-00/001 and EPA Method 552.3, “Determination of Haloacetic Acids and Dalapon in Drinking Water by Liquid-Liquid Microextraction, Derivatization, and Gas Chromatography with Electron Capture Detection,” Revision 1.0, July 2003, EPA 815-B-03-002, can be accessed and downloaded directly online at
http://www.epa.gov/safewater/methods/sourcalt.html.
Syngenta Method AG-625, “Atrazine in Drinking Water by Immunoassay,” February 2001, is available from Syngenta Crop Protection, Inc., 410 Swing Road, P.O. Box 18300, Greensboro, NC 27419. Telephone: 336-632-6000. Method 531.2 “Measurement of N-methylcarbamoyloximes and N-methylcarbamates in Water by Direct Aqueous Injection HPLC with Postcolumn Derivatization,” Revision 1.0, September 2001, EPA 815-B-01-002, can be accessed and downloaded directly online at
http://www.epa.gov/safewater/methods/sourcalt.html.
Contaminant
EPA method
Standard methods
ASTM
Other
1. Benzene
502.2, 524.2
2. Carbon tetrachloride
502.2, 524.2, 551.1
3. Chlorobenzene
502.2, 524.2
4. 1,2-Dichlorobenzene
502.2, 524.2
5. 1,4-Dichlorobenzene
502.2, 524.2
6. 1,2-Dichloroethane
502.2, 524.2
7. cis-Dichloroethylene
502.2, 524.2
8. trans-Dichloroethylene
502.2, 524.2
9. Dichloromethane
502.2, 524.2
10. 1,2-Dichloropropane
502.2, 524.2
11. Ethylbenzene
502.2, 524.2
12. Styrene
502.2, 524.2
13. Tetrachloroethylene
502.2, 524.2, 551.1
14. 1,1,1-Trichloroethane
502.2, 524.2, 551.1
15. Trichloroethylene
502.2, 524.2, 551.1
16. Toluene
502.2, 524.2
17. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
502.2, 524.2
18. 1,1-Dichloroethylene
502.2, 524.2
19. 1,1,2-Trichloroethane
502.2, 524.2, 551.1
20. Vinyl chloride
502.2, 524.2
21. Xylenes (total)
502.2, 524.2
22. 2,3,7,8-TCDD (dioxin)
1613
23. 2,4-D
4
(as acids, salts, and esters)
515.2, 555, 515.1, 515.3, 515.4
D5317-93, 98 (Reapproved 2003)
24. 2,4,5-TP
4
(Silvex)
515.2, 555, 515.1, 515.3, 515.4
D5317-93, 98 (Reapproved 2003)
25. Alachlor
2
507, 525.2, 508.1, 505, 551.1
26. Atrazine
2
507, 525.2, 508.1, 505, 551.1
Syngenta
5
AG-625
27. Benzo(a)pyrene
525.2, 550, 550.1
28. Carbofuran
531.1, 531.2
6610
29. Chlordane
508, 525.2, 508.1, 505
30. Dalapon
552.1 515.1, 552.2, 515.3, 515.4, 552.3
31. Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate
506, 525.2
32. Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
506, 525.2
33. Dibromochloropropane (DBCP)
504.1, 551.1
34. Dinoseb
4
515.2, 555, 515.1, 515.3, 515.4
35. Diquat
549.2
36. Endothall
548.1
37. Endrin
508, 525.2, 508.1, 505, 551.1
38. Ethylene dibromide (EDB)
504.1, 551.1
39. Glyphosate
547
6651
40. Heptachlor
508, 525.2, 508.1, 505, 551.1
41. Heptachlor Epoxide
508, 525.2, 508.1, 505, 551.1
42. Hexachlorobenzene
508, 525.2, 508.1, 505, 551.1
43. Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
508, 525.2, 508.1, 505, 551.1
44. Lindane
508, 525.2, 508.1, 505, 551.1
45. Methoxychlor
508, 525.2, 508.1, 505, 551.1
46. Oxamyl
531.1, 531.2
6610
47. PCBs
3
(as decachlorobiphenyl)
508A
48. PCBs
3
(as Aroclors)
508.1, 508, 525.2, 505
49. Pentachlorophenol
515.2, 525.2, 555, 515.1, 515.3, 515.4
D5317-93, 98 (Reapproved 2003)
50. Picloram
4
515.2, 555, 515.1, 515.3, 515.4
D5317-93, 98 (Reapproved 2003)
51. Simazine
2
507, 525.2, 508.1, 505, 551.1
52. Toxaphene
508, 508.1, 525.2, 505
53. Total Trihalomethanes
502.2, 524.2, 551.1
1
[Reserved]
2
Substitution of the detector specified in Method 505, 507, 508 or 508.1 for the purpose of achieving lower detection limits is allowed as follows. Either an electron capture or nitrogen phosphorous detector may be used provided all regulatory requirements and quality control criteria are met.
3
PCBs are qualitatively identified as Aroclors and measured for compliance purposes as decachlorobiphenyl. Users of Method 505 may have more difficulty in achieving the required detection limits than users of Methods 508.1, 525.2 or 508.
4
Accurate determination of the chlorinated esters requires hydrolysis of the sample as described in EPA Methods 515.1, 515.2, 515.3, 515.4 and 555 and ASTM Method D5317-93.
5
This method may not be used for the analysis of atrazine in any system where chlorine dioxide is used for drinking water treatment. In samples from all other systems, any result for atrazine generated by Method AG-625 that is greater than one-half the maximum contaminant level (MCL) (in other words, greater than 0.0015mg/L or 1.5 μg/L) must be confirmed using another approved method for this contaminant and should use additional volume of the original sample collected for compliance monitoring. In instances where a result from Method AG-625 triggers such confirmatory testing, the confirmatory result is to be used to determine compliance.
(2) [Reserved]
(f) Beginning with the initial compliance period, analysis of the contaminants listed in § 141.61(a) (1) through (21) for the purpose of determining compliance with the maximum contaminant level shall be conducted as follows:
(1) Groundwater systems shall take a minimum of one sample at every entry point to the distribution system which is representative of each well after treatment (hereafter called a sampling point). Each sample must be taken at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source, treatment plant, or within the distribution system.
(2) Surface water systems (or combined surface/ground) shall take a minimum of one sample at points in the distribution system that are representative of each source or at each entry point to the distribution system after treatment (hereafter called a sampling point). Each sample must be taken at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source, treatment plant, or within the distribution system.
(3) If the system draws water from more than one source and the sources are combined before distribution, the system must sample at an entry point to the distribution system during periods of normal operating conditions
(
i.e.
, when water representative of all sources is being used).
(4) Each community and non-transient non-community water system shall take four consecutive quarterly samples for each contaminant listed in § 141.61(a) (2) through (21) during each compliance period, beginning in the initial compliance period.
(5) If the initial monitoring for contaminants listed in § 141.61(a) (1) through (8) and the monitoring for the contaminants listed in § 141.61(a) (9) through (21) as allowed in paragraph (f)(18) has been completed by December 31, 1992, and the system did not detect any contaminant listed in § 141.61(a) (1) through (21), then each ground and surface water system shall take one sample annually beginning with the initial compliance period.
(6) After a minimum of three years of annual sampling, the State may allow groundwater systems with no previous detection of any contaiminant listed in § 141.61(a) to take one sample during each compliance period.
(7) Each community and non-transient non-community ground water system which does not detect a contaminant listed in § 141.61(a) (1) through (21) may apply to the State for a waiver from the requirements of paragraphs (f)(5) and (f)(6) of this section after completing the initial monitoring. (For purposes of this section, detection is defined as ≥0.0005 mg/l.) A waiver shall be effective for no more than six years (two compliance periods). States may also issue waivers to small systems for the initial round of monitoring for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.
(8) A State may grant a waiver after evaluating the following factor(s):
(i) Knowledge of previous use (including transport, storage, or disposal) of the contaminant within the watershed or zone of influence of the system. If a determination by the State reveals no previous use of the contaminant within the watershed or zone of influence, a waiver may be granted.
(ii) If previous use of the contaminant is unknown or it has been used previously, then the following factors shall be used to determine whether a waiver is granted.
(A) Previous analytical results.
(B) The proximity of the system to a potential point or non-point source of contamination. Point sources include spills and leaks of chemicals at or near a water treatment facility or at manufacturing, distribution, or storage facilities, or from hazardous and municipal waste landfills and other waste handling or treatment facilities.
(C) The environmental persistence and transport of the contaminants.
(D) The number of persons served by the public water system and the proximity of a smaller system to a larger system.
(E) How well the water source is protected against contamination, such as whether it is a surface or groundwater system. Groundwater systems must consider factors such as depth of the well, the type of soil, and wellhead protection. Surface water systems must consider watershed protection.
(9) As a condition of the waiver a groundwater system must take one sample at each sampling point during the time the waiver is effective (
i.e.
, one sample during two compliance periods or six years) and update its vulnerability assessment considering the factors listed in paragraph (f)(8) of this section. Based on this vulnerability assessment the State must reconfirm that the system is non-vulnerable. If the State does not make this reconfirmation within three years of the initial determination, then the waiver is invalidated and the system is required to sample annually as specified in paragraph (5) of this section.
(10) Each community and non-transient non-community surface water system which does not detect a contaminant listed in § 141.61(a) (1) through (21) may apply to the State for a waiver from the requirements of (f)(5) of this section after completing the initial monitoring. Composite samples from a maximum of five sampling points are allowed, provided that the detection limit of the method used for analysis is less than one-fifth of the MCL. Systems meeting this criterion must be determined by the State to be non-vulnerable based on a vulnerability assessment during each compliance period. Each system receiving a waiver shall sample at the frequency specified by the State (if any).
(11) If a contaminant listed in § 141.61(a) (2) through (21) is detected at a level exceeding 0.0005 mg/l in any sample, then:
(i) The system must monitor quarterly at each sampling point which resulted in a detection.
(ii) The State may decrease the quarterly monitoring requirement speci fied in paragraph (f)(11)(i) of this section provided it has determined that the system is reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level. In no case shall the State make this determination unless a groundwater system takes a minimum of two quarterly samples and a surface water system takes a minimum of four quarterly samples.
(iii) If the State determines that the system is reliably and consistently below the MCL, the State may allow the system to monitor annually. Systems which monitor annually must monitor during the quarter(s) which previously yielded the highest analytical result.
(iv) Systems which have three consecutive annual samples with no detection of a contaminant may apply to the State for a waiver as specified in paragraph (f)(7) of this section.
(v) Groundwater systems which have detected one or more of the following two-carbon organic compounds: trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, cis-1,2-dichloroethylene, trans-1,2-dichloroethylene, or 1,1-dichloroethylene shall monitor quarterly for vinyl chloride. A vinyl chloride sample shall be taken at each sampling point at which one or more of the two-carbon organic compounds was detected. If the results of the first analysis do not detect vinyl chloride, the State may reduce the quarterly monitoring frequency of vinyl chloride monitoring to one sample during each compliance period. Surface water systems are required to monitor for vinyl chloride as specified by the State.
(12) Systems which violate the requirements of § 141.61(a) (1) through (21), as determined by paragraph (f)(15) of this section, must monitor quarterly. After a minimum of four consecutive quarterly samples which show the system is in compliance as specified in paragraph (f)(15) of this section the system and the State determines that the system is reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level, the system may monitor at the frequency and times specified in paragraph (f)(11)(iii) of this section.
(13) The State may require a confirmation sample for positive or negative results. If a confirmation sample is required by the State, the result must be averaged with the first sampling result and the average is used for the compliance determination as specified by paragraph (f)(15). States have discretion to delete results of obvious sampling errors from this calculation.
(14) The State may reduce the total number of samples a system must analyze by allowing the use of compositing. Composite samples from a maximum of five sampling points are allowed, provided that the detection limit of the method used for analysis is less than one-fifth of the MCL. Compositing of samples must be done in the laboratory and analyzed within 14 days of sample collection.
(i) If the concentration in the composite sample is greater than or equal to 0.0005 mg/l for any contaminant listed in § 141.61(a), then a follow-up sample must be taken within 14 days at each sampling point included in the composite, and be analyzed for that contaminant.
(ii) If duplicates of the original sample taken from each sampling point used in the composite sample are available, the system may use these instead of resampling. The duplicates must be analyzed and the results reported to the State within 14 days after completing analysis of the composite sample, provided the holding time of the sample is not exceeded.
(iii) If the population served by the system is
3,300 persons, then compositing may only be permitted by the State at sampling points within a single system. In systems serving ≤3,300 persons, the State may permit compositing among different systems provided the 5-sample limit is maintained.
(iv) Compositing samples prior to GC analysis.
(A) Add 5 ml or equal larger amounts of each sample (up to 5 samples are allowed) to a 25 ml glass syringe. Special precautions must be made to maintain zero headspace in the syringe.
(B) The samples must be cooled at 4 °C during this step to minimize volatilization losses.
(C) Mix well and draw out a 5-ml aliquot for analysis.
(D) Follow sample introduction, purging, and desorption steps described in the method.
(E) If less than five samples are used for compositing, a proportionately small syringe may be used.
(v) Compositing samples prior to GC/MS analysis.
(A) Inject 5-ml or equal larger amounts of each aqueous sample (up to 5 samples are allowed) into a 25-ml purging device using the sample introduction technique described in the method.
(B) The total volume of the sample in the purging device must be 25 ml.
(C) Purge and desorb as described in the method.
(15) Compliance with § 141.61(a) (1) through (21) shall be determined based on the analytical results obtained at each sampling point. If one sampling point is in violation of an MCL, the system is in violation of the MCL.
(i) For systems monitoring more than once per year, compliance with the MCL is determined by a running annual average at each sampling point.
(ii) Systems monitoring annually or less frequently whose sample result exceeds the MCL must begin quarterly sampling. The system will not be considered in violation of the MCL until it has completed one year of quarterly sampling.
(iii) If any sample result will cause the running annual average to exceed the MCL at any sampling point, the system is out of compliance with the MCL immediately.
(iv) If a system fails to collect the required number of samples, compliance will be based on the total number of samples collected.
(v) If a sample result is less than the detection limit, zero will be used to calculate the annual average.
(16) [Reserved]
(17) Analysis under this section shall only be conducted by laboratories that are certified by EPA or the State according to the following conditions (laboratories may conduct sample analysis under provisional certification until January 1, 1996):
(i) To receive certification to conduct analyses for the contaminants in § 141.61(a) (2) through (21) the laboratory must:
(A) Analyze Performance Evaluation (PE) samples provided by EPA, the State, or by a third party (with the approval of the State or EPA) at least once a year by each method for which the laboratory desires certification.
(B) Achieve the quantitative acceptance limits under paragraphs (f)(17)(i)(C) and (D) of this section for at least 80 percent of the regulated organic contaminants included in the PE sample.
(C) Achieve quantitative results on the analyses performed under paragraph (f)(17)(i)(A) of this section that are within ±20% of the actual amount of the substances in the Performance Evaluation sample when the actual amount is greater than or equal to 0.010 mg/l.
(D) Achieve quantitative results on the analyses performed under paragraph (f)(17)(i)(A) of this section that are within ±40 percent of the actual amount of the substances in the Performance Evaluation sample when the actual amount is less than 0.010 mg/l.
(E) Achieve a method detection limit of 0.0005 mg/l, according to the procedures in appendix B of part 136.
(ii) To receive certification to conduct analyses for vinyl chloride, the laboratory must:
(A) Analyze Performance Evaluation (PE) samples provided by EPA, the State, or by a third party (with the approval of the State or EPA) at least once a year by each method for which the laboratory desires certification.
(B) Achieve quantitative results on the analyses performed under paragraph (f)(17)(ii)(A) of this section that are within ±40 percent of the actual amount of vinyl chloride in the Performance Evaluation sample.
(C) Achieve a method detection limit of 0.0005 mg/l, according to the procedures in appendix B of part 136.
(D) Obtain certification for the contaminants listed in § 141.61(a)(2) through (21).
(18) States may allow the use of monitoring data collected after January 1, 1988, required under section 1445 of the Act for purposes of initial monitoring compliance. If the data are generally consistent with the other requirements of this section, the State may use these data (
i.e.
, a single sample rather than four quarterly samples) to satisfy the initial monitoring requirement of paragraph (f)(4) of this section. Systems which use grandfathered samples and did not detect any contaminant listed § 141.61(a)(2) through (21) shall begin monitoring annually in accordance with paragraph (f)(5) of this section beginning with the initial compliance period.
(19) States may increase required monitoring where necessary to detect variations within the system.
(20) Each certified laboratory must determine the method detection limit (MDL), as defined in appendix B to part 136, at which it is capable of detecting VOCs. The acceptable MDL is 0.0005 mg/l. This concentration is the detection concentration for purposes of this section.
(21) Each public water system shall monitor at the time designated by the State within each compliance period.
(22) All new systems or systems that use a new source of water that begin operation after January 22, 2004 must demonstrate compliance with the MCL within a period of time specified by the State. The system must also comply with the initial sampling frequencies specified by the State to ensure a system can demonstrate compliance with the MCL. Routine and increased monitoring frequencies shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements in this section.
(g) [Reserved]
(h) Analysis of the contaminants listed in § 141.61(c) for the purposes of determining compliance with the maximum contaminant level shall be conducted as follows, with the exceptions that this paragraph (h) does not apply to regulated PFAS (see § 141.902) and no monitoring is required for aldicarb, aldicarb sulfoxide, or aldicarb sulfone:
(1) Groundwater systems shall take a minimum of one sample at every entry point to the distribution system which is representative of each well after treatment (hereafter called a sampling point). Each sample must be taken at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source or treatment plant.
(2) Surface water systems shall take a minimum of one sample at points in the distribution system that are representative of each source or at each entry point to the distribution system after treatment (hereafter called a sampling point). Each sample must be taken at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source or treatment plant.

# Note:
For purposes of this paragraph, surface water systems include systems with a combination of surface and ground sources.
(3) If the system draws water from more than one source and the sources are combined before distribution, the system must sample at an entry point to the distribution system during periods of normal operating conditions (
i.e.
, when water representative of all sources is being used).
(4)
Monitoring frequency:
(i) Each community and non-transient non-community water system shall take four consecutive quarterly samples for each contaminant listed in § 141.61(c) during each compliance period beginning with the initial compliance period.
(ii) Systems serving more than 3,300 persons which do not detect a contaminant in the initial compliance period may reduce the sampling frequency to a minimum of two quarterly samples in one year during each repeat compliance period.
(iii) Systems serving less than or equal to 3,300 persons which do not detect a contaminant in the initial compliance period may reduce the sampling frequency to a minimum of one sample during each repeat compliance period.
(5) Each community and non-transient water system may apply to the
State for a waiver from the requirement of paragraph (h)(4) of this section. A system must reapply for a waiver for each compliance period.
(6) A State may grant a waiver after evaluating the following factor(s): Knowledge of previous use (including transport, storage, or disposal) of the contaminant within the watershed or zone of influence of the system. If a determination by the State reveals no previous use of the contaminant within the watershed or zone of influence, a waiver may be granted. If previous use of the contaminant is unknown or it has been used previously, then the following factors shall be used to determine whether a waiver is granted.
(i) Previous analytical results.
(ii) The proximity of the system to a potential point or non-point source of contamination. Point sources include spills and leaks of chemicals at or near a water treatment facility or at manufacturing, distribution, or storage facilities, or from hazardous and municipal waste landfills and other waste handling or treatment facilities. Non-point sources include the use of pesticides to control insect and weed pests on agricultural areas, forest lands, home and gardens, and other land application uses.
(iii) The environmental persistence and transport of the pesticide or PCBs.
(iv) How well the water source is protected against contamination due to such factors as depth of the well and the type of soil and the integrity of the well casing.
(v) Elevated nitrate levels at the water supply source.
(vi) Use of PCBs in equipment used in the production, storage, or distribution of water (
i.e.
, PCBs used in pumps, transformers, etc.).
(7) If an organic contaminant listed in § 141.61(c) is detected (as defined by paragraph (h)(18) of this section) in any sample, then:
(i) Each system must monitor quarterly at each sampling point which resulted in a detection.
(ii) The State may decrease the quarterly monitoring requirement specified in paragraph (h)(7)(i) of this section provided it has determined that the system is reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level. In no case shall the State make this determination unless a groundwater system takes a minimum of two quarterly samples and a surface water system takes a minimum of four quarterly samples.
(iii) After the State determines the system is reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level the State may allow the system to monitor annually. Systems which monitor annually must monitor during the quarter that previously yielded the highest analytical result.
(iv) Systems which have 3 consecutive annual samples with no detection of a contaminant may apply to the State for a waiver as specified in paragraph (h)(6) of this section.
(v) If the monitoring results in detection of one or more of certain related contaminants (heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide), then subsequent monitoring shall analyze for all related contaminants.
(8) Systems which violate the requirements of § 141.61(c) as determined by paragraph (h)(11) of this section must monitor quarterly. After a minimum of four quarterly samples show the system is in compliance and the State determines the system is reliably and consistently below the MCL, as specified in paragraph (h)(11) of this section, the system shall monitor at the frequency specified in paragraph (h)(7)(iii) of this section.
(9) The State may require a confirmation sample for positive or negative results. If a confirmation sample is required by the State, the result must be averaged with the first sampling result and the average used for the compliance determination as specified by paragraph (h)(11) of this section. States have discretion to delete results of obvious sampling errors from this calculation.
(10) The State may reduce the total number of samples a system must analyze by allowing the use of compositing. Composite samples from a maximum of five sampling points are allowed, provided that the detection limit of the method used for analysis is less than one-fifth of the MCL. Compositing of samples must be done in the laboratory and analyzed within 14 days of sample collection.
(i) If the concentration in the composite sample detects one or more contaminants listed in § 141.61(c), then a follow-up sample must be taken within 14 days at each sampling point included in the composite, and be analyzed for that contaminant.
(ii) If duplicates of the original sample taken from each sampling point used in the composite sample are available, the system may use these instead of resampling. The duplicates must be analyzed and the results reported to the State within 14 days after completion of the composite analysis or before the holding time for the initial sample is exceeded whichever is sooner.
(iii) If the population served by the system is
3,300 persons, then compositing may only be permitted by the State at sampling points within a single system. In systems serving ≤3,300 persons, the State may permit compositing among different systems provided the 5-sample limit is maintained.
(11) Compliance with § 141.61(c) shall be determined based on the analytical results obtained at each sampling point. If one sampling point is in violation of an MCL, the system is in violation of the MCL.
(i) For systems monitoring more than once per year, compliance with the MCL is determined by a running annual average at each sampling point.
(ii) Systems monitoring annually or less frequently whose sample result exceeds the regulatory detection level as defined by paragraph (h)(18) of this section must begin quarterly sampling. The system will not be considered in violation of the MCL until it has completed one year of quarterly sampling.
(iii) If any sample result will cause the running annual average to exceed the MCL at any sampling point, the system is out of compliance with the MCL immediately.
(iv) If a system fails to collect the required number of samples, compliance will be based on the total number of samples collected.
(v) If a sample result is less than the detection limit, zero will be used to calculate the annual average.
(12) [Reserved]
(13) Analysis for PCBs shall be conducted as follows using the methods in paragraph (e) of this section:
(i) Each system which monitors for PCBs shall analyze each sample using either Method 508.1, 525.2, 508 or 505. Users of Method 505 may have more difficulty in achieving the required Aroclor detection limits than users of Methods 508.1, 525.2 or 508.
(ii) If PCBs (as one of seven Aroclors) are detected (as designated in this paragraph) in any sample analyzed using Method 505 or 508, the system shall reanalyze the sample using Method 508A to quantitate PCBs (as decachlorobiphenyl).
Aroclor
Detection limit (mg/l)
1016
0.00008
1221
0.02
1232
0.0005
1242
0.0003
1248
0.0001
1254
0.0001
1260
0.0002
(iii) Compliance with the PCB MCL shall be determined based upon the quantitative results of analyses using Method 508A.
(14) If monitoring data collected after January 1, 1990, are generally consistent with the requirements of § 141.24(h), then the State may allow systems to use that data to satisfy the monitoring requirement for the initial compliance period beginning January 1, 1993.
(15) The State may increase the required monitoring frequency, where necessary, to detect variations within the system (e.g., fluctuations in concentration due to seasonal use, changes in water source).
(16) The State has the authority to determine compliance or initiate enforcement action based upon analytical results and other information compiled by their sanctioned representatives and agencies.
(17) Each public water system shall monitor at the time designated by the State within each compliance period.
(18) Detection as used in this paragraph shall be defined as greater than or equal to the following concentrations for each contaminant.
Contaminant
Detection limit (mg/l)
Alachlor
.0002
Aldicarb
.0005
Aldicarb sulfoxide
.0005
Aldicarb sulfone
.0008
Atrazine
.0001
Benzo[a]pyrene
.00002
Carbofuran
.0009
Chlordane
.0002
Dalapon
.001
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane (DBCP)
.00002
Di (2-ethylhexyl) adipate
.0006
Di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
.0006
Dinoseb
.0002
Diquat
.0004
2,4-D
.0001
Endothall
.009
Endrin
.00001
Ethylene dibromide (EDB)
.00001
Glyphosate
.006
Heptachlor
.00004
Heptachlor epoxide
.00002
Hexachlorobenzene
.0001
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
.0001
Lindane
.00002
Methoxychlor
.0001
Oxamyl
.002
Picloram
.0001
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) (as decachlorobiphenyl)
.0001
Pentachlorophenol
.00004
Simazine
.00007
Toxaphene
.001
2,3,7,8-TCDD (Dioxin)
.000000005
2,4,5-TP (Silvex)
.0002
(19) Anaylsis under this section shall only be conducted by laboratories that have received certification by EPA or the State and have met the following conditions:
(i) To receive certification to conduct analyses for the contaminants in § 141.61(c) the laboratory must:
(A) Analyze Performance Evaluation (PE) samples provided by EPA, the State, or by a third party (with the approval of the State or EPA) at least once a year by each method for which the laboratory desires certification.
(B) For each contaminant that has been included in the PE sample achieve quantitative results on the analyses that are within the following acceptance limits:
Contaminant
Acceptance limits (percent)
DBCP
±40
EDB
±40.
Alachlor
±45.
Atrazine
±45.
Benzo[a]pyrene
2 standard deviations.
Carbofuran
±45.
Chlordane
±45.
Dalapon
2 standard deviations.
Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate
2 standard deviations.
Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
2 standard deviations.
Dinoseb
2 standard deviations.
Diquat
2 standard deviations.
Endothall
2 standard deviations.
Endrin
±30.
Glyphosate
2 standard deviations.
Heptachlor
±45.
Heptachlor epoxide
±45.
Hexachlorobenzene
2 standard deviations.
Hexachloro- cyclopentadiene
2 standard deviations.
Lindane
±45.
Methoxychlor
±45.
Oxamyl
2 standard deviations.
PCBs (as Decachlorobiphenyl)
0-200.
Picloram
2 standard deviations.
Simazine
2 standard deviations.
Toxaphene
±45.
Aldicarb
2 standard deviations.
Aldicarb sulfoxide
2 standard deviations.
Aldicarb sulfone
2 standard deviations.
Pentachlorophenol
±50.
2,3,7,8-TCDD (Dioxin)
2 standard deviations.
2,4-D
±50.
2,4,5-TP (Silvex)
±50.
(ii) [Reserved]
(20) All new systems or systems that use a new source of water that begin operation after January 22, 2004 must demonstrate compliance with the MCL within a period of time specified by the State. The system must also comply with the initial sampling frequencies specified by the State to ensure a system can demonstrate compliance with the MCL. Routine and increased monitoring frequencies shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements in this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2040-0090)
[40 FR 59570, Dec. 24, 1975]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 141.24, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 141.25
Analytical methods for radioactivity.
(a) Analysis for the following contaminants shall be conducted to determine compliance with § 141.66 (radioactivity) in accordance with the methods in the following table, or the alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C this part, or their equivalent determined by EPA in accordance with § 141.27.
Contaminant
Methodology
Reference (Method of Page Number)
EPA
1
EPA
2
EPA
3
EPA
4
SM
5
ASTM
6
USGS
7
DOE
8
Other
Naturally Occurring:
Gross alpha
11
and beta
Evaporation
900.0
p. 1
00-01
p. 1
302, 7110 B, 7110 B-00
R-1120-76
Gross alpha
11
Coprecipitation
00-02
7110 C, 7110 C-00
Radium 226
Radon emanation
903.1
p. 16
Ra-04
p. 19
305, 7500-Ra C, 7500-Ra C-01
D3454-97
R-1141-76
Ra-04
NY
9
,
Radiochemical
903.0
p. 13
Ra-03
304, 7500-Ra B, 7500-Ra B-01
D2460-97
R-1140-76
GA
14
Radium 228
Radiochemical
904.0
p. 24
Ra-05
p. 19
7500-Ra D, 7500-Ra D-01
R-1142-76
NY
9
,
NJ
10
,
GA
14
Uranium
12
Radiochemical
908.0
7500-U B, 7500-U B-00
Fluorometric
908.1
7500-U C (17th Ed.)
D2907-97
R-1180-76, R-1181-76
U-04
ICP-MS
200.8
13
3125
D5673-03
Alpha Spectrometry
00-07
p. 33
7500-U C (18th, 19th, or 20th Ed.), 7500-U C-00
D3972-97, 02
R-1182-76
U-02
Laser Phosphorimetry
D5174-97, 02
Man-Made:
Radioactive Cesium
Radiochemical
901.0
p. 4
7500-Cs B, 7500-Cs B-00
D2459-72
R-1111-76
Gamma Ray Spectrometry
901.1
p. 92
7120, 7120-97
D3649-91, 98a
R-1110-76
4.5.2.3
Radioactive Iodine
Radiochemical
902.0
p. 6
7500-I B, 7500-I B-00
p. 9
7500-I C, 7500-I C-00
7500-I D, 7500-I D-00
D3649-91, 98a
Gamma Ray Spectrometry
901.1
p. 92
7120, 7120-97
D4785-93, 00a
4.5.2.3
Radioactive Strontium 89, 90
Radiochemical
905.0
p. 29
Sr-04
p. 65
303, 7500-Sr B, 7500-Sr B-01
R-1160-76
Sr-01, Sr-02
Tritium
Liquid Scintillation
906.0
p. 34
H-02
p. 87
306, 7500-
3
H B, 7500-
3
H B-00
D4107-91, 98 (Reapproved 2002)
R-1171-76
Gamma Emitters
Gamma Ray Spectrometry
901.1
p. 92
7120, 7120-97
D3649-91, 98a
R-1110-76
Ga-01-R
902.0
7500-Cs B, 7500-Cs B-00
D4785-93, 00a
901.0
7500-I B, 7500-I B-00
The procedures shall be done in accordance with the documents listed below. The incorporation by reference of documents 1 through 10 and 13 through 14 was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the documents may be obtained from the sources listed below. Information regarding obtaining these documents can be obtained from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 800-426-4791. Documents may be inspected at EPA's Drinking Water Docket, EPA West, 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room 3334 , Washington, DC 20460 (Telephone: 202-566-2426); or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
1
“Prescribed Procedures for the Measurement of Radioactivity in Drinking Water,” EPA 600/4-80-032, August 1980. Available at the U.S. Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS), 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161 (Telephone 800-553-6847), PB 80-224744.
2
“Interim Radiochemical Methodology for Drinking Water,” EPA 600/4-75-008 (revised), March 1976. Available NTIS, ibid.
3
“Radiochemistry Procedures Manual,” EPA 520/5-84-006, December 1987. Available NTIS, ibid.
4
“Radiochemical Analytical Procedures for Analysis of Environmental Samples,” March 1979. Available at NTIS, ibid. EMSL LV 053917.
5
“Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,” 13th, 17th, 18th, 19th or 20th edition, 1971, 1989, 1992, 1995, 1998. Available at American Public Health Association, 1015 Fifteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005. Methods 302, 303, 304, 305 and 306 are only in the 13th edition. Methods 7110B, 7500-Ra B, 7500-Ra C, 7500-Ra D, 7500-U B, 7500-Cs B, 7500-I B, 7500-I C, 7500-I D, 7500-Sr B, and 7500-
3
H B are in the 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th editions. Method 7110 C is in the 18th, 19th and 20th editions. Method 7500-U C Fluorometric Uranium is only in the 17th Edition, and 7500-U C Alpha spectrometry is only in the 18th, 19th and 20th editions. Method 7120 is only in the 19th and 20th editions. Method 3125 is only in the 20th edition. Methods 7110 B-00, 7110 C-00, 7500-Ra B-01, 7500-Ra C-01, 7500-Ra D-01, 7500-U B-00, 7500-U C-00, 7500-I B-00, 7500-I C-00, 7500-I D-00, 7120-97, 7500-Sr B-01, and 7500-
3
H B-00 are available online at
http://www.standardmethods.org.
The year in which each method was approved by the Standard Methods Committee is designated by the last two digits in the method number. The methods listed are the only online versions that may be used.
6
Annual Book of ASTM Standards,
Vol. 11.01 and 11.02, 2002; ASTM International; any year containing the cited version of the method may be used. Copies of these two volumes and the 2003 version of D 5673-03 may be obtained from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959.
7
“Methods for Determination of Radioactive Substances in Water and Fluvial Sediments,” Chapter A5 in Book 5 of
Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations of the United States Geological Survey,
1977. Available at U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Information Services, Box 25286, Federal Center, Denver, CO 80225-0425.
8
“EML Procedures Manual,” 28th (1997) or 27th (1990) Editions, Volumes 1 and 2; either edition may be used. In the 27th Edition Method Ra-04 is listed as Ra-05 and Method Ga-01-R is listed as Sect. 4.5.2.3. Available at the Environmental Measurements Laboratory, U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), 376 Hudson Street, New York, NY 10014-3621.
9
“Determination of Ra-226 and Ra-228 (Ra-02),” January 1980, Revised June 1982. Available at Radiological Sciences Institute for Laboratories and Research, New York State Department of Health, Empire State Plaza, Albany, NY 12201.
10
“Determination of Radium 228 in Drinking Water,” August 1980. Available at State of New Jersey, Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Environmental Quality, Bureau of Radiation and Inorganic Analytical Services, 9 Ewing Street, Trenton, NJ 08625.
11
Natural uranium and thorium-230 are approved as gross alpha calibration standards for gross alpha with co-precipitation and evaporation methods; americium-241 is approved with co-precipitation methods.
12
If uranium (U) is determined by mass, a 0.67 pCi/μg of uranium conversion factor must be used. This conversion factor is based on the 1:1 activity ratio of U-234 and U-238 that is characteristic of naturally occurring uranium.
13
“Determination of Trace Elements in Waters and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry,” Revision 5.4, which is published in “Methods for the Determination of Metals in Environmental Samples—Supplement I,” ' EPA 600-R-94-111, May 1994. Available at NTIS, PB 95-125472.
14
“The Determination of Radium-226 and Radium-228 in Drinking Water by Gamma-ray Spectrometry Using HPGE or Ge(Li) Detectors,” Revision 1.2, December 2004. Available from the Environmental Resources Center, Georgia Institute of Technology, 620 Cherry Street, Atlanta, GA 30332-0335, USA, Telephone: 404-894-3776. This method may be used to analyze for radium-226 and radium-228 in samples collected after January 1, 2005 to satisfy the radium-226 and radium-228 monitoring requirements specified at 40 CFR 141.26.
(b) When the identification and measurement of radionuclides other than those listed in paragraph (a) of this section is required, the following references are to be used, except in cases where alternative methods have been approved in accordance with § 141.27.
(1)
Procedures for Radiochemical Analysis of Nuclear Reactor Aqueous Solutions,
H. L. Krieger and S. Gold, EPA-R4-73-014. USEPA, Cincinnati, Ohio, May 1973.
(2)
HASL Procedure Manual,
Edited by John H. Harley. HASL 300, ERDA Health and Safety Laboratory, New York, NY., 1973.
(c) For the purpose of monitoring radioactivity concentrations in drinking water, the required sensitivity of the radioanalysis is defined in terms of a detection limit. The detection limit shall be that concentration which can be counted with a precision of plus or minus 100 percent at the 95 percent confidence level (1.96σ where σ is the standard deviation of the net counting rate of the sample).
(1) To determine compliance with § 141.66(b), (c), and (e) the detection limit shall not exceed the concentrations in Table B to this paragraph.
Table B—Detection Limits for Gross Alpha Particle Activity, Radium 226, Radium 228, and Uranium
Contaminant
Detection
limit
Gross alpha particle activity
3 pCi/L.
Radium 226
1 pCi/L.
Radium 228
1 pCi/L.
Uranium
1 µg/L
(2) To determine compliance with § 141.66(d) the detection limits shall not exceed the concentrations listed in Table C to this paragraph.
Table C—Detection Limits for Man-made Beta Particle and Photon Emitters
Radionuclide
Detection limit
Tritium
1,000 pCi/1.
Strontium-89
10 pCi/1.
Strontium-90
2 pCi/1.
Iodine-131
1 pCi/1.
Cesium-134
10 pCi/1.
Gross beta
4 pCi/1.
Other radionuclides
1/10
of the applicable limit.
(d) To judge compliance with the maximum contaminant levels listed in § 141.66, averages of data shall be used and shall be rounded to the same number of significant figures as the maximum contaminant level for the substance in question.
(e) The State has the authority to determine compliance or initiate enforcement action based upon analytical results or other information compiled by their sanctioned representatives and agencies.
[41 FR 28404, July 9, 1976, as amended at 45 FR 57345, Aug. 27, 1980; 62 FR 10173, Mar. 5, 1997; 65 FR 76745, Dec. 7, 2000; 67 FR 65250, Oct. 23, 2002; 69 FR 38855, June 29, 2004; 69 FR 52180, Aug. 25, 2004; 72 FR 11245, Mar. 12, 2007; 74 FR 30958, June 29, 2009]
§ 141.26
Monitoring frequency and compliance requirements for radionuclides in community water systems.
(a)
Monitoring and compliance requirements for gross alpha particle activity, radium-226, radium-228, and uranium.
(1) Community water systems (CWSs) must conduct initial monitoring to determine compliance with § 141.66(b), (c), and (e) by December 31, 2007. For the purposes of monitoring for gross alpha particle activity, radium-226, radium-228, uranium, and beta particle and photon radioactivity in drinking water, “detection limit” is defined as in § 141.25(c).
(i)
Applicability and sampling location for existing community water systems or sources.
All existing CWSs using ground water, surface water or systems using both ground and surface water (for the purpose of this section hereafter referred to as systems) must sample at every entry point to the distribution system that is representative of all sources being used (hereafter called a sampling point) under normal operating conditions. The system must take each sample at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source or the State has designated a distribution system location, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section.
(ii)
Applicability and sampling location for new community water systems or sources.
All new CWSs or CWSs that use a new source of water must begin to conduct initial monitoring for the new source within the first quarter after
initiating use of the source. CWSs must conduct more frequent monitoring when ordered by the State in the event of possible contamination or when changes in the distribution system or treatment processes occur which may increase the concentration of radioactivity in finished water.
(2)
Initial monitoring:
Systems must conduct initial monitoring for gross alpha particle activity, radium-226, radium-228, and uranium as follows:
(i) Systems without acceptable historical data, as defined below, must collect four consecutive quarterly samples at all sampling points before December 31, 2007.
(ii)
Grandfathering of data:
States may allow historical monitoring data collected at a sampling point to satisfy the initial monitoring requirements for that sampling point, for the following situations.
(A) To satisfy initial monitoring requirements, a community water system having only one entry point to the distribution system may use the monitoring data from the last compliance monitoring period that began between June 2000 and December 8, 2003.
(B) To satisfy initial monitoring requirements, a community water system with multiple entry points and having appropriate historical monitoring data for each entry point to the distribution system may use the monitoring data from the last compliance monitoring period that began between June 2000 and December 8, 2003.
(C) To satisfy initial monitoring requirements, a community water system with appropriate historical data for a representative point in the distribution system may use the monitoring data from the last compliance monitoring period that began between June 2000 and December 8, 2003, provided that the State finds that the historical data satisfactorily demonstrate that each entry point to the distribution system is expected to be in compliance based upon the historical data and reasonable assumptions about the variability of contaminant levels between entry points. The State must make a written finding indicating how the data conforms to the these requirements.
(iii) For gross alpha particle activity, uranium, radium-226, and radium-228 monitoring, the State may waive the final two quarters of initial monitoring for a sampling point if the results of the samples from the previous two quarters are below the detection limit.
(iv) If the average of the initial monitoring results for a sampling point is above the MCL, the system must collect and analyze quarterly samples at that sampling point until the system has results from four consecutive quarters that are at or below the MCL, unless the system enters into another schedule as part of a formal compliance agreement with the State.
(3)
Reduced monitoring:
States may allow community water systems to reduce the future frequency of monitoring from once every three years to once every six or nine years at each sampling point, based on the following criteria.
(i) If the average of the initial monitoring results for each contaminant (
i.e.,
gross alpha particle activity, uranium, radium-226, or radium-228) is below the detection limit specified in Table B, in § 141.25(c)(1), the system must collect and analyze for that contaminant using at least one sample at that sampling point every nine years.
(ii) For gross alpha particle activity and uranium, if the average of the initial monitoring results for each contaminant is at or above the detection limit but at or below
1/2
the MCL, the system must collect and analyze for that contaminant using at least one sample at that sampling point every six years. For combined radium-226 and radium-228, the analytical results must be combined. If the average of the combined initial monitoring results for radium-226 and radium-228 is at or above the detection limit but at or below
1/2
the MCL, the system must collect and analyze for that contaminant using at least one sample at that sampling point every six years.
(iii) For gross alpha particle activity and uranium, if the average of the initial monitoring results for each contaminant is above
1/2
the MCL but at or below the MCL, the system must collect and analyze at least one sample at that sampling point every three years. For combined radium-226 and radium-
228, the analytical results must be combined. If the average of the combined initial monitoring results for radium-226 and radium-228 is above
1/2
the MCL but at or below the MCL, the system must collect and analyze at least one sample at that sampling point every three years.
(iv) Systems must use the samples collected during the reduced monitoring period to determine the monitoring frequency for subsequent monitoring periods (e.g., if a system's sampling point is on a nine year monitoring period, and the sample result is above
1/2
MCL, then the next monitoring period for that sampling point is three years).
(v) If a system has a monitoring result that exceeds the MCL while on reduced monitoring, the system must collect and analyze quarterly samples at that sampling point until the system has results from four consecutive quarters that are below the MCL, unless the system enters into another schedule as part of a formal compliance agreement with the State.
(4)
Compositing:
To fulfill quarterly monitoring requirements for gross alpha particle activity, radium-226, radium-228, or uranium, a system may composite up to four consecutive quarterly samples from a single entry point if analysis is done within a year of the first sample. States will treat analytical results from the composited as the average analytical result to determine compliance with the MCLs and the future monitoring frequency. If the analytical result from the composited sample is greater than
1/2
MCL, the State may direct the system to take additional quarterly samples before allowing the system to sample under a reduced monitoring schedule.
(5) A gross alpha particle activity measurement may be substituted for the required radium-226 measurement provided that the measured gross alpha particle activity does not exceed 5 pCi/l. A gross alpha particle activity measurement may be substituted for the required uranium measurement provided that the measured gross alpha particle activity does not exceed 15 pCi/l. The gross alpha measurement shall have a confidence interval of 95% (1.65σ, where σ is the standard deviation of the net counting rate of the sample) for radium-226 and uranium. When a system uses a gross alpha particle activity measurement in lieu of a radium-226 and/or uranium measurement, the gross alpha particle activity analytical result will be used to determine the future monitoring frequency for radium-226 and/or uranium. If the gross alpha particle activity result is less than detection,
1/2
the detection limit will be used to determine compliance and the future monitoring frequency.
(b)
Monitoring and compliance requirements for beta particle and photon radioactivity.
To determine compliance with the maximum contaminant levels in § 141.66(d) for beta particle and photon radioactivity, a system must monitor at a frequency as follows:
(1) Community water systems (both surface and ground water) designated by the State as vulnerable must sample for beta particle and photon radioactivity. Systems must collect quarterly samples for beta emitters and annual samples for tritium and strontium-90 at each entry point to the distribution system (hereafter called a sampling point), beginning within one quarter after being notified by the State. Systems already designated by the State must continue to sample until the State reviews and either reaffirms or removes the designation.
(i) If the gross beta particle activity minus the naturally occurring potassium-40 beta particle activity at a sampling point has a running annual average (computed quarterly) less than or equal to 50 pCi/L (screening level), the State may reduce the frequency of monitoring at that sampling point to once every 3 years. Systems must collect all samples required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section during the reduced monitoring period.
(ii) For systems in the vicinity of a nuclear facility, the State may allow the CWS to utilize environmental surveillance data collected by the nuclear facility in lieu of monitoring at the system's entry point(s), where the State determines if such data is applicable to a particular water system. In the event that there is a release from a nuclear facility, systems which are using surveillance data must begin monitoring at the community water
system's entry point(s) in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(2) Community water systems (both surface and ground water) designated by the State as utilizing waters contaminated by effluents from nuclear facilities must sample for beta particle and photon radioactivity. Systems must collect quarterly samples for beta emitters and iodine-131 and annual samples for tritium and strontium-90 at each entry point to the distribution system (hereafter called a sampling point), beginning within one quarter after being notified by the State. Systems already designated by the State as systems using waters contaminated by effluents from nuclear facilities must continue to sample until the State reviews and either reaffirms or removes the designation.
(i) Quarterly monitoring for gross beta particle activity shall be based on the analysis of monthly samples or the analysis of a composite of three monthly samples. The former is recommended.
(ii) For iodine-131, a composite of five consecutive daily samples shall be analyzed once each quarter. As ordered by the State, more frequent monitoring shall be conducted when iodine-131 is identified in the finished water.
(iii) Annual monitoring for strontium-90 and tritium shall be conducted by means of the analysis of a composite of four consecutive quarterly samples or analysis of four quarterly samples. The latter procedure is recommended.
(iv) If the gross beta particle activity minus the naturally occurring potassium-40 beta particle activity at a sampling point has a running annual average (computed quarterly) less than or equal to 15 pCi/L (screening level), the State may reduce the frequency of monitoring at that sampling point to every 3 years. Systems must collect the same type of samples required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section during the reduced monitoring period.
(v) For systems in the vicinity of a nuclear facility, the State may allow the CWS to utilize environmental surveillance data collected by the nuclear facility in lieu of monitoring at the system's entry point(s), where the State determines if such data is applicable to a particular water system. In the event that there is a release from a nuclear facility, systems which are using surveillance data must begin monitoring at the community water system's entry point(s) in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(3) Community water systems designated by the State to monitor for beta particle and photon radioactivity can not apply to the State for a waiver from the monitoring frequencies specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Community water systems may analyze for naturally occurring potassium-40 beta particle activity from the same or equivalent sample used for the gross beta particle activity analysis. Systems are allowed to subtract the potassium-40 beta particle activity value from the total gross beta particle activity value to determine if the screening level is exceeded. The potassium-40 beta particle activity must be calculated by multiplying elemental potassium concentrations (in mg/L) by a factor of 0.82.
(5) If the gross beta particle activity minus the naturally occurring potassium-40 beta particle activity exceeds the appropriate screening level, an analysis of the sample must be performed to identify the major radioactive constituents present in the sample and the appropriate doses must be calculated and summed to determine compliance with § 141.66(d)(1), using the formula in § 141.66(d)(2). Doses must also be calculated and combined for measured levels of tritium and strontium to determine compliance.
(6) Systems must monitor monthly at the sampling point(s) which exceed the maximum contaminant level in § 141.66(d) beginning the month after the exceedance occurs. Systems must continue monthly monitoring until the system has established, by a rolling average of 3 monthly samples, that the MCL is being met. Systems who establish that the MCL is being met must return to quarterly monitoring until they meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(2)(iv) of this section.
(c)
General monitoring and compliance requirements for radionuclides.
(1) The
State may require more frequent monitoring than specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or may require confirmation samples at its discretion. The results of the initial and confirmation samples will be averaged for use in compliance determinations.
(2) Each public water systems shall monitor at the time designated by the State during each compliance period.
(3)
Compliance:
Compliance with § 141.66 (b) through (e) will be determined based on the analytical result(s) obtained at each sampling point. If one sampling point is in violation of an MCL, the system is in violation of the MCL.
(i) For systems monitoring more than once per year, compliance with the MCL is determined by a running annual average at each sampling point. If the average of any sampling point is greater than the MCL, then the system is out of compliance with the MCL.
(ii) For systems monitoring more than once per year, if any sample result will cause the running average to exceed the MCL at any sample point, the system is out of compliance with the MCL immediately.
(iii) Systems must include all samples taken and analyzed under the provisions of this section in determining compliance, even if that number is greater than the minimum required.
(iv) If a system does not collect all required samples when compliance is based on a running annual average of quarterly samples, compliance will be based on the running average of the samples collected.
(v) If a sample result is less than the detection limit, zero will be used to calculate the annual average, unless a gross alpha particle activity is being used in lieu of radium-226 and/or uranium. If the gross alpha particle activity result is less than detection,
1/2
the detection limit will be used to calculate the annual average.
(4) States have the discretion to delete results of obvious sampling or analytic errors.
(5) If the MCL for radioactivity set forth in § 141.66 (b) through (e) is exceeded, the operator of a community water system must give notice to the State pursuant to § 141.31 and to the public as required by subpart Q of this part.
[65 FR 76745, Dec. 7, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 38855, June 29, 2004]
§ 141.27
Alternate analytical techniques.
(a) With the written permission of the State, concurred in by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA, an alternate analytical technique may be employed. An alternate technique shall be accepted only if it is substantially equivalent to the prescribed test in both precision and accuracy as it relates to the determination of compliance with any MCL. The use of the alternate analytical technique shall not decrease the frequency of monitoring required by this part.
[45 FR 57345, Aug. 27, 1980]
§ 141.28
Certified laboratories.
(a) For the purpose of determining compliance with §§ 141.21 through 141.27, 141.40, 141.74, 141.89, 141.402, 141.901, and 141.902, samples may be considered only if they have been analyzed by a laboratory certified by EPA or the State except that measurements of alkalinity, disinfectant residual, orthophosphate, pH, silica, temperature, and turbidity may be performed by any person acceptable to the State.
(b) Nothing in this part shall be construed to preclude the State or any duly designated representative of the State from taking samples or from using the results from such samples to determine compliance by a supplier of water with the applicable requirements of this part.
[45 FR 57345, Aug. 27, 1980; 47 FR 10999, Mar. 12, 1982, as amended at 59 FR 34323, July 1, 1994; 64 FR 67465, Dec. 1, 1999; 71 FR 65651, Nov. 8, 2006; 86 FR 4282, Jan. 15, 2021; 89 FR 32744, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 141.29
Monitoring of consecutive public water systems.
When a public water system supplies water to one or more other public water systems, the State may modify the monitoring requirements imposed by this part to the extent that the interconnection of the systems justifies treating them as a single system for monitoring purposes. Any modified
monitoring shall be conducted pursuant to a schedule specified by the State and concurred in by the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Pt. 141, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 141—Alternative Testing Methods Approved for Analyses Under the Safe Drinking Water Act
Only the editions stated in the following table are approved.
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.21(
f
)(3)
Organism
Methodology
SM 21st Edition
1
SM 22nd Edition
28
SM Online
3
Other
Total Coliforms
Total Coliform Fermentation Technique
9221 A, B
9221 A, B
9221 A,B-06
Total Coliform Membrane Filter Technique
9222 A, B, C
Presence-Absence (P-A) Coliform Test
9221 D
ONPG-MUG Test
9223
9223 B
9223 B-04
Colitag
TM
Modified Colitag
TM
13
Tecta EC/TC
33
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.21(
f
)(5)
Organism
Methodology
SM 22nd Edition
28
SM Online
3
Fecal Coliforms
Fecal Coliform Procedure
9221 E
9221 E-06
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.21(
f
)(6)
Organism
Methodology
SM 20th
Edition
6
SM 21st
Edition
1
SM 22nd
Edition
28
SM Online
3
Other
E.coli
ONPG-MUG Test
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-97, B-04
Colitag
TM
Modified Colitag
TM
13
Tecta EC/TC
33
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.23(
k
)(1)
Contaminant
Methodology
EPA method
SM 21st
edition
1
SM 22nd
edition
28
SM 23rd
edition,
49
SM
24th edition
66
SM online
3
ASTM
4
Other
Alkalinity
Titrimetric
2320 B
2320 B
2320 B
D1067-06 B, 11 B, 16 B
Antimony
Hydride—Atomic Absorption
D 3697-07, -12, -17
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Arsenic
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
D 2972-08 C, -15 C
Hydride Atomic Absorption
3114 B
3114 B
3114 B
3114 B-09
D 2972-08 B, -15 B
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Barium
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B
Atomic Absorption; Direct
3111 D
3111 D
3111 D
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Beryllium
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
D 3645-08 B, -15 B
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Cadmium
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Calcium
EDTA titrimetric
3500-Ca B
3500-Ca B
3500-Ca B
D 511-09, -14 A
Atomic Absorption; Direct Aspiration
3111 B
3111 B
3111 B
D 511-09, -14 B
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Ion Chromatography
D 6919-09, -17
Chromium
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Copper
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
D 1688-07, -12 C, 17 C
Atomic Absorption; Direct Aspiration
3111 B
3111 B
3111 B
D 1688-07, -12 A, 17 A
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Colorimetry
Hach Method 8026,
35
Hach Method 10272.
36
Conductivity
Conductance
2510 B
2510 B
2510 B
D 1125-14 A
Cyanide
Manual Distillation with MgCl
2
followed by:
4500-CN
−
C
4500-CN
−
C
4500-CN
−
C
4500-CN
−
C-99
D 2036-06 A
Spectrophotometric, Amenable
4500-CN
−
G
4500-CN
−
G
4500-CN
−
G
D 2036-06 B
Spectrophotometric Manual
4500-CN
−
E
4500-CN
−
E
4500-CN
−
E
D2036-06 A
Selective Electrode
4500-CN
−
F
4500-CN
−
F
4500-CN
−
F
Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry Headspace
ME355.01.
7
Fluoride
Ion Chromatography
4110 B
4110 B
4110 B
D 4327-11, -17
Manual Distillation; Colorimetric SPADNS
4500-F
−
B, D
4500-F
−
B, D
4500-F
−
B, D
Manual Electrode
4500-F
−
C
4500-F
−
C
4500-F
−
C
D 1179-04, 10 B, 16 B
Automated Alizarin
4500-F
−
E
4500-F
−
E
4500-F
−
E
Arsenite-Free Colorimetric SPADNS
Hach SPADNS 2 Method 10225,
22
Hach Method 10312.
67
Lead
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
D 3559-08 D, 15 D
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Differential Pulse Anodic Stripping Voltametry
Method 1001, Rev. 1.1.
57
Magnesium
Atomic Absorption
3111 B
3111 B
3111 B
D 511-09, -14 B
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B
Complexation Titrimetric Methods
3500-Mg B
3500-Mg B
3500-Mg B
D 511-09, -14 A
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Ion Chromatography
D 6919-09, -17
Mercury
Manual, Cold Vapor
3112 B
3112 B
3112 B
3112 B-09
D 3223-12, -17
Nickel
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B
Atomic Absorption; Direct
3111 B
3111 B
3111 B
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Nitrate
Ion Chromatography
4110 B
4110 B
4110 B
D 4327-11, -17
Automated Cadmium Reduction
4500-NO
3
−
F
4500-NO
3
−
F
4500-NO
3
−
F
Manual Cadmium Reduction
4500-NO
3
−
E
4500-NO
3
−
E
4500-NO
3
−
E
Ion Selective Electrode
4500-NO
3
−
D
4500-NO
3
−
D
4500-NO
3
−
D
Reduction/Colorimetric
Systea Easy (1-Reagent),
8
NECi Nitrate-Reductase.
40
Colorimetric; Direct
Hach TNTplus
TM
835/836 Method 10206.
23
Capillary Ion Electrophoresis
D 6508-15
Nitrite
Ion Chromatography
4110 B
4110 B
4110 B
D 4327-11, -17
Automated Cadmium Reduction
4500-NO
3
−
F
4500-NO
3
−
F
4500-NO
3
−
F
Manual Cadmium Reduction
4500-NO
3
−
E
4500-NO
3
−
E
4500-NO
3
−
E
Spectrophotometric
4500-NO
2
−
B
4500-NO
2
−
B
4500-NO
2
−
B
Reduction/Colorimetric
Systea Easy (1-Reagent),
8
NECi Nitrate-Reductase.
40
Capillary Ion Electrophoresis
D 6508-15
Ortho-phosphate
Ion Chromatography
4110 B
4110 B
4110 B
D 4327-11, -17
Colorimetric, ascorbic acid, single reagent
4500-P E
4500-P E
4500-P E
4500-P E-99
Colorimetric, Automated, Ascorbic Acid
4500-P F
4500-P F
4500-P F
4500-P F-99
Thermo Fisher Discrete Analyzer.
41
Capillary Ion Electrophoresis
D 6508-15
pH
Electrometric
150.3
48
4500-H
+
B
4500-H
+
B
4500-H
+
B
D 1293-12, -18
Selenium
Hydride-Atomic Absorption
3114 B
3114 B
3114 B
3114 B-09
D 3859-08 A, -15 A
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
D 3859-08 B, -15 B
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Silica
Colorimetric
D859-05, 10, 16
Molybdosilicate
4500-SiO
2
C
4500-SiO
2
C
4500-SiO
2
C
Heteropoly blue
4500-SiO
2
D
4500-SiO
2
D
4500-SiO
2
D
Automated for Molybdate-reactive Silica
4500-SiO
2
E
4500-SiO
2
E
4500-SiO
2
E
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B
Sodium
Atomic Absorption; Direct Aspiration
3111 B
3111 B
3111 B
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Ion Chromatography
D 6919-09, -17
Temperature
Thermometric
2550
2550
2550
2550-10
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.24(
e
)(1)
Contaminant
Methodology
EPA method
SM 21st edition
1
SM 22nd
edition,
28
SM
23rd edition,
49
SM
24th edition
66
SM online
3
ASTM
4
Other
Benzene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
Carbon tetrachloride
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
Chlorobenzene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
1,2-Dichlorobenzene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
1,2-Dichloroethane
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
cis-Dichloroethylene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
trans-Dichloroethylene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
Dichloromethane
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
1,2-Dichloropropane
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
Ethylbenzene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
Styrene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4
29
Tetrachloroethylene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
Trichloroethylene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
Toluene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
1,1-Dichloroethylene
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4
29
1,1,2-Trichlorethane
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
Vinyl chloride
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
Xylenes (total)
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
2,4-D
Gas Chromatography/Electron Capture Detection (GC/ECD)
6640 B
6640 B
6640 B-01, B-06
D 5317-20
2,4,5-TP (Silvex)
Gas Chromatography/Electron Capture Detection (GC/ECD)
6640 B
6640 B
6640 B-01, B-06
D 5317-20
Alachlor
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Atrazine
Liquid Chromatography Electrospray Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS/MS)
536.
25
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3,
24
523.
26
Benzo(a)pyrene
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Carbofuran
High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with post-column derivatization and fluorescence detection
6610 B
6610 B
6610 B-04
Liquid Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
ME 531.
58
Chlordane
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Dalapon
Ion Chromatography Electrospray Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry (IC-ESI-MS/MS)
557.
14
Gas Chromatography/Electron Capture Detection (GC/ECD)
6640 B
6640 B
6640 B-01, B-06
Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Dibromochloropropane (DBCP)
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3.
9
Dinoseb
Gas Chromatography/Electron Capture Detection (GC/ECD)
6640 B
6640 B
6640 B-01, B-06
Endrin
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Ethyl dibromide (EDB)
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3.
9
Glyphosate
High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) with Post-Column Derivatization and Fluorescence Detection
6651 B
6651 B
6651 B-00, B-05
Heptachlor
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Heptachlor Epoxide
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Hexachlorobenzene
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Hexachlorocyclo-pentadiene
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Lindane
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Methoxychlor
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Oxamyl
High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with post-column derivatization and fluorescence detection
6610 B
6610 B
6610 B-04
Liquid Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
ME 531.
58
PCBs (as Aroclors)
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Pentachlorophenol
Gas Chromatography/Electron Capture Detection (GC/ECD)
6640 B
6640 B
6640 B-01, B-06
D 5317-20
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Picloram
Gas Chromatography/Electron Capture Detection (GC/ECD)
6640 B
6640 B
6640 B-01, B-06
D 5317-20
Simazine
Liquid Chromatography Electrospray Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS/MS)
536.
25
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3,
24
523.
26
Toxaphene
Solid Phase Extraction/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS)
525.3.
24
Total Trihalomethanes
Purge
Trap/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.25(
a
)
Contaminant
Methodology
EPA method
SM 21st edition
1
SM 22nd edition,
28
SM 23rd edition,
49
SM 24th edition
66
ASTM
4
SM online
3
Naturally Occurring:
Gross alpha and beta
Evaporation
900.0, Rev. 1.0
50
7110 B
7110 B
Liquid Scintillation
7110 D
D 7283-17
7110 D-17.
Gross alpha
Coprecipitation
7110 C
7110 C
Radium 226
Radon emanation
903.1, Rev. 1.0
53
7500-Ra C
7500-Ra C
D 3454-05, -18, D 3454-21
Radiochemical
903.0, Rev. 1.0
54
7500-Ra B
7500-Ra B
D 2460-07
Gamma Spectrometry
7500-Ra E
7500-Ra E-07.
Radium 228
Radiochemical
904.0, Rev. 1.0
62
7500-Ra D
7500-Ra D
Gamma Spectrometry
7500-Ra E
7500-Ra E-07.
Uranium
Radiochemical
7500-U B
7500-U B
ICP-MS
3125
D 5673-05, 10, 16
Alpha spectrometry
7500-U C
7500-U C
D 3972-09
Laser Phosphorimetry
D 5174-07
Alpha Liquid Scintillation Spectrometry
D 6239-09
Man-Made:
Radioactive Cesium
Radiochemical
7500-Cs B
7500-Cs B
Gamma Ray Spectrometry
7120
7120
D 3649-06
Radioactive Iodine
Radiochemical
7500-I B, 7500-I C, 7500-I D
7500-I B, 7500-I C, 7500-I D
D 3649-06
Gamma Ray Spectrometry
7120
7120
D 4785-08, -20
Radioactive Strontium 89, 90
Radiochemical
7500-Sr B
7500-Sr B
Tritium
Liquid Scintillation
7500-
3
H B
7500-
3
H B
D 4107-08, -20
Gamma Emitters
Gamma Ray Spectrometry
7120, 7500-Cs B, 7500-I B
7120, 7500-Cs B, 7500-I B
D 3649-06, D 4785-08, -20
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.74(
a
)(1)
Organism
Methodology
SM 21st edition
1
SM 22nd
edition
28
SM 23rd edition
49
SM 24th edition
66
SM online
3
Other
Total Coliform
Total Coliform Fermentation Technique
9221 A, B, C
9221 A, B, C
9221 A, B, C
9221 A, B, C
9221 A, B, C-06
Total Coliform Membrane Filter Technique
9222 A, B, C
9222 A, B, C
9222 A, B, C
ONPG-MUG Test
9223
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-04
Fecal Coliforms
Fecal Coliform Procedure
9221 E
9221 E
9221 E
9221 E
9221 E-06
Fecal Coliform Filter Procedure
9222 D
9222 D
9222 D
9222 D
9222 D-06
Heterotrophic bacteria
Pour Plate Method
9215 B
9215 B
9215 B
9215 B-04
Turbidity
Nephelometric Method
2130 B
2130 B
2130 B
2130 B
Hach Method 8195, Rev. 3.0.
52
Laser Nephelometry (on-line)
Mitchell M5271,
10
Mitchell M5331, Rev. 1.2,
42
Lovibond PTV 6000.
46
LED Nephelometry (on-line)
Mitchell M5331,
11
Mitchell M5331, Rev. 1.2,
42
Lovibond PTV 2000,
45
Yokogawa 820.
68
LED Nephelometry (on-line)
AMI Turbiwell,
15
Lovibond PTV 1000.
44
LED Nephelometry (portable)
Orion AQ4500,
12
Lovibond TB 3500,
64
Lovibond TB 5000.
65
Laser Nephelometry (portable)
Lovibond TB 6000.
63
360° Nephelometry
Hach Method 10258, Rev. 1.0,
39
Hach Method 10258, Rev. 2.0.
51
Alternative Testing Methods for Disinfectant Residuals Listed at 40 CFR 141.74(
a
)(2)
Residual
Methodology
EPA methods
SM 21st edition
1
SM 22nd edition,
28
SM 23rd edition,
49
SM 24th edition
66
ASTM
4
Other
Free Chlorine
Amperometric Titration
4500-Cl D
4500-Cl D
D 1253-08, -14
DPD Ferrous Titrimetric
4500-Cl F
4500-Cl F
DPD Colorimetric
4500-Cl G
4500-Cl G
Hach Method 10260.
31
Indophenol Colorimetric
Hach Method 10241.
34
Syringaldazine (FACTS)
4500-Cl H
4500-Cl H
On-line Chlorine Analyzer
EPA 334.0.
16
Amperometric Sensor
ChloroSense,
17
ChloroSense, Rev. 1.1.
59
Total Chlorine
Amperometric Titration
4500-Cl D
4500-Cl D
D 1253-08, -14
Amperometric Titration (Low level measurement)
4500-Cl E
4500-Cl E
DPD Ferrous Titrimetric
4500-Cl F
4500-Cl F
DPD Colorimetric
4500-Cl G
4500-Cl G
Hach Method 10260.
31
Indophenol Colorimetric
127.
55
Iodometric Electrode
4500-Cl I
4500-Cl I
On-line Chlorine Analyzer
EPA 334.0.
16
Amperometric Sensor
ChloroSense,
17
ChloroSense, Rev. 1.1.
59
Chlorine Dioxide
Amperometric Titration
4500-ClO
2
C
4500-ClO
2
C
Amperometric Titration
4500-ClO
2
E
4500-ClO
2
E
Amperometric Sensor
ChlordioX Plus,
32
ChlordioX Plus, Rev. 1.1.
60
Ozone
Indigo Method
4500-O
3
B
4500-O
3
B
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.131(
b
)(1)
Contaminant
Methodology
EPA method
ASTM
4
SM online
3
SM 21st edition
1
SM 22nd
edition,
28
SM
23rd edition,
49
SM 24th
Edition
66
Other
TTHM
P
T/GC/MS
524.3,
9
524.4.
29
HAA5
LLE (diazomethane)/GC/ECD
6251 B-07
6251 B
6251 B
Ion Chromatography Electrospray Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry (IC-ESI-MS/MS)
557.
14
Two-Dimensional Ion Chromatography (IC) with Suppressed Conductivity Detection
Thermo Fisher 557.1.
47
Bromate
Two-Dimensional Ion Chromatography (IC)
302.0
18
Ion Chromatography Electrospray Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry (IC-ESI-MS/MS)
557.
14
Chemically Suppressed Ion Chromatography
D 6581-08 A
Electrolytically Suppressed Ion Chromatography
D 6581-08 B
Chlorite
Chemically Suppressed Ion Chromatography
D 6581-08 A
Electrolytically Suppressed Ion Chromatography
D 6581-08 B
Chlorite—daily monitoring as prescribed in 40 CFR 141.132(b)(2)(i)(A)
Amperometric Titration
4500-ClO
2
E
4500-ClO
2
E
Amperometric Sensor
ChlordioX Plus,
32
ChlordioX Plus, Rev. 1.1.
60
Alternative Testing Methods for Disinfectant Residuals Listed at 40 CFR 141.131(
c
)(1)
Residual
Methodology
SM 21
st
edition
1
SM 22
nd
edition,
28
SM 23
rd
edition,
49
SM 24
th
edition
66
ASTM
4
Other
Free Chlorine
Amperometric Titration
4500-Cl D
4500-Cl D
D 1253-08, -14
DPD Ferrous Titrimetric
4500-Cl F
4500-Cl F
DPD Colorimetric
4500-Cl G
4500-Cl G
Hach Method 10260.
31
Indophenol Colorimetric
Hach Method 10241.
34
Syringaldazine (FACTS)
4500-Cl H
4500-Cl H
Amperometric Sensor
ChloroSense,
17
ChloroSense, Rev. 1.1.
59
On-line Chlorine Analyzer
EPA 334.0.
16
Combined Chlorine
Amperometric Titration
4500-Cl D
4500-Cl D
D 1253-08, -14.
DPD Ferrous Titrimetric
4500-Cl F
4500-Cl F
DPD Colorimetric
4500-Cl G
4500-Cl G
Hach Method 10260.
31
Total Chlorine
Amperometric Titration
4500-Cl D
4500-Cl D
D 1253-08, -14
Low level Amperometric Titration
4500-Cl E
4500-Cl E
DPD Ferrous Titrimetric
4500-Cl F
4500-Cl F
DPD Colorimetric
4500-Cl G
4500-Cl G
Hach Method 10260.
31
Iodometric Electrode
4500-Cl I
4500-Cl I
Amperometric Sensor
ChloroSense,
17
ChloroSense, Rev. 1.1.
59
On-line Chlorine Analyzer
EPA 334.0.
16
Chlorine Dioxide
Amperometric Method II
4500-ClO
2
E
4500-ClO
2
E
Amperometric Sensor
ChlordioX Plus,
32
ChlordioX Plus, Rev. 1.1.
60
Alternative Testing Methods for Disinfectant Residuals Listed at 40 CFR 141.131(
c
)(2), If Approved by the State
Residual
Methodology
Method
Free Chlorine
Test Strips
Method D99-003
5
Alternative Testing Methods for Parameters Listed at 40 CFR 141.131(
d
)
Parameter
Methodology
SM 21
st
edition
1
SM 22
nd
edition
28
SM 23
rd
edition
49
, SM 24
th
edition
66
SM online
3
EPA
Other
Total Organic Carbon (TOC)
High Temperature Combustion
5310 B
5310 B
5310 B
415.3, Rev 1.2
19
Persulfate-Ultraviolet or Heated Persulfate Oxidation
5310 C
5310 C
5310 C
415.3, Rev 1.2
19
Hach Method 10267
38
.
Wet Oxidation
5310 D
5310 D
415.3, Rev 1.2
19
Ozone Oxidation
Hach Method 10261
37
.
Specific Ultraviolet Absorbance (SUVA)
Calculation using DOC and UV
254
data
415.3, Rev 1.2
19
Dissolved Organic Carbon (DOC)
High Temperature Combustion
5310 B
5310 B
5310 B
415.3, Rev 1.2
19
Persulfate-Ultraviolet or Heated Persulfate Oxidation
5310 C
5310 C
5310 C
415.3, Rev 1.2
19
Wet Oxidation
5310 D
5310 D
415.3, Rev 1.2
19
Ultraviolet absorption at 254 nm (UV
254
)
Spectrophotometry
5910 B
5910 B
5910 B
5910 B-11
415.3, Rev 1.2
19
Alternative Testing Methods With MRL ≤0.0010 mg/L for Monitoring Listed at
40 CFR 141.132(b)(3)(ii)(B)
Contaminant
Methodology
EPA method
Bromate
Two-Dimensional Ion Chromatography (IC)
302.0
18
Ion Chromatography Electrospray Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry (IC-ESI-MS/MS)
557
14
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.402(
c
)(2)
Organism
Methodology
SM 20
th
edition
6
SM 21
st
edition
1
SM 22
nd
edition
28
SM 23
rd
edition
49
, SM 24
th
edition
66
SM online
3
Other
E. coli
Colilert
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-97, B-04
Colisure
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-97, B-04
Colilert-18
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-97, B-04
Readycult®
Readycult®.
20
Colitag
Modified Colitag
TM
13
, Modified Colitag
TM
, Version 2.0.
61
Chromocult®
Chromocult®.
21
EC-MUG
9221 F
9221 F
9221 F-06
NA-MUG
9222 I
mColiBlue24 Test
9222 J
Tecta EC/TC
33
43
RAPID'E.coli 2
56
Enterococci
Multiple-Tube Technique
9230 B
9230 B-04
Membrane Filter Techniques
9230 C
Fluorogenic Substrate Enterococcus Test (using Enterolert)
9230 D
Coliphage
Two-Step Enrichment Presence-Absence Procedure
Fast Phage.
30
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.704(
a
)
Organism
Methodology
EPA Method
Cryptosporidium
Filtration/Immunomagnetic Separation/Immunofluorescence Assay Microscopy
1623.1
27
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.704(
b
)
Organism
Methodology
SM 20th edition
6
E. coli
Membrane Filtration, Two Step
9222 D/9222 G
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.852(
a
)(5)
Organism
Methodology category
Method
SM 20
th
, 21
st
editions
1
6
SM 22
nd
edition
28
SM 23
rd
edition
49
, SM 24
th
edition
66
SM online
3
Total Coliforms
Lactose Fermentation Methods
Standard Total Coliform Fermentation Technique
9221 B.1, B.2
9221 B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4
9221 B.1, B.2-06.
Presence-Absence (P-A) Coliform Test
9221 D.1, D.2, D.3
Membrane Filtration Methods
Standard Total Coliform Membrane Filter Procedure using Endo Media
9222 B, C
Simultaneous Detection of Total Coliforms and
E. coli
by Dual Chromogen Membrane Filter Procedure (using mColiBlue24 medium)
9222 J
Simultaneous Detection of Total Coliform Bacteria and
Escherichia coli
Using RAPID'
E.coli
(REC2) in Drinking Water
56
Enzyme Substrate Methods
Colilert®
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-04.
Colisure®
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-04.
Colilert-18
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-04.
Tecta EC/TC
33
43
Modified Colitag
TM
, Version 2.0
61
Escherichia coli
Escherichia coli
Procedure (following Lactose Fermentation Methods)
EC-MUG medium
9221 F.1
9221 F.1
9221 F.1-06.
Escherichia coli
Partitioning Methods (following Membrane Filtration Methods)
EC broth with MUG (EC-MUG)
9222 H
NA-MUG medium
9222 I
Simultaneous Detection of Total Coliforms and
E. coli
by Dual Chromogen Membrane Filter Procedure
mColiBlue24 medium
9222 J
Membrane Filtration Method
Simultaneous Detection of Total Coliform Bacteria and
Escherichia coli
Using RAPID'
E.coli
(REC2) in Drinking Water
56
Enzyme Substrate Methods
Colilert®
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-04.
Colisure®
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-04.
Colilert-18
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B
9223 B-04.
Tecta EC/TC
33
43
Modified Colitag
TM
, Version 2.0
61
Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 143.4(
b
)
Contaminant
Methodology
EPA method
ASTM
4
SM 21
st
edition
1
SM 22
nd
edition,
28
SM 23
rd
edition,
49
SM 24
th
edition
66
SM online
3
Aluminum
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Atomic Absorption; Direct
3111 D
3111 D
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10.
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
Chloride
Silver Nitrate Titration
D 512-04 B, 12 B
4500-Cl
−
B
4500-Cl
−
B
Ion Chromatography
D 4327-11, -17
4110 B
4110 B
Potentiometric Titration
4500-Cl
−
D
4500-Cl
−
D
Color
Visual Comparison
2120 B
2120 B
Foaming Agents
Methylene Blue Active Substances (MBAS)
5540 C
5540 C
Iron
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Atomic Absorption; Direct
3111 B
3111 B
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
Manganese
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Atomic Absorption; Direct
3111 B
3111 B
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10.
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
Odor
Threshold Odor Test
2150 B
2150 B
Silver
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Atomic Absorption; Direct
3111 B
3111 B
Atomic Absorption; Furnace
3113 B
3113 B
3113 B-04, B-10.
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
Sulfate
Ion Chromatography
D 4327-11, -17
4110 B
4110 B
Gravimetric with ignition of residue
4500-SO
4
2
−
C
4500-SO
4
2
−
C
4500-SO
4
2
−
C-97.
Gravimetric with drying of residue
4500-SO
4
2
−
D
4500-SO
4
2
−
D
4500-SO
4
2
−
D-97.
Turbidimetric method
D 516-07, 11, 16
4500-SO
4
2
−
E
4500-SO
4
2
−
E
4500-SO
4
2
−
E-97.
Automated methylthymol blue method
4500-SO
4
2
−
F
4500-SO
4
2
−
F
4500-SO
4
2
−
F-97.
Total Dissolved Solids
Total Dissolved Solids Dried at 180 deg C
2540 C
2540 C
Zinc
Axially viewed inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (AVICP-AES)
200.5, Revision 4.2
2
Atomic Absorption; Direct Aspiration
3111 B
3111 B
Inductively Coupled Plasma
3120 B
3120 B
1
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
21st edition (2005). Available from American Public Health Association, 800 I Street NW, Washington, DC 20001-3710.
2
EPA Method 200.5, Revision 4.2. “Determination of Trace Elements in Drinking Water by Axially Viewed Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry.” 2003. EPA/600/R-06/115. (Available at
http://www.epa.gov/water-research/epa-drinking-water-research-methods
.)
3
Standard Methods Online are available at
http://www.standardmethods.org
. The year in which each method was approved by the Standard Methods Committee is designated by the last two digits in the method number. The methods listed are the only online versions that may be used.
4
Available from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959 or
http://astm.org
. The methods listed are the only alternative versions that may be used.
5
Method D99-003, Revision 3.0. “Free Chlorine Species (HOCl
−
and OCl
−
) by Test Strip,” November 21, 2003. Available from Industrial Test Systems, Inc., 1875 Langston St., Rock Hill, SC 29730.
6
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
20th edition (1998). Available from American Public Health Association, 800 I Street NW, Washington, DC 20001-3710.
7
Method ME355.01, Revision 1.0. “Determination of Cyanide in Drinking Water by GC/MS Headspace,” May 26, 2009. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
or from James Eaton, H
E Testing Laboratory, 221 State Street, Augusta, ME 04333. (207) 287-2727.
8
Systea Easy (1-Reagent). “Systea Easy (1-Reagent) Nitrate Method,” February 4, 2009. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
or from Systea Scientific, LLC., 900 Jorie Blvd., Suite 35, Oak Brook, IL 60523.
9
EPA Method 524.3, Version 1.0. “Measurement of Purgeable Organic Compounds in Water by Capillary Column Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry,” June 2009. EPA 815-B-09-009. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
.
10
Mitchell Method M5271, Revision 1.1. “Determination of Turbidity by Laser Nephelometry,” March 5, 2009. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
or from Leck Mitchell, Ph.D., PE, 656 Independence Valley Dr., Grand Junction, CO 81507.
11
Mitchell Method M5331, Revision 1.1. “Determination of Turbidity by LED Nephelometry,” March 5, 2009. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
or from Leck Mitchell, Ph.D., PE, 656 Independence Valley Dr., Grand Junction, CO 81507.
12
Orion Method AQ4500, Revision 1.0. “Determination of Turbidity by LED Nephelometry,” May 8, 2009. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
or from Thermo Scientific, 166 Cummings Center, Beverly, MA 01915,
http://www.thermo.com
.
13
Modified Colitag
TM
Method. “Modified Colitag
TM
Test Method for the Simultaneous Detection of
E. coli
and other Total Coliforms in Water (ATP D05-0035),” August 28, 2009. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
or from CPI International, 5580 Skylane Boulevard, Santa Rosa, CA 95403.
14
EPA Method 557. “Determination of Haloacetic Acids, Bromate, and Dalapon in Drinking Water by Ion Chromatography Electrospray Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry (IC-ESI-MS/MS),” September 2009. EPA 815-B-09-012. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
.
15
AMI Turbiwell, “Continuous Measurement of Turbidity Using a SWAN AMI Turbiwell Turbidimeter,” August 2009. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
or from Markus Bernasconi, SWAN Analytische Instrumente AG, Studbachstrasse 13, CH-8340 Hinwil, Switzerland.
16
EPA Method 334.0. “Determination of Residual Chlorine in Drinking Water Using an On-line Chlorine Analyzer,” September 2009. EPA 815-B-09-013. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
.
17
ChloroSense. “Measurement of Free and Total Chlorine in Drinking Water by Palintest ChloroSense,” August 2009. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
or from Palintest Ltd, 1455 Jamike Avenue (Suite 100), Erlanger, KY 41018.
18
EPA Method 302.0. “Determination of Bromate in Drinking Water using Two-Dimensional Ion Chromatography with Suppressed Conductivity Detection,” September 2009. EPA 815-B-09-014. Available at
https://www.nemi.gov
.
19
EPA 415.3, Revision 1.2. “Determination of Total Organic Carbon and Specific UV Absorbance at 254 nm in Source Water and Drinking Water,” September 2009. EPA/600/R-09/122. Available at
http://www.epa.gov/water-research/epa-drinking-water-research-methods
.
20
Readycult® Method, “Readycult® Coliforms 100 Presence/Absence Test for Detection and Identification of Coliform Bacteria and
Escherichia coli
in Finished Waters,” January, 2007. Version 1.1. Available from EMD Millipore (division of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany), 290 Concord Road, Billerica, MA 01821.
21
Chromocult® Method, “Chromocult® Coliform Agar Presence/Absence Membrane Filter Test Method for Detection and Identification of Coliform Bacteria and
Escherichia coli
in Finished Waters,” November, 2000. Version 1.0. EMD Millipore (division of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany), 290 Concord Road, Billerica, MA 01821.
22
Hach Company. “Hach Company SPADNS 2 (Arsenite-Free) Fluoride Method 10225-Spectrophotometric Measurement of Fluoride in Water and Wastewater,” January 2011. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, Colorado 80539.
23
Hach Company. “Hach Company TNTplus
TM
835/836 Nitrate Method 10206-Spectrophotometric Measurement of Nitrate in Water and Wastewater,” January 2011. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, Colorado 80539.
24
EPA Method 525.3. “Determination of Semivolatile Organic Chemicals in Drinking Water by Solid Phase Extraction and Capillary Column Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS),” February 2012. EPA/600/R-12/010. Available at
http://www.epa.gov/water-research/epa-drinking-water-research-methods
.
25
EPA Method 536. “Determination of Triazine Pesticides and their Degradates in Drinking Water by Liquid Chromatography Electrospray Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS/MS),” October 2007. EPA 815-B-07-002. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep
.
26
EPA Method 523. “Determination of Triazine Pesticides and their Degradates in Drinking Water by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS),” February 2011. EPA 815-R-11-002. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep
.
27
EPA Method 1623.1. “
Cryptosporidium
and
Giardia
in Water by Filtration/IMS/FA,” 2012. EPA-816-R-12-001. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep.
28
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
22nd edition (2012). Available from American Public Health Association, 800 I Street NW, Washington, DC 20001-3710.
29
EPA Method 524.4, Version 1.0. “Measurement of Purgeable Organic Compounds in Water by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry using Nitrogen Purge Gas.” May 2013. EPA 815-R-13-002. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep
.
30
Charm Sciences Inc. “Fast Phage Test Procedure. Presence/Absence for Coliphage in Ground Water with Same Day Positive Prediction”. Version 009. November 2012. 659 Andover Street, Lawrence, MA 01843. Available at
www.charmsciences.com
.
31
Hach Company. “Hach Method 10260-Determination of Chlorinated Oxidants (Free and Total) in Water Using Disposable Planar Reagent-filled Cuvettes and Mesofluidic Channel Colorimetry,” April 2013. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, CO 80539.
32
ChlordioX Plus. “Chlorine Dioxide and Chlorite in Drinking Water by Amperometry using Disposable Sensors,” November 2013.
Available from Palintest Ltd, 1455 Jamike Avenue (Suite 100), Erlanger, KY 41018.
33
Tecta EC/TC. “Techta
TM
EC/TC Medium and Techta
TM
Instrument: A Presence/Absence Method for the Simultaneous Detection of Total Coliforms and Escherichia coli (
E. coli
) in Drinking Water,” version 1.0, May 2014. Available from Pathogen Detection Systems, Inc., 382 King Street East, Kingston, Ontario, Canada, K7K 2Y2.
34
Hach Company. “Hach Method 10241-Spectrophotometric Measurement of Free Chlorine (Cl
2
) in Drinking Water,” November 2015. Revision 1.2. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, CO 80539.
35
Hach Company. “Hach Method 8026-Spectrophotometric Measurement of Copper in Finished Drinking Water,” December 2015. Revision 1.2. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, CO 80539.
36
Hach Company. “Hach Method 10272-Spectrophotometric Measurement of Copper in Finished Drinking Water,” December 2015. Revision 1.2. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, CO 80539.
37
Hach Company. “Hach Method 10261-Total Organic Carbon in Finished Drinking Water by Catalyzed Ozone Hydroxyl Radical Oxidation Infrared Analysis,” December 2015. Revision 1.2. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, CO 80539.
38
Hach Company. “Hach Method 10267-Spectrophotometric Measurement of Total Organic Carbon (TOC) in Finished Drinking Water,” December 2015. Revision 1.2. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, CO 80539.
39
Hach Company. “Hach Method 10258-Determination of Turbidity by 360° Nephelometry,” January 2016. Revision 1.0. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, CO 80539.
40
Nitrate Elimination Company Inc. (NECi). “Method for Nitrate Reductase Nitrate-Nitrogen Analysis of Drinking Water,” February 2016. Superior Enzymes Inc., 334 Hecla Street, Lake Linden, Michigan 49945.
41
Thermo Fisher. “Thermo Fisher Scientific Drinking Water Orthophosphate Method for Thermo Scientific Gallery Discrete Analyzer,” February 2016. Revision 5. Thermo Fisher Scientific, Ratastie 2, 01620 Vantaa, Finland.
42
Mitchell Method M5331, Revision 1.2. “Determination of Turbidity by LED or Laser Nephelometry,” February 2016. Available from Leck Mitchell, Ph.D., PE, 656 Independence Valley Dr., Grand Junction, CO 81507.
43
Tecta EC/TC. “Tecta
TM
EC/TC Medium and the Tecta
TM
Instrument: A Presence/Absence Method for the Simultaneous Detection of Total Coliforms and
Escherichia coli
(
E. coli
) in Drinking Water,” version 2.0, March 2017. Available from Pathogen Detection Systems, Inc., 382 King Street East, Kingston, Ontario, Canada, K7K 2Y2.
44
Lovibond PTV 1000. “Continuous Measurement of Drinking Water Turbidity using a Lovibond PTV 1000 White Light LED Turbidimeter,” December 2016. Revision 1.0. Available from Tintometer, Inc., 6456 Parkland Drive, Sarasota, FL 34243.
45
Lovibond PTV 2000. “Continuous Measurement of Drinking Water Turbidity Using a Lovibond PTV 2000 660-nm LED Turbidimeter,” December 2016. Revision 1.0. Available from Tintometer, Inc., 6456 Parkland Drive, Sarasota, FL 34243.
46
Lovibond PTV 6000. “Continuous Measurement of Drinking Water Turbidity Using a Lovibond PTV 6000 Laser Turbidimeter,” December 2016. Revision 1.0. Available from Tintometer, Inc., 6456 Parkland Drive, Sarasota, FL 34243.
47
Thermo Fisher. “Thermo Fisher method 557.1: Determination of Haloacetic Acids in Drinking Water using Two-Dimensional Ion Chromatography with Suppressed Conductivity Detection,” January 2017. Version 1.0. Available from Thermo Fisher Scientific, 490 Lakeside Dr., Sunnyvale, CA 94085 (
Richard.jack@thermofisher.com
).
48
EPA Method 150.3. “Determination of pH in Drinking Water,” February 2017. EPA 815-B-17-001. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep
.
49
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
23rd edition (2017). Available from American Public Health Association, 800 I Street NW, Washington, DC 20001-3710.
50
EPA Method 900.0, Rev. 1.0. “Determination of Gross Alpha and Gross Beta in Drinking Water,” February 2018. EPA 815-B-18-002. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep
.
51
Hach Company. “Hach Method 10258—Determination of Turbidity by 360° Nephelometry.” March 2018. Revision 2.0. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, CO 80539.
52
Hach Company. “Hach Method 8195-Determination of Turbidity by Nephelometry.” March 2018. Revision 3.0. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, P.O. Box 389, Loveland, CO 80539.
53
EPA Method 903.1, Rev. 1.0. “Radium-226 in Drinking Water Radon Emanation Technique.” January 2021. EPA 815-B-21-003. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep
.
54
EPA Method 903.0, Rev. 1.0. “Alpha-Emitting Radium Isotopes in Drinking Water.” January 2021. EPA 815-B-21-002. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep
.
55
EPA Method 127. “Determination of Monochloramine Concentration in Drinking Water.” January 2021. EPA 815-B-21-004. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep
.
56
Bio-Rad. “Simultaneous Detection of Total Coliform Bacteria and
Escherichia coli
using RAPID'
E. coli
2 (REC2) in Drinking Water.” May 2020. Bio-Rad Laboratories, 2000 Nobel Drive, Hercules, California 94547.
57
Method 1001, Rev. 1.1. “Lead in Drinking Water by Differential Pulse Anodic Stripping Voltammetry.” May 2020. Palintest Ltd, 400 Corporate Circle, Suite J, Golden, CO 80401.
58
ME 531, Version 1.0. “Measurement of N-Methylcarbamoyloximes and N-Methylcarbamates in Drinking Water by LC-MS/MS. September 2019. Maine Health Environmental Testing Laboratory, 221 State Street, Augusta, ME 04330.
59
ChloroSense, Rev. 1.1. “Free and Total Chlorine in Drinking Water by Amperometry using Disposable Sensors.” February 2020. Palintest Ltd, 400 Corporate Circle, Suite J, Golden, CO 80401.
60
ChlordioX Plus, Rev. 1.1. “Chlorine Dioxide and Chlorite in Drinking Water by Amperometry using Disposable Sensors.” February 2020. Palintest Ltd, 400 Corporate Circle, Suite J, Golden, CO 80401.
61
Modified Colitag
TM
, Version 2.0. “Modified Colitag
TM
Test Method for the Simultaneous Determination of Total Coliforms and
E. coli
in Water.” June 2020. Neogen Corporation, 620 Lesher Place, Lansing, MI 48912.
62
EPA Method 904.0, Rev. 1.0. “Radium-228 in Drinking Water.” March 2022. EPA 815-B-22-003. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep
.
63
Lovibond TB 6000. “Measurement of Drinking Water Turbidity of a Captured Sample using a Lovibond Portable Laser Turbidimeter.” May 2021. Revision 1.0. Available from Tintometer, Inc., 6456 Parkland Drive, Sarasota, FL 34243.
64
Lovibond TB 3500. “Measurement of Drinking Water Turbidity of a Captured Sample using a Lovibond White Light LED Portable Turbidimeter.” May 2021. Revision 1.0. Available from Tintometer, Inc., 6456 Parkland Drive, Sarasota, FL 34243.
65
Lovibond TB 5000. “Measurement of Drinking Water Turbidity of a Captured Sample using a Lovibond 660-nm LED Portable Turbidimeter.” May 2021. Revision 1.0. Available from Tintometer, Inc., 6456 Parkland Drive, Sarasota, FL 34243.
66
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
24th edition (2023). Available from American Public Health Association, 800 I Street NW, Washington, DC 20001-3710.
67
Hach Company. “Hach Method 10312—Spectrophotometric Measurement of Fluoride in Finished Drinking Water Aluminum-Chromeazurol S complex (AL-CAS) Using Planar Reagent-filled Cuvettes”. August 2022. Revision 1.0. 5600 Lindbergh Drive, Loveland, Colorado 80539.
68
Yokogawa Electric Corporation. “Yokogawa Method 820—Measurement of Turbidity in Drinking Water by Right Angle Scattered Light Turbidity Analyzer”. November 2022. Revision 1.0. 2-9-32 Nakamachi, Musashino-shi, Tokyo, Japan 180-8750.
69
e-sens, Inc. “e-sens, Inc. Automated Micro Chlorine Detection (AMCD) Method for the Determination of Residual Free and Total Chlorine in Water.” December 2023. Available from e-sens, Inc., 630 Komas Dr., Ste 235, Salt Lake City, Utah 84108.
70
EPA Method 537.1, Version 1.0. “Determination of Selected Per- and Polyfluorinated Alkyl Substances (PFAS) in Drinking Water by Solid Phase Extraction and Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC/MS/MS).” November 2018. EPA/600/R-18/352. Approved as alternative testing method to support initial PFAS monitoring (for monitoring-frequency determinations) until April 26, 2027 as described at 40 CFR 141.902(b)(1) [Monitoring requirements for PFAS—Initial monitoring]. Available at the National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep.
[74 FR 38353, Aug. 3, 2009, as amended at 74 FR 57914, Nov. 10, 2009; 74 FR 63069, Dec. 2, 2009; 75 FR 32299, June 8, 2010; 76 FR 37018, June 24, 2011; 77 FR 38527, June 28, 2012; 78 FR 32565, May 31, 2013; 78 FR 37463, June 21, 2013; 79 FR 35086, June 19, 2014; 79 FR 36428, June 27, 2014; 81 FR 46844, July 19, 2016; 82 FR 34867, July 27, 2017; 83 FR 51644, Oct. 12, 2018; 83 FR 54676, Oct. 31, 2018; 86 FR 28284, May 26, 2021; 86 FR 29526, June 2, 2021; 87 FR 50579, Aug. 17, 2022; 89 FR 5780, Jan. 30, 2024; 89 FR 7624, Feb. 5, 2024; 90 FR 4660, Jan. 16, 2025]

# Editorial Note:
At 90 FR 4660, Jan. 16, 2025, appendix A to subpart C of part 141 was amended in part by revising the entries for “Free Chlorine” and “Total Chlorine” in the table entitled “Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.74(a)(2)”, revising the entries for “Free Chlorine” and “Total Chlorine” in the table entitled “Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.131(c)(1)”, and adding the table entitled “Alternative Testing Methods for Contaminants Listed at 40 CFR 141.901(b)(1)”.However, the amendments could not be incorporated due to errors in the amendatory instruction that misidentified the tables.

# Subpart D—Reporting and Recordkeeping
§ 141.31
Reporting requirements.
(a) Except where a shorter period is specified in this part, the supplier of water shall report to the State the results of any test measurement or analysis required by this part within (1) The first ten days following the month in which the result is received, or (2) the first ten days following the end of the required monitoring period as stipulated by the State, whichever of these is shortest.
(b) Except where a different reporting period is specified in this part, the supplier of water must report to the State within 48 hours the failure to comply with any national primary drinking water regulation (including failure to comply with monitoring requirements) set forth in this part.
(c) The supplier of water is not required to report analytical results to the State in cases where a State laboratory performs the analysis and reports the results to the State office which would normally receive such notification from the supplier.
(d)(1) The public water system, within 10 days of completing the public notification requirements under subpart Q of this part for the initial public notice and any repeat notices, must submit to the primary agency a certification that it has fully complied with the public notification regulations under subpart Q. The public water system must include with this certification a representative copy of each type of notice distributed, published, posted, and made available to the persons served by the system and to the media.
(2) For Tier 1 notices for a lead action level exceedance, public water systems must provide a copy of the Tier 1 notice to the Administrator and the head of the primacy agency as soon as practicable, but not later than 24 hours after the public water system learns of the exceedance.
(e) The water supply system shall submit to the State within the time stated in the request copies of any records required to be maintained under § 141.33 hereof or copies of any documents then in existence which the State or the Administrator is entitled to inspect pursuant to the authority of section 1445 of the Safe Drinking Water Act or the equivalent provisions of State law.
[40 FR 59570, Dec. 24, 1975, as amended at 45 FR 57345, Aug. 27, 1980; 65 FR 26022, May 4, 2000; 86 FR 4282, Jan. 15, 2021; 89 FR 86626, Oct. 30, 2024]
§ 141.32
[Reserved]
§ 141.33
Record maintenance.
Any owner or operator of a public water system subject to the provisions of this part shall retain on its premises or at a convenient location near its premises the following records:
(a) Records of microbiological analyses and turbidity analyses made pursuant to this part shall be kept for not less than 5 years. Records of chemical analyses made pursuant to this part shall be kept for not less than 10 years. Actual laboratory reports may be kept, or data may be transferred to tabular summaries, provided that the following information is included:
(1) The date, place, and time of sampling, and the name of the person who collected the sample;
(2) Identification of the sample as to whether it was a routine distribution system sample, check sample, raw or process water sample or other special purpose sample;
(3) Date of analysis;
(4) Laboratory and person responsible for performing analysis;
(5) The analytical technique/method used; and
(6) The results of the analysis.
(b) Records of action taken by the system to correct violations of primary drinking water regulations shall be kept for a period not less than 3 years after the last action taken with respect to the particular violation involved.
(c) Copies of any written reports, summaries or communications relating to sanitary surveys of the system conducted by the system itself, by a private consultant, or by any local, State or Federal agency, shall be kept for a period not less than 10 years after completion of the sanitary survey involved.
(d) Records concerning a variance or exemption granted to the system shall be kept for a period ending not less than 5 years following the expiration of such variance or exemption.
(e) Copies of public notices issued pursuant to subpart Q of this part and certifications made to the primacy agency pursuant to § 141.31 must be kept for three years after issuance.
(f) Copies of monitoring plans developed pursuant to this part shall be kept for the same period of time as the records of analyses taken under the plan are required to be kept under paragraph (a) of this section, except as specified elsewhere in this part.
[40 FR 59570, Dec. 24, 1975, as amended at 65 FR 26022, May 4, 2000; 71 FR 478, Jan. 4, 2006]
§ 141.34
[Reserved]
§ 141.35
Reporting for unregulated contaminant monitoring results.
(a)
General applicability.
This section applies to any owner or operator of a public water system (PWS) required to monitor for unregulated contaminants under § 141.40(a); such owner or operator is referred to as “you.” This section specifies the information that must be reported to EPA prior to the commencement of monitoring and describes the process for reporting monitoring results to EPA. For the purposes of this section, PWS “population served” is the retail population served directly by the PWS as reported to the Federal Safe Drinking Water Information System (SDWIS/Fed). For purposes of this section, the term “finished” means water that is introduced into the distribution system of a PWS and is intended for distribution and consumption without further treatment, except the treatment necessary to maintain water quality in the distribution system (e.g., booster disinfection, addition of corrosion control chemicals). For purposes of this section, the term “State” refers to the State or Tribal government entity that has jurisdiction over your PWS even if that government does not have primary enforcement responsibility for PWSs under the Safe Drinking Water Act. For purposes of this section, the term “PWS Official” refers to the person at your PWS who is able to function as the official spokesperson for the system's Unregulated Contaminant Monitoring Regulation (UCMR) activities; and the term “PWS Technical Contact” refers to the person at your PWS who is responsible for the technical aspects of your UCMR activities, such as details concerning sampling and reporting.
(b)
Reporting by all systems.
You must meet the reporting requirements of this paragraph if you meet the applicability criteria in § 141.40(a)(1) and (2).
(1)
Where to submit UCMR reporting requirement information.
Some of your reporting requirements are to be fulfilled electronically and others by mail. Information that must be submitted using EPA's electronic data reporting system must be submitted through:
https://www.epa.gov/dwucmr.
Documentation that is required to be mailed can be submitted either: To UCMR Sampling Coordinator, USEPA, Technical Support Center, 26 West Martin Luther King Drive (MS 140), Cincinnati, OH 45268; or by email at
UCMR_Sampling_Coordinator@epa.gov.
In addition, you must notify the public of the availability of unregulated contaminant monitoring data as provided in subpart Q (Public Notification) of this part (40 CFR 141.207). Community Water Systems that detect unregulated contaminants under this monitoring must also address such detections as part of their Consumer Confidence Reports, as provided in subpart O of this part (40 CFR 141.151).
(2)
Contacting EPA if your system does not meet applicability criteria or has a status change.
If you have received a letter from EPA or your State concerning your required monitoring and
your system does not meet the applicability criteria for UCMR established in § 141.40(a)(1) or (2), or if a change occurs at your system that may affect your requirements under UCMR as defined in § 141.40(a)(3) through (5), you must mail or email a letter to EPA, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The letter must be from your PWS Official and must include your PWS Identification (PWSID) Code along with an explanation as to why the UCMR requirements are not applicable to your PWS, or have changed for your PWS, along with the appropriate contact information. EPA will make an applicability determination based on your letter and in consultation with the State when necessary. You are subject to UCMR requirements unless and until you receive a letter from EPA agreeing that you do not meet the applicability criteria.
(c)
Reporting by large systems.
If you serve a population of more than 10,000 people, and meet the applicability criteria in § 141.40(a)(2)(i), you must meet the reporting requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1)
Contact and zip code information.
You must provide contact information by December 31, 2022, and provide updates within 30 days if this information changes. The contact information must be submitted using EPA's electronic data reporting system, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and include the name, affiliation, mailing address, phone number, and email address for your PWS Technical Contact and your PWS Official. In addition, as a one-time reporting requirement, you must report the U.S. Postal Service Zip Code(s) for all areas being served water by your PWS.
(2)
Sampling location inventory information.
You must provide your inventory information by December 31, 2022, using EPA's electronic data reporting system, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. You must submit, verify, or update data elements 1-9 (as defined in Table 1 of paragraph (e) of this section) for each sampling location, or for each approved representative sampling location (as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section) regarding representative sampling locations. If this information changes, you must report updates, including new sources, and sampling locations that are put in use before or during the UCMR sampling period, to EPA's electronic data reporting system within 30 days of the change.
(3)
Proposed ground water representative sampling locations.
Some systems that use ground water as a source and have multiple entry points to the distribution system (EPTDSs) may propose monitoring at representative entry point(s), rather than monitor at every EPTDS, as follows:
(i)
Qualifications.
Large PWSs that have EPA- or State-approved representative EPTDS sampling locations from a previous UCMR cycle, or as provided for under 40 CFR 141.23(a)(1), 40 CFR 141.24(f)(1), or 40 CFR 141.24(h)(1), may submit a copy of documentation from your State or EPA that approves your representative sampling plan. PWSs that do not have an approved representative EPTDS sampling plan may submit a proposal to sample at representative EPTDS(s) rather than at each individual EPTDS if: You use ground water as a source; all of your well sources have either the same treatment or no treatment; and you have multiple EPTDSs from the same source (
i.e.,
same aquifer). You must submit a copy of the existing or proposed representative EPTDS sampling plan, as appropriate, at least six months prior to your scheduled sample collection, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If changes to your inventory that impact your representative plan occur before or during the UCMR sampling period, you must report updates within 30 days of the change.
(ii)
Demonstration.
If you are submitting a proposal to sample at representative EPTDS(s) rather than at each individual EPTDS, you must demonstrate that any EPTDS that you propose as representative of multiple wells is associated with a well that draws from the same aquifer as the wells it will represent. The proposed well must be representative of the highest annual volume and most consistently active wells in the representative array. If that representative well is not in use at the scheduled sampling time, you must select and sample an alternative
representative well. You must submit the information defined in Table 1, paragraph (e) of this section for each proposed representative sampling location. You must also include documentation to support your proposal that the specified wells are representative of other wells. This documentation can include system-maintained well logs or construction drawings indicating that the representative well(s) is/are at a representative depth, and details of well casings and grouting; data demonstrating relative homogeneity of water quality constituents (e.g., pH, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, iron, manganese) in samples drawn from each well; and data showing that your wells are located in a limited geographic area (e.g., all wells within a 0.5 mile radius) and/or, if available, the hydrogeologic data indicating the ground water travel time between the representative well and each of the individual wells it represents (e.g., all wells within a five-year time of travel delineation). Your proposal must be sent in writing to EPA, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(iii)
Approval.
EPA or the State (as specified in the Partnership Agreement reached between the State and EPA) will review your proposal and coordinate any necessary changes with you. Your plan will not be final until you receive written approval from EPA, identifying the final list of EPTDSs where you will be required to monitor.
(4)
Contacting EPA if your PWS has not been notified of requirements.
If you believe you are subject to UCMR requirements, as defined in 40 CFR 141.40(a)(1) and (a)(2)(i), and you have not been contacted by either EPA or your State by April 26, 2022, you must send a letter to EPA, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The letter must be from your PWS Official and must include an explanation as to why the UCMR requirements are applicable to your system along with the appropriate contact information. A copy of the letter must also be submitted to the State as directed by the State. EPA will make an applicability determination based on your letter, and in consultation with the State when necessary and will notify you regarding your applicability status and required sampling schedule. However, if your PWS meets the applicability criteria specified in 40 CFR 141.40(a)(2)(i), you are subject to the UCMR monitoring and reporting requirements, regardless of whether you have been contacted by the State or EPA.
(5)
Notifying EPA if your PWS cannot sample according to schedule
—(i)
General rescheduling notification requirements.
Large systems may independently change their monitoring schedules up to December 31, 2022, using EPA's electronic data reporting system, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. After this date has passed, if your PWS cannot sample according to your assigned sampling schedule (e.g., because of budget constraints, or if a sampling location will be closed during the scheduled month of monitoring), you must mail or email a letter to EPA, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, prior to the scheduled sampling date. You must include an explanation of why the samples cannot be taken according to the assigned schedule, and you must provide the alternative schedule you are requesting. You must not reschedule monitoring specifically to avoid sample collection during a suspected vulnerable period. You are subject to your assigned UCMR sampling schedule or the schedule that you revised on or before December 31, 2022, unless and until you receive a letter from EPA specifying a new schedule.
(ii)
Exceptions to the rescheduling notification requirements.
For ground water sampling, if the second round of sampling will be completed five to seven months after the first sampling event, as specified in Table 2 of § 141.40(a)(4)(i)(B), no notification to EPA is required. If any ground water sampling location will be non-operational for more than one month before and one month after the month in which the second sampling event is scheduled (
i.e.
, it is not possible for you to sample within the five to seven month window), you must notify EPA, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, explaining why the schedule cannot be met. You must comply with any modified schedule provided by EPA.
(6)
Reporting monitoring results.
For UCMR samples, you must report all
data elements specified in Table 1 of paragraph (e) of this section, using EPA's electronic data reporting system. You also must report any changes, relative to what is currently posted, made to data elements 1 through 9 to EPA in writing, explaining the nature and purpose of the proposed change, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(i)
Electronic reporting system.
You are responsible for ensuring that the laboratory conducting the analysis of your unregulated contaminant monitoring samples (your laboratory) posts the analytical results to EPA's electronic reporting system. You are also responsible for reviewing, approving, and submitting those results to EPA.
(ii)
Reporting schedule.
You must require your laboratory, on your behalf, to post and approve the data in EPA's electronic data reporting system, accessible at
https://www.epa.gov/dwucmr,
for your review within 90 days from the sample collection date (sample collection must occur as specified in 40 CFR 141.40(a)(4)). You then have 30 days from when the laboratory posts and approves your data to review, approve, and submit the data to the State and EPA via the agency's electronic data reporting system. If you do not electronically approve and submit the laboratory data to EPA within 30 days of the laboratory posting approved data, the data will be considered approved by you and available for State and EPA review.
(7)
Only one set of results accepted.
If you report more than one set of valid results for the same sampling location and the same sampling event (for example, because you have had more than one laboratory analyze replicate samples collected under § 141.40(a)(5), or because you have collected multiple samples during a single monitoring event at the same sampling location), EPA will use the highest of the reported values as the official result.
(8)
No reporting of previously collected data.
You cannot report previously collected data to meet the testing and reporting requirements for the contaminants listed in § 141.40(a)(3). All analyses must be performed by laboratories approved by EPA to perform UCMR analyses using the analytical methods specified in Table 1 of § 141.40(a)(3) and using samples collected according to § 141.40(a)(4). Such requirements preclude the possibility of “grandfathering” previously collected data.
(d)
Reporting by small systems.
If you serve a population of 10,000 or fewer people, and you are notified that you have been selected for UCMR monitoring, your reporting requirements will be specified within the materials that EPA sends you, including a request for contact information, and a request for information associated with the sampling kit.
(1)
Contact and zip code information.
EPA will send you a notice requesting contact information for key individuals at your system, including name, affiliation, mailing address, phone number and email address. These individuals include your PWS Technical Contact and your PWS Official. You are required to provide this contact information within 90 days of receiving the notice from EPA as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If this contact information changes, you also must provide updates within 30 days of the change, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. In addition, as a one-time reporting requirement, you must report the U.S. Postal Service Zip Code(s) for all areas being served water by your PWS.
(2)
Sampling location inventory information.
You must provide your inventory information by December 31, 2022, using EPA's electronic data reporting system, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If this information changes, you must report updates, including new sources, and sampling locations that are put in use before or during the UCMR sampling period, to EPA's electronic data reporting system within 30 days of the change, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. You must record all data elements listed in Table 1 of paragraph (e) of this section on each sample form and sample bottle, as appropriate, provided to you by the UCMR Sampling Coordinator. You must send this information as specified in the instructions of your sampling kit, which will include the due date and return address. You must
report any changes made in data elements 1 through 9 by emailing an explanation of the nature and purpose of the proposed change to EPA, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(e)
Data elements.
Table 1 defines the data elements that must be provided for UCMR monitoring.
Table 1 to Paragraph
(e)
—Unregulated Contaminant Monitoring Reporting Requirements
Data element
Definition
1. Public Water System Identification (PWSID) Code
The code used to identify each PWS. The code begins with the standard 2-character postal State abbreviation or Region code; the remaining 7 numbers are unique to each PWS in the State. The same identification code must be used to represent the PWS identification for all current and future UCMR monitoring.
2. Public Water System Name
Unique name, assigned once by the PWS.
3. Public Water System Facility Identification Code
An identification code established by the State or, at the State's discretion, by the PWS, following the format of a 5-digit number unique within each PWS for each applicable facility (i.e., for each source of water, treatment plant, distribution system, or any other facility associated with water treatment or delivery). The same identification code must be used to represent the facility for all current and future UCMR monitoring.
4. Public Water System Facility Name
Unique name, assigned once by the PWS, for every facility ID (e.g., Treatment Plant).
5. Public Water System Facility Type
That code that identifies that type of facility as either:
CC = Consecutive connection.
SS = Sampling station.
TP = Treatment plant.
OT = Other.
6. Water Source Type
The type of source water that supplies a water system facility. Systems must report one of the following codes for each sampling location:
SW = Surface water (to be reported for water facilities that are served entirely by a surface water source during the 12-month period).
GU = Ground water under the direct influence of surface water (to be reported for water facilities that are served all or in part by ground water under the direct influence of surface water at any time during the 12-month sampling period), and are not served at all by surface water during this period.
MX = Mixed water (to be reported for water facilities that are served by a mix of surface water, ground water, and/or ground water under the direct influence of surface water during the 12-month period).
GW = Ground water (to be reported for water facilities that are served entirely by a ground water source during the 12-month period).
7. Sampling Point Identification Code
An identification code established by the State, or at the State's discretion, by the PWS, that uniquely identifies each sampling point. Each sampling code must be unique within each applicable facility, for each applicable sampling location (i.e
.,
entry point to the distribution system). The same identification code must be used to represent the sampling location for all current and future UCMR monitoring.
8. Sampling Point Name
Unique sample point name, assigned once by the PWS, for every sample point ID (e.g., Entry Point).
9. Sampling Point Type Code
A code that identifies the location of the sampling point as:
EP = Entry point to the distribution system.
10. Disinfectant Type
All of the disinfectants/oxidants that have been added prior to and at the entry point to the distribution system. Please select all that apply:
PEMB = Permanganate.
HPXB = Hydrogen peroxide.
CLGA = Gaseous chlorine.
CLOF = Offsite generated hypochlorite (stored as a liquid form).
CLON = Onsite generated hypochlorite.
CAGC = Chloramine (formed with gaseous chlorine).
CAOF = Chloramine (formed with offsite hypochlorite).
CAON = Chloramine (formed with onsite hypochlorite).
CLDB = Chlorine dioxide.
OZON = Ozone.
ULVL = Ultraviolet light.
OTHD = All other types of disinfectant/oxidant.
NODU = No disinfectant/oxidant used.
11. Treatment Information
Treatment information associated with the sample point. Please select all that apply.
CON = Conventional (non-softening, consisting of at least coagulation/sedimentation basins and filtration).
SFN = Softening.
RBF = River bank filtration.
PSD = Pre-sedimentation.
INF = In-line filtration.
DFL = Direct filtration.
SSF = Slow sand filtration.
BIO = Biological filtration (operated with an intention of maintaining biological activity within filter).
UTR = Unfiltered treatment for surface water source.
GWD = Groundwater system with disinfection only.
PAC = Application of powder activated carbon.
GAC = Granular activated carbon adsorption (not part of filters in CON, SFN, INF, DFL, or SSF).
AIR = Air stripping (packed towers, diffused gas contactors).
POB = Pre-oxidation with chlorine (applied before coagulation for CON or SFN plants or before filtration for other filtration plants).
MFL = Membrane filtration.
IEX = Ionic exchange.
DAF = Dissolved air floatation.
CWL = Clear well/finished water storage without aeration.
CWA = Clear well/finished water storage with aeration.
ADS = Aeration in distribution system (localized treatment).
OTH = All other types of treatment.
NTU = No treatment used.
DKN = Do not know.
12. Sample Collection Date
The date the sample is collected, reported as 4-digit year, 2-digit month, and 2-digit day (YYYYMMDD).
13. Sample Identification Code
An alphanumeric value up to 30 characters assigned by the laboratory to uniquely identify containers, or groups of containers, containing water samples collected at the same sampling location for the same sampling date.
14. Contaminant
The unregulated contaminant for which the sample is being analyzed.
15. Analytical Method Code
The identification code of the analytical method used.
16. Extraction Batch Identification Code
Laboratory assigned extraction batch ID. Must be unique for each extraction batch within the laboratory for each method. For CCC samples report the Analysis Batch Identification Code as the value for this field. For methods without an extraction batch, leave this field null.
17. Extraction Date
Date for the start of the extraction batch (YYYYMMDD). For methods without an extraction batch, leave this field null.
18. Analysis Batch Identification Code
Laboratory assigned analysis batch ID. Must be unique for each analysis batch within the laboratory for each method.
19. Analysis Date
Date for the start of the analysis batch (YYYYMMDD).
20. Sample Analysis Type
The type of sample collected and/or prepared, as well as the fortification level. Permitted values include:
CCCL = MRL level continuing calibration check; a calibration standard containing the contaminant, the internal standard, and surrogate analyzed to verify the existing calibration for those contaminants.
CCCM = Medium level continuing calibration check; a calibration standard containing the contaminant, the internal standard, and surrogate analyzed to verify the existing calibration for those contaminants.
CCCH = High level continuing calibration check; a calibration standard containing the contaminant, the internal standard, and surrogate analyzed to verify the existing calibration for those contaminants.
FS = Field sample; sample collected and submitted for analysis under this final rule.
LFB = Laboratory fortified blank; an aliquot of reagent water fortified with known quantities of the contaminants and all preservation compounds.
LRB = Laboratory reagent blank; an aliquot of reagent water treated exactly as a field sample, including the addition of preservatives, internal standards, and surrogates to determine if interferences are present in the laboratory, reagents, or other equipment.
LFSM = Laboratory fortified sample matrix; a UCMR field sample with a known amount of the contaminant of interest and all preservation compounds added.
LFSMD = Laboratory fortified sample matrix duplicate; duplicate of the laboratory fortified sample matrix.
QCS = Quality control sample; a sample prepared with a source external to the one used for initial calibration and CCC. The QCS is used to check calibration standard integrity.
FRB = Field reagent blank; an aliquot of reagent water treated as a sample including exposure to sampling conditions to determine if interferences or contamination are present from sample collection through analysis.
21. Analytical Result—Sign
A value indicating whether the sample analysis result was:
(
) “less than” means the contaminant was not detected, or was detected at a level below the Minimum Reporting Level.
(=) “equal to” means the contaminant was detected at the level reported in “Analytical Result— Measured Value.”
22. Analytical Result—Measured Value
The actual numeric value of the analytical results for: Field samples; laboratory fortified matrix samples; laboratory fortified sample matrix duplicates; and concentration fortified.
23. Additional Value
Represents the true value or the fortified concentration for spiked samples for QC Sample Analysis Types (CCCL, CCCM, CCCH, QCS, LFB, LFSM, and LFSMD).
24. Laboratory Identification Code
The code, assigned by EPA, used to identify each laboratory. The code begins with the standard two-character State postal abbreviation; the remaining five numbers are unique to each laboratory in the State.
25. Sample Event Code
A code assigned by the PWS for each sample event. This will associate samples with the PWS monitoring plan to allow EPA to track compliance and completeness. Systems must assign the following codes:
SE1, SE2, SE3, and SE4—Represent samples collected to meet UCMR Assessment Monitoring requirements; where “SE1” and “SE2” represent the first and second sampling period for all water types; and “SE3” and “SE4” represent the third and fourth sampling period for SW, GU, and MX sources only.
26. Historical Information for Contaminant Detections and Treatment
A yes or no answer provided by the PWS for each entry point to the distribution system.
Question: Have you tested for the contaminant in your drinking water in the past?
YES = If yes, did you modify your treatment and if so, what types of treatment did you implement? Select all that apply.
PAC = Application of powder activated carbon.
GAC = Granular activated carbon adsorption (not part of filters in CON, SFN, INF, DFL, or SSF).
IEX = Ionic exchange.
NRO = Nanofiltration and reverse osmosis.
OZN = Ozone.
BAC = Biologically active carbon.
MFL = Membrane filtration.
UVL = Ultraviolet light.
OTH = Other.
NMT = Not modified after testing.
NO = Have never tested for the contaminant.
DK = Do not know.
27. Potential PFAS Sources
A yes or no answer provided by the PWS for each entry point to the distribution system.
Question: Are you aware of any potential current and/or historical sources of PFAS that may have impacted the drinking water sources at your water system?
YES = If yes, select all that apply:
MB = Military base.
FT = Firefighting training school.
AO = Airport operations.
CW = Car wash or industrial launderers.
PS = Public safety activities (e.g., fire and rescue services).
WM = Waste management.
HW = Hazardous waste collection, treatment, and disposal.
UW = Underground injection well.
SC = Solid waste collection, combustors, incinerators.
MF = Manufacturing.
FP = Food packaging.
TA = Textile and apparel (e.g., stain- and water-resistant, fiber/thread, carpet, house furnishings, leather).
PP = Paper.
CC = Chemical.
PR = Plastics and rubber products.
MM = Machinery.
CE = Computer and electronic products.
FM = Fabricated metal products (e.g., nonstick cookware).
PC = Petroleum and coal products.
FF = Furniture.
OG = Oil and gas production.
UT = Utilities (e.g
.,
sewage treatment facilities).
CT = Construction (e.g
.,
wood floor finishing, electrostatic painting).
OT = Other.
NO = Not aware of any potential current and/or historical sources.
DK = Do not know.
[72 FR 389, Jan. 4, 2007, as amended at 77 FR 26096, May 2, 2012; 81 FR 92684, Dec. 20, 2016; 86 FR 73151, Dec. 27, 2021; 87 FR 3679, Jan. 25, 2022]

# Subpart E—Special Regulations, Including Monitoring
§ 141.40
Monitoring requirements for unregulated contaminants.
(a)
General applicability.
This section specifies the monitoring and quality control requirements that must be followed if you own or operate a public water system (PWS) that is subject to the Unregulated Contaminant Monitoring Regulation (UCMR), as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. In addition, this section specifies the UCMR requirements for State and Tribal participation. For the purposes of this section, PWS “population served,” “State,” ” PWS Official,” “PWS Technical Contact,” and “finished water” apply as defined in § 141.35(a). The determination of whether a PWS is required to monitor under this rule is based on the type of system (e.g., community water system, non-transient non-community water system, etc.), and its retail population, as indicated by SDWIS/Fed on February 1, 2021 or subsequent corrections from the State.
(1)
Applicability to transient non-community systems.
If you own or operate a transient non-community water system, you are not subject to monitoring requirements in this section.
(2)
Applicability to community water systems and non-transient non-community water systems
—(i)
Large systems.
If you own or operate a retail PWS (other than a transient non-community system) that serves more than 10,000 people, you must monitor according to the specifications in this paragraph (a)(2)(i). If you believe that your applicability status is different than EPA has specified in the notification letter that you received, or if you are subject to UCMR requirements and you have not been notified by either EPA or your State, you must report to EPA, as specified in § 141.35(b)(2) or (c)(4).
(A)
Assessment monitoring.
You must monitor for the contaminants on List 1, per Table 1, UCMR Contaminant List, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If you serve a retail population of more than 10,000 people, you are required to perform this monitoring regardless of whether you have been notified by the State or EPA.
(B)
Screening Survey.
You must monitor for the unregulated contaminants on List 2 (Screening Survey) of Table 1, as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if your system serves 10,001 to 100,000 people and you are notified by EPA or your State that you are part of the State Monitoring Plan for Screening Survey testing. If your system serves more than 100,000 people, you are required to conduct this Screening Survey testing regardless of whether you have been notified by the State or EPA.
(C)
Pre-Screen Testing.
You must monitor for the unregulated contaminants on List 3 of Table 1, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if notified by your State or EPA that you are part of the Pre-Screen Testing.
(ii)
Small systems.
EPA will provide sample containers, provide pre-paid air bills for shipping the sampling materials, conduct the laboratory analysis, and report and review monitoring results for all small systems selected to conduct monitoring under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. If you own or operate a PWS (other than a transient non-community water system) that serves a retail population of 10,000 or fewer people and you are notified of monitoring requirements by the State or EPA, you must monitor as follows:
(A)
Assessment Monitoring.
You must monitor for the contaminants on List 1 per table 1 to paragraph (a)(3) if you are notified by your State or EPA that you are part of the State Monitoring Plan for Assessment Monitoring.
(B)
Screening Survey.
You must monitor for the unregulated contaminants on List 2 of Table 1, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if notified by your State or EPA that you are part of the State Monitoring Plan for the Screening Survey.
(C)
Pre-screen testing.
You must monitor for the contaminants on List 3 of Table 1, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section if you are notified by your State or EPA that you are part of the State Monitoring Plan for Pre-Screen Testing.
(3)
Analytes to be monitored.
Lists 1, 2, and 3 contaminants are provided in table 1 to paragraph (a)(3):
Table 1 to Paragraph
(a)(3)
—UCMR Contaminant List
1—Contaminant
2—CASRN
3—Analytical
methods
a
4—Minimum
reporting level
b
5—Sampling
location
c
6—Period during
which sample
collection
to be completed
List 1: Assessment Monitoring
Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS)
11-chloroeicosafluoro-3-oxaundecane-1-sulfonic acid (11Cl-PF3OUdS)
763051-92-9
EPA 533
0.005 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
1H, 1H, 2H, 2H-perfluorodecane sulfonic acid (8:2 FTS)
39108-34-4
EPA 533
0.005 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
1H, 1H, 2H, 2H-perfluorohexane sulfonic acid (4:2 FTS)
757124-72-4
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
1H, 1H, 2H, 2H-perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (6:2 FTS)
27619-97-2
EPA 533
0.005 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
4,8-dioxa-3H-perfluorononanoic acid (ADONA)
919005-14-4
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
9-chlorohexadecafluoro-3-oxanone-1-sulfonic acid (9Cl-PF3ONS)
756426-58-1
EPA 533
0.002 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
hexafluoropropylene oxide dimer acid (HFPO-DA) (GenX)
13252-13-6
EPA 533
0.005 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
nonafluoro-3,6-dioxaheptanoic acid (NFDHA)
151772-58-6
EPA 533
0.02 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluoro (2-ethoxyethane) sulfonic acid (PFEESA)
113507-82-7
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluoro-3-methoxypropanoic acid (PFMPA)
377-73-1
EPA 533
0.004 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluoro-4-methoxybutanoic acid (PFMBA)
863090-89-5
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorobutanesulfonic acid (PFBS)
375-73-5
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorobutanoic acid (PFBA)
375-22-4
EPA 533
0.005 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorodecanoic acid (PFDA)
335-76-2
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorododecanoic acid (PFDoA)
307-55-1
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluoroheptanesulfonic acid (PFHpS)
375-92-8
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluoroheptanoic acid (PFHpA)
375-85-9
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorohexanesulfonic acid (PFHxS)
355-46-4
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorohexanoic acid (PFHxA)
307-24-4
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorononanoic acid (PFNA)
375-95-1
EPA 533
0.004 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS)
1763-23-1
EPA 533
0.004 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA)
335-67-1
EPA 533
0.004 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluoropentanesulfonic acid (PFPeS)
2706-91-4
EPA 533
0.004 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluoropentanoic acid (PFPeA)
2706-90-3
EPA 533
0.003 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluoroundecanoic acid (PFUnA)
2058-94-8
EPA 533
0.002 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
n-ethyl perfluorooctanesulfonamidoacetic acid (NEtFOSAA)
2991-50-6
EPA 537.1
0.005 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
n-methyl perfluorooctanesulfonamidoacetic acid (NMeFOSAA)
2355-31-9
EPA 537.1
0.006 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorotetradecanoic acid (PFTA)
376-06-7
EPA 537.1
0.008 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
perfluorotridecanoic acid (PFTrDA)
72629-94-8
EPA 537.1
0.007 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
Metal/Pharmaceutical
Lithium
7439-93-2
EPA 200.7, SM 3120 B, ASTM D1976-20
9 µg/L
EPTDS
1/1/2023-12/31/2025
List 2: Screening Survey
Reserved
Reserved
Reserved
Reserved
Reserved
Reserved
List 3: Pre-Screen Testing
Reserved
Reserved
Reserved
Reserved
Reserved
Reserved
Column headings are:
1—Contaminant:
The name of the contaminant to be analyzed.
2—CASRN (Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number) or Identification Number:
A unique number identifying the chemical contaminants.
3—Analytical Methods:
Method numbers identifying the methods that must be used to test the contaminants.
4—Minimum Reporting Level (MRL):
The value and unit of measure at or above which the concentration of the contaminant must be measured using the approved analytical methods. If EPA determines, after the first six months of monitoring that the specified MRLs result in excessive resampling, EPA will establish alternate MRLs and will notify affected PWSs and laboratories of the new MRLs. N/A is defined as non-applicable.
5—Sampling Location:
The locations within a PWS at which samples must be collected.
6—Period During Which Sample Collection to be Completed:
The time period during which the sampling and testing will occur for the indicated contaminant.
a
The analytical procedures shall be performed in accordance with the documents associated with each method, see paragraph (c) of this section.
b
The MRL is the minimum concentration of each analyte that must be reported to EPA.
c
Sampling must occur at your PWS's entry points to the distribution system (EPTDSs), after treatment is applied, that represent each non-emergency water source in routine use over the 12-month period of monitoring. Systems that purchase water with multiple connections from the same wholesaler may select one representative connection from that wholesaler. The representative EPTDS must be a location within the purchaser's water system. This EPTDS sampling location must be representative of the highest annual volume connections. If the connection selected as the representative EPTDS is not available for sampling, an alternate highest volume representative connection must be sampled. See 40 CFR 141.35(c)(3) for an explanation of the requirements related to the use of representative GW EPTDSs.
(4)
Sampling requirements
—(i)
Large systems.
If you serve more than 10,000 people and meet the UCMR applicability criteria specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i)(A) through (I) of this section. Your samples must be collected according to the schedule that you are assigned by EPA or your State, or the schedule that you revised using EPA's electronic data reporting system on or before December 31, 2022. Your schedule must follow both the timing and frequency of monitoring specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this section.
(A)
Sample collection period.
You must collect the samples in one continuous 12-month period for List 1 Assessment Monitoring, and, if applicable, for List 2 Screening Survey, or List 3 Pre-Screen Testing, during the timeframe indicated in column 6 of table 1 to paragraph (a)(3) of this section. EPA or your State will specify the month(s) and year(s) in which your monitoring must occur. As specified in 40 CFR 141.35(c)(5), you must contact EPA if you believe you cannot collect samples according to your schedule.
(B)
Frequency.
You must collect the samples within the timeframe and according to the frequency specified by contaminant type and water source type for each sampling location, as specified in table 2 to this paragraph (a)(4)(i)(B). For the second or subsequent round of sampling, if a sample location is non-operational for more than one month before and one month after the scheduled sampling month (
i.e.,
it is not possible for you to sample within the window specified in table 2), you must notify EPA as specified in 40 CFR 141.35(c)(5) to reschedule your sampling.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
a
)(4)(
i
)(B)—Monitoring Frequency by Contaminant and Water Source Types
Contaminant type
Water source type
Timeframe
Frequency
1
List 1 Contaminants
Surface water, Mixed, or GWUDI
12 months
You must monitor for four consecutive quarters. Sample events must occur three months apart. (Example: If first monitoring is in January, the second monitoring must occur any time in April, the third any time in July, and the fourth any time in October).
Ground water
12 months
You must monitor twice in a consecutive 12-month period. Sample events must occur 5-7 months apart. (Example: If the first monitoring event is in April, the second monitoring event must occur any time in September, October, or November.)
1
Systems must assign a sample event code for each contaminant listed in Table 1. Sample event codes must be assigned by the PWS for each sample event. For more information on sample event codes see 40 CFR 141.35(e) Table 1.
(C)
Location.
You must collect samples for each List 1 Assessment Monitoring contaminant, and, if applicable, for each List 2 Screening Survey, or List 3 Pre-Screen Testing contaminant, as specified in table 1 to paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Samples must be collected at each sample point that is specified in column 5 and footnote c of table 1 to paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If you are a GW system with multiple EPTDSs, and you request and receive approval from EPA or the State for sampling at representative EPTDS(s), as specified in 40 CFR 141.35(c)(3), you must collect your samples from the approved representative sampling location(s).
(D)
Sampling instructions.
For each List 1 Assessment Monitoring contaminant, and, if applicable, for each List 2 Screening Survey, or List 3 Pre-Screen Testing contaminant, you must follow the sampling procedure for the method specified in column 3 of Table 1, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. In addition, you must not composite (that is, combine, mix, or blend) the samples;
you must collect and preserve each sample separately.
(E)
Sample collection and shipping time.
If you must ship the samples for analysis, you must collect the samples early enough in the day to allow adequate time to send the samples for overnight delivery to the laboratory. You should not collect samples on Friday, Saturday, or Sunday because sampling on these days may not allow samples to be shipped and received at the laboratory at the required temperature, unless you have made special arrangements with your laboratory to receive the samples.
(F)
Analytical methods.
For each contaminant, you must use the respective analytical methods for List 1, and, if applicable, for List 2, or List 3 that are specified in column 3 of Table 1, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; report values at or above the minimum reporting levels for List 1, and, if applicable, for List 2 Screening Survey, or List 3 Pre-Screen Testing, that are specified in column 4 of Table 1, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and conduct the quality control procedures specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(G)
Laboratory errors or sampling deviations.
If the laboratory data do not meet the required QC criteria, as specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, or you do not follow the required sampling procedures, as specified in paragraphs (a)(4) of this section, you must resample within 30 days of being informed or becoming aware of these facts. This resampling is not for the purpose of confirming previous results, but to correct the sampling or laboratory error. All systems must report the results obtained from the first sampling for each sampling period, except for cases of sampling or laboratory errors. For the purposes of this rule, no samples are to be recollected for the purposes of confirming the results observed in a previous sampling.
(H)
Analysis.
For the List 1 contaminants, and, if applicable, List 2 Screening Survey, or List 3 Pre-Screen Testing contaminants, identified in Table 1, paragraph (a)(3) of this section, you must arrange for testing by a laboratory that has been approved by EPA according to requirements in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section.
(I)
Review and reporting of results.
After you have received the laboratory results, you must review, approve, and submit the system information, and sample collection data and test results. You must report the results as provided in § 141.35(c)(6).
(ii)
Small systems.
If you serve a population of 10,000 or fewer people and are notified that you are part of the State Monitoring Plan, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii)(A) through (H) of this section. If EPA or the State informs you that they will be collecting your UCMR samples, you must assist them in identifying the appropriate sampling locations and in collecting the samples.
(A)
Sample collection and frequency.
You must collect samples at the times specified for you by the State or EPA. Your schedule must follow both the timing of monitoring specified in table 1 to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, List 1, and, if applicable, List 2, or List 3, and the frequency of monitoring in table 2 to paragraph (a)(4)(i)(B) of this section.
(B)
Location.
You must collect samples at the locations specified for you by the State or EPA.
(C)
Sample kits.
You must store and maintain the sample collection kits sent to you by the UCMR Sampling Coordinator in accordance with the kit's instructions. The sample kit will include all necessary containers, packing materials and cold packs, instructions for collecting the sample and sample treatment (such as dechlorination or preservation), report forms for each sample, contact name and telephone number for the laboratory, and a prepaid return shipping docket and return address label. If any of the materials listed in the kit's instructions are not included in the kit or arrive damaged, you must notify the UCMR Sampling Coordinator who sent you the sample collection kits.
(D)
Sampling instructions.
You must comply with the instructions sent to you by the State or EPA concerning the use of containers, collection (how to fill the sample bottle), dechlorination and/or preservation, and
sealing and preparation of sample and shipping containers for shipment. You must not composite (that is, combine, mix, or blend) the samples. You also must collect, preserve, and test each sample separately. You must also comply with the instructions sent to you by the UCMR Sampling Coordinator concerning the handling of sample containers for specific contaminants.
(E)
Sampling deviations.
If you do not collect a sample according to the instructions provided to you for a listed contaminant, you must report the deviation within 7 days of the scheduled monitoring on the sample reporting form, as specified in § 141.35(d)(2). You must resample following instructions that you will be sent from the UCMR Sampling Coordinator or State. A copy of the form must be sent to the laboratory with the recollected samples, and to the UCMR Sampling Coordinator.
(F) [Reserved]
(G)
Sampling forms.
You must completely fill out each of the sampling forms and bottles sent to you by the UCMR Sampling Coordinator, including data elements listed in § 141.35(e) for each sample, as specified in § 141.35(d)(2). You must sign and date the sampling forms.
(H)
Sample collection and shipping.
You must collect the samples early enough in the day to allow adequate time to send the samples for overnight delivery to the laboratory. You should not collect samples on Friday, Saturday, or Sunday because sampling on these days may not allow samples to be shipped and received at the laboratory at the required temperature unless you have made special arrangements with EPA for the laboratory to receive the samples. Once you have collected the samples and completely filled in the sampling forms, you must send the samples and the sampling forms to the laboratory designated on the air bill.
(5)
Quality control requirements.
If your system serves more than 10,000 people, you must ensure that the quality control requirements listed below are met during your sampling procedures and by the laboratory conducting your analyses. You must also ensure that all method quality control procedures and all UCMR quality control procedures are followed.
(i)
Sample collection/preservation.
You must follow the sample collection and preservation requirements for the specified method for each of the contaminants in Table 1, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. These requirements specify sample containers, collection, dechlorination, preservation, storage, sample holding time, and extract storage and/or holding time that you must assure that the laboratory follow.
(ii)
Laboratory approval for Lists 1, List 2 and List 3.
To be approved to conduct UCMR testing, the laboratory must be certified under § 141.28 for one or more compliance analyses; demonstrate for each analytical method it plans to use for UCMR testing that it can meet the Initial Demonstration of Capability (IDC) requirements detailed in the analytical methods specified in column 3 of Table 1, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and successfully participate in the UCMR Proficiency Testing (PT) Program administered by EPA for each analytical method it plans to use for UCMR testing. UCMR laboratory approval decisions will be granted on an individual method basis for the methods listed in column 3 of Table 1 in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for List 1, List 2, and List 3 contaminants. Laboratory approval is contingent upon the capability of the laboratory to post monitoring data to the EPA electronic data reporting system. To participate in the UCMR Laboratory Approval Program, the laboratory must register and complete the necessary application materials by August 1, 2022. Correspondence must be addressed to: UCMR Laboratory Approval Coordinator, USEPA, Technical Support Center, 26 West Martin Luther King Drive, (MS 140), Cincinnati, Ohio 45268; or emailed to EPA at:
UCMR_Lab_Approval@epa.gov.
(iii)
Minimum Reporting Level.
The MRL is defined by EPA as the quantitation limit achievable, with 95 percent confidence, by 75 percent of laboratories nationwide, assuming the use of good instrumentation and experienced analysts.
(A) Validation of laboratory performance. Your laboratory must be capable of quantifying each contaminant listed
in Table 1, at or below the MRL specified in column 4 of Table 1, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. You must ensure that the laboratory completes and has on file and available for your inspection, records of two distinct procedures. First, your laboratory must have conducted an IDC involving replicate analyses at or below the MRL as described in this paragraph. Second, for each day that UCMR analyses are conducted by your laboratory, a validation of its ability to quantify each contaminant, at or below the MRL specified in column 4 of Table 1, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, following the procedure listed in paragraph (a)(5)(iii)(B) of this section, must be performed. The procedure for initial validation of laboratory performance at or below the MRL is as follows:
(
1
) All laboratories performing analysis under UCMR must demonstrate that they are capable of meeting data quality objectives at or below the MRL listed in Table 1, column 4, in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(
2
) The MRL, or any concentration below the MRL, at which performance is being evaluated, must be contained within the range of calibration. The calibration curve regression model and the range of calibration levels that are used in these performance validation steps must be used in all routine sample analyses used to comply with this regulation. Only straight line or quadratic regression models are allowed. The use of either weighted or unweighted models is permitted. The use of cubic regression models is not permitted.
(
3
) Replicate analyses of at least seven (7) fortified samples in reagent water must be performed at or below the MRL for each analyte, and must be processed through the entire method procedure (
i.e.
, including extraction, where applicable, and with all preservatives).
(
4
) A prediction interval of results (PIR), which is based on the estimated arithmetic mean of analytical results and the estimated sample standard deviation of measurement results, must be determined by Equation 1:
ER04JA07.000
Where:
t
is the Student's
t
value with
df
degrees of freedom and confidence level (1-α),
s
is the sample standard deviation of
n
replicate samples fortified at the MRL,
n
is the number of replicates.
(
5
) The values needed to calculate the PIR using Equation 1 are: Number of replicates (
n
); Student's
t
value with a two-sided 99% confidence level for
n
number of replicates; the average (mean) of at least seven replicates; and the sample standard deviation. Factor 1 is referred to as the Half Range PIR (HR
PIR
).
ER04JA07.001
For a certain number of replicates and for a certain confidence level in Student's
t
, this factor
ER04JA07.002
is constant, and can be tabulated according to replicate number and confidence level for the Student's
t.
Table 3 in this paragraph lists the constant factor (
C
) for replicate sample numbers 7 through 10 with a confidence level of 99% for Student's
t.
(
6
) The HRPIR is calculated by Equation 2:
ER04JA07.003
(
7
) The PIR is calculated by Equation 3:
ER04JA07.004
Table 3—The Constant Factor (C) to be Multiplied by the Standard Deviation to Determine the Half Range Interval of the PIR (Student's
t
99% Confidence Level)
a
Replicates
Degrees of freedom
Constant factor (C) to be multiplied by the standard
deviation
7
6
3.963
8
7
3.711
9
8
3.536
10
9
3.409
a
The critical
t
-value for a two-sided 99% confidence interval is equivalent to the critical
t
-value for a one-sided 99.5% confidence interval, due to the symmetry of the
t
-distribution. PIR = Prediction Interval of Results.
(
8
) The lower and upper result limits of the PIR must be converted to percent recovery of the concentration being tested. To pass criteria at a certain level, the PIR lower recovery limits cannot be lower than the lower recovery limits of the QC interval (50%), and the PIR upper recovery limits cannot be greater than the upper recovery limits of the QC interval (150%). When either of the PIR recovery limits falls outside of either bound of the QC interval of recovery (higher than 150% or less than 50%), laboratory performance is not validated at the concentration evaluated. If the PIR limits are contained within both bounds of the QC interval, laboratory performance is validated for that analyte.
(B) Quality control requirements for validation of laboratory performance at or below the MRL.
(
1
) You must ensure that the calibration curve regression model and that the range of calibration levels that are used in these performance validation steps are used in future routine sample analysis. Only straight line or quadratic regression models are allowed. The use of either weighted or unweighted models is permitted. The use of cubic regression models is not permitted.
(
2
) You must ensure, once your laboratory has performed an IDC as specified in each analytical method (demonstrating that DQOs are met at or below an MRL), that a daily performance check is performed for each analyte and method. A single laboratory blank, fortified at or below the MRL for each analyte, must be processed through the entire method procedure. The measured concentration for each analyte must be converted to a percent recovery, and if the recovery is within 50%-150% (inclusive), the daily performance of the laboratory has been validated. The results for any analyte for which 50%-150% recovery cannot be demonstrated during the daily check are not valid. Laboratories may elect to re-run the daily performance check sample if the performance for any analyte or analytes cannot be validated. If performance is validated for these analytes, the laboratory performance is considered validated. Alternatively, the laboratory may re-calibrate and repeat the performance validation process for all analytes.
(iv) [Reserved]
(v)
Method defined quality control.
You must ensure that your laboratory analyzes Laboratory Fortified Blanks and conducts Laboratory Performance Checks, as appropriate to the method's requirements, for those methods listed in column 3 in table 1 to paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Each method specifies acceptance criteria for these QC checks.
(vi)
Reporting.
You must require your laboratory, on your behalf, to post and approve these data in EPA's electronic data reporting system, accessible at
https://www.epa.gov/dwucmr,
for your review within 90 days from the sample collection date. You then have 30 days from when the laboratory posts and approves your data to review, approve, and submit the data to the State and EPA, via the agency's electronic data reporting system. If you do not electronically approve and submit the laboratory data to EPA within 30 days of the laboratory posting approved data, the data will be considered approved by
you and available for State and EPA review.
(6)
Violation of this rule
—(i)
Monitoring violations.
Any failure to monitor in accordance with § 141.40(a)(3)-(5) is a monitoring violation.
(ii)
Reporting violations.
Any failure to report in accordance with § 141.35 is a reporting violation.
(b)
Petitions and waivers by States
—(1)
Governors' petition for additional contaminants.
The Safe Drinking Water Act allows Governors of seven (7) or more States to petition the EPA Administrator to add one or more contaminants to the UCMR Contaminant List in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The petition must clearly identify the reason(s) for adding the contaminant(s) to the monitoring list, including the potential risk to public health, particularly any information that might be available regarding disproportional risks to the health and safety of children, the expected occurrence documented by any available data, any analytical methods known or proposed to be used to test for the contaminant(s), and any other information that could assist the Administrator in determining which contaminants present the greatest public health concern and should, therefore, be included on the UCMR Contaminant List in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(2)
State-wide waivers.
A State can waive monitoring requirements only with EPA approval and under very limited conditions. Conditions and procedures for obtaining a waiver are as follows:
(i)
Application.
A State may apply to EPA for a State-wide waiver from the unregulated contaminant monitoring requirements for PWSs serving more than 10,000 people. To apply for such a waiver, the State must submit an application to EPA that includes the following information: The list of contaminants on the UCMR Contaminant List for which a waiver is requested, along with documentation for each contaminant in the request demonstrating that the contaminants or their parent compounds do not occur naturally in the State, and certifying that during the past 15 years they have not been used, applied, stored, disposed of, released, or detected in the source waters or distribution systems in the State.
(ii)
Approval.
EPA will review State applications and notify the State whether it accepts or rejects the request. The State must receive written approval from EPA before issuing a State-wide waiver.
(c)
Incorporation by reference.
The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Water Docket, EPA/DC, EPA West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 566-1744, email
Docket-customerservice@epa.gov,
or go to
https://www.epa.gov/dockets/epa-docket-center-reading-room,
and is available from the sources indicated elsewhere in this paragraph. The material is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(1) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20004; telephone: (202) 566-1744.
(i) Method 200.7, “Determination of Metals and Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry,” Revision 4.4, EMMC Version, 1994. Available at
https://www.epa.gov/esam/method-2007-determination-metals-and-trace-elements-water-and-wastes-inductively-coupled-plasma.
(ii) Method 537.1, “Determination of Selected Per- and Polyfluorinated Alkyl Substances in Drinking Water by Solid Phase Extraction and Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry,” Version 2.0, 2020. Available at
https://www.epa.gov/water-research/epa-drinking-water-research-methods.
(iii) Method 533, “Determination of Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances in Drinking Water by Isotope Dilution Anion Exchange Solid Phase Extraction and Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry,” November 2019, EPA 815-B-19-020. Available at
https://www.epa.gov/dwanalyticalmethods.
(2) American Public Health Association, 800 I Street NW, Washington, DC 20001-3710; telephone: (202) 777-2742; email:
comments@apha.org; www.apha.org.
(i) “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
Wastewater,” 23rd edition (2017).
(A) SM 3120 B, “Metals by Plasma Emission Spectroscopy (2017): Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP) Method.”
(B) [Reserved]
(ii) “Standard Methods Online,” approved 1999;
https://www.standardmethods.org.
(A) SM 3120 B, “Metals by Plasma Emission Spectroscopy: Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP) Method,” revised December 14, 2020.
(B) [Reserved]
(3) ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; telephone: (610) 832-9500; email:
service@astm.org; www.astm.org.
(i) ASTM D1976-20, “Standard Test Method for Elements in Water by Inductively-Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectroscopy,” approved May 1, 2020.
(ii) [Reserved]
[72 FR 393, Jan. 4, 2007; 72 FR 3916, Jan. 26, 2007, as amended at 77 FR 26098, May 2, 2012; 81 FR 92688, Dec. 20, 2016; 86 FR 73155, Dec. 27, 2021; 87 FR 3679, Jan. 25, 2022]
§ 141.41
Special monitoring for sodium.
