The concentration of a radionuclide may be determined by indirect methods such as use of scaling factors which relate the inferred concentration of one radionuclide to another that is measured, or radionuclide material accountability, if there is reasonable assurance that the indirect methods can be correlated with actual measurements. The concentration of a radionuclide may be averaged over the volume of the waste, or weight of the waste if the units are expressed as nanocuries per gram.
[47 FR 57463, Dec. 27, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 22583, May 25, 1989; 66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001]
§ 61.56
Waste characteristics.
(a) The following requirements are minimum requirements for all classes of waste and are intended to facilitate handling at the disposal site and provide protection of health and safety of personnel at the disposal site.
(1) Waste must not be packaged for disposal in cardboard or fiberboard boxes.
(2) Liquid waste must be solidified or packaged in sufficient absorbent material to absorb twice the volume of the liquid.
(3) Solid waste containing liquid shall contain as little free standing and noncorrosive liquid as is reasonably achievable, but in no case shall the liquid exceed 1% of the volume.
(4) Waste must not be readily capable of detonation or of explosive decomposition or reaction at normal pressures and temperatures, or of explosive reaction with water.
(5) Waste must not contain, or be capable of generating, quantities of toxic gases, vapors, or fumes harmful to persons transporting, handling, or disposing of the waste. This does not apply to radioactive gaseous waste packaged in accordance with paragraph (a)(7) of this section.
(6) Waste must not be pyrophoric. Pyrophoric materials contained in waste shall be treated, prepared, and packaged to be nonflammable.
(7) Waste in a gaseous form must be packaged at a pressure that does not exceed 1.5 atmospheres at 20 °C. Total activity must not exceed 100 curies per container.
(8) Waste containing hazardous, biological, pathogenic, or infectious material must be treated to reduce to the maximum extent practicable the potential hazard from the non-radiological materials.
(b) The requirements in this section are intended to provide stability of the waste. Stability is intended to ensure that the waste does not structurally degrade and affect overall stability of the site through slumping, collapse, or other failure of the disposal unit and thereby lead to water infiltration. Stability is also a factor in limiting exposure to an inadvertent intruder, since it provides a recognizable and nondispersible waste.
(1) Waste must have structural stability. A structurally stable waste form will generally maintain its physical dimensions and its form, under the expected disposal conditions such as weight of overburden and compaction equipment, the presence of moisture, and microbial activity, and internal factors such as radiation effects and chemical changes. Structural stability can be provided by the waste form itself, processing the waste to a stable form, or placing the waste in a disposal container or structure that provides stability after disposal.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions in § 61.56(a) (2) and (3), liquid wastes, or
wastes containing liquid, must be converted into a form that contains as little free standing and noncorrosive liquid as is reasonably achievable, but in no case shall the liquid exceed 1% of the volume of the waste when the waste is in a disposal container designed to ensure stability, or 0.5% of the volume of the waste for waste processed to a stable form.
(3) Void spaces within the waste and between the waste and its package must be reduced to the extent practicable.
§ 61.57
Labeling.
Each package of waste must be clearly labeled to identify whether it is Class A waste, Class B waste, or Class C waste, in accordance with § 61.55.
§ 61.58
Alternative requirements for waste classification and characteristics.
The Commission may, upon request or on its own initiative, authorize other provisions for the classification and characteristics of waste on a specific basis, if, after evaluation, of the specific characteristics of the waste, disposal site, and method of disposal, it finds reasonable assurance of compliance with the performance objectives in subpart C of this part.
§ 61.59
Institutional requirements.
(a)
Land ownership.
Disposal of radioactive waste received from other persons may be permitted only on land owned in fee by the Federal or a State government.
(b)
Institutional control.
The land owner or custodial agency shall carry out an institutional control program to physically control access to the disposal site following transfer of control of the disposal site from the disposal site operator. The institutional control program must also include, but not be limited to, carrying out an environmental monitoring program at the disposal site, periodic surveillance, minor custodial care, and other requirements as determined by the Commission; and administration of funds to cover the costs for these activities. The period of institutional controls will be determined by the Commission, but institutional controls may not be relied upon for more than 100 years following transfer of control of the disposal site to the owner.

# Subpart E—Financial Assurances
§ 61.61
Applicant qualifications and assurances.
Each applicant shall show that it either possesses the necessary funds or has reasonable assurance of obtaining the necessary funds, or by a combination of the two, to cover the estimated costs of conducting all licensed activities over the planned operating life of the project, including costs of construction and disposal.
§ 61.62
Funding for disposal site closure and stabilization.
(a) The applicant shall provide assurance that sufficient funds will be available to carry out disposal site closure and stabilization, including: (1) Decontamination or dismantlement of land disposal facility structures; and (2) closure and stabilization of the disposal site so that following transfer of the disposal site to the site owner, the need for ongoing active maintenance is eliminated to the extent practicable and only minor custodial care, surveillance, and monitoring are required. These assurances shall be based on Commission-approved cost estimates reflecting the Commission-approved plan for disposal site closure and stabilization. The applicant's cost estimates must take into account total capital costs that would be incurred if an independent contractor were hired to perform the closure and stabilization work.
(b) In order to avoid unnecessary duplication and expense, the Commission will accept financial sureties that have been consolidated with earmarked financial or surety arrangements established to meet requirements of other Federal or State agencies and/or local governing bodies for such decontamination, closure and stabilization. The Commission will accept this arrangement only if they are considered adequate to satisfy these requirements and that the portion of the surety which covers the closure of the disposal site is clearly identified and committed
for use in accomplishing these activities.
(c) The licensee's surety mechanism will be annually reviewed by the Commission to assure that sufficient funds are available for completion of the closure plan, assuming that the work has to be performed by an independent contractor.
(d) The amount of surety liability should change in accordance with the predicted cost of future closure and stabilization. Factors affecting closure and stabilization cost estimates include: inflation; increases in the amount of disturbed land; changes in engineering plans; closure and stabilization that has already been accomplished and any other conditions affecting costs. This will yield a surety that is at least sufficient at all times to cover the costs of closure of the disposal units that are expected to be used before the next license renewal.
(e) The term of the surety mechanism must be open ended unless it can be demonstrated that another arrangement would provide an equivalent level of assurance. This assurance could be provided with a surety mechanism which is written for a specified period of time (e.g., five years) yet which must be automatically renewed unless the party who issues the surety notifies the Commission and the beneficiary (the site owner) and the principal (the licensee) not less than 90 days prior to the renewal date of its intention not to renew. In such a situation the licensee must submit a replacement surety within 30 days after notification of cancellation. If the licensee fails to provide a replacement surety acceptable to the Commission, the site owner may collect on the original surety.
(f) Proof of forfeiture must not be necessary to collect the surety so that in the event that the licensee could not provide an acceptable replacement surety within the required time, the surety shall be automatically collected prior to its expiration. The conditions described above would have to be clearly stated on any surety instrument which is not open-ended, and must be agreed to by all parties. Liability under the surety mechanism must remain in effect until the closure and stabilization program has been completed and approved by the Commission and the license has been transferred to the site owner.
(g) Financial surety arrangements generally acceptable to the Commission include: surety bonds, cash deposits, certificates of deposits, deposits of government securities, escrow accounts, irrevocable letters or lines of credit, trust funds, and combinations of the above or such other types of arrangements as may be approved by the Commission. However, self-insurance, or any arrangement which essentially constitutes pledging the assets of the licensee, will not satisfy the surety requirement for private sector applicants since this provides no additional assurance other than that which already exists through license requirements.
§ 61.63
Financial assurances for institutional controls.
(a) Prior to the issuance of the license, the applicant shall provide for Commission review and approval a copy of a binding arrangement, such as a lease, between the applicant and the disposal site owner that ensures that sufficient funds will be available to cover the costs of monitoring and any required maintenance during the institutional control period. The binding arrangement will be reviewed periodically by the Commission to ensure that changes in inflation, technology and disposal facility operations are reflected in the arrangements.
(b) Subsequent changes to the binding arrangement specified in paragraph (a) of this section relevant to institutional control shall be submitted to the Commission for approval.

# Subpart F—Participation by State Governments and Indian Tribes
§ 61.70
Scope.
This subpart describes mechanisms through which the Commission will implement a formal request from a State or tribal government to participate in the review of a license application for a land disposal facility. Nothing in this subpart may be construed to bar the State or tribal governing body from participating in subsequent Commission proceedings concerning the license
application as provided under Federal law and regulations.
§ 61.71
State and Tribal government consultation.
Upon request of a State or tribal governing body, the Director shall make available Commission staff to discuss with representatives of the State or tribal governing body information submitted by the applicant, applicable Commission regulations, licensing procedures, potential schedules, and the type and scope of State activities in the license review permitted by law. In addition, staff shall be made available to consult and cooperate with the State or tribal governing body in developing proposals for participation in the license review.
§ 61.72
Filing of proposals for State and Tribal participation.
(a) A State or tribal governing body whose interest is affected by a near-surface disposal facility at the proposed site may submit to the Director a proposal for participation in the review of a license application. Proposals must be submitted within the following time periods:
(1) For the State in which the disposal facility will be located, or any State that is member of an interstate compact that includes the State in which the disposal facility is located, no later than 45 days following publication in the
Federal Register
of the notice of tendering of an application submitted under § 61.20.
(2) For any other State, or for a tribal governing body, no later than 120 days following publication in the
Federal Register
of the notice of tendering of an application submitted under § 61.20.
(b) Proposals for participation in the licensing process must be made in writing and must be signed by the Governor of the State or the official otherwise provided for by State or tribal law.
(c) At a minimum, proposals must contain each of the following items of information:
(1) A general description of how the State or Tribe wishes to participate in the licensing process specifically identifying those issues it wishes to review.
(2) A description of material and information which the State or Tribe plans to submit to the Commission for consideration in the licensing process. A tentative schedule referencing steps in the review and calendar dates for planned submittals should be included.
(3) A description of any work that the State or Tribe proposes to perform for the Commission in support of the licensing process.
(4) A description of State or Tribal plans to facilitate local government and citizen participation.
(5) A preliminary estimate of the types and extent of impacts which the State expects, should a disposal facility be located as proposed.
(6) If desired, any requests for educational or information services (seminars, public meetings) or other actions from the Commission such as establishment of additional Public Document Rooms or exchange of State personnel under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act.
§ 61.73
Commission approval of proposals.
(a) Upon receipt of a proposal submitted in accordance with § 61.72, the Director shall arrange for a meeting between the representatives of the State or Tribal governing body and the Commission staff to discuss the proposal and to ensure full and effective participation by the State or Tribe in the Commission's license review.
(b) If requested by a State or Tribal governing body, the Director may approve all or any part of a proposal if the Director determines that:
(1) The proposed activities are within the scope of Commission statutory responsibility and the type and magnitude of impacts which the State or Tribe may bear are sufficient to justify their participation; and
(2) The proposed activities will contribute productively to the licensing review.
(c) The decision of the Director will be transmitted in writing to the governor or the designated official of the Tribal governing body.
(d) Participation by a State or Indian Tribe shall not affect their rights to participate in an adjudicatory hearing as provided by part 2 of this chapter.

# Subpart G—Records, Reports, Tests, and Inspections
§ 61.80
Maintenance of records, reports, and transfers.
(a) Each licensee shall maintain any records and make any reports in connection with the licensed activities as may be required by the conditions of the license or by the rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission.
(b) Records which are required by the regulations in this part or by license conditions must be maintained for a period specified by the appropriate regulations in this chapter or by license condition. If a retention period is not otherwise specified, these records must be maintained and transferred to the officials specified in paragraph (e) of this section as a condition of license termination unless the Commission otherwise authorizes their disposition.
(c) Records which must be maintained pursuant to this part may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform if this reproduced copy or microform is capable of producing copy that is clear and legible at the end of the required retention period. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, specifications, must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.
(d) If there is a conflict between the Commission's regulations in this part, license condition, or other written Commission approval or authorization pertaining to the retention period for the same type of record, the longest retention period specified takes precedence.
(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, the licensee shall record the location and the quantity of radioactive wastes contained in the disposal site and transfer these records upon license termination to the chief executive of the nearest municipality, the chief executive of the county in which the facility is located, the county zoning board or land development and planning agency, the State governor and other State, local, and Federal governmental agencies as designated by the Commission at the time of license termination.
(f) Following receipt and acceptance of a shipment of radioactive waste, the licensee shall record the date that the shipment is received at the disposal facility, the date of disposal of the waste, a traceable shipment manifest number, a description of any engineered barrier or structural overpack provided for disposal of the waste, the location of disposal at the disposal site, the containment integrity of the waste disposal containers as received, any discrepancies between materials listed on the manifest and those received, the volume of any pallets, bracing, or other shipping or onsite generated materials that are contaminated, and are disposed of as contaminated or suspect materials, and any evidence of leaking or damaged disposal containers or radiation or contamination levels in excess of limits specified in Department of Transportation and Commission regulations. The licensee shall briefly describe any repackaging operations of any of the disposal containers included in the shipment, plus any other information required by the Commission as a license condition. The licensee shall retain these records until the Commission transfers or terminates the license that authorizes the activities described in this section.
(g) Each licensee shall comply with the safeguards reporting requirements of §§ 30.55, 40.64, 74.13, and 74.15 of this chapter if the quantities or activities of materials received or transferred exceed the limits of these sections. Inventory reports required by these sections are not required for materials after disposal.
(h) Each licensee authorized to dispose of radioactive waste received from other persons shall file a copy of its financial report or a certified financial statement annually with the Commission in order to update the information base for determining financial qualifications.
(i)(1) Each licensee authorized to dispose of waste materials received from
other persons under this part shall submit annual reports to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, by an appropriate method listed in § 60.4 of this chapter, with a copy to the appropriate NRC Regional Office shown in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter. Reports must be submitted by the end of the first calendar quarter of each year for the preceding year.
(2) The reports shall include (i) specification of the quantity of each of the principal radionuclides released to unrestricted areas in liquid and in airborne effluents during the preceding year, (ii) the results of the environmental monitoring program, (iii) a summary of licensee disposal unit survey and maintenance activities, (iv) a summary, by waste class, of activities and quantities of radionuclides disposed of, (v) any instances in which observed site characteristics were significantly different from those described in the application for a license; and (vi) any other information the Commission may require. If the quantities of radioactive materials released during the reporting period, monitoring results, or maintenance performed are significantly different from those expected in the materials previously reviewed as part of the licensing action, the report must cover this specifically.
(j) Each licensee shall report in accordance with the requirements of § 70.52 of this chapter.
(k) Any transfer of byproduct, source, and special nuclear materials by the licensee is subject to the requirements in §§ 30.41, 40.51, and 70.42 of this chapter. Byproduct, source and special nuclear material means materials as defined in these parts, respectively.
(l) In addition to the other requirements of this section, the licensee shall store, or have stored, manifest and other information pertaining to receipt and disposal of radioactive waste in an electronic recordkeeping system.
(1) The manifest information that must be electronically stored is—
(i) That required in 10 CFR part 20, appendix G, with the exception of shipper and carrier telephone numbers and shipper and consignee certifications; and
(ii) That information required in paragraph (f) of this section.
(2) As specified in facility license conditions, the licensee shall report the stored information, or subsets of this information, on a computer-readable medium.
[47 FR 57463, Dec. 27, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 31612, Aug. 21, 1987; 53 FR 19251, May 27, 1988; 58 FR 33891, June 22, 1993; 60 FR 15666, Mar. 27, 1995; 67 FR 78141, Dec. 23, 2002; 68 FR 58814, Oct. 10, 2003; 73 FR 5725, Jan. 31, 2008; 79 FR 75740, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 61.81
Tests at land disposal facilities.
(a) Each licensee shall perform, or permit the Commission to perform, any tests as the Commission deems appropriate or necessary for the administration of the regulations in this part, including tests of:
(1) Radioactive wastes and facilities used for the receipt, storage, treatment, handling and disposal of radioactive wastes.
(2) Radiation detection and monitoring instruments; and
(3) Other equipment and devices used in connection with the receipt, possession, handling, treatment, storage, or disposal of radioactive waste.
§ 61.82
Commission inspections of land disposal facilities.
(a) Each licensee shall afford to the Commission at all reasonable times opportunity to inspect radioactive waste not yet disposed of, and the premises, equipment, operations, and facilities in which radioactive wastes are received, possessed, handled, treated, stored, or disposed of.
(b) Each licensee shall make available to the Commission for inspection, upon reasonable notice, records kept by it pursuant to the regulations in this chapter. Authorized representatives of the Commission may copy and take away copies of, for the Commission's use, any record required to be kept pursuant to this part.
§ 61.83
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
[57 FR 55077, Nov. 24, 1992]
§ 61.84
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in part 61 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 61 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of Section 223 are as follows: §§ 61.1, 61.2, 61.4, 61.5, 61.6, 61.7, 61.8, 61.10, 61.11, 61.12, 61.13, 61.14, 61.15, 61.16, 61.20, 61.21, 61.22, 61.23, 61.26, 61.30, 61.31, 61.50, 61.51, 61.54, 61.55, 61.58, 61.59, 61.61, 61.63, 61.70, 61.71, 61.72, 61.73, 61.83, and 61.84.
[57 FR 55077, Nov. 24, 1992]
Pt. 62

# PART 62—CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR EMERGENCY ACCESS TO NON-FEDERAL AND REGIONAL LOW-LEVEL WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
62.1
Purpose and scope.
62.2
Definitions.
62.3
Communications.
62.4
Interpretations.
62.5
Specific exemptions.
62.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.

# Subpart B—Request for a Commission Determination
62.11
Filing and distribution of a determination request.
62.12
Contents of a request for emergency access: General information.
62.13
Contents of a request for emergency access: Alternatives.
62.14
Contents of a request for an extension of emergency access.
62.15
Additional information.
62.16
Withdrawal of a determination request.
62.17
Elimination of repetition.
62.18
Denial of request.

# Subpart C—Issuance of a Commission Determination
62.21
Determination for granting emergency access.
62.22
Notice of issuance of a determination.
62.23
Determination for granting temporary emergency access.
62.24
Extension of emergency access.
62.25
Criteria for a Commission determination.
62.26
Criteria for designating a disposal facility.

# Subpart D—Termination of Emergency Access
62.31
Termination of emergency access.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, sec. 161 (42 U.S.C. 2201); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201 (42 U.S.C. 5841); Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985, secs. 2, 6 (42 U.S.C. 2021b, 2021f); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Source:
54 FR 5420, Feb. 3, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 62.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The regulations in this part establish for specific low-level radioactive waste:
(1) Criteria and procedures for granting emergency access under section 6 of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985 (42 U.S.C. 2021) to any non-Federal or regional low-level radioactive waste (LLW) disposal facility or to any non-Federal disposal facility within a State that is not a member of a Compact, and
(2) The terms and conditions upon which the Commission will grant this emergency access.
(b) The regulations in this part apply to all persons as defined by this regulation, who have been denied access to existing regional or non-Federal low-level radioactive waste disposal facilities and who submit a request to the Commission for a determination pursuant to this part.
(c) The regulations in this part apply only to the LLW that the States have the responsibility to dispose of pursuant to section 3(1)(a) of the Act.
§ 62.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
means the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985 (Pub. L. 99-240).
Agreement State
means a State that—
(1) Has entered into an agreement with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2021); and
(2) Has authority to regulate the disposal of low-level radioactive waste under such agreement.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
Compact
means a Compact entered into by two or more States pursuant to the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985.
Compact Commission
means the regional commission, committee, or board established in a Compact to administer such Compact.
Disposal
means the permanent isolation of low-level radioactive waste pursuant to the requirements established by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under applicable laws, or by an Agreement State if such isolation occurs in this Agreement State.
Emergency access
means access to an operating non-Federal or regional low-level radioactive waste disposal facility or facilities for a period not to exceed 180 days, which is granted by NRC to a generator of low-level radioactive waste who has been denied the use of those facilities.
Extension of emergency access
means an extension of the access that had been previously granted by NRC to an operating non-Federal or regional low-level radioactive waste disposal facility or facilities for a period not to exceed 180 days.
Low-level radioactive waste (LLW)
means radioactive material that—
(1) Is not high-level radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel, or byproduct material (as defined in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of the definition of
Byproduct Material
set forth in § 20.1003 of this chapter); and
(2) The NRC, consistent with existing law and in accordance with paragraph (1) of this definition, classifies as low-level radioactive waste.
Non-Federal disposal facility
means a low-level radioactive waste disposal facility that is commercially operated or is operated by a State.
Person
means any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, State, public or private institution, group or agency who is an NRC or NRC Agreement State licensed generator of low-level radioactive waste within the scope of § 62.1(c) of this part; any Governor (or for any
State
without a Governor, the chief executive officer of the
State
) on behalf of any NRC or NRC Agreement State licensed generator or generators of low-level radioactive waste within the scope of § 62.1(c) of this part located in his or her
State
; or their duly authorized representative, legal successor, or agent.
Regional disposal facility
means a non-Federal low-level radioactive waste disposal facility in operation on January 1, 1985, or subsequently established and operated under a compact.
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Temporary emergency access
means access that is granted at NRC's discretion under § 62.23 of this part upon determining that access is necessary to eliminate an immediate and serious threat to the public health and safety or the common defense and security. Such access expires 45 days after the granting and cannot be extended.
[54 FR 5420, Feb. 3, 1989, as amended at 72 FR 55933, Oct. 1, 2007]
§ 62.3
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part and applications filed under them should be sent by mail addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html
; by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov
; or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
[73 FR 5725, Jan. 31, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 62683, Dec. 1, 2009; 79 FR 75740, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 74980, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 62.4
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be considered binding on the Commission.
§ 62.5
Specific exemptions.
The Commission may, upon application of any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant an exemption from the requirements of the regulations in this part that it determines is authorized by law and will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security and is otherwise in the public interest.
§ 62.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0143.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 62.5, 62.11, 62.12, 62.13, 62.14, and 62.15.
[54 FR 5420, Feb. 3, 1989, as amended at 62 FR 52188, Oct. 6, 1997; 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Subpart B—Request for a Commission Determination
§ 62.11
Filing and distribution of a determination request.
(a) The person submitting a request for a Commission determination shall file a signed original of the request with the Commission at the address specified in § 62.3 of this part, with a copy also provided to the appropriate Regional Administrator at the address specified in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter. The request must be signed by the person requesting the determination or the person's authorized representative under oath or affirmation.
(b) Upon receipt of a request for a determination, the Secretary of the Commission shall publish a notice acknowledging receipt of the request in the
Federal Register.
The notice must require that public comment on the request be submitted within 10 days of the publication date of the notice. A copy of the request will be made available for inspection or copying at the NRC Web site,
http://www.nrc.gov,
and/or at the NRC Public Document Room. The Secretary of the Commission shall also transmit a copy of the request to the U.S. Department of Energy, to the Governors of the States of the Compact region where the waste is generated, to the Governors of the States with operating non-Federal low-level radioactive waste disposal facilities, to the Compact Commissions with operating regional low-level radioactive waste disposal facilities, and to the Governors of the States in the Compact Commissions with operating disposal facilities.
(c) Upon receipt of a request for a determination based on a serious and immediate threat to the common defense and security, the Commission will notify DOD and/or DOE and provide a copy of the request as needed for their consideration.
(d) Fees applicable to a request for a Commission determination under this part will be determined in accordance with the procedures set forth for special projects under category 12 of § 170.31 of this chapter.
(e) In the event that the allocations or limitations established in section 5(b) or 6(h) of the Act are met at all operating non-Federal or regional LLW disposal facilities, the Commission may suspend the processing or acceptance of requests for emergency access determinations until additional LLW disposal capacity is authorized by Congress.
[54 FR 5420, Feb. 3, 1989, as amended at 64 FR 48954, Sept. 9, 1999; 68 FR 58814, Oct. 10, 2003]
§ 62.12
Contents of a request for emergency access: General information.
A request for a Commission determination under this part must include the following information for each generator to which the request applies:
(a) Name and address of the person making the request;
(b) Name and address of the person(s) or company(ies) generating the low-level radioactive waste for which the determination is sought;
(c) A statement indicating whether the generator is basing the request on the grounds of a serious and immediate threat to the public health and safety or the common defense and security;
(d) Certification that the radioactive waste for which emergency access is requested is low-level radioactive waste within § 62.1(c) of this part;
(e) The low-level waste generation facility(ies) producing the waste for which the request is being made;
(f) A description of the activity that generated the waste;
(g) Name of the disposal facility or facilities which had been receiving the waste stream of concern before the generator was denied access;
(h) A description of the low-level radioactive waste for which emergency access is requested, including—
(1) The characteristics and composition of the waste, including, but not limited to—
(i) Type of waste (e.g. solidified oil, scintillation fluid, failed equipment);
(ii) Principal chemical composition;
(iii) Physical state (solid, liquid, gas);
(iv) Type of solidification media; and
(v) Concentrations and percentages of any hazardous or toxic chemicals, chelating agents, or infectious or biological agents associated with the waste;
(2) The radiological characteristics of the waste such as—
(i) The classification of the waste in accordance with 61.55;
(ii) A list of the radionuclides present or potentially present in the waste, their concentration or contamination levels, and total quantity;
(iii) Distribution of the radionuclides within the waste (surface or volume distribution);
(iv) Amount of transuranics (nanocuries/gram);
(3) The minimum volume of the waste requiring emergency access to eliminate the threat to the public health and safety or the common defense and security;
(4) The time duration for which emergency access is requested (not to exceed 180 days);
(5) Type of disposal container or packaging (55 gallon drum, box, liner, etc.); and
(6) Description of the volume reduction and waste minimization techniques applied to the waste which assure that it is reduced to the maximum extent practicable, and the actual reduction in volume that occurred;
(i) Basis for requesting the determination set out in this part, including—
(1) The circumstances that led to the denial of access to existing low-level radioactive waste disposal facilities;
(2) A description of the situation that is responsible for creating the serious and immediate threat to the public health and safety or the common defense and security, including the date when the need for emergency access was identified;
(3) A chronology and description of the actions taken by the person requesting emergency access to prevent the need for making such a request, including consideration of all alternatives set forth in § 62.13 of this part, and any supporting documentation as appropriate;
(4) An explanation of the impacts of the waste on the public health and safety or the common defense and security if emergency access is not granted, and the basis for concluding that these impacts constitute a serious and immediate threat to the public health and safety or the common defense and security. The impacts to the public health and safety or the common defense and security should also be addressed if the generator's services, including research activities, were to be curtailed, either for a limited period of time or indefinitely;
(5) Other consequences if emergency access is not granted;
(j) Steps taken by the person requesting emergency access to correct the situation requiring emergency access and the person's plans to eliminate the need for additional or future emergency access requests;
(k) Documentation certifying that access has been denied;
(l) Documentation that the waste for which emergency access is requested could not otherwise qualify for disposal pursuant to the Unusual Volumes provision (Section 5(c)(5) of the Act) or is not simultaneously under consideration by the Department of Energy (DOE) for access through the Unusual Volumes allocation;
(m) Date by which access is required;
(n) Any other information which the Commission should consider in making its determination.
§ 62.13
Contents of a request for emergency access: Alternatives.
(a) A request for emergency access under this part must include information on alternatives to emergency access. The request shall include a discussion of the consideration given to any alternatives, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) Storage of low-level radioactive waste at the site of generation;
(2) Storage of low-level radioactive waste in a licensed storage facility;
(3) Obtaining access to a disposal facility by voluntary agreement;
(4) Purchasing disposal capacity available for assignment pursuant to the Act;
(5) Requesting disposal at a Federal low-level radioactive waste disposal facility in the case of a Federal or defense related generator of LLW;
(6) Reducing the volume of the waste;
(7) Ceasing activities that generate low-level radioactive waste; and
(8) Other alternatives identified under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The request must identify all of the alternatives to emergency access considered, including any that would require State or Compact action, or any others that are not specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The request should also include a description of the process used to identify the alternatives, a description of the factors that were considered in identifying and evaluating them, a chronology of actions taken to identify and implement alternatives during the process, and a discussion of any actions that were considered, but not implemented.
(c) The evaluation of each alternative must consider:
(1) Its potential for mitigating the serious and immediate threat to public health and safety or the common defense and security posed by lack of access to disposal;
(2) The adverse effects on public health and safety and the common defense and security, if any, of implementing each alternative, including the curtailment or cessation of any essential services affecting the public health and safety or the common defense and security;
(3) The technical and economic feasibility of each alternative including the person's financial capability to implement the alternatives;
(4) Any other pertinent societal costs and benefits;
(5) Impacts to the environment;
(6) Any legal impediments to implementation of each alternative, including whether the alternatives will comply with applicable NRC and NRC Agreement States regulatory requirements; and
(7) The time required to develop and implement each alternative.
(d) The request must include the basis for:
(1) Rejecting each alternative; and
(2) Concluding that no alternative is available.
§ 62.14
Contents of a request for an extension of emergency access.
A request for an extension of emergency access must include:
(a) Updates of the information required in §§ 62.12 and 62.13; and
(b) Documentation that the generator of the low-level radioactive waste granted emergency access and the State in which the low-level radioactive waste was generated have diligently, though unsuccessfully, acted during the period of the initial grant to eliminate the need for emergency access. Documentation must include:
(1) An identification of additional alternatives that have been evaluated during the period of the initial grant, and
(2) A discussion of any reevaluation of previously considered alternatives, including verification of continued attempts to gain access to a disposal facility by voluntary agreement.
§ 62.15
Additional information.
(a) The Commission may require additional information from a person making a request for a Commission determination under this part concerning any portion of the request.
(b) The Commission shall deny a request for a Commission determination under this part if the person making the request fails to respond to a request for additional information under paragraph (a) of this section within ten (10) days from the date of the request for additional information, or any other time that the Commission may specify. This denial will not prejudice the right of the person making the request to file another request for a Commission determination under this part.
§ 62.16
Withdrawal of a determination request.
(a) A person may withdraw a request for a Commission determination under this part without prejudice at any time prior to the issuance of an initial determination under § 62.21 of this part.
(b) The Secretary of the Commission will cause to be published in the
Federal Register
a notice of the withdrawal of a request for a Commission determination under this part.
§ 62.17
Elimination of repetition.
In any request under this part, the person making the request may incorporate by reference information contained in a previous application, Statement, or report filed with the Commission provided that these references are updated, clear, and specific.
§ 62.18
Denial of request.
If a request for a determination is based on circumstances that are too remote and speculative to allow an informed determination, the Commission may deny the request.

# Subpart C—Issuance of a Commission Determination
§ 62.21
Determination for granting emergency access.
(a) Not later than (45) days after the receipt of a request for a Commission determination under this part from any generator of low-level radioactive
waste, or any Governor on behalf of any generator or generators located in his or her State, the Commission shall determine whether—
(1) Emergency access to a regional disposal facility or a non-Federal disposal facility within a State that is not a member of a Compact for specific low-level radioactive waste is necessary because of an immediate and serious threat—
(i) To the public health and safety or
(ii) The common defense and security; and
(2) The threat cannot be mitigated by any alternative consistent with the public health and safety, including those identified in § 62.13.
(b) In making a determination under this section, the Commission shall be guided by the criteria set forth in § 62.25 of this part.
(c) A determination under this section must be in writing and contain a full explanation of the facts upon which the determination is based and the reasons for granting or denying the request. An affirmative determination must designate an appropriate non-Federal or regional LLW disposal facility or facilities for the disposal of wastes, specifically describe the low-level radioactive waste as to source, physical and radiological characteristics, and the minimum volume and duration (not to exceed 180 days) necessary to eliminate the immediate threat to public health and safety or the common defense and security. It may also contain conditions upon which the determination is dependent.
§ 62.22
Notice of issuance of a determination.
(a) Upon the issuance of a Commission determination the Secretary of the Commission will notify in writing the following persons of the final determination: The person making the request, the Governor of the State in which the low-level radioactive waste requiring emergency access was generated, the Governor of the State in which the designated disposal facility is located, and if pertinent, the appropriate Compact Commission for such approval as is specified as necessary in section 6(g) of the Act. For the Governor of the State in which the designated disposal facility is located and for the appropriate Compact Commission, the notification must set forth the reasons that emergency access was granted and specifically describe the low-level radioactive waste as to source, physical and radiological characteristics, and the minimum volume and duration (not to exceed 180 days) necessary to alleviate the immediate and serious threat to public health and safety or the common defense and security. For the Governor of the State in which the low-level waste was generated, the notification must indicate that no extension of emergency access will be granted under § 62.24 of this part absent diligent State and generator action during the period of the initial grant.
(b) The Secretary of the Commission will cause to be published in the
Federal Register
a notice of the issuance of the determination.
(c) The Secretary of the Commission shall make a copy of the final determination available for inspection at the NRC Web site,
http://www.nrc.gov.
[54 FR 5420, Feb. 3, 1989, as amended at 64 FR 48954, Sept. 9, 1999]
§ 62.23
Determination for granting temporary emergency access.
(a) The Commission may grant temporary emergency access to an appropriate non-Federal or regional disposal facility or facilities provided that the determination required under § 62.21(a)(1) of this part is made;
(b) The notification procedures under § 62.22 of this part are complied with; and
(c) The temporary emergency access duration will not exceed forty-five (45) days.
§ 62.24
Extension of emergency access.
(a) After the receipt of a request from any generator of low-level waste, or any Governor on behalf of any generator or generators in his or her State, for an extension of emergency access that was initially granted under § 62.21, the Commission shall make an initial determination of whether—
(1) Emergency access continues to be necessary because of an immediate and serious threat to the public health and
safety or the common defense and security;
(2) The threat cannot be mitigated by any alternative that is consistent with public health and safety; and
(3) The generator of low-level waste and the State have diligently though unsuccessfully acted during the period of the initial grant to eliminate the need for emergency access.
(b) After making a determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the requirements specified in §§ 62.21(c) and 62.22 of this part, must be followed.
§ 62.25
Criteria for a Commission determination.
(a) In making the determination required by § 62.21(a) of this part, the Commission will determine whether the circumstances described in the request for emergency access create a serious and immediate threat to the public health and safety or the common defense and security.
(b) In making the determination that a serious and immediate threat exists to the public health and safety, the Commission will consider, notwithstanding the availability of any alternative identified in § 62.13 of this part:
(1) The nature and extent of the radiation hazard that would result from the denial of emergency access, including consideration of—
(i) The standards for radiation protection contained in part 20 of this chapter;
(ii) Any standards governing the release of radioactive materials to the general environment that are applicable to the facility that generated the low level waste; and
(iii) Any other Commission requirements specifically applicable to the facility or activity that is the subject of the emergency access request; and
(2) The extent to which essential services affecting the public health and safety (such as medical, therapeutic, diagnostic, or research activities) will be disrupted by the denial of emergency access.
(c) For purposes of granting temporary emergency access under § 62.23 of this part, the Commission will consider the criteria contained in the Commission's Policy Statement (45 FR 10950, February 24, 1977) for determining whether an event at a facility or activity licensed or otherwise regulated by the Commission is an abnormal occurrence within the purview of section 208 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974.
(d) In making the determination that a serious and immediate threat to the common defense and security exists, the Commission will consider, notwithstanding the availability of any alternative identified in § 62.13 of this part:
(1) Whether the activity generating the wastes is necessary to the protection of the common defense and security, and
(2) Whether the lack of access to a disposal site would result in a significant disruption in that activity that would seriously threaten the common defense and security.
The Commission will consider the views of the Department of Defense (DOD) and or the Department of Energy (DOE) regarding the importance of the activities responsible for generating the LLW to the common defense and security, when evaluating requests based all, or in part, on a serious and immediate threat to the common defense and security.
(e) In making the determination required by § 62.21(a)(2) of this part, the Commission will consider whether the person submitting the request—
(1) Has identified and evaluated any alternative that could mitigate the need for emergency access; and
(2) Has considered all pertinent factors in its evaluation of alternatives including state-of-the-art technology and impacts on public health and safety.
(f) In making the determination required by § 62.21(a)(2) of this part, the Commission will consider implementation of an alternative to be unreasonable if:
(1) It adversely affects public health and safety, the environment, or the common defense and security; or
(2) It results in a significant curtailment or cessation of essential services, affecting public health and safety or the common defense and security; or
(3) It is beyond the technical and economic capabilities of the person requesting emergency access; or
(4) Implementation of the alternative would conflict with applicable State or local or Federal laws and regulations; or
(5) It cannot be implemented in a timely manner.
(g) The Commission shall make an affirmative determination under § 62.21(a) of this part only if all of the alternatives that were considered are found to be unreasonable.
(h) As part of its mandated evaluation of the alternatives that were considered by the generator, the Commission shall consider the characteristics of the wastes (including: physical properties, chemical properties, radioactivity, pathogenicity, infectiousness, and toxicity, pyrophoricity, and explosive potential); condition of current container; potential for contaminating the disposal site; the technologies or combination of technologies available for treatment of the waste (including incinerators; evaporators-crystallizers; fluidized bed dryers; thin film evaporators; extruders, evaporators; and Compactors); the suitability of volume reduction equipment to the circumstances (specific activity considerations, actual volume reduction factors, generation of secondary wastes, equipment contamination, effluent releases, worker exposure, and equipment availability); and the administrative controls which could be applied, in making a determination whether waste to be delivered for disposal under this part has been reduced in volume to the maximum extent practicable using available technology.
§ 62.26
Criteria for designating a disposal facility.
(a) The Commission shall designate an appropriate non-Federal or regional disposal facility if an affirmative determination is made pursuant to §§ 62.21, 62.23, or 62.24 of this part.
(b) The Commission will exclude a disposal facility from consideration if:
(1) The low-level radioactive wastes of the generator do not meet the criteria established by the license agreement or the license agreement of the facility; or
(2) The disposal facility is in excess of its approved capacity; or
(3) Granting emergency access would delay the closing of the disposal facility pursuant to plans established before the receipt of the request for emergency access; or
(4) The volume of waste requiring emergency access exceeds 20 percent of the total volume of low-level radioactive waste accepted for disposal at the facility during the previous calendar year.
(c) If, after applying the exclusionary criteria in paragraph (b) of this section, more than one disposal facility is identified as appropriate for designation, the Commission will then consider additional factors in designating a facility or facilities including—
(1) Type of waste and its characteristics,
(2) Previous disposal practices,
(3) Transportation
(4) Radiological effects,
(5) Site capability for handling waste,
(6) The volume of emergency access waste previously accepted by each site both for the particular year and overall, and
(7) Any other considerations deemed appropriate by the Commission.
(d) The Commission, in making its designation, will also consider any information submitted by the operating non-Federal or regional LLW disposal sites, or any information submitted by the public in response to a
Federal Register
notice requesting comment, as provided in paragraph (b) of § 62.11 of this part.

# Subpart D—Termination of Emergency Access
§ 62.31
Termination of emergency access.
(a) The Commission may terminate a grant of emergency access when emergency access is no longer necessary to eliminate an immediate threat to public health and safety or the common defense and security.
(b) The Commission may terminate a grant of emergency access if an applicant has provided inaccurate information in its application for emergency access or if the applicant has failed to comply with this part or any conditions set by the Commission pursuant to this part.
Pt. 63

# PART 63—DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN A GEOLOGIC REPOSITORY AT YUCCA MOUNTAIN, NEVADA

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
63.1
Purpose and scope.
63.2
Definitions.
63.3
License required.
63.4
Communications and records.
63.5
Interpretations.
63.6
Exemptions.
63.7
License not required for certain preliminary activities.
63.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
63.9
Employee protection.
63.10
Completeness and accuracy of information.
63.11
Deliberate misconduct.

# Subpart B—Licenses

# Preapplication Review
63.15
Site characterization.
63.16
Review of site characterization activities.

# License Application
63.21
Content of application.
63.22
Filing and distribution of application.
63.23
Elimination of repetition.
63.24
Updating of application and environmental impact statement.

# Construction Authorization
63.31
Construction authorization.
63.32
Conditions of construction authorization.
63.33
Amendment of construction authorization.

# License Issuance and Amendment
63.41
Standards for issuance of a license.
63.42
Conditions of license.
63.43
License specification.
63.44
Changes, tests, and experiments.
63.45
Amendment of license.
63.46
Particular activities requiring license amendment.

# US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement
63.47
Facility information and verification.

# Permanent Closure
63.51
License amendment for permanent closure.
63.52
Termination of license.

# Subpart C—Participation by State Government, Affected Units of Local Government, and Affected Indian Tribes
63.61
Provision of information.
63.62
Site review.
63.63
Participation in license reviews.
63.64
Notice to State.
63.65
Representation.

# Subpart D—Records, Reports, Tests, and Inspections
63.71
Records and reports.
63.72
Construction records.
63.73
Reports of deficiencies.
63.74
Tests.
63.75
Inspections.
63.78
Material control and accounting records and reports.

# Subpart E—Technical Criteria
63.101
Purpose and nature of findings.
63.102
Concepts.

# Preclosure Performance Objectives
63.111
Performance objectives for the geologic repository operations area through permanent closure.

# Preclosure Safety Analysis
63.112
Requirements for preclosure safety analysis of the geologic repository operations area.

# Postclosure Performance Objectives
63.113
Performance objectives for the geologic repository after permanent closure.

# Postclosure Performance Assessment
63.114
Requirements for performance assessment.
63.115
Requirements for multiple barriers.

# Land Ownership and Control
63.121
Requirements for ownership and control of interests in land.

# Subpart F—Performance Confirmation Program
63.131
General requirements.
63.132
Confirmation of geotechnical and design parameters.
63.133
Design testing.
63.134
Monitoring and testing waste packages.

# Subpart G—Quality Assurance
63.141
Scope.
63.142
Quality assurance criteria.
63.143
Implementation.
63.144
Quality assurance program change.

# Subpart H—Training and Certification of Personnel
63.151
General requirements.
63.152
Training and certification program.
63.153
Physical requirements.

# Subpart I—Emergency Planning Criteria
63.161
Emergency plan for the geologic repository operations area through permanent closure.

# Subpart J—Violations
63.171
Violations.
63.172
Criminal penalties.

# Subpart K—Preclosure Public Health and Environmental Standards
63.201
Purpose and scope.
63.202
Definitions for Subpart K.
63.203
Implementation of Subpart K.
63.204
Preclosure standard.

# Subpart L—Postclosure Public Health and Environmental Standards
63.301
Purpose and scope.
63.302
Definitions for Subpart L.
63.303
Implementation of Subpart L.
63.304
Reasonable expectation.
63.305
Required characteristics of the reference biosphere.

# Postclosure Individual Protection Standard
63.311
Individual protection standard after permanent closure.
63.312
Required characteristics of the reasonably maximally exposed individual.

# Human Intrusion Standard
63.321
Individual protection standard for human intrusion.
63.322
Human intrusion scenario.

# Groundwater Protection Standards
63.331
Separate standards for protection of groundwater.
63.332
Representative volume.

# Additional Provisions
63.342
Limits on performance assessments.
63.343
Severability of individual protection and groundwater protection standards.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 51, 53, 62, 63, 65, 81, 161, 182, 183, 223, 234 (42 U.S.C. 2071, 2073, 2092, 2093, 2095, 2111, 2201, 2232, 2233, 2273, 2282); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 202, 206, 211 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5842, 5846, 5851); 42 U.S.C. 2021a; National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332); Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, secs. 114, 117, 121 (42 U.S.C. 10134, 10137, 10141); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Source:
66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 63 appear at 81 FR 86909, Dec. 2, 2016.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 63.1
Purpose and scope.
This part prescribes rules governing the licensing (including issuance of a construction authorization) of the U.S. Department of Energy to receive and possess source, special nuclear, and byproduct material at a geologic repository operations area sited, constructed, or operated at Yucca Mountain, Nevada, in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, and the Energy Policy Act of 1992. As provided in 10 CFR 60.1, the regulations in part 60 of this chapter do not apply to any activity licensed under another part of this chapter. This part also gives notice to all persons who knowingly provide to any licensee, applicant, contractor, or subcontractor, components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services, that relate to a licensee's or applicant's activities subject to this part, that they may be individually subject to NRC enforcement action for violation of § 63.11.
[69 FR 2280, Jan. 14, 2004]
§ 63.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Affected Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe within whose reservation boundaries a repository for high-level radioactive waste or spent fuel is proposed to be located; or whose Federally-defined possessory or usage rights to other lands outside of the reservation's boundaries arising out of Congressionally-ratified treaties or other Federal law may be substantially and adversely affected by the location of the facility if the Secretary of the Interior finds, on the petition of the appropriate governmental officials of the Tribe, that the effects are both substantial and adverse to the Tribe.
Barrier
means any material, structure, or feature that, for a period to be
determined by NRC, prevents or substantially reduces the rate of movement of water or radionuclides from the Yucca Mountain repository to the accessible environment, or prevents the release or substantially reduces the release rate of radionuclides from the waste. For example, a barrier may be a geologic feature, an engineered structure, a canister, a waste form with physical and chemical characteristics that significantly decrease the mobility of radionuclides, or a material placed over and around the waste, provided that the material substantially delays movement of water or radionuclides.
Commencement of construction
means clearing of land, surface or subsurface excavation, or other substantial action that would adversely affect the environment of a site. It does not include changes desirable for the temporary use of the land for public recreational uses, site characterization activities, other preconstruction monitoring and investigation necessary to establish background information related to the suitability of the Yucca Mountain site or to the protection of environmental values, or procurement or manufacture of components of the geologic repository operations area.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
Containment
means the confinement of radioactive waste within a designated boundary.
Design bases
means that information that identifies the specific functions to be performed by a structure, system, or component of a facility and the specific values or ranges of values chosen for controlling parameters as reference bounds for design. These values may be constraints derived from generally accepted “state-of-the-art” practices for achieving functional goals or requirements derived from analysis (based on calculation or experiments) of the effects of a postulated event under which a structure, system, or component must meet its functional goals. The values for controlling parameters for external events include:
(1) Estimates of severe natural events to be used for deriving design bases that will be based on consideration of historical data on the associated parameters, physical data, or analysis of upper limits of the physical processes involved; and
(2) Estimates of severe external human-induced events to be used for deriving design bases, that will be based on analysis of human activity in the region, taking into account the site characteristics and the risks associated with the event.
Director
means the Director of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards.
Disposal
means the emplacement of radioactive waste in a geologic repository with the intent of leaving it there permanently.
DOE
means the U.S. Department of Energy or its duly authorized representatives.
Engineered barrier system
means the waste packages, including engineered components and systems other than the waste package (e.g., drip shields), and the underground facility.
Event sequence
means a series of actions and/or occurrences within the natural and engineered components of a geologic repository operations area that could potentially lead to exposure of individuals to radiation. An event sequence includes one or more initiating events and associated combinations of repository system component failures, including those produced by the action or inaction of operating personnel. Those event sequences that are expected to occur one or more times before permanent closure of the geologic repository operations area are referred to as Category 1 event sequences. Other event sequences that have at least one chance in 10,000 of occurring before permanent closure are referred to as Category 2 event sequences.
Geologic repository
means a system that is intended to be used for, or may be used for, the disposal of radioactive wastes in excavated geologic media. A geologic repository includes the engineered barrier system and the portion of the geologic setting that provides isolation of the radioactive waste.
Geologic repository operations area
means a high-level radioactive waste
facility that is part of a geologic repository, including both surface and subsurface areas, where waste handling activities are conducted.
Geologic setting
means the geologic, hydrologic, and geochemical systems of the region in which a geologic repository is or may be located.
High-level radioactive waste
or
HLW
means:
(1) The highly radioactive material resulting from the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel, including liquid waste produced directly in reprocessing and any solid material derived from such liquid waste that contains fission products in sufficient concentrations;
(2) Irradiated reactor fuel; and
(3) Other highly radioactive material that the Commission, consistent with existing law, determines by rule requires permanent isolation.
HLW facility
means a facility subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to sections 202(3) and 202(4) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 1244).
1
1
These are DOE “facilities used primarily for the receipt and storage of high-level radioactive wastes resulting from activities licensed under such Act (the Atomic Energy Act)” and “Retrievable Surface Storage Facilities and other facilities authorized for the express purpose of subsequent long-term storage of high-level radioactive wastes generated by (DOE), which are not used for, or are part of, research and development activities.”
Host rock
means the geologic medium in which the waste is emplaced.
Important to safety,
with reference to structures, systems, and components, means those engineered features of the geologic repository operations area whose function is:
(1) To provide reasonable assurance that high-level waste can be received, handled, packaged, stored, emplaced, and retrieved without exceeding the requirements of § 63.111(b)(1) for Category 1 event sequences; or
(2) To prevent or mitigate Category 2 event sequences that could result in radiological exposures exceeding the values specified at § 63.111(b)(2) to any individual located on or beyond any point on the boundary of the site.
Important to waste isolation,
with reference to design of the engineered barrier system and characterization of natural barriers, means those engineered and natural barriers whose function is to provide a reasonable expectation that high-level waste can be disposed of without exceeding the requirements of § 63.113(b) and (c).
Initiating event
means a natural or human induced event that causes an event sequence.
Isolation
means inhibiting the transport of radioactive material to:
(1) The location of the reasonably maximally exposed individual so that radiological exposures will not exceed the requirements of § 63.113(b); and
(2) The accessible environment so that releases of radionuclides into the accessible environment will not exceed the requirements of § 63.113(c).
Performance assessment
means an analysis that:
(1) Identifies the features, events, processes (except human intrusion), and sequences of events and processes (except human intrusion) that might affect the Yucca Mountain disposal system and their probabilities of occurring;
(2) Examines the effects of those features, events, processes, and sequences of events and processes upon the performance of the Yucca Mountain disposal system; and
(3) Estimates the dose incurred by the reasonably maximally exposed individual, including the associated uncertainties, as a result of releases caused by all significant features, events, processes, and sequences of events and processes, weighted by their probability of occurrence.
Performance confirmation
means the program of tests, experiments, and analyses that is conducted to evaluate the adequacy of the information used to demonstrate compliance with the performance objectives in subpart E of this part.
Permanent closure
means final backfilling of the underground facility, if appropriate, and the sealing of shafts, ramps, and boreholes.
Preclosure safety analysis
means a systematic examination of the site; the design; and the potential hazards, initiating events and event sequences and
their consequences (e.g., radiological exposures to workers and the public). The analysis identifies structures, systems, and components important to safety.
Public Document Room
means the place at One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Room O-1F13, Rockville, MD, at which records of the Commission will ordinarily be made available for public inspection and any other place, the location of which has been published in the
Federal Register,
at which public records of the Commission pertaining to a geologic repository at the Yucca Mountain site are made available for public inspection.
Publicly Available Records System (PARS) Library
means the electronic library generated by the NRC's Agencywide Documents Access and Management System (ADAMS) to provide access to public documents. PARS has full text documents which can be searched using specific fields and parameters. The public can search, download, print, create reports, and order documents online. The PARS Library contains publicly available documents created or received by NRC since November 1, 1999, as well as some older documents that the NRC has retrofit into the collection. PARS is accessible from the NRC Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm.html.
Radioactive waste
or
waste
means HLW and radioactive materials other than HLW that are received for emplacement in a geologic repository.
Reasonably maximally exposed individual
means the hypothetical person meeting the criteria specified at § 63.312.
Reference biosphere
means the description of the environment inhabited by the reasonably maximally exposed individual. The reference biosphere comprises the set of specific biotic and abiotic characteristics of the environment, including, but not necessarily limited to, climate, topography, soils, flora, fauna, and human activities.
Restricted area
means an area, access to which is limited by the licensee for the purpose of protecting individuals against undue risks from exposure to radiation and radioactive materials. Restricted area does not include areas used as residential quarters, but separate rooms in a residential building may be set aside as a restricted area.
Retrieval
means the act of permanently removing radioactive waste from the underground location at which the waste had been previously emplaced for disposal.
Saturated zone
means that part of the earth's crust beneath the regional water table in which statistically all voids, large and small, are filled with water under pressure greater than atmospheric.
Site
means that area surrounding the geologic repository operations area for which DOE exercises authority over its use in accordance with the provisions of this part.
Site characterization
means the program of exploration and research, both in the laboratory and in the field, undertaken to establish the geologic conditions and the ranges of those parameters of the Yucca Mountain site, and the surrounding region to the extent necessary, relevant to the procedures under this part. Site characterization includes borings, surface excavations, excavation of exploratory shafts and/or ramps, limited subsurface lateral excavations and borings, and in situ testing at depth needed to determine the suitability of the site for a geologic repository.
Total effective dose equivalent (TEDE)
means the sum of the effective dose equivalent (for external exposures) and the committed effective dose equivalent (for internal exposures).
Underground facility
means the underground structure, backfill materials, if any, and openings that penetrate the underground structure (e.g., ramps, shafts, and boreholes, including their seals).
Unrestricted area
means an area, access to which is neither limited nor controlled by the licensee.
Unsaturated zone
means the zone between the land surface and the regional water table. Generally, fluid pressure in this zone is less than atmospheric pressure, and some of the voids may contain air or other gases at atmospheric pressure. Beneath flooded areas or in perched water bodies, the fluid pressure locally may be greater than atmospheric.
Waste form
means the radioactive waste materials and any encapsulating or stabilizing matrix.
Waste package
means the waste form and any containers, shielding, packing, and other absorbent materials immediately surrounding an individual waste container.
Water table
means that surface in a groundwater body, separating the unsaturated zone from the saturated zone, at which the water pressure is atmospheric.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 58815, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 10828, Mar. 13, 2009]
§ 63.3
License required.
(a) DOE may not receive nor possess source, special nuclear, or byproduct material at a geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site except as authorized by a license issued by the Commission under this part.
(b) DOE may not begin construction of a geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site unless it has filed an application with the Commission and has obtained construction authorization as provided in this part. Failure to comply with this requirement is grounds for denial of a license.
§ 63.4
Communications and records.
(a) Except as otherwise specified, in this part or in subpart J of part 2 of this chapter, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part and applications filed under them should be sent to the NRC as follows:
(1) By mail addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk; Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards; U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001;
(2) By hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; ATTN: Document Control Desk: Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards; or,
(3) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html
; by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov
; or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
(b) Each record required by this part must be legible throughout the retention period specified by each Commission regulation. The record may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform if the copy or microform is authenticated by authorized personnel and the microform is capable of producing a clear copy throughout the required retention period. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, and specifications must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 58815, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62683, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 63.5
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel is binding on the Commission.
§ 63.6
Exemptions.
The Commission may, upon application by DOE, any interested person, or upon its own initiative, grant an exemption from the requirements of this part if it determines that the exemption is authorized by law, does not endanger life nor property nor the common defense and security, and is otherwise in the public interest.
§ 63.7
License not required for certain preliminary activities.
The requirement for a license set forth in § 63.3(a) is not applicable to the extent that DOE receives and possesses source, special nuclear, and byproduct material at a geologic repository at the Yucca Mountain site:
(a) For purposes of site characterization; or
(b) For use, during site characterization or construction, as components of radiographic, radiation monitoring, or similar equipment or instrumentation.
§ 63.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501,
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0199.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this Part appear in §§ 63.6, 63.47, 63.62, 63.63, and 63.65.
(c) In § 63.47, IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms are approved under control number 3150-0056, and DOC/NRC Forms AP-1, AP-A, and associated forms are approved under control numbers 0694-0135.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 78606, Dec. 23, 2008; 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms
§ 63.9
Employee protection.
(a) Discrimination by a Commission licensee, an applicant for a Commission license, or a contractor or subcontractor of a Commission licensee or applicant, against an employee, for engaging in certain protected activities, is prohibited. Discrimination includes discharge and other actions that relate to compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment. The protected activities are established in section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and in general are related to the administration or enforcement of a requirement imposed under the Atomic Energy Act or the Energy Reorganization Act.
(1) The protected activities include but are not limited to:
(i) Providing the Commission, or his or her employer, information about alleged violations of either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) of this section or possible violations of requirements imposed under either of those aforementioned statutes;
(ii) Refusing to engage in any practice made unlawful under either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) of this section, or under these requirements, if the employee has identified the alleged illegality to the employer;
(iii) Requesting the Commission to institute action against his or her employer for the administration or enforcement of these requirements;
(iv) Testifying in any Commission proceeding, or before Congress, or at any Federal or State proceeding regarding any provision (or proposed provision) of either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) of this section;
(v) Assisting or participating in, or is about to assist or participate in, these activities.
(2) These activities are protected even if no formal proceeding is actually initiated as a result of the employee assistance or participation.
(3) This section does not apply to any employee alleging discrimination prohibited by this section who, acting without direction from his or her employer (or the employer's agent), deliberately causes a violation of any requirement of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(b) Any employee who believes that he or she has been discharged or otherwise discriminated against by any person for engaging in protected activities specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may seek a remedy for the discharge or discrimination through an administrative proceeding in the Department of Labor. The administrative proceeding must be initiated within 180
days after an alleged violation occurs. The employee may do this by filing a complaint alleging the violation with the Department of Labor, Employment Standards Administration, Wage and Hour Division. The Department of Labor may order reinstatement, back pay, and compensatory damages.
(c) A violation of paragraph (a), (e), or (f) of this section by a Commission licensee, an applicant for a Commission license, or a contractor or subcontractor of a Commission licensee or applicant may be grounds for—
(1) Denial, revocation, or suspension of the license;
(2) Imposition of a civil penalty on the licensee, applicant, or a contractor or subcontractor of the licensee or applicant; or
(3) Other enforcement action.
(d) Actions taken by an employer, or others, that adversely affect an employee, may be predicated on nondiscriminatory grounds. The prohibition applies when the adverse action occurs because the employee has engaged in protected activities. An employee's engagement in protected activities does not automatically render him or her immune from discharge or discipline for legitimate reasons or from adverse action dictated by nonprohibited considerations.
(e)(1) Each licensee and each applicant for a license shall prominently post the revision of NRC Form 3, “Notice to Employees,” referenced in § 19.11(c) of this chapter. This form must be posted at locations sufficient to permit employees protected by this section to observe a copy on the way to or from their place of work. Premises must be posted not later than 30 days after an application is docketed and remain posted while the application is pending before the Commission, during the term of the license, and for 30 days following license termination.
(2) Copies of NRC Form 3 may be obtained by writing to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter, via email to
Forms.Resource@nrc.gov,
or by visiting the NRC's online library at
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/forms/.
(f) No agreement affecting the compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, including an agreement to settle a complaint filed by an employee with the Department of Labor pursuant to section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, may contain any provision that would prohibit, restrict, or otherwise discourage an employee from participating in a protected activity as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, including, but not limited to, providing information to NRC or to his or her employer on potential violations or other matters within NRC's regulatory responsibilities.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 58815, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 63974, Nov. 14, 2007; 73 FR 30459, May 28, 2008; 79 FR 66605, Nov. 10, 2014]
§ 63.10
Completeness and accuracy of information.
(a) Information provided to the Commission by an applicant for a license or by a licensee, or information required by statute, or required by the Commission's regulations, orders, or license conditions to be maintained by the applicant or the licensee must be complete and accurate in all material respects.
(b) The applicant or licensee shall notify the Commission of information identified by the applicant or licensee as having, for the regulated activity, a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. An applicant or licensee violates this paragraph only if the applicant or licensee fails to notify the Commission of information that the applicant or licensee has identified as having a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. Notification must be provided to the Director of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, within 2 working days of identifying the information. This requirement is not applicable to information that is already required to be provided to the Commission by other reporting or updating requirements.
§ 63.11
Deliberate misconduct.
(a) Any licensee, applicant for a license, employee of a licensee or applicant; or any contractor (including a supplier or consultant), subcontractor, employee of a contractor or subcontractor of any licensee or applicant for a license, who knowingly provides to any licensee, applicant, contractor, or subcontractor, any components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services that relate to a licensee's or applicant's activities in this part, may not:
(1) Engage in deliberate misconduct that causes or would have caused, if not detected, a licensee or applicant to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order; or any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued by the Commission; or
(2) Deliberately submit to NRC, a licensee, an applicant, or a licensee's or applicant's contractor or subcontractor, information that the person submitting the information knows to be incomplete or inaccurate in some respect material to NRC.
(b) A person who violates paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be subject to enforcement action in accordance with the procedures in 10 CFR part 2, subpart B.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, deliberate misconduct by a person means an intentional act or omission that the person knows:
(1) Would cause a licensee or applicant to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order; or any term, condition, or limitation, of any license issued by the Commission; or
(2) Constitutes a violation of a requirement, procedure, instruction, contract, purchase order, or policy of a licensee, applicant, contractor, or subcontractor.

# Subpart B—Licenses

# Preapplication Review
§ 63.15
Site characterization.
(a) DOE shall conduct a program of site characterization with respect to the Yucca Mountain site before it submits an application for a license to be issued under this part.
(b) DOE shall conduct the investigations to obtain the required information in a manner that limits adverse effects on the long-term performance of the geologic repository at Yucca Mountain to the extent practical.
§ 63.16
Review of site characterization activities.
2
2
In addition to the review of site characterization activities specified in this section, the Commission contemplates an ongoing review of other information on site investigation and site characterization, to allow early identification of potential licensing issues for timely resolution at the staff level.
(a) If DOE's planned site characterization activities include onsite testing with radioactive material, including radioactive tracers, the Commission shall determine whether the proposed use of such radioactive material is necessary to provide data for the preparation of the environmental reports required by law and for an application to be submitted under § 63.22.
(b) During the conduct of site characterization activities at the Yucca Mountain site, DOE shall report the nature and extent of the activities, the information that has been developed, and the progress of waste form and waste package research and development to the Commission not less than once every 6 months. The semiannual reports must include the results of site characterization studies, the identification of new issues, plans for additional studies to resolve new issues, elimination of planned studies no longer necessary, identification of decision points reached, and modifications to schedules, where appropriate. DOE shall also report its progress in developing the design of a geologic repository operations area appropriate for the area being characterized, noting when key design parameters or features that depend on the results of site characterization will be established. Other topics related to site characterization must also be covered if requested by the Director.
(c) During the conduct of site characterization activities at the Yucca Mountain site, NRC staff shall be permitted to visit and inspect the locations at which such activities are carried out and to observe excavations,
borings, and in situ tests, as they are done.
(d) The Director may comment at any time in writing to DOE, expressing current views on any aspect of site characterization or performance assessment at the Yucca Mountain site. In particular, the Director shall comment whenever he or she determines that there are substantial grounds for making recommendations or stating objections to DOE's site characterization program. The Director shall invite public comment on any comments that the Director makes to DOE on review of the DOE semiannual reports or on any other comments that the Director makes to DOE on site characterization and performance assessment by placing the comments in a public forum to allow the public to comment on them after the Director's comments are sent to DOE.
(e) The Director shall transmit copies of all comments to DOE made by the Director under this section to the Governor and legislature of the State of Nevada and to the governing body of any affected Indian Tribe.
(f) The NRC shall place all correspondence between DOE and NRC resulting from the requirements of this section, including the reports described in paragraph (b) of this section, in the Publicly Available Records System (PARS) Library.
(g) The activities described in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section constitute informal conference between a prospective applicant and the NRC staff, as described in § 2.101(a)(1) of this chapter, and are not part of a proceeding under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. Accordingly, the issuance of the Director's comments made under this section does not constitute a commitment to issue any authorization or license, or in any way affect the authority of the Commission, Atomic Safety and Licensing Board, other presiding officers, or the Director, in any such proceeding.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 58815, Oct. 10, 2003]

# License Application
§ 63.21
Content of application.
(a) An application consists of general information and a Safety Analysis Report. An environmental impact statement must be prepared in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, and must accompany the application. Any Restricted Data or National Security Information must be separated from unclassified information. The application must be as complete as possible in the light of information that is reasonably available at the time of docketing.
(b) The general information must include:
(1) A general description of the proposed geologic repository at the Yucca Mountain site, identifying the location of the geologic repository operations area, the general character of the proposed activities, and the basis for the exercise of the Commission's licensing authority.
(2) Proposed schedules for construction, receipt of waste, and emplacement of wastes at the proposed geologic repository operations area.
(3) A description of the detailed security measures for physical protection of high-level radioactive waste in accordance with § 73.51 of this chapter. This plan must include the design for physical protection, the licensee's safeguards contingency plan, and security organization personnel training and qualification plan. The plan must list tests, inspections, audits, and other means to be used to demonstrate compliance with such requirements.
(4) A description of the material control and accounting program to meet the requirements of § 63.78.
(5) A description of work conducted to characterize the Yucca Mountain site.
(c) The Safety Analysis Report must include:
(1) A description of the Yucca Mountain site, with appropriate attention to those features, events, and processes of the site that might affect design of the geologic repository operations area and performance of the geologic repository. The description of the site must include information regarding features, events, and processes outside of the
site to the extent the information is relevant and material to safety or performance of the geologic repository. The information referred to in this paragraph must include:
(i) The location of the geologic repository operations area with respect to the boundary of the site;
(ii) Information regarding the geology, hydrology, and geochemistry of the site, including geomechanical properties and conditions of the host rock;
(iii) Information regarding surface water hydrology, climatology, and meteorology of the site; and
(iv) Information regarding the location of the reasonably maximally exposed individual, and regarding local human behaviors and characteristics, as needed to support selection of conceptual models and parameters used for the reference biosphere and reasonably maximally exposed individual.
(2) Information relative to materials of construction of the geologic repository operations area (including geologic media, general arrangement, and approximate dimensions), and codes and standards that DOE proposes to apply to the design and construction of the geologic repository operations area.
(3) A description and discussion of the design of the various components of the geologic repository operations area and the engineered barrier system including:
(i) Dimensions, material properties, specifications, analytical and design methods used along with any applicable codes and standards;
(ii) The design criteria used and their relationships to the preclosure and postclosure performance objectives specified at § 63.111(b), § 63.113(b), and § 63.113(c); and
(iii) The design bases and their relation to the design criteria.
(4) A description of the kind, amount, and specifications of the radioactive material proposed to be received and possessed at the geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site.
(5) A preclosure safety analysis of the geologic repository operations area, for the period before permanent closure, to ensure compliance with § 63.111(a), as required by § 63.111(c). For the purposes of this analysis, it is assumed that operations at the geologic repository operations area will be carried out at the maximum capacity and rate of receipt of radioactive waste stated in the application.
(6) A description of the program for control and monitoring of radioactive effluents and occupational radiological exposures to maintain such effluents and exposures in accordance with the requirements of § 63.111.
(7) A description of plans for retrieval and alternate storage of the radioactive wastes, should retrieval be necessary.
(8) A description of design considerations that are intended to facilitate permanent closure and decontamination or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities.
(9) An assessment to determine the degree to which those features, events, and processes of the site that are expected to materially affect compliance with § 63.113—whether beneficial or potentially adverse to performance of the geologic repository—have been characterized, and the extent to which they affect waste isolation. Investigations must extend from the surface to a depth sufficient to determine principal pathways for radionuclide migration from the underground facility. Specific features, events, and processes of the geologic setting must be investigated outside of the site if they affect performance of the geologic repository.
(10) An assessment of the anticipated response of the geomechanical, hydrogeologic, and geochemical systems to the range of design thermal loadings under consideration, given the pattern of fractures and other discontinuities and the heat transfer properties of the rock mass and water.
(11) An assessment of the ability of the proposed geologic repository to limit radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual for the period after permanent closure, as required by § 63.113(b).
(12) An assessment of the ability of the proposed geologic repository to limit releases of radionuclides into the accessible environment as required by § 63.113(c).
(13) An assessment of the ability of the proposed geologic repository to
limit radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual for the period after permanent closure in the event of human intrusion into the engineered barrier system as required by § 63.113(d).
(14) An evaluation of the natural features of the geologic setting and design features of the engineered barrier system that are considered barriers important to waste isolation as required by § 63.115.
(15) An explanation of measures used to support the models used to provide the information required in paragraphs (c)(9) through (c)(14) of this section. Analyses and models that will be used to assess performance of the geologic repository must be supported by using an appropriate combination of such methods as field tests, in situ tests, laboratory tests that are representative of field conditions, monitoring data, and natural analog studies.
(16) An identification of those structures, systems, and components of the geologic repository, both surface and subsurface, that require research and development to confirm the adequacy of design. For structures, systems, and components important to safety and for the engineered and natural barriers important to waste isolation, DOE shall provide a detailed description of the programs designed to resolve safety questions, including a schedule indicating when these questions would be resolved.
(17) A description of the performance confirmation program that meets the requirements of subpart F of this part.
(18) An identification and justification for the selection of those variables, conditions, or other items that are determined to be probable subjects of license specifications. Special attention must be given to those items that may significantly influence the final design.
(19) An explanation of how expert elicitation was used.
(20) A description of the quality assurance program to be applied to the structures, systems, and components important to safety and to the engineered and natural barriers important to waste isolation. The description of the quality assurance program must include a discussion of how the applicable requirements of § 63.142 will be satisfied.
(21) A description of the plan for responding to, and recovering from, radiological emergencies that may occur at any time before permanent closure and decontamination or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities, as required by § 63.161.
(22) The following information concerning activities at the geologic repository operations area:
(i) The organizational structure of DOE as it pertains to construction and operation of the geologic repository operations area, including a description of any delegations of authority and assignments of responsibilities, whether in the form of regulations, administrative directives, contract provisions, or otherwise.
(ii) Identification of key positions that are assigned responsibility for safety at and operation of the geologic repository operations area.
(iii) Personnel qualifications and training requirements.
(iv) Plans for startup activities and startup testing.
(v) Plans for conduct of normal activities, including maintenance, surveillance, and periodic testing of structures, systems, and components of the geologic repository operations area.
(vi) Plans for permanent closure and plans for the decontamination or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities.
(vii) Plans for any uses of the geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site for purposes other than disposal of radioactive wastes, with an analysis of the effects, if any, that such uses may have on the operation of the structures, systems, and components important to safety and the engineered and natural barriers important to waste isolation.
(23) A description of the program to be used to maintain the records described in §§ 63.71 and 63.72.
(24) A description of the controls that DOE will apply to restrict access and to regulate land use at the Yucca Mountain site and adjacent areas, including a conceptual design of monuments that would be used to identify the site after permanent closure.
(d) The applicant for a license to receive and possess source, special nuclear, and byproduct material at a geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada, shall protect Safeguards Information in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21, and the requirements in § 73.22, or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable, and shall protect classified information in accordance with the requirements of parts 25 and 95 of this chapter, as applicable.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 63572, Oct. 24, 2008]
§ 63.22
Filing and distribution of application.
(a) An application for a construction authorization for a high-level radioactive waste repository at a geologic repository operations area at Yucca Mountain, and an application for a license to receive and possess source, special nuclear, or byproduct material at a geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site that has been characterized, any amendments to the application, and an accompanying environmental impact statement and any supplements, must be signed by the Secretary of Energy or the Secretary's authorized representative and must be filed with the Director in triplicate on paper and optical storage media.
(b) DOE shall submit 30 additional copies, on paper and optical storage media, of each portion of the application and any amendments, and each environmental impact statement and any supplements. DOE shall maintain the capability to generate additional copies for distribution in accordance with written instructions from the Director or the Director's designee.
(c) On notification of the appointment of an Atomic Safety and Licensing Board, DOE shall update the application, eliminating all superseded information, and supplement the environmental impact statement if necessary, and serve the updated application and environmental impact statement (as it may have been supplemented) as directed by the Board. Any subsequent amendments to the application or supplements to the environmental impact statement must be served in the same manner.
(d) When an application, and any amendment to it is filed, copies on paper and optical storage media must be made available in appropriate locations near the proposed geologic repository operations areas at the Yucca Mountain site for inspection by the public. These copies must be updated as amendments to the application are made. The environmental impact statement and any supplements to it must be made available in the same manner. An updated copy of the application, and the environmental impact statement and supplements, must be produced at any public hearing held by the Commission on the application for use by any party to the proceeding.
(e) DOE shall certify that the updated copies of the application, and the environmental impact statement as it may have been supplemented, as referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, contain the current contents of these documents submitted as required by this part.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 58815, Oct. 10, 2003; 69 FR 2280, Jan. 14, 2004]
§ 63.23
Elimination of repetition.
In its application or environmental impact statement, DOE may incorporate, by reference, information contained in previous applications, statements, or reports filed with the Commission, if the references are clear and specific and copies of the information incorporated are made available to the public locations near the site of the proposed geologic repository, as specified in § 63.22(d).
§ 63.24
Updating of application and environmental impact statement.
(a) The application must be as complete as possible in light of the information that is reasonably available at the time of docketing.
(b) DOE shall update its application in a timely manner so as to permit the Commission to review, before issuance of a license—
(1) Additional geologic, geophysical, geochemical, hydrologic, meteorologic, materials, design, and other data obtained during construction;
(2) Conformance of construction of structures, systems, and components with the design;
(3) Results of research programs carried out to confirm the adequacy of designs, conceptual models, parameter values, and estimates of performance of the geologic repository.
(4) Other information bearing on the Commission's issuance of a license that was not available at the time a construction authorization was issued.
(c) DOE shall supplement its environmental impact statement in a timely manner so as to take into account the environmental impacts of any substantial changes in its proposed actions or any significant new circumstances or information relevant to environmental concerns bearing on the proposed action or its impacts.

# Construction Authorization
§ 63.31
Construction authorization.
On review and consideration of an application and environmental impact statement submitted under this part, the Commission may authorize construction of a geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site if it determines:
(a)
Safety.
(1) That there is reasonable assurance that the types and amounts of radioactive materials described in the application can be received and possessed in a geologic repository operations area of the design proposed without unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public; and
(2) That there is reasonable expectation that the materials can be disposed of without unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public.
(3) In arriving at these determinations, the Commission shall consider whether—
(i) DOE has described the proposed geologic repository as specified at § 63.21;
(ii) The site and design comply with the performance objectives and requirements contained in subpart E of this part;
(iii) DOE's quality assurance program complies with the requirements of subpart G of this part;
(iv) DOE's personnel training program complies with the criteria contained in subpart H of this part;
(v) DOE's emergency plan complies with the criteria contained in subpart I of this part; and
(vi) DOE's proposed operating procedures to protect health and to minimize danger to life or property are adequate.
(b)
Common defense and security.
That there is reasonable assurance that the activities proposed in the application will not be inimical to the common defense and security.
(c)
Environmental.
That, after weighing the environmental, economic, technical, and other benefits against environmental costs, and considering available alternatives, the action called for is the issuance of the construction authorization, with any appropriate conditions to protect environmental values.
§ 63.32
Conditions of construction authorization.
(a) In a construction authorization for a geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site, the Commission shall include any conditions it considers necessary to protect the health and safety of the public, the common defense and security, or environmental values.
(b) The Commission shall incorporate provisions in the construction authorization requiring DOE to furnish periodic or special reports regarding:
(1) Progress of construction;
(2) Any data about the site, obtained during construction, that are not within the predicted limits on which the facility design was based;
(3) Any deficiencies, in design and construction, that, if uncorrected, could adversely affect safety at any future time; and
(4) Results of research and development programs being conducted to resolve safety questions.
(c) The construction authorization for a geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site will include restrictions on subsequent changes to the features of the geologic repository and the procedures authorized. The restrictions that may be imposed under this paragraph can include
measures to prevent adverse effects on the geologic setting as well as measures related to the design and construction of the geologic repository operations area. These restrictions will fall into three categories of descending importance to public health and safety, as follows:
(1) Those features and procedures that may not be changed without—
(i) 60 days prior notice to the Commission;
(ii) 30 days notice of opportunity for a prior hearing; and
(iii) Prior Commission approval;
(2) Those features and procedures that may not be changed without—
(i) 60 days prior notice to the Commission; and
(ii) Prior Commission approval; and
(3) Those features and procedures that may not be changed without 60 days notice to the Commission. Features and procedures falling in this paragraph section may not be changed without prior Commission approval if the Commission, after having received the required notice, so orders.
(d) A construction authorization must be subject to the limitation that a license to receive and possess source, special nuclear, or byproduct material at the Yucca Mountain site geologic repository operations area may not be issued by the Commission until;
(1) DOE has updated its application, as specified at § 63.24; and
(2) The Commission has made the findings stated in § 63.41.
§ 63.33
Amendment of construction authorization.
(a) An application for amendment of a construction authorization must be filed with the Commission that fully describes any desired changes and follows, as far as applicable, the content requirements prescribed in § 63.21.
(b) In determining whether an amendment of a construction authorization will be approved, the Commission will be guided by the considerations that govern the issuance of the initial construction authorization, to the extent applicable.

# License Issuance and Amendment
§ 63.41
Standards for issuance of a license.
A license to receive and possess source, special nuclear, or byproduct material at a geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site may be issued by the Commission on finding that—
(a) Construction of the geologic repository operations area has been substantially completed in conformity with the application as amended, the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act, and the rules and regulations of the Commission. Construction may be considered substantially complete for the purposes of this paragraph if the construction of—
(1) Surface and interconnecting structures, systems, and components; and
(2) Any underground storage space required for initial operation, are substantially complete.
(b) The activities to be conducted at the geologic repository operations area will be in conformity with the application as amended, the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act and the Energy Reorganization Act, and the rules and regulations of the Commission.
(c) The issuance of the license will not be inimical to the common defense and security and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public.
(d) Adequate protective measures can and will be taken in the event of a radiological emergency at any time before permanent closure and decontamination or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities.
(e) All applicable requirements of part 51 of this chapter have been satisfied.
§ 63.42
Conditions of license.
(a) The Commission shall include any conditions, including license specifications, it considers necessary to protect the health and safety of the public, the common defense and security, and environmental values in a license issued under this part.
(b) Whether stated in the license or not, the following are considered to be conditions in every license issued:
(1) The license is subject to revocation, suspension, modification, or amendment for cause, as provided by the Atomic Energy Act and the Commission's regulations.
(2) DOE shall, at any time while the license is in effect, on written request of the Commission, submit written statements to enable the Commission to determine whether or not the license should be modified, suspended, or revoked.
(3) The license is subject to the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act now or hereafter in effect and to all rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission. The terms and conditions of the license are subject to amendment, revision, or modification, by reason of amendments to or by reason of rules, regulations, and orders issued in accordance with the terms of the Atomic Energy Act.
(c) Each license includes the provisions set forth in section 183 b-d, inclusive, of the Atomic Energy Act, whether or not these provisions are expressly set forth in the license.
(d) A license issued under this part includes the provisions set forth in section 114(d) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, as amended, defining the quantity of solidified high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, until such time as a second repository is in operation, whether or not these provisions are expressly set forth in the license.
(e) The licensee (Department of Energy) shall ensure that Safeguards Information is protected against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21, and the requirements in § 73.22, or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable, and shall protect classified information in accordance with the requirements of parts 25 and 95 of this chapter, as applicable.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 63572, Oct. 24, 2008]
§ 63.43
License specification.
(a) A license issued under this part includes license conditions derived from the analyses and evaluations included in the application, including amendments made before a license is issued, together with any additional conditions the Commission finds appropriate.
(b) License conditions include items in the following categories:
(1) Restrictions as to the physical and chemical form and radioisotopic content of radioactive waste.
(2) Restrictions as to size, shape, and materials and methods of construction of radioactive waste packaging.
(3) Restrictions as to the amount of waste permitted per unit volume of storage space, considering the physical characteristics of both the waste and the host rock.
(4) Requirements relating to test, calibration, or inspection, to assure that the foregoing restrictions are observed.
(5) Controls to be applied to restrict access and to avoid disturbance to the site and to areas outside the site where conditions may affect compliance with §§ 63.111 and 63.113.
(6) Administrative controls, which are the provisions relating to organization and management, procedures, recordkeeping, review and audit, and reporting necessary to assure that activities at the facility are conducted in a safe manner and in conformity with the other license specifications.
§ 63.44
Changes, tests, and experiments.
(a) Definitions for the purposes of this section:
(1)
Change
means a modification or addition to, or removal from, the geologic repository operations area design or procedures that affects a design function, event sequence, method of performing or controlling the function, or an evaluation that demonstrates that intended functions will be accomplished.
(2)
Departure from a method of evaluation described in the Safety Analysis Report (SAR) (as updated) used in establishing the preclosure safety analyses or performance assessment
means:
(i) Changing any of the elements of the method described in the SAR (as updated) unless the results of the analysis are conservative or essentially the same; or
(ii) Changing from a method described in the SAR to another method unless that method has been approved
by NRC for the intended application, addition or removal.
(3)
Safety Analysis Report (SAR) (as updated)
means the Safety Analysis Report for the geologic repository, submitted in accordance with § 63.21, as updated in accordance with § 63.24.
(4)
Geologic repository operations area as described in the SAR (as updated)
means:
(i) The structures, systems, and components important to safety or barriers important to waste isolation that are described in the SAR (as updated); and
(ii) The design and performance requirements for such structures, systems, and components described in the SAR (as updated).
(5)
Procedures as described in the SAR (as updated)
means those procedures that contain information described in the SAR (as updated) such as how structures, systems, and components important to safety, or important to waste isolation, are operated or controlled.
(6)
Tests or experiments not described in the SAR (as updated)
means any condition where the geologic repository operations area or any of its structures, systems, and components important to safety, or important to waste isolation, are utilized, controlled, or altered in a manner which is either:
(i) Outside the reference bounds of the design bases as described in the SAR (as updated); or
(ii) Inconsistent with the analyses or descriptions in the SAR (as updated).
(b)(1) DOE may make changes in the geologic repository operations area as described in the SAR (as updated), make changes in the procedures as described in the SAR (as updated), and conduct tests or experiments not described in the SAR (as updated), without obtaining either an amendment of construction authorization under § 63.33 or a license amendment under § 63.45, if:
(i) A change in the conditions incorporated in the construction authorization or license is not required; and
(ii) The change, test, or experiment does not meet any of the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) DOE shall obtain an amendment of construction authorization under § 63.33 or a license amendment under § 63.45, before implementing a change, test, or experiment if it would:
(i) Result in more than a minimal increase in the frequency of occurrence of an event sequence previously evaluated in the SAR (as updated);
(ii) Result in more than a minimal increase in the likelihood of occurrence of a malfunction of structures, systems, components important to safety, or important to waste isolation, which were previously evaluated in the SAR (as updated);
(iii) Result in more than a minimal increase in the consequences of an event sequence previously evaluated in the SAR (as updated);
(iv) Result in more than a minimal increase in the consequences of malfunction of structures, systems, components important to safety, or important to waste isolation, which were previously evaluated in the SAR (as updated);
(v) Create the possibility for an event sequence, or of a pathway for release of radionuclides, of a different type than any evaluated previously in the SAR (as updated);
(vi) Create the possibility for a malfunction of structures, systems, and components important to safety, or important to waste isolation, with a different result than any evaluated previously in the SAR (as updated);
(vii) Result in a departure from a method of evaluation described in the SAR (as updated) used in establishing the preclosure safety analysis or the performance assessment.
(3) In implementing this paragraph, the SAR (as updated) is considered to include SAR changes resulting from evaluations performed pursuant to this section and from safety analyses performed under § 63.33 or § 63.45, as applicable, after the last Safety Analysis Report was updated under § 63.24.
(4) The provisions in this section do not apply to changes to the geologic repository operations area or procedures when the applicable regulations establish more specific criteria for accomplishing such changes.
(c)(1) DOE shall maintain records of changes in the geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site, of changes in procedures, and of tests and experiments made under
paragraph (b) of this section. These records must include a written evaluation that provides the bases for the determination that the change, test, or experiment does not require an amendment of construction authorization or license amendment under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) No less frequently than every 24 months, DOE shall prepare a report containing a brief description of such changes, tests, and experiments, including a summary of the evaluation of each. These written reports must be sent to the NRC using an appropriate method listed in § 63.4; addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk; Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards; U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-001; and DOE shall furnish the report to the appropriate NRC Regional Office shown in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter. Any report submitted under this paragraph must be made a part of the public record of the licensing proceedings.
(d) Changes to the quality assurance program description required by § 63.21(c)(20) must be processed in accordance with § 63.144.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 58815, Oct. 10, 2003]
§ 63.45
Amendment of license.
(a) An application for amendment of a license may be filed with the Commission fully describing the changes desired and following as far as applicable the format prescribed for license applications.
(b) In determining whether an amendment of a license will be approved, the Commission will be guided by the considerations that govern the issuance of the initial license, to the extent applicable.
§ 63.46
Particular activities requiring license amendment.
(a) Unless expressly authorized in the license, a license amendment is required for any of the following activities:
(1) Any action that would make emplaced high-level radioactive waste irretrievable or that would substantially increase the difficulty of retrieving the emplaced waste;
(2) Dismantling of structures;
(3) Removal or reduction of controls applied to restrict access to or avoid disturbance of the site and to areas outside the site where conditions may affect compliance with §§ 63.111 and 63.113;
(4) Destruction or disposal of records required to be maintained under the provisions of this part;
(5) Any substantial change to the design or operating procedures from that specified in the license, except as authorized in § 63.44; and
(6) Permanent closure.
(b) An application for an amendment must be filed, and will be reviewed, as specified in § 63.45.

# US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement
§ 63.47
Facility information and verification.
(a) In response to a written request by the Commission, each applicant for a construction authorization or license and each recipient of a construction authorization or a license shall submit facility information, as described in § 75.10 of this chapter, on IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms and site information on DOC/NRC Form AP-A and associated forms;
(b) As required by the Additional Protocol, applicants and licensees specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall submit location information described in § 75.11 of this chapter on DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms;
(c) Shall permit verification thereof by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and take other action as necessary to implement the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement, as described in Part 75 of this chapter.
[73 FR 78606, Dec. 23, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Permanent Closure
§ 63.51
License amendment for permanent closure.
(a) DOE shall submit an application to amend the license before permanent closure of a geologic repository at the Yucca Mountain site. The submission must consist of an update of the license
application submitted under §§ 63.21 and 63.22, including:
(1) An update of the assessment of the performance of the geologic repository for the period after permanent closure. The updated assessment must include any performance confirmation data collected under the program required by subpart F, and pertinent to compliance with § 63.113.
(2) A description of the program for post-permanent closure monitoring of the geologic repository.
(3) A detailed description of the measures to be employed—such as land use controls, construction of monuments, and preservation of records—to regulate or prevent activities that could impair the long-term isolation of emplaced waste within the geologic repository and to assure that relevant information will be preserved for the use of future generations. As a minimum, these measures must include:
(i) Identification of the site and geologic repository operations area by monuments that have been designed, fabricated, and emplaced to be as permanent as is practicable;
(ii) Placement of records in the archives and land record systems of local, State, and Federal government agencies, and archives elsewhere in the world, that would be likely to be consulted by potential human intruders—such records to identify the location of the geologic repository operations area, including the underground facility, boreholes, shafts and ramps, and the boundaries of the site, and the nature and hazard of the waste; and
(iii) A program for continued oversight, to prevent any activity at the site that poses an unreasonable risk of breaching the geologic repository's engineered barriers; or increasing the exposure of individual members of the public to radiation beyond allowable limits.
(4) Geologic, geophysical, geochemical, hydrologic, and other site data that are obtained during the operational period, pertinent to compliance with § 63.113.
(5) The results of tests, experiments, and any other analyses relating to backfill of excavated areas, shaft, borehole, or ramp sealing, drip shields, waste packages, interactions between natural and engineered systems, and any other tests, experiments, or analyses pertinent to compliance with § 63.113.
(6) Any substantial revision of plans for permanent closure.
(7) Other information bearing on permanent closure that was not available at the time a license was issued.
(b) If necessary, to take into account the environmental impact of any substantial changes in the permanent closure activities proposed to be carried out or any significant new information regarding the environmental impacts of permanent closure, DOE shall also supplement its environmental impact statement and submit this statement, as supplemented, with the application for license amendment.
§ 63.52
Termination of license.
(a) Following permanent closure and the decontamination or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities at the Yucca Mountain site, DOE may apply for an amendment to terminate the license.
(b) The application must be filed and will be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of § 63.45 and this section.
(c) A license may be terminated only when the Commission finds with respect to the geologic repository:
(1) That the final disposition of radioactive wastes has been made in conformance with DOE's plan, as amended and approved as part of the license.
(2) That the final state of the geologic repository operations area conforms to DOE's plans for permanent closure and DOE's plans for the decontamination or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities, as amended and approved as part of the license.
(3) That the termination of the license is authorized by law, including sections 57, 62, and 81 of the Atomic Energy Act, as amended.

# Subpart C—Participation by State Government, Affected Units of Local Government, and Affected Indian Tribes
§ 63.61
Provision of information.
(a) The Director shall provide the Governor and the Nevada State legislature, affected units of local government, and the governing body of any affected Indian Tribe, with timely and complete information regarding determinations or plans made by the Commission with respect to the Yucca Mountain site. Information must be provided concerning the site characterization, siting, development, design, licensing, construction, operation, regulation, permanent closure, or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities of the geologic repository operations area at the site.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Director is not required to distribute any document to any entity if, with respect to the document, that entity or its counsel is included on a service list prepared under part 2 of this chapter.
(c) The NRC shall place communications by the Director under this section in the Publicly Available Records System (PARS) Library and furnish copies to DOE.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 58815, Oct. 10, 2003]
§ 63.62
Site review.
(a) The Director shall make the NRC staff available to consult with representatives of the State of Nevada, affected units of local government, and affected Indian Tribes regarding the status of site characterization at the Yucca Mountain site.
(b) Requests for consultation must be made in writing to the Director.
(c) Consultation under this section may include:
(1) Keeping the parties informed of the Director's views on the progress of site characterization.
(2) Review of applicable NRC regulations, licensing procedures, schedules, and opportunities for State, affected units of local government, and Tribe participation in the Commission's regulatory activities.
(3) Cooperation in development of proposals for State, affected units of local government, and Tribal participation in license reviews.
§ 63.63
Participation in license reviews.
(a) The State, affected units of local government, and affected Indian Tribes may participate in license reviews as provided in subpart J of part 2 of this chapter.
(b) In addition, a State, or an affected unit of local government, or an affected Indian Tribe may submit a proposal to the Director to facilitate its participation in the review of the license application. The proposal may be submitted at any time and must contain a description and schedule of how the State, or affected unit of local government, or affected Indian Tribe wishes to participate in the review, or what services or activities the State, or affected unit of local government, or affected Indian Tribe wishes the NRC to carry out, and how the services or activities proposed to be carried out by the NRC would contribute to this participation. The proposal may include educational or information services (seminars, public meetings) or other actions on the part of NRC, such as establishing additional public document rooms or employment or exchange of State personnel under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act.
(c) The Director shall arrange for a meeting between the representatives of the State, or affected unit of local government, or affected Indian Tribe and the NRC staff, to discuss any proposal submitted under paragraph (b) of this section, with a view to identifying any modifications that may contribute to the effective participation by such State, or affected unit of local government, or Tribe.
(d) Subject to the availability of funds, the Director shall approve all or any part of a proposal, as it may be modified through the meeting described in paragraph (c) of this section, if it is determined that:
(1) The proposed activities are suitable in light of the type and magnitude of impacts that the State, or affected unit of local government, or affected Indian Tribe may bear;
(2) The proposed activities—
(i) Will enhance communications between NRC and the State, or affected unit of local government, or affected Indian Tribe;
(ii) Will make a productive and timely contribution to the review; and
(iii) Are authorized by law.
(e) The Director shall advise the State, or affected unit of local government, or affected Indian Tribe whether its proposal has been accepted or denied. If all or any part of a proposal is denied, the Director shall state the reason for the denial.
(f) The NRC shall place all proposals submitted under this section, and responses to them, in the Publicly Available Records System (PARS) Library.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 58816, Oct. 10, 2003]
§ 63.64
Notice to State.
If the Governor and legislature of the State of Nevada have jointly designated, on their behalf, a single person or entity to receive notice and information from the Commission under this part, the Commission will provide the notice and information to the jointly designated person or entity instead of the Governor and legislature separately.
§ 63.65
Representation.
Any person who acts under this subpart as a representative for the State of Nevada (or for the Governor or legislature of Nevada), for an affected unit of local government, or for an affected Indian Tribe shall include in the request or other submission, or at the request of the Commission, a statement of the basis of his or her authority to act in this capacity.

# Subpart D—Records, Reports, Tests, and Inspections
§ 63.71
Records and reports.
(a) DOE shall maintain records and make reports in connection with the licensed activity that are required by the conditions of the license or by rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission, as authorized by the Atomic Energy Act and the Energy Reorganization Act.
(b) Records of the receipt, handling, and disposition of radioactive waste at a geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site must contain sufficient information to provide a complete history of the movement of the waste from the shipper through all phases of storage and disposal. DOE shall retain these records in a manner that ensures their usability for future generations in accordance with § 63.51(a)(3).
§ 63.72
Construction records.
(a) DOE shall maintain records of construction of the geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site in a manner that ensures their usability for future generations in accordance with § 63.51(a)(3).
(b) The records required under paragraph (a) of this section must include at least the following—
(1) Surveys of the underground facility excavations, shafts, ramps, and boreholes referenced to readily identifiable surface features or monuments;
(2) A description of the materials encountered;
(3) Geologic maps and geologic cross-sections;
(4) Locations and amount of seepage;
(5) Details of equipment, methods, progress, and sequence of work;
(6) Construction problems;
(7) Anomalous conditions encountered;
(8) Instrument locations, readings, and analysis;
(9) Location and description of structural support systems;
(10) Location and description of dewatering systems;
(11) Details, methods of emplacement, and location of seals used; and
(12) Facility design records (e.g, design specifications and “as built” drawings).
§ 63.73
Reports of deficiencies.
(a) DOE shall promptly notify the Commission of each deficiency found in the characteristics of the Yucca Mountain site, and design, and construction of the geologic repository operations area that, were it to remain uncorrected, could—
(1) Adversely affect safety at any future time;
(2) Represent a significant deviation from the design criteria and design basis stated in the design application; or
(3) Represent a deviation from the conditions stated in the terms of a construction authorization or the license, including license specifications.
(b) DOE shall implement a program for evaluating and reporting deviations and failures to comply, to identify defects and failures to comply associated with substantial safety hazards, based on the applicable requirements in 10 CFR 50.55(e) as it applies to the construction authorization and design of the geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site.
(c) DOE shall implement a program of reporting specific events and conditions that is the same as that specified in 10 CFR 72.75.
(d) The requisite notification must be as specified in the applicable regulation. By an appropriate method listed in § 63.4 of this chapter, written reports must be submitted to NRC addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk; Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards; U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-001; and to the NRC onsite representative. DOE shall also furnish the report to the appropriate NRC Regional Office shown in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 58815, Oct. 10, 2003]
§ 63.74
Tests.
(a) DOE shall perform, or permit the Commission to perform, those tests the Commission considers appropriate or necessary for the administration of the regulations in this part. This may include tests of—
(1) Radioactive waste,
(2) The geologic repository, including portions of the geologic setting and the structures, systems, and components constructed or placed therein,
(3) Radiation detection and monitoring instruments, and
(4) Other equipment and devices used in connection with the receipt, handling, or storage of radioactive waste.
(b) The tests required under this section must include a performance confirmation program carried out in accordance with subpart F of this part.
§ 63.75
Inspections.
(a) DOE shall allow the Commission to inspect the premises of the geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site and adjacent areas to which DOE has rights of access.
(b) DOE shall make available to the Commission for inspection, on reasonable notice, records kept by DOE pertaining to activities under this part.
(c)(1) DOE shall, on requests by the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, provide rent-free office space for the exclusive use of the Commission inspection personnel. Heat, air-conditioning, light, electrical outlets, and janitorial services must be furnished by DOE. The office must be convenient to and have full access to the facility and must provide the inspector both visual and acoustic privacy.
(2) The space provided must be adequate to accommodate two full-time inspectors, and other transient NRC personnel and will be generally commensurate with other office facilities at the Yucca Mountain site geologic repository operations area. A space of 250 square feet either within the geologic repository operations area's office complex or in an office trailer or other onsite space at the geologic repository operations area is suggested as a guide. For locations at which activities are carried out under licenses issued under other parts of this chapter, additional space may be requested to accommodate additional full-time inspectors. The office space provided is subject to the approval of the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. All furniture, supplies, and communication equipment will be furnished by the Commission.
(3) DOE shall afford any NRC resident inspector assigned to the Yucca Mountain site or other NRC inspectors identified by the Regional Administrator as likely to inspect the Yucca Mountain facility, immediate unfettered access, equivalent to access provided regular employees, after proper
identification and compliance with applicable access control measures for security, radiological protection, and personal safety.
§ 63.78
Material control and accounting records and reports.
DOE shall implement a program of material control and accounting (and accidental criticality reporting) that is the same as that specified in §§ 72.72, 72.74, 72.76, and 72.78 of this chapter.

# Subpart E—Technical Criteria
§ 63.101
Purpose and nature of findings.
(a)(1) Subpart B prescribes the standards for issuance of a license to receive and possess source, special nuclear, or byproduct material at a geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site. In particular, § 63.41(c) requires a finding that the issuance of a license will not constitute an unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public. The purpose of this subpart is to set out the performance objectives for postclosure performance of the geologic repository and other criteria that, if satisfied, support a finding of no unreasonable risk. Postclosure performance objectives for the geologic repository include a requirement to limit radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual, a requirement to limit releases of radionuclides to the accessible environment to protect groundwater, and a requirement to limit radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual in the event of human intrusion (see § 63.113(b), (c), and (d), respectively).
(2) Although the postclosure performance objectives specified at § 63.113 are generally stated in unqualified terms, it is not expected that complete assurance that the requirements will be met can be presented. A reasonable expectation, on the basis of the record before the Commission, that the postclosure performance objectives will be met, is the general standard required. Proof that the geologic repository will conform with the objectives for postclosure performance is not to be had in the ordinary sense of the word because of the uncertainties inherent in the understanding of the evolution of the geologic setting, biosphere, and engineered barrier system. For such long-term performance, what is required is reasonable expectation, making allowance for the time period, hazards, and uncertainties involved, that the outcome will conform with the objectives for postclosure performance for the geologic repository. Demonstrating compliance will involve the use of complex predictive models that are supported by limited data from field and laboratory tests, site-specific monitoring, and natural analog studies that may be supplemented with prevalent expert judgment. Compliance demonstrations should not exclude important parameters from assessments and analyses simply because they are difficult to precisely quantify to a high degree of confidence. The performance assessments and analyses should focus upon the full range of defensible and reasonable parameter distributions rather than only upon extreme physical situations and parameter values. Further, in reaching a determination of reasonable expectation, the Commission may supplement numerical analyses with qualitative judgments including, for example, consideration of the degree of diversity among the multiple barriers as a measure of the resiliency of the geologic repository.
(b) Subpart B lists findings that must be made in support of an authorization to construct a geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site. Prior to closure, § 63.31(a)(1) requires a finding that there is reasonable assurance that the types and amounts of radioactive materials described in the application can be received, possessed, and stored in a geologic repository operations area of the design proposed without unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public. After permanent closure, § 63.31(a)(2) requires the Commission to consider whether there is a reasonable expectation the site and design comply with the postclosure performance objectives. Once again, although the criteria may be written in unqualified terms, the demonstration of compliance must take uncertainties and gaps in knowledge into account so that the Commission can make the specified
finding with respect to paragraph (a)(2) of § 63.31.
§ 63.102
Concepts.
This section provides a functional overview of this Subpart E. In the event of any inconsistency, the definitions in § 63.2 prevail.
(a)
The HLW facility at the Yucca Mountain site.
NRC exercises licensing and related regulatory authority over those facilities described in section 202 (3) and (4) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, including the site at Yucca Mountain, as designated by the Energy Policy Act of 1992.
(b)
The geologic repository operations area.
(1) These regulations deal with the exercise of authority with respect to a particular class of HLW facility—namely, a geologic repository operations area at Yucca Mountain.
(2)
A geologic repository operations area
consists of those surface and subsurface areas of the site that are part of a geologic repository where radioactive waste handling activities are conducted. The underground structure, backfill materials, if any, and openings that penetrate the underground structure (e.g., ramps, shafts and boreholes, including their seals), are designated the
underground facility.
(3) The exercise of Commission authority requires that the geologic repository operations area be used for storage (which includes disposal) of
high-level radioactive wastes
(HLW).
(4) HLW includes irradiated reactor fuel as well as reprocessing wastes. However, if DOE proposes to use the geologic repository operations area for storage of radioactive waste other than HLW, the storage of this radioactive waste is subject to the requirements of this part.
(c)
Stages in the licensing process.
There are several stages in the licensing process. The
site characterization
stage, when the performance confirmation program is started, begins before submission of a license application, and may result in consequences requiring evaluation in the license review. The construction stage would follow after the issuance of a construction authorization. A period of operations follows the Commission's issuance of a license. The period of operations includes the time during which
emplacement
of wastes occurs; any subsequent period before permanent closure during which the emplaced wastes are
retrievable
; and
permanent closure,
which includes sealing openings to the repository. Permanent closure represents the end of the performance confirmation program; final backfilling of the underground facility, if appropriate; and the sealing of shafts, ramps, and boreholes.
(d)
Areas related to isolation.
Although the activities subject to regulation under this part are those to be carried out at the geologic repository operations area, the licensing process also considers characteristics of adjacent areas that are defined in other ways. There must be an area surrounding the geologic repository operations area, that could include either a portion or all of the site, within which DOE shall exercise specified controls to prevent adverse human actions after permanent closure. There is an area, designated the geologic setting, which includes the geologic, hydrologic, and geochemical systems of the region in which the site and geologic repository operations area are located. The geologic repository operations area, plus the portion of the geologic setting that provides isolation of the radioactive waste, make up the geologic repository.
(e)
Performance objectives through permanent closure.
Before permanent closure, the geologic repository operations area is required to limit radiation levels and radiological exposures, in both restricted and unrestricted areas, and releases of radioactive materials to unrestricted areas, as specified at § 63.111(a).
(f)
Preclosure safety analysis.
Section 63.111 includes performance objectives for the geologic repository operations area for the period before permanent closure and decontamination or permanent closure, decontamination, and dismantlement of surface facilities. The preclosure safety analysis is a systematic examination of the site; the design; and the potential hazards, initiating events and their resulting event sequences and potential radiological exposures to workers and the public. Initiating events are to be considered for inclusion in the preclosure safety
analysis for determining event sequences only if they are reasonable (
i.e.
, based on the characteristics of the geologic setting and the human environment, and consistent with precedents adopted for nuclear facilities with comparable or higher risks to workers and the public). The analysis identifies structures, systems, and components important to safety.
(g)
Performance objectives after permanent closure.
After permanent closure, the geologic repository is required to:
(1) Limit radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual, as specified at § 63.113(b);
(2) Limit releases of radionuclides to the accessible environment to protect groundwater, as specified at § 63.113(c); and
(3) Limit radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual in the event of human intrusion, as specified at § 63.113(d).
(h)
Multiple barriers.
Section 63.113(a) requires that the geologic repository include multiple barriers, both natural and engineered. Geologic disposal of HLW is predicated on the expectation that one or more aspects of the geologic setting will be capable of contributing to the isolation of radioactive waste and thus be a barrier important to waste isolation. Although there is an extensive geologic record ranging from thousands to millions of years, this record is subject to interpretation and includes many uncertainties. In addition, there are uncertainties in the isolation capability and performance of engineered barriers. Although the composition and configuration of engineered structures (barriers) can be defined with a degree of precision not possible for natural barriers, it is recognized that except for a few archaeologic and natural analogs, there is a limited experience base for the performance of complex, engineered structures over periods longer than a few hundred years, considering the uncertainty in characterizing and modeling individual barriers. These uncertainties are addressed by requiring the use of a multiple barrier approach; specifically, an engineered barrier system is required in addition to the natural barriers provided by the geologic setting. The performance assessment provides an evaluation of the repository performance based on credible models and parameters including the consideration of uncertainty in the behavior of the repository system. Thus the performance assessment results reflect the capability of each of the barriers to cope with a variety of challenges (e.g., combinations of parameters leading to less favorable performance for individual barriers and combinations of barriers). A description of each barrier's capability (e.g., retardation of radionuclides in the saturated zone, waste package lifetime, matrix diffusion in the unsaturated zone), as reflected in the performance assessment, provides an understanding of how the natural barriers and the engineered barrier system work in combination to enhance the resiliency of the geologic repository. The Commission believes that this understanding can increase confidence that the postclosure performance objectives specified at § 63.113(b) and (c) will be achieved and that DOE's design includes a system of multiple barriers.
(i)
Reference biosphere and reasonably maximally exposed individual.
The performance assessment will estimate the amount of radioactive material released to water or air at various locations and times in the future. To estimate the potential for future human exposures resulting from release of radioactive material from a geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, it is necessary to make certain assumptions about the location and characteristics of the reasonably maximally exposed individual. The environment inhabited by the reasonably maximally exposed individual, along with associated human exposure pathways and parameters, make up the reference biosphere, as described in § 63.305. The reasonably maximally exposed individual, as a hypothetical person living in a community with characteristics of the Town of Amargosa Valley, is a representative person using water with average concentrations of radionuclides as described at § 63.312. The reasonably maximally exposed individual is selected to represent those persons in the vicinity of Yucca Mountain who are reasonably expected to receive the
greatest exposure to radioactive material released from a geologic repository at Yucca Mountain. Characteristics of the reference biosphere and the reasonably maximally exposed individual are to be based on current human behavior and biospheric conditions in the region, as described in § 63.305 and § 63.312.
(j)
Performance assessment.
Demonstrating compliance with the postclosure performance objective specified at § 63.113(b) requires a performance assessment to quantitatively estimate radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual at any time during the compliance period. The performance assessment is a systematic analysis that identifies the features, events, and processes (
i.e.
, specific conditions or attributes of the geologic setting, degradation, deterioration, or alteration processes of engineered barriers, and interactions between the natural and engineered barriers) that might affect performance of the geologic repository; examines their effects on performance; and estimates the radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual. The features, events, and processes considered in the performance assessment should represent a wide range of both beneficial and potentially adverse effects on performance (e.g., beneficial effects of radionuclide sorption; potentially adverse effects of fracture flow or a criticality event). Those features, events, and processes expected to materially affect compliance with § 63.113(b) or be potentially adverse to performance are included, while events (event classes or scenario classes) that are very unlikely (less than one chance in 10,000 over 10,000 years) can be excluded from the analysis. An event class consists of all possible specific initiating events that are caused by a common natural process (e.g., the event class for seismicity includes the range of credible earthquakes for the Yucca Mountain site). Radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual are estimated using the selected features, events, and processes, and incorporating the probability that the estimated exposures will occur. Additionally, performance assessment methods are appropriate for use in demonstrating compliance with the postclosure performance objectives for groundwater protection and human intrusion, and are subject to the requirements for performance assessments specified at § 63.114 and applicable criteria in Subpart L (e.g., criteria for evaluating compliance with groundwater protection and individual protection standards).
(k)
Institutional controls.
Active and passive institutional controls will be maintained over the Yucca Mountain site, and are expected to reduce significantly, but not eliminate, the potential for human activity that could inadvertently cause or accelerate the release of radioactive material. However, because it is not possible to make scientifically sound forecasts of the long-term reliability of institutional controls, it is not appropriate to include consideration of human intrusion into a fully risk-based performance assessment for purposes of evaluating the ability of the geologic repository to achieve the performance objective at § 63.113(b). Hence, human intrusion is addressed in a stylized manner as described in paragraph (l) of this section.
(l)
Human intrusion.
In contrast to events unrelated to human activity, the probability and characteristics of human intrusion occurring many hundreds or thousands of years into the future cannot be estimated by examining either the historic or geologic record. Rather than speculating on the nature and probability of future intrusion, it is more useful to assess how resilient the geologic repository would be against a human intrusion event. Although the consequences of an assumed intrusion event would be a separate analysis, the analysis is similar to the performance assessment required by § 63.113(b) but subject to specific requirements for evaluation of human intrusion specified at §§ 63.321, 63.322 and 63.342 of subpart L of this part.
(m)
Performance confirmation.
A performance confirmation program will be conducted to evaluate the adequacy of assumptions, data, and analyses that led to the findings that permitted construction of the repository and subsequent emplacement of the wastes. Key geotechnical and design parameters, including any interactions between
natural and engineered systems and components, will be monitored throughout site characterization, construction, emplacement, and operation to identify any significant changes in the conditions assumed in the license application that may affect compliance with the performance objectives specified at § 63.113(b) and (c).
(n)
Groundwater protection.
Separate groundwater protection standards are designed to protect the groundwater resources in the vicinity of Yucca Mountain. These standards, specified at § 63.331, require the estimation of groundwater concentrations in the representative volume of water. Depending on the radionuclide, the estimated concentrations must either be below a specified concentration or result in an annual, drinking water dose to the whole body or any organ of no greater than 0.04 mSv (4 mrem). Although the estimation of radionuclide concentrations in the representative volume would be a separate analysis, the analysis is similar to the performance assessment required by § 63.113(b) but subject to specific requirements for evaluation of groundwater protection specified at §§ 63.331, 63.332 and 63.342 of subpart L of this part.
(o)
Implementation of TEDE.
When external exposure is determined by measurement with an external personal monitoring device, the deep-dose equivalent must be used in place of the effective dose equivalent, unless the effective dose equivalent is determined by a dosimetry method approved by the NRC. The assigned deep-dose equivalent must be for the part of the body receiving the highest exposure. The assigned shallow-dose equivalent must be the dose averaged over the contiguous 10 square centimeters of skin receiving the highest exposure. The radiation and organ or tissue weighting factors in Appendix A of 40 CFR part 197 are to be used to calculate TEDE. After the effective date of this regulation, the Commission may allow DOE to use updated factors, which have been issued by consensus scientific organizations and incorporated by EPA into Federal radiation guidance. Additionally, as scientific models and methodologies for estimating doses are updated, DOE may use the most current and appropriate (e.g., those accepted by the International Commission on Radiological Protection) scientific models and methodologies to calculate the TEDE. The weighting factors used in the calculation of TEDE must be consistent with the methodology used to perform the calculation.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 10828, Mar. 13, 2009]

# Preclosure Performance Objectives
§ 63.111
Performance objectives for the geologic repository operations area through permanent closure.
(a)
Protection against radiation exposures and releases of radioactive material.
(1) The geologic repository operations area must meet the requirements of part 20 of this chapter.
(2) During normal operations, and for Category 1 event sequences, the annual TEDE (hereafter referred to as “dose”) to any real member of the public located beyond the boundary of the site may not exceed the preclosure standard specified at § 63.204.
(b)
Numerical guides for design objectives.
(1) The geologic repository operations area must be designed so that, taking into consideration Category 1 event sequences and until permanent closure has been completed, the aggregate radiation exposures and the aggregate radiation levels in both restricted and unrestricted areas, and the aggregate releases of radioactive materials to unrestricted areas, will be maintained within the limits specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) The geologic repository operations area must be designed so that, taking into consideration any single Category 2 event sequence and until permanent closure has been completed, no individual located on, or beyond, any point on the boundary of the site will receive, as a result of the single Category 2 event sequence, the more limiting of a TEDE of 0.05 Sv (5 rem), or the sum of the deep dose equivalent and the committed dose equivalent to any individual organ or tissue (other than the lens of the eye) of 0.5 Sv (50 rem). The lens dose equivalent may not exceed 0.15 Sv (15 rem), and the shallow dose equivalent to skin may not exceed 0.5 Sv (50 rem).
(c)
Preclosure safety analysis.
A preclosure safety analysis of the geologic repository operations area that meets the requirements specified at § 63.112 must be performed. This analysis must demonstrate that:
(1) The requirements of § 63.111(a) will be met; and
(2) The design meets the requirements of § 63.111(b).
(d)
Performance confirmation.
The geologic repository operations area must be designed so as to permit implementation of a performance confirmation program that meets the requirements of subpart F of this part.
(e)
Retrievability of waste.
(1) The geologic repository operations area must be designed to preserve the option of waste retrieval throughout the period during which wastes are being emplaced and thereafter, until the completion of a performance confirmation program and Commission review of the information obtained from such a program. To satisfy this objective, the geologic repository operations area must be designed so that any or all of the emplaced waste could be retrieved on a reasonable schedule starting at any time up to 50 years after waste emplacement operations are initiated, unless a different time period is approved or specified by the Commission. This different time period may be established on a case-by-case basis consistent with the emplacement schedule and the planned performance confirmation program.
(2) This requirement may not preclude decisions by the Commission to allow backfilling part, or all of, or permanent closure of the geologic repository operations area, before the end of the period of design for retrievability.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, a reasonable schedule for retrieval is one that would permit retrieval in about the same time as that required to construct the geologic repository operations area and emplace waste.

# Preclosure Safety Analysis
§ 63.112
Requirements for preclosure safety analysis of the geologic repository operations area.
The preclosure safety analysis of the geologic repository operations area must include:
(a) A general description of the structures, systems, components, equipment, and process activities at the geologic repository operations area;
(b) An identification and systematic analysis of naturally occurring and human-induced hazards at the geologic repository operations area, including a comprehensive identification of potential event sequences;
(c) Data pertaining to the Yucca Mountain site, and the surrounding region to the extent necessary, used to identify naturally occurring and human-induced hazards at the geologic repository operations area;
(d) The technical basis for either inclusion or exclusion of specific, naturally occurring and human-induced hazards in the safety analysis;
(e) An analysis of the performance of the structures, systems, and components to identify those that are important to safety. This analysis identifies and describes the controls that are relied on to limit or prevent potential event sequences or mitigate their consequences. This analysis also identifies measures taken to ensure the availability of safety systems. The analysis required in this paragraph must include, but not necessarily be limited to, consideration of—
(1) Means to limit concentration of radioactive material in air;
(2) Means to limit the time required to perform work in the vicinity of radioactive materials;
(3) Suitable shielding;
(4) Means to monitor and control the dispersal of radioactive contamination;
(5) Means to control access to high radiation areas or airborne radioactivity areas;
(6) Means to prevent and control criticality;
(7) Radiation alarm system to warn of significant increases of radiation levels, concentrations of radioactive material in air, and increased radioactivity in effluents;
(8) Ability of structures, systems, and components to perform their intended safety functions, assuming the occurrence of event sequences;
(9) Explosion and fire detection systems and appropriate suppression systems;
(10) Means to control radioactive waste and radioactive effluents, and permit prompt termination of operations and evacuation of personnel during an emergency;
(11) Means to provide reliable and timely emergency power to instruments, utility service systems, and operating systems important to safety if there is a loss of primary electric power;
(12) Means to provide redundant systems necessary to maintain, with adequate capacity, the ability of utility services important to safety; and
(13) Means to inspect, test, and maintain structures, systems, and components important to safety, as necessary, to ensure their continued functioning and readiness.
(f) A description and discussion of the design, both surface and subsurface, of the geologic repository operations area, including—
(1) The relationship between design criteria and the requirements specified at § 63.111(a) and (b); and
(2) The design bases and their relation to the design criteria.

# Postclosure Performance Objectives
§ 63.113
Performance objectives for the geologic repository after permanent closure.
(a) The geologic repository must include multiple barriers, consisting of both natural barriers and an engineered barrier system.
(b) The engineered barrier system must be designed so that, working in combination with natural barriers, radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual are within the limits specified at § 63.311 of subpart L of this part. Compliance with this paragraph must be demonstrated through a performance assessment that meets the requirements specified at § 63.114 of this subpart, and §§ 63.303, 63.305, 63.312 and 63.342 of Subpart L of this part.
(c) The engineered barrier system must be designed so that, working in combination with natural barriers, releases of radionuclides into the accessible environment are within the limits specified at § 63.331 of subpart L of this part. Compliance with this paragraph must be demonstrated through a performance assessment that meets the requirements specified at § 63.114 of this subpart and §§ 63.303, 63.332 and 63.342 of subpart L of this part.
(d) The ability of the geologic repository to limit radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual, in the event of human intrusion into the engineered barrier system, must be demonstrated through an analysis that meets the requirements at §§ 63.321 and 63.322 of subpart L of this part. Estimating radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual requires a performance assessment that meets the requirements specified at § 63.114 of this subpart, and §§ 63.303, 63.305, 63.312 and 63.342 of subpart L of this part.

# Postclosure Performance Assessment
§ 63.114
Requirements for performance assessment.
(a) Any performance assessment used to demonstrate compliance with § 63.113 for 10,000 years after disposal must:
(1) Include data related to the geology, hydrology, and geochemistry (including disruptive processes and events) of the Yucca Mountain site, and the surrounding region to the extent necessary, and information on the design of the engineered barrier system used to define, for 10,000 years after disposal, parameters and conceptual models used in the assessment.
(2) Account for uncertainties and variabilities in parameter values, for 10,000 years after disposal, and provide for the technical basis for parameter ranges, probability distributions, or bounding values used in the performance assessment.
(3) Consider alternative conceptual models of features and processes, for 10,000 years after disposal, that are consistent with available data and current scientific understanding and evaluate the effects that alternative
conceptual models have on the performance of the geologic repository.
(4) Consider only features, events, and processes consistent with the limits on performance assessment specified at § 63.342.
(5) Provide the technical basis for either inclusion or exclusion of specific features, events, and processes in the performance assessment. Specific features, events, and processes must be evaluated in detail if the magnitude and time of the resulting radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual, or radionuclide releases to the accessible environment, for 10,000 years after disposal, would be significantly changed by their omission.
(6) Provide the technical basis for either inclusion or exclusion of degradation, deterioration, or alteration processes of engineered barriers in the performance assessment, including those processes that would adversely affect the performance of natural barriers. Degradation, deterioration, or alteration processes of engineered barriers must be evaluated in detail if the magnitude and time of the resulting radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual, or radionuclide releases to the accessible environment, for 10,000 years after disposal, would be significantly changed by their omission.
(7) Provide the technical basis for models used to represent the 10,000 years after disposal in the performance assessment, such as comparisons made with outputs of detailed process-level models and/or empirical observations (e.g., laboratory testing, field investigations, and natural analogs).
(b) The performance assessment methods used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are considered sufficient for the performance assessment for the period of time after 10,000 years and through the period of geologic stability.
[74 FR 10828, Mar. 13, 2009]
§ 63.115
Requirements for multiple barriers.
Demonstration of compliance with § 63.113(a) must:
(a) Identify those design features of the engineered barrier system, and natural features of the geologic setting, that are considered barriers important to waste isolation.
(b) Describe the capability of barriers, identified as important to waste isolation, to isolate waste, taking into account uncertainties in characterizing and modeling the behavior of the barriers.
(c) Provide the technical basis for the description of the capability of barriers, identified as important to waste isolation, to isolate waste. The technical basis for each barrier's capability shall be based on and consistent with the technical basis for the performance assessments used to demonstrate compliance with § 63.113(b) and (c).

# Land Ownership and Control
§ 63.121
Requirements for ownership and control of interests in land.
(a)
Ownership of land.
(1) The geologic repository operations area must be located in and on lands that are either acquired lands under the jurisdiction and control of DOE, or lands permanently withdrawn and reserved for its use.
(2) These lands must be held free and clear of all encumbrances, if significant, such as:
(i) Rights arising under the general mining laws;
(ii) Easements for right-of-way; and
(iii) All other rights arising under lease, rights of entry, deed, patent, mortgage, appropriation, prescription, or otherwise.
(b)
Additional controls for permanent closure.
Appropriate controls must be established outside of the geologic repository operations area. DOE shall exercise any jurisdiction and control over surface and subsurface estates necessary to prevent adverse human actions that could significantly reduce the geologic repository's ability to achieve isolation. The rights of DOE may take the form of appropriate possessory interests, servitudes, or withdrawals from location or patent under the general mining laws.
(c)
Additional controls through permanent closure.
Appropriate controls must
be established outside the geologic repository operations area. DOE shall exercise any jurisdiction or control of activities necessary to ensure the requirements at § 63.111(a) and (b) are met. Control includes the authority to exclude members of the public, if necessary.
(d)
Water rights.
(1) DOE shall also have obtained such water rights as may be needed to accomplish the purpose of the geologic repository operations area.
(2) Water rights are included in the additional controls to be established under paragraph (b) of this section.

# Subpart F—Performance Confirmation Program
§ 63.131
General requirements.
(a) The performance confirmation program must provide data that indicate, where practicable, whether:
(1) Actual subsurface conditions encountered and changes in those conditions during construction and waste emplacement operations are within the limits assumed in the licensing review; and
(2) Natural and engineered systems and components required for repository operation, and that are designed or assumed to operate as barriers after permanent closure, are functioning as intended and anticipated.
(b) The program must have been started during site characterization, and it will continue until permanent closure.
(c) The program must include in situ monitoring, laboratory and field testing, and in situ experiments, as may be appropriate to provide the data required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) The program must be implemented so that:
(1) It does not adversely affect the ability of the geologic and engineered elements of the geologic repository to meet the performance objectives.
(2) It provides baseline information and analysis of that information on those parameters and natural processes pertaining to the geologic setting that may be changed by site characterization, construction, and operational activities.
(3) It monitors and analyzes changes from the baseline condition of parameters that could affect the performance of a geologic repository.
§ 63.132
Confirmation of geotechnical and design parameters.
(a) During repository construction and operation, a continuing program of surveillance, measurement, testing, and geologic mapping must be conducted to ensure that geotechnical and design parameters are confirmed and to ensure that appropriate action is taken to inform the Commission of design changes needed to accommodate actual field conditions encountered.
(b) Subsurface conditions must be monitored and evaluated against design assumptions.
(c) Specific geotechnical and design parameters to be measured or observed, including any interactions between natural and engineered systems and components, must be identified in the performance confirmation plan.
(d) These measurements and observations must be compared with the original design bases and assumptions. If significant differences exist between the measurements and observations and the original design bases and assumptions, the need for modifications to the design or in construction methods must be determined and these differences, their significance to repository performance, and the recommended changes reported to the Commission.
(e) In situ monitoring of the thermomechanical response of the underground facility must be conducted until permanent closure, to ensure that the performance of the geologic and engineering features is within design limits.
§ 63.133
Design testing.
(a) During the early or developmental stages of construction, a program for testing of engineered systems and components used in the design, such as, for example, borehole and shaft seals, backfill, and drip shields, as well as the thermal interaction effects of the waste packages, backfill, drip shields, rock, and unsaturated zone and saturated zone water, must be conducted.
(b) The testing must be initiated as early as practicable.
(c) If backfill is included in the repository design, a test must be conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of backfill placement and compaction procedures against design requirements before permanent backfill placement is begun.
(d) Tests must be conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of borehole, shaft, and ramp seals before full-scale operation proceeds to seal boreholes, shafts, and ramps.
§ 63.134
Monitoring and testing waste packages.
(a) A program must be established at the geologic repository operations area for monitoring the condition of the waste packages. Waste packages chosen for the program must be representative of those to be emplaced in the underground facility.
(b) Consistent with safe operation at the geologic repository operations area, the environment of the waste packages selected for the waste package monitoring program must be representative of the environment in which the wastes are to be emplaced.
(c) The waste package monitoring program must include laboratory experiments that focus on the internal condition of the waste packages. To the extent practical, the environment experienced by the emplaced waste packages within the underground facility during the waste package monitoring program must be duplicated in the laboratory experiments.
(d) The waste package monitoring program must continue as long as practical up to the time of permanent closure.

# Subpart G—Quality Assurance
§ 63.141
Scope.
As used in this part,
quality assurance
comprises all those planned and systematic actions necessary to provide adequate confidence that the geologic repository and its structures, systems, or components will perform satisfactorily in service. Quality assurance includes quality control, which comprises those quality assurance actions related to the physical characteristics of a material, structure, component, or system that provide a means to control the quality of the material, structure, component, or system to predetermined requirements.
§ 63.142
Quality assurance criteria.
(a)
Introduction and Applicability.
DOE is required by § 63.21(c)(20) to include in its safety analysis report a description of the quality assurance program to be applied to all structures, systems, and components important to safety, to design and characterization of barriers important to waste isolation, and to related activities. These activities include: site characterization; acquisition, control, and analyses of samples and data; tests and experiments; scientific studies; facility and equipment design and construction; facility operation; performance confirmation; permanent closure; and decontamination and dismantling of surface facilities. The description must indicate how the applicable quality assurance requirements will be satisfied. DOE shall include information pertaining to the managerial and administrative controls to be used to ensure safe operation in its safety analysis report. High-level waste repositories include structures, systems, and components that prevent or mitigate the consequences of postulated event sequences or that are important to waste isolation capabilities that could cause undue risk to the health and safety of the public. The pertinent requirements of this subpart apply to all activities that are important to waste isolation and important to safety functions of those structures, systems, and components. These activities include designing, purchasing, fabricating, handling, shipping, storing, cleaning, erecting, installing, inspecting, testing, operating, maintaining, repairing, modifying, site characterization, performance confirmation, permanent closure, decontamination, and dismantling of surface facilities.
(b)
Organization.
DOE shall establish and execute a quality assurance program. DOE may delegate to others, such as contractors, agents, or consultants, the work of establishing and executing the quality assurance program, or any part of it, but DOE retains responsibility for it.
(1) The authority and duties of persons and organizations performing activities affecting the functions of structures, systems, and components that are important to waste isolation and important to safety must be clearly established and delineated in writing. These activities include both the performing functions of attaining quality objectives and the quality assurance functions. The quality assurance functions are those of:
(i) Assuring that an appropriate quality assurance program is established and effectively executed; and
(ii) Verifying that activities important to waste isolation and important to safety functions have been correctly performed by checking, auditing, and inspection of structures, systems, and components.
(2) The persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions shall have sufficient authority and organizational freedom to identify quality problems; to initiate, recommend, or provide solutions; and to verify implementation of solutions. The persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions shall report to a management level so that the required authority and organizational freedom, including sufficient independence from cost and schedule when opposed to safety considerations, are provided.
(3) Because of the many variables involved, such as the number of personnel, the type of activity being performed, and the location or locations where activities are performed, the organizational structure for executing the quality assurance program may take various forms provided that the persons and organizations assigned the quality assurance functions have this required authority and organizational freedom. Irrespective of the organizational structure, the individual(s) assigned the responsibility for assuring effective execution of any portion of the quality assurance program at any location where activities subject to 10 CFR part 63 are being performed must have direct access to the levels of management as may be necessary to perform this function.
(c)
Quality assurance program.
DOE shall establish a quality assurance program that complies with the requirements of this subpart at the earliest practicable time, consistent with the schedule for accomplishing the activities. This program must be documented by written policies, procedures, or instructions and must be carried out throughout facility life in accordance with those policies, procedures, or instructions.
(1) DOE shall identify the structures, systems, and components to be covered by the quality assurance program and the major organizations participating in the program, together with the designated functions of these organizations. The quality assurance program must control activities affecting the quality of the identified structures, systems, and components, to an extent consistent with their importance to safety.
(2) Activities affecting quality must be accomplished under suitably controlled conditions. Controlled conditions include the use of appropriate equipment; suitable environmental conditions for accomplishing the activity, such as adequate cleanness; and assurance that all prerequisites for the given activity have been satisfied.
(3) The program must take into account the need for special controls, processes, test equipment, tools, and skills to attain the required quality, and the need for verification of quality by inspection and test. The program must provide for indoctrination and training of personnel performing activities affecting quality as necessary to assure that suitable proficiency is achieved and maintained.
(4) DOE shall regularly review the status and adequacy of the quality assurance program. Management of other organizations participating in the quality assurance program shall regularly review the status and adequacy of that part of the quality assurance program which they are executing.
(d)
Design control.
(1) DOE shall establish measures to assure that applicable regulatory requirements and the design basis, as defined in § 63.2 and as specified in the license application, for those structures, systems, and components to which this subpart applies, are
correctly translated into specifications, drawings, procedures, and instructions. These measures must assure that appropriate quality standards are specified and included in design documents and that deviations from such standards are controlled. Measures must also be established for the selection and review for suitability of application of materials, parts, equipment, and processes that are important to waste isolation and important to safety functions of the structures, systems and components.
(2) DOE shall establish measures to identify and control design interfaces and for coordination among participating design organizations. These measures must include the establishment of procedures among participating design organizations for the review, approval, release, distribution, and revision of documents involving design interfaces.
(i) The design control measures must provide for verifying or checking the adequacy of design, such as by the performance of design reviews, by the use of alternate or simplified calculational methods, or by the performance of a suitable testing program. The verifying or checking process must be performed by individuals or groups other than those who performed the original design. These individuals may be from the same organization. If a test program is used to verify the adequacy of a specific design feature in lieu of other verifying or checking processes, it must include suitable qualifications testing of a prototype unit under the most adverse design conditions. Design control measures must be applied to items such as: criticality physics, stress, thermal, hydraulic, and preclosure and postclosure analyses; compatibility of materials; accessibility for inservice inspection, maintenance and repair; and delineation of acceptance criteria for inspections and tests.
(ii) Design changes, including field changes, must be subject to design control measures commensurate with those applied to the original design and be approved by the organization that performed the original design unless the applicant designates another responsible organization.
(e)
Procurement document control.
DOE shall establish measures to assure that applicable regulatory requirements, design bases, and other requirements necessary to assure adequate quality are suitably included or referenced in the documents for procurement of material, equipment, and services, whether purchased by the licensee or applicant or by its contractors or subcontractors. To the extent necessary, procurement documents must require contractors or subcontractors to provide a quality assurance program consistent with the pertinent provisions of this section.
(f)
Instructions, procedures, and drawings.
Activities affecting quality must be prescribed by documented instructions, procedures, or drawings of a type appropriate to the circumstances and must be accomplished in accordance with these instructions, procedures, or drawings. Instructions, procedures, or drawings must include appropriate quantitative or qualitative acceptance criteria for determining that important activities have been satisfactorily accomplished.
(g)
Document control.
DOE shall establish measures to control the issuance of documents, such as instructions, procedures, and drawings, including changes to them that prescribe all activities affecting quality. These measures must assure that documents, including changes, are reviewed for adequacy and approved for release by authorized personnel and are distributed to and used at the location where the prescribed activity is performed. Changes to documents must be reviewed and approved by the same organizations that performed the original review and approval unless the applicant designates another responsible organization.
(h)
Control of purchased material, equipment, and services.
DOE shall establish measures to assure that purchased material, equipment, and services, whether purchased directly or through contractors and subcontractors, conform to the procurement documents.
(1) These measures must include appropriate provisions for source evaluation and selection, objective evidence of quality furnished by the contractor or subcontractor, inspection at the
contractor or subcontractor source, and examination of products upon delivery.
(2) Documentary evidence that material and equipment conform to the procurement requirements must be available at the high-level waste repository site before the material and equipment are installed or used. This documentary evidence must be retained at the high-level waste repository site and be sufficient to identify the specific requirements, such as codes, standards, or specifications, met by the purchased material and equipment.
(3) The effectiveness of the control of quality by contractors and subcontractors must be assessed by the licensee or applicant or designee at intervals consistent with the importance, complexity, and quantity of the product or services.
(i)
Identification and control of materials, parts, and components.
Measures must be established for the identification and control of materials, parts, and components, including partially fabricated assemblies. These measures must assure that identification of the item is maintained by heat number, part number, serial number, or other appropriate means, either on the item or on records traceable to the item, as required throughout fabrication, erection, installation, and use of the item. These identification and control measures must be designed to prevent the use of incorrect or defective material, parts, and components.
(j)
Control of special processes.
DOE shall establish measures to assure that special processes, including welding, heat treating, and nondestructive testing, are controlled and accomplished by qualified personnel using qualified procedures in accordance with applicable codes, standards, specifications, criteria, and other special requirements.
(k)
Inspection.
DOE shall establish and execute a program for inspection of activities affecting quality to verify conformance with the documented instructions, procedures, and drawings for accomplishing the activity. The inspection must be performed by individuals other than those who performed the activity being inspected.
(1) Examinations, measurements, or tests of material or products processed must be performed for each work operation where necessary to assure quality. If inspection of processed material or products is impossible or disadvantageous, indirect control by monitoring processing methods, equipment, and personnel must be provided. Both inspection and process monitoring must be provided when control is inadequate without both.
(2) If mandatory inspection hold points that require witnessing or inspecting by the applicant's designated representative and beyond which work may not proceed without the consent of its designated representative are required, the specific hold points must be indicated in appropriate documents.
(l)
Test control.
DOE shall establish a test program to assure that all testing required to demonstrate that structures, systems, and components important to safety will perform satisfactorily in service is identified and performed in accordance with written test procedures which incorporate the requirements and acceptance limits contained in applicable design documents.
(1) The test program must include, as appropriate, proof tests prior to installation, preoperational tests, and operational tests during repository operation, of structures, systems, and components.
(2) Test procedures must include provisions for assuring that all prerequisites for the given test have been met, that adequate test instrumentation is available and used, and that the test is performed under suitable environmental conditions.
(3) Test results must be documented and evaluated to assure that test requirements have been satisfied.
(m)
Control of measuring and test equipment.
DOE shall establish measures to assure that tools, gages, instruments, and other measuring and testing devices used in activities affecting quality are properly controlled, calibrated, and adjusted at specified periods to maintain accuracy within necessary limits.
(n)
Handling, storage, and shipping.
DOE shall establish measures to control the handling, storage, shipping, cleaning and preservation of material
and equipment in accordance with work and inspection instructions to prevent damage or deterioration. When necessary for particular products, special protective environments, such as inert gas atmosphere, specific moisture content levels, and temperature levels, must be specified and provided.
(o)
Inspection, test, and operating status.
DOE shall establish measures to indicate the status of inspections and tests performed on individual items of the high-level waste repository by markings such as stamps, tags, labels, routing cards, or other suitable means. These measures must provide for the identification of items that have satisfactorily passed required inspections and tests, where necessary to preclude inadvertent bypassing of such inspections and tests. Measures must also be established for indicating the operating status of structures, systems, and components of the high-level waste repository, such as by tagging valves and switches, to prevent inadvertent operation.
(p)
Nonconforming materials, parts, or components.
DOE shall establish measures to control materials, parts, or components which do not conform to requirements in order to prevent their inadvertent use or installation. These measures must include, as appropriate, procedures for identification, documentation, segregation, disposition, and notification to affected organizations. Nonconforming items must be reviewed and accepted, rejected, repaired or reworked in accordance with documented procedures.
(q)
Corrective action.
DOE shall establish measures to assure that conditions adverse to quality, such as failures, malfunctions, deficiencies, deviations, defective material and equipment, and nonconformances are promptly identified and corrected. If significant conditions are adverse to quality, the measures must assure that the cause of the condition is determined and corrective action taken to preclude repetition. The identification of the significant condition adverse to quality, the cause of the condition, and the corrective action taken must be documented and reported to appropriate levels of management.
(r)
Quality assurance records.
DOE shall maintain sufficient records to furnish evidence of activities affecting quality.
(1) The records must include at least the following: Operating logs and the results of reviews, inspections, tests, audits, monitoring of work performance, and materials analyses.
(2) The records must also include closely-related data such as qualifications of personnel, procedures, and equipment.
(3) Inspection and test records must, at a minimum, identify the inspector or data recorder, the type of observation, the results, the acceptability, and the action taken in connection with any deficiencies noted.
(4) Records must be identifiable and retrievable. Consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, the applicant shall establish requirements concerning record retention, such as duration, location, and assigned responsibility.
(s)
Audits.
DOE shall carry out a comprehensive system of planned and periodic audits to verify compliance with all aspects of the quality assurance program and to determine the effectiveness of the program. The audits must be performed in accordance with the written procedures or check lists by appropriately trained personnel not having direct responsibilities in the areas being audited. Audit results must be documented and reviewed by management having responsibility in the area audited. Followup action, including reaudit of deficient areas, must be taken where indicated.
§ 63.143
Implementation.
DOE shall implement a quality assurance program based on the criteria required by § 63.142.
§ 63.144
Quality assurance program change.
Changes to DOE's NRC-approved Safety Analysis Report quality assurance program description are processed as follows:
(a) DOE may change a previously accepted quality assurance program description included or referenced in the Safety Analysis Report without prior NRC approval, if the change does not
reduce the commitments in the program description previously accepted by the NRC. Changes to the quality assurance program description that do not reduce the commitments must be submitted every 24 months, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. In addition to quality assurance program changes involving administrative improvements and clarifications, spelling corrections, punctuation, or editorial items, the following changes are not considered reductions in commitment:
(1) The use of a quality assurance standard approved by the NRC which is more recent than the quality assurance standard in DOE's current quality assurance program at the time of the change;
(2) The use of generic organizational position titles that clearly denote the position function, supplemented as necessary by descriptive text, rather than specific titles;
(3) The use of generic organizational charts to indicate functional relationships, authorities, and responsibilities, or alternatively, the use of descriptive text;
(4) The elimination of quality assurance program information that duplicates language in quality assurance regulatory guides and quality assurance standards to which the licensee is committed; and
(5) Organizational revisions that ensure that persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions continue to have the requisite authority and organizational freedom, including sufficient independence from cost and schedule when opposed to safety considerations.
(b) DOE shall submit changes made to the NRC-accepted Safety Analysis Report quality assurance program description that do reduce the commitments to the NRC and receive NRC approval prior to implementation, as follows:
(1) By an appropriate method listed in § 63.4 of this chapter, the signed document must be submitted to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk; Director, Office of Nuclear Material and Safeguards; U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, and one copy to the appropriate NRC Resident Inspector, if one has been assigned to the site or facility.
(2) The submittal of a change to the Safety Analysis Report quality assurance program description must include all pages affected by that change and must be accompanied by a forwarding letter identifying the change, the reason for the change, and the basis for concluding that the revised program incorporating the change continues to describe how the requirements of § 63.142 will be satisfied and continues to satisfy the criteria of § 63.142 and the Safety Analysis Report quality assurance program description previously accepted by the NRC (the letter need not provide the basis for changes that correct spelling, punctuation, or editorial items).
(3) DOE shall maintain records of quality assurance program changes that do reduce commitments.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 58816, Oct. 10, 2003]

# Subpart H—Training and Certification of Personnel
§ 63.151
General requirements.
Operations of systems and components that have been identified as important to safety in the Safety Analysis Report and in the license must be performed only by trained and certified personnel or by personnel under the direct visual supervision of an individual with training and certification in such operation. Supervisory personnel who direct operations that are important to safety must also be certified in such operations.
§ 63.152
Training and certification program.
DOE shall establish a program for training, proficiency testing, certification, and requalification of operating and supervisory personnel.
§ 63.153
Physical requirements.
The physical condition and the general health of personnel certified for operations that are important to safety may not be such as might cause operational errors that could endanger the
public health and safety. Any condition that might cause impaired judgment or motor coordination must be considered in the selection of personnel for activities that are important to safety. These conditions need not categorically disqualify a person, so long as appropriate provisions are made to accommodate the conditions.

# Subpart I—Emergency Planning Criteria
§ 63.161
Emergency plan for the geologic repository operations area through permanent closure.
DOE shall develop and be prepared to implement a plan to cope with radiological accidents that may occur at the geologic repository operations area, at any time before permanent closure and decontamination or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities. The emergency plan must be based on the criteria of § 72.32(b) of this chapter.

# Subpart J—Violations
§ 63.171
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued under those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
§ 63.172
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in this part 63 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in this part 63 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of Section 223 are as follows: §§ 63.1, 63.2, 63.5, 63.6, 63.7, 63.8, 63.15, 63.16, 63.21, 63.22, 63.23, 63.24, 63.31, 63.32, 63.33, 63.41, 63.42, 63.43, 63.45, 63.46, 63.51, 63.52, 63.61, 63.62, 63.63, 63.64, 63.65, 63.101, 63.102, 63.111, 63.112, 63.113, 63.114, 63.115, 63.121, 63.131, 63.132, 63.133, 63.134, 63.141, 63.142, 63.143, 63.153, 63.161, 63.171, 63.172, 63.201, 63.202, 63.203, 63.204, 63.301, 63.302, 63.303, 63.304, 63.305, 63.311, 63.312, 63.321, 63.322, 63.331, 63.332, 63.341, and 63.342.

# Subpart K—Preclosure Public Health and Environmental Standards
§ 63.201
Purpose and scope.
This subpart covers the storage of radioactive material by DOE in the Yucca Mountain repository and on the Yucca Mountain site. For the purposes of demonstrating compliance with this subpart, to the extent there may be any conflict with the requirements specified in this subpart and the requirements contained in Subparts A-J of this regulation, including definitions, the requirements in this subpart shall take precedence.
§ 63.202
Definitions for Subpart K.
General environment
means everywhere outside the Yucca Mountain site, the Nellis Air Force Range, and the Nevada Test Site.
Member of the public
means anyone who is not a radiation worker for purposes of worker protection.
Radioactive material
means matter composed of or containing radionuclides subject to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. sec. 2014
et seq.
). Radioactive material includes, but is not limited to, high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel.
Spent nuclear fuel
means fuel that has been withdrawn from a nuclear reactor following irradiation, the constituent elements of which have not been separated by reprocessing.
Storage
means retention (and any associated activity, operation, or process necessary to carry out successful retention) of radioactive material with the intent or capability to readily access or retrieve such material.
Yucca Mountain repository
means the excavated portion of the facility constructed underground within the Yucca Mountain site.
Yucca Mountain site
means:
(1) The site recommended by the Secretary of DOE to the President under section 112(b)(1)(B) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10132(b)(1)(B)) on May 27, 1986; or
(2) The area under the control of DOE for the use of Yucca Mountain activities at the time of licensing, if the site designated under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act is amended by Congress prior to the time of licensing.
§ 63.203
Implementation of Subpart K.
DOE must demonstrate that normal operations at the Yucca Mountain site will and do occur in compliance with this subpart before the Commission grants or continues a license for DOE to receive and possess radioactive material within the Yucca Mountain site.
§ 63.204
Preclosure standard.
DOE must ensure that no member of the public in the general environment receives more than an annual dose of 0.15 mSv (15 mrem) from the combination of:
(a) Management and storage (as defined in 40 CFR 191.2) of radioactive material that:
(1) Is subject to 40 CFR 191.3(a); and
(2) Occurs outside of the Yucca Mountain repository but within the Yucca Mountain site; and
(b) Storage (as defined in § 63.202) of radioactive material inside the Yucca Mountain repository.

# Subpart L—Postclosure Public Health and Environmental Standards
§ 63.301
Purpose and scope.
This subpart covers the disposal of radioactive material in the Yucca Mountain repository by DOE. For the purposes of demonstrating compliance with this subpart, to the extent that there may be any conflict with the requirements specified in this subpart and the requirements contained in Subparts A-J of this part, including definitions, the requirements in this subpart shall take precedence.
§ 63.302
Definitions for Subpart L.
All definitions in subpart K of this part, and the following:
Accessible environment
means any point outside of the controlled area, including:
(1) The atmosphere (including the atmosphere above the surface area of the controlled area);
(2) Land surfaces;
(3) Surface waters;
(4) Oceans; and
(5) The lithosphere.
Aquifer
means a water-bearing underground geological formation, group of formations, or part of a formation (excluding perched water bodies) that can yield a significant amount of groundwater to a well or spring.
Controlled area
means:
(1) The surface area, identified by passive institutional controls, that encompasses no more than 300 square kilometers. It must not extend farther:
(i) South than 36°40′13.6661″ North latitude, in the predominant direction of groundwater flow; and
(ii) Than five kilometers from the repository footprint in any other direction; and
(2) The subsurface underlying the surface area.
Disposal
means the emplacement of radioactive material into the Yucca Mountain disposal system with the intent of isolating it for as long as reasonably possible and with no intent of recovery, whether or not the design of
the disposal system permits the ready recovery of the material. Disposal of radioactive material in the Yucca Mountain disposal system begins when all of the ramps and other openings into the Yucca Mountain repository are sealed.
Groundwater
means water that is below the land surface and in a saturated zone.
Human intrusion
means breaching of any portion of the Yucca Mountain disposal system, within the repository footprint, by any human activity.
Passive institutional controls
means:
(1) Markers, as permanent as practicable, placed on the Earth's surface;
(2) Public records and archives;
(3) Government ownership and regulations regarding land or resource use; and
(4) Other reasonable methods of preserving knowledge about the location, design, and contents of the Yucca Mountain disposal system.
Peak dose
means the highest annual dose projected to be received by the reasonably maximally exposed individual.
Period of geologic stability
means the time during which the variability of geologic characteristics and their future behavior in and around the Yucca Mountain site can be bounded, that is, they can be projected within a reasonable range of possibilities. This period is defined to end at 1 million years after disposal.
Plume of contamination
means that volume of groundwater in the predominant direction of groundwater flow that contains radioactive contamination from releases from the Yucca Mountain repository. It does not include releases from any other potential sources on or near the Nevada Test Site.
Repository footprint
means the outline of the outermost locations of where the waste is emplaced in the Yucca Mountain repository.
Slice of the plume
means a cross-section of the plume of contamination with sufficient thickness parallel to the prevalent direction of flow of the plume that it contains the representative volume.
Total dissolved solids
means the total dissolved (filterable) solids in water as determined by use of the method specified in 40 CFR part 136.
Undisturbed performance
means that human intrusion or the occurrence of unlikely natural features, events, and processes do not disturb the disposal system.
Undisturbed Yucca Mountain disposal system
means that the Yucca Mountain disposal system is not affected by human intrusion.
Waste
means any radioactive material emplaced for disposal into the Yucca Mountain repository.
Well-capture zone
means the volume from which a well pumping at a defined rate is withdrawing water from an aquifer. The dimensions of the well-capture zone are determined by the pumping rate in combination with aquifer characteristics assumed for calculations, such as hydraulic conductivity, gradient, and the screened interval.
Yucca Mountain disposal system
means the combination of underground engineered and natural barriers within the controlled area that prevents or substantially reduces releases from the waste.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 10829, Mar. 13, 2009]
§ 63.303
Implementation of Subpart L.
(a) Compliance is based upon the arithmetic mean of the projected doses from DOE's performance assessments for the period within 1 million years after disposal, with:
(1) Sections 63.311(a)(1) and 63.311(a)(2); and
(2) Sections 63.321(b)(1), 63.321(b)(2), and 63.331, if performance assessment is used to demonstrate compliance with either or both of these sections.
(b) [Reserved]
[74 FR 10829, Mar. 13, 2009]
§ 63.304
Reasonable expectation.
Reasonable expectation
means that the Commission is satisfied that compliance will be achieved based upon the full record before it. Characteristics of reasonable expectation include that it:
(1) Requires less than absolute proof because absolute proof is impossible to attain for disposal due to the uncertainty of projecting long-term performance;
(2) Accounts for the inherently greater uncertainties in making long-term projections of the performance of the Yucca Mountain disposal system;
(3) Does not exclude important parameters from assessments and analyses simply because they are difficult to precisely quantify to a high degree of confidence; and
(4) Focuses performance assessments and analyses on the full range of defensible and reasonable parameter distributions rather than only upon extreme physical situations and parameter values.
§ 63.305
Required characteristics of the reference biosphere.
(a) Features, events, and processes that describe the reference biosphere must be consistent with present knowledge of the conditions in the region surrounding the Yucca Mountain site.
(b) DOE should not project changes in society, the biosphere (other than climate), human biology, or increases or decreases of human knowledge or technology. In all analyses done to demonstrate compliance with this part, DOE must assume that all of those factors remain constant as they are at the time of submission of the license application.
(c) DOE must vary factors related to the geology, hydrology, and climate based upon cautious, but reasonable assumptions of the changes in these factors that could affect the Yucca Mountain disposal system during the period of geologic stability, consistent with the requirements for performance assessments specified at § 63.342.
(d) Biosphere pathways must be consistent with arid or semi-arid conditions.
[66 FR 55792, Nov. 2, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 10829, Mar. 13, 2009]

# Postclosure Individual Protection Standard
§ 63.311
Individual protection standard after permanent closure.
(a) DOE must demonstrate, using performance assessment, that there is a reasonable expectation that the reasonably maximally exposed individual receives no more than the following annual dose from releases from the undisturbed Yucca Mountain disposal system:
(1) 0.15 mSv (15 mrem) for 10,000 years following disposal; and
(2) 1.0 mSv (100 mrem) after 10,000 years, but within the period of geologic stability.
(b) DOE's performance assessment must include all potential pathways of radionuclide transport and exposure.
[74 FR 10829, Mar. 13, 2009]
§ 63.312
Required characteristics of the reasonably maximally exposed individual.
The reasonably maximally exposed individual is a hypothetical person who meets the following criteria:
(a) Lives in the accessible environment above the highest concentration of radionuclides in the plume of contamination;
(b) Has a diet and living style representative of the people who now reside in the Town of Amargosa Valley, Nevada. DOE must use projections based upon surveys of the people residing in the Town of Amargosa Valley, Nevada, to determine their current diets and living styles and use the mean values of these factors in the assessments conducted for §§ 63.311 and 63.321;
(c) Uses well water with average concentrations of radionuclides based on an annual water demand of 3000 acre-feet;
(d) Drinks 2 liters of water per day from wells drilled into the groundwater at the location specified in paragraph (a) of this section; and
(e) Is an adult with metabolic and physiological considerations consistent with present knowledge of adults.

# Human Intrusion Standard
§ 63.321
Individual protection standard for human intrusion.
(a) DOE must determine the earliest time after disposal that the waste package would degrade sufficiently that a human intrusion (see § 63.322) could occur without recognition by the drillers.
(b) DOE must demonstrate that there is a reasonable expectation that the reasonably maximally exposed individual receives, as a result of the
human intrusion, no more than the following annual dose:
(1) 0.15 mSv (15 mrem) for 10,000 years following disposal; and
(2) 1.0 mSv (100 mrem) after 10,000 years, but within the period of geologic stability.
(c) DOE's analysis must include all potential environmental pathways of radionuclide transport and exposure, subject to the requirements of § 63.322.
[74 FR 10829, Mar. 13, 2009]
§ 63.322
Human intrusion scenario.
For the purposes of the analysis of human intrusion, DOE must make the following assumptions:
(a) There is a single human intrusion as a result of exploratory drilling for groundwater;
(b) The intruders drill a borehole directly through a degraded waste package into the uppermost aquifer underlying the Yucca Mountain repository;
(c) The drillers use the common techniques and practices that are currently employed in exploratory drilling for groundwater in the region surrounding Yucca Mountain;
(d) Careful sealing of the borehole does not occur, instead natural degradation processes gradually modify the borehole;
(e) No particulate waste material falls into the borehole;
(f) The exposure scenario includes only those radionuclides transported to the saturated zone by water (e.g., water enters the waste package, releases radionuclides, and transports radionuclides by way of the borehole to the saturated zone); and
(g) No releases are included which are caused by unlikely natural processes and events.

# Groundwater Protection Standards
§ 63.331
Separate standards for protection of groundwater.
DOE must demonstrate that there is a reasonable expectation that, for 10,000 years of undisturbed performance after disposal, releases of radionuclides from waste in the Yucca Mountain disposal system into the accessible environment will not cause the level of radioactivity in the representative volume of groundwater to exceed the limits in the following Table 1:
Table 1—Limits on Radionuclides in the Representative Volume
Radionuclide or type of radiation emitted
Limit
Is natural background
included?
Combined radium-226 and radium-228
5 picocuries per liter
Yes.
Gross alpha activity (including radium-226 but excluding radon and uranium)
15 picocuries per liter
Yes.
Combined beta and photon emitting radionuclides
0.04 mSv (4 mrem) per year to the whole body or any organ, based on drinking 2 liters of water per day from the representative volume
No.
§ 63.332
Representative volume.
(a) The representative volume is the volume of groundwater that would be withdrawn annually from an aquifer containing less than 10,000 milligrams of total dissolved solids per liter of water to supply a given water demand. DOE must project the concentration of radionuclides released from the Yucca Mountain disposal system that will be in the representative volume. DOE must use the projected concentrations to demonstrate a reasonable expectation that the Yucca Mountain disposal system complies with § 63.331. The DOE must make the following assumptions concerning the representative volume:
(1) It includes the highest concentration level in the plume of contamination in the accessible environment;
(2) Its position and dimensions in the aquifer are determined using average hydrologic characteristics which have cautious, but reasonable, values representative of the aquifers along the radionuclide migration path from the Yucca Mountain repository to the accessible environment as determined by site characterization; and
(3) It contains 3,000 acre-feet of water (about 3,714,450,000 liters or 977,486,000 gallons).
(b) DOE must use one of two alternative methods for determining the dimensions of the representative volume. The DOE must propose its chosen method, and any underlying assumptions, to NRC for approval.
(1) DOE may calculate the dimensions as a well-capture zone. If DOE uses this approach, it must assume that the:
(i) Water supply well(s) has (have) characteristics consistent with public water supply wells in the Town of Amargosa Valley, Nevada, for example, well-bore size and length of the screened intervals;
(ii) Screened interval(s) include(s) the highest concentration in the plume of contamination in the accessible environment; and
(iii) Pumping rates and the placement of the well(s) must be set to produce an annual withdrawal equal to the representative volume and to tap the highest concentration within the plume of contamination.
(2) DOE may calculate the dimensions as a slice of the plume. If DOE uses this approach, it must:
(i) Propose, for approval, where the location of the edge of the plume of contamination occurs. For example, the place where the concentration of radionuclides reaches 0.1% of the level of the highest concentration in the accessible environment;
(ii) Assume that the slice of the plume is perpendicular to the prevalent direction of flow of the aquifer; and
(iii) Assume that the volume of groundwater contained within the slice of the plume equals the representative volume.

# Additional Provisions
§ 63.342
Limits on performance assessments.
(a) DOE's performance assessments conducted to show compliance with §§ 63.311(a)(1), 63.321(b)(1), and 63.331 shall not include consideration of very unlikely features, events, or processes,
i.e.
, those that are estimated to have less than one chance in 100,000,000 per year of occurring. In addition, DOE's performance assessments need not evaluate the impacts resulting from any features, events, and processes or sequences of events and processes with a higher chance of occurring if the results of the performance assessments would not be changed significantly in the initial 10,000-year period after disposal.
(b) For performance assessments conducted to show compliance with §§ 63.321(b)(1) and 63.331, DOE's performance assessments shall exclude the unlikely features, events, and processes, or sequences of events and processes,
i.e.
, those that are estimated to have less than one chance in 100,000 per year of occurring and at least one chance in 100,000,000 per year of occurring.
(c) For performance assessments conducted to show compliance with §§ 63.311(a)(2) and 63.321(b)(2), DOE's performance assessments shall project the continued effects of the features, events, and processes included in paragraph (a) of this section beyond the 10,000-year post-disposal period through the period of geologic stability. DOE must evaluate all of the features, events, or processes included in paragraph (a) of this section, and also:
(1) DOE must assess the effects of seismic and igneous activity scenarios, subject to the probability limits in paragraph (a) of this section for very unlikely features, events, and processes, or sequences of events and processes. Performance assessments conducted to show compliance with § 63.321(b)(2) are also subject to the probability limits in paragraph (b) of this section for unlikely features, events, and processes, or sequences of events and processes.
(i) The seismic analysis may be limited to the effects caused by damage to the drifts in the repository, failure of the waste packages, and changes in the elevation of the water table under Yucca Mountain (
i.e.
, the magnitude of the water table rise under Yucca Mountain).
(ii) The igneous activity analysis may be limited to the effects of a volcanic event directly intersecting the repository. The igneous event may be limited to that causing damage to the
waste packages directly, causing releases of radionuclides to the biosphere, atmosphere, or groundwater.
(2) DOE must assess the effects of climate change. The climate change analysis may be limited to the effects of increased water flow through the repository as a result of climate change, and the resulting transport and release of radionuclides to the accessible environment. The nature and degree of climate change may be represented by constant-in-time climate conditions. The analysis may commence at 10,000 years after disposal and shall extend through the period of geologic stability. The constant-in-time values to be used to represent climate change are to be the spatial average of the deep percolation rate within the area bounded by the repository footprint. The constant-in-time deep percolation rates to be used to represent climate change shall be based on a lognormal distribution with an arithmetic mean of 41 mm/year (1.6 in./year) and a standard deviation of 33 mm/year (1.3 in./year). The lognormal distribution is to be truncated so that the deep percolation rates vary between 10 and 100 mm/year (0.39 and 3.9 in./year).
(3) DOE must assess the effects of general corrosion on engineered barriers. DOE may use a constant representative corrosion rate throughout the period of geologic stability or a distribution of corrosion rates correlated to other repository parameters.
[74 FR 10829, Mar. 13, 2009]
§ 63.343
Severability of individual protection and groundwater protection standards.
The individual protection and groundwater protection standards are severable.
Pt. 70

# PART 70—DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
70.1
Purpose.
70.2
Scope.
70.3
License requirements.
70.4
Definitions.
70.5
Communications.
70.6
Interpretations.
70.7
Employee protection.
70.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
70.9
Completeness and accuracy of information.
70.10
Deliberate misconduct.

# Subpart B—Exemptions
70.11
Persons using special nuclear material under certain Department of Energy and Nuclear Regulatory Commission contracts.
70.12
Carriers.
70.13
Department of Defense.
70.14
Foreign military aircraft.
70.17
Specific exemptions.

# Subpart C—General Licenses
70.18
Types of licenses.
70.19
General license for calibration or reference sources.
70.20
General license to own special nuclear material.
70.20a
General license to possess special nuclear material for transport.
70.20b
General license for carriers of transient shipments of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, special nuclear material of low strategic significance, and irradiated reactor fuel.

# Subpart D—License Applications
70.21
Filing.
70.22
Contents of applications.
70.23
Requirements for the approval of applications.
70.23a
Hearing required for uranium enrichment facility.
70.24
Criticality accident requirements.
70.25
Financial assurance and recordkeeping for decommissioning.

# Subpart E—Licenses
70.31
Issuance of licenses.
70.32
Conditions of licenses.
70.33
Applications for renewal of licenses.
70.34
Amendment of licenses.
70.35
Commission action on applications to renew or amend.
70.36
Inalienability of licenses.
70.37
Disclaimer of warranties.
70.38
Expiration and termination of licenses and decommissioning of sites and separate buildings or outdoor areas.
70.39
Specific licenses for the manufacture or initial transfer of calibration or reference sources.
70.40
Ineligibility of certain applicants.

# Subpart F—Acquisition, Use and Transfer of Special Nuclear Material, Creditors' Rights
70.41
Authorized use of special nuclear material.
70.42
Transfer of special nuclear material.
70.44
Creditor regulations.

# Subpart G—Special Nuclear Material Control, Records, Reports and Inspections
70.50
Reporting requirements.
70.51
Records requirements.
70.52
Reports of accidental criticality.
70.55
Inspections.
70.56
Tests.
70.59
Effluent monitoring reporting requirements.

# Subpart H—Additional Requirements for Certain Licensees Authorized To Possess a Critical Mass of Special Nuclear Material
70.60
Applicability.
70.61
Performance requirements.
70.62
Safety program and integrated safety analysis.
70.64
Requirements for new facilities or new processes at existing facilities.
70.65
Additional content of applications.
70.66
Additional requirements for approval of license application.
70.72
Facility changes and change process.
70.73
Renewal of licenses.
70.74
Additional reporting requirements.
70.76
Backfitting.

# Subpart I—Modification and Revocation of Licenses
70.81
Modification and revocation of licenses.
70.82
Suspension and operation in war or national emergency.

# Subpart J—Enforcement
70.91
Violations.
70.92
Criminal penalties.
Appendix A to Part 70—Reportable Safety Events

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 51, 53, 57(d), 108, 122, 161, 182, 183, 184, 186, 187, 193, 223, 234, 274, 1701 (42 U.S.C. 2071, 2073, 2077(d), 2138, 2152, 2201, 2232, 2233, 2234, 2236, 2237, 2243, 2273, 2282, 2021, 2297f); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 202, 206, 211 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5842, 5846, 5851); Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, secs. 135, 141 (42 U.S.C. 10155, 10161); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.
Sections 70.1(c) and 70.20a(b) also issued under secs. 135, 141, Pub. L. 97-425, 96 Stat. 2232, 2241 (42 U.S.C. 10155, 10161).
Section 70.21(g) also issued under Atomic Energy Act sec. 122 (42 U.S.C. 2152).
Section 70.31 also issued under Atomic Energy Act sec. 57(d) (42 U.S.C. 2077(d)).
Sections 70.36 and 70.44 also issued under Atomic Energy Act sec. 184 (42 U.S.C. 2234).
Section 70.81 also issued under Atomic Energy Act secs. 186, 187 (42 U.S.C. 2236, 2237).
Section 70.82 also issued under Atomic Energy Act sec. 108 (42 U.S.C. 2138).

# Source:
21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 70 appear at 81 FR 86910, Dec. 2, 2016.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 70.1
Purpose.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the regulations of this part establish procedures and criteria for the issuance of licenses to receive title to, own, acquire, deliver, receive, possess, use, and transfer special nuclear material; and establish and provide for the terms and conditions upon which the Commission will issue such licenses.
(b) The regulations contained in this part are issued pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 919) and Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 1242).
(c) The regulations in part 72 of this chapter establish requirements, procedures, and criteria for the issuance of licenses to possess:
(1) Spent fuel, power reactor-related Greater than Class C (GTCC) waste, and other radioactive materials associated with spent fuel storage in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI), or
(2) Spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, power reactor-related GTCC waste, and other radioactive materials associated with the storage in a monitored retrievable storage installation (MRS), and the terms and conditions under which the Commission will issue such licenses.
(d) As provided in part 76 of this chapter, the regulations of this part establish procedures and criteria for physical security and material control and accounting for the issuance of a certificate of compliance or the approval of a compliance plan.
(e) As provided in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the regulations in this part establish requirements, procedures, and criteria for the issuance of licenses to uranium enrichment facilities.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956, as amended at 32 FR 4056, Mar. 15, 1967; 40 FR 8791, Mar. 3, 1975; 43 FR 6924, Feb. 17, 1978; 45 FR 74712, Nov. 12, 1980; 53 FR 31682, Aug. 19, 1988; 59 FR 48960, Sept. 23, 1994; 62 FR 6669, Feb. 12, 1997; 66 FR 51838, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 70.2
Scope.
Except as provided in §§ 70.11 to 70.13, inclusive, the regulations in this part apply to all persons in the United States. This part also gives notice to all persons who knowingly provide to any licensee, applicant, contractor, or subcontractor, components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services, that relate to a licensee's or applicant's activities subject to this part, that they may be individually subject to NRC enforcement action for violation of § 70.10.
[63 FR 1898, Jan. 13, 1998]
§ 70.3
License requirements.
No person subject to the regulations in this part shall receive title to, own, acquire, deliver, receive, possess, use, or transfer special nuclear material except as authorized in a license issued by the Commission pursuant to these regulations.
[32 FR 2562, Feb. 7, 1967, as amended at 43 FR 6924, Feb. 17, 1978]
§ 70.4
Definitions.
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (68 Stat 919), including any amendments thereto;
Acute,
as used in this part, means a single radiation dose or chemical exposure event or multiple radiation dose or chemical exposure events occurring within a short time (24 hours or less).
Agreement State
as designated in part 150 of this chapter means any State with which the Commission has entered into an effective agreement under subsection 274b. of the Act.
Non-agreement State
means any other State.
Alert
means events may occur, are in progress, or have occurred that could lead to a release of radioactive material[s] but that the release is not expected to require a response by an offsite response organization to protect persons offsite.
Atomic energy
means all forms of energy released in the course of nuclear fission or nuclear transformation;
Atomic weapon
means any device utilizing atomic energy, exclusive of the means for transporting or propelling the device (where such means is a separable and divisible part of the device), the principal purpose of which is for use as, or for development of, a weapon, a weapon prototype, or a weapon test device;
Available and reliable to perform their function when needed,
as used in subpart H of this part, means that, based on the analyzed, credible conditions in the integrated safety analysis, items relied on for safety will perform their intended safety function when needed, and management measures will be implemented that ensure compliance with the performance requirements of § 70.61 of this part, considering factors such as necessary maintenance, operating limits, common-cause failures, and the likelihood and consequences of failure or degradation of the items and measures.
Commencement of construction
means taking any action defined as “construction” or any other activity at the site of a facility subject to the regulations in this part that has a reasonable nexus to:
(1) Radiological health and safety; or
(2) Common defense and security.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives;
Common defense and security
means the common defense and security of the United States;
Configuration management (CM)
means a management measure that provides oversight and control of design information, safety information, and records of modifications (both temporary and permanent) that might impact the ability of items relied on for safety to perform their functions when needed.
Construction
means the installation of foundations, or in-place assembly, erection, fabrication, or testing for any structure, system, or component of a
facility or activity subject to the regulations in this part that are related to radiological safety or security. The term “construction” does not include:
(1) Changes for temporary use of the land for public recreational purposes;
(2) Site exploration, including necessary borings to determine foundation conditions or other preconstruction monitoring to establish background information related to the suitability of the site, the environmental impacts of construction or operation, or the protection of environmental values;
(3) Preparation of the site for construction of the facility, including clearing of the site, grading, installation of drainage, erosion and other environmental mitigation measures, and construction of temporary roads and borrow areas;
(4) Erection of fences and other access control measures that are not related to the safe use of, or security of, radiological materials subject to this part;
(5) Excavation;
(6) Erection of support buildings (e.g., construction equipment storage sheds, warehouse and shop facilities, utilities, concrete mixing plants, docking and unloading facilities, and office buildings) for use in connection with the construction of the facility;
(7) Building of service facilities (e.g., paved roads, parking lots, railroad spurs, exterior utility and lighting systems, potable water systems, sanitary sewerage treatment facilities, and transmission lines);
(8) Procurement or fabrication of components or portions of the proposed facility occurring at other than the final, in-place location at the facility; or
(9) Taking any other action that has no reasonable nexus to:
(i) Radiological health and safety, or
(ii) Common defense and security.
Contiguous sites
means licensee controlled locations, deemed by the Commission to be in close enough proximity to each other, that the special nuclear material must be considered in the aggregate for the purpose of physical protection.
Corporation
means the United States Enrichment Corporation (USEC), or its successor, a Corporation that is authorized by statute to lease the gaseous diffusion enrichment plants in Paducah, Kentucky, and Piketon, Ohio, from the Department of Energy, or any person authorized to operate one or both of the gaseous diffusion plants, or other facilities, pursuant to a plan for the privatization of USEC that is approved by the President.
Critical mass of special nuclear material (SNM),
as used in Subpart H, means special nuclear material in a quantity exceeding 700 grams of contained uranium-235; 520 grams of uranium-233; 450 grams of plutonium; 1500 grams of contained uranium-235, if no uranium enriched to more than 4 percent by weight of uranium-235 is present; 450 grams of any combination thereof; or one-half such quantities if massive moderators or reflectors made of graphite, heavy water, or beryllium may be present.
Decommission
means to remove a facility or site safely from service and reduce residual radioactivity to a level that permits—
(1) Release of the property for unrestricted use and termination of the license; or
(2) Release of the property under restricted conditions and termination of the license.
Department
and
Department of Energy
means the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 565, 42 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.
), to the extent that the Department, or its duly authorized representatives, exercises functions formerly vested in the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, its Chairman, members, officers and components and transferred to the U.S. Energy Research and Development Administration and to the Administrator thereof pursuant to sections 104(b), (c) and (d) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-438, 88 Stat. 1233 at 1237, 42 U.S.C. 5814) and retransferred to the Secretary of Energy pursuant to section 301(a) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 565 at 577-578, 42 U.S.C. 7151).
Double contingency principle
means that process designs should incorporate sufficient factors of safety to require at least two unlikely, independent, and
concurrent changes in process conditions before a criticality accident is possible.
Effective dose equivalent
means the sum of the products of the dose equivalent to the body organ or tissue and the weighting factors applicable to each of the body organs or tissues that are irradiated. Weighting factors are: 0.25 for gonads, 0.15 for breast, 0.12 for red bone marrow, 0.12 for lungs, 0.03 for thyroid, 0.03 for bone surface, and 0.06 for each of the other five organs receiving the highest dose equivalent.
Effective kilograms of special nuclear material
means: (1) For plutonium and uranium-233 their weight in kilograms; (2) For uranium with an enrichment in the isotope U-235 of 0.01 (1%) and above, its element weight in kilograms multiplied by the square of its enrichment expressed as a decimal weight fraction; and (3) For uranium with an enrichment in the isotope U-235 below 0.01 (1%), by its element weight in kilograms multiplied by 0.0001.
Formula quantity
means strategic special nuclear material in any combination in a quantity of 5000 grams or more computed by the formula, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2.5 (grams U-233 + grams plutonium). This class of material is sometimes referred to as a Category I quantity of material.
Government agency
means any executive department, commission, independent establishment, corporation, wholly or partly owned by the United States of America which is an instrumentality of the United States, or any board, bureau, division, service, office, officer, authority, administration, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Government;
Hazardous chemicals produced from licensed materials
means substances having licensed material as precursor compound(s) or substances that physically or chemically interact with licensed materials; and that are toxic, explosive, flammable, corrosive, or reactive to the extent that they can endanger life or health if not adequately controlled. These include substances commingled with licensed material, and include substances such as hydrogen fluoride that is produced by the reaction of uranium hexafluoride and water, but do not include substances prior to process addition to licensed material or after process separation from licensed material.
Integrated safety analysis (ISA)
means a systematic analysis to identify facility and external hazards and their potential for initiating accident sequences, the potential accident sequences, their likelihood and consequences, and the items relied on for safety. As used here, integrated means joint consideration of, and protection from, all relevant hazards, including radiological, nuclear criticality, fire, and chemical. However, with respect to compliance with the regulations of this part, the NRC requirement is limited to consideration of the effects of all relevant hazards on radiological safety, prevention of nuclear criticality accidents, or chemical hazards directly associated with NRC licensed radioactive material. An ISA can be performed process by process, but all processes must be integrated, and process interactions considered.
Integrated safety analysis summary
means a document or documents submitted with the license application, license amendment application, license renewal application, or pursuant to § 70.62(c)(3)(ii) that provides a synopsis of the results of the integrated safety analysis and contains the information specified in § 70.65(b). The ISA Summary can be submitted as one document for the entire facility, or as multiple documents that cover all portions and processes of the facility.
Items relied on for safety
mean structures, systems, equipment, components, and activities of personnel that are relied on to prevent potential accidents at a facility that could exceed the performance requirements in § 70.61 or to mitigate their potential consequences. This does not limit the licensee from identifying additional structures, systems, equipment, components, or activities of personnel (
i.e.,
beyond those in the minimum set necessary for compliance with the performance requirements) as items relied on for safety.
License,
except where otherwise specified, means a license issued pursuant to the regulations in this part;
Management measures
mean the functions performed by the licensee, generally on a continuing basis, that are applied to items relied on for safety, to ensure the items are available and reliable to perform their functions when needed. Management measures include configuration management, maintenance, training and qualifications, procedures, audits and assessments, incident investigations, records management, and other quality assurance elements.
Person
means (1) any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government agency other than the Commission or the Department, except that the Department shall be considered a person within the meaning of the regulations in this part to the extent that its facilities and activities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 1244), any State or any political subdivision of or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity; and (2) any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing;
Plutonium processing and fuel fabrication plant
means a plant in which the following operations or activities are conducted: (1) Operations for manufacture of reactor fuel containing plutonium including any of the following: (i) Preparation of fuel material; (ii) formation of fuel material into desired shapes; (iii) application of protective cladding; (iv) recovery of scrap material; and (v) storage associated with such operations; or (2) Research and development activities involving any of the operations described in paragraph (1) of this definition except for research and development activities utilizing unsubstantial amounts of plutonium.
Principal activities,
as used in this part, means activities authorized by the license which are essential to achieving the purpose(s) for which the license was issued or amended. Storage during which no licensed material is accessed for use or disposal and activities incidental to decontamination or decommissioning are not principal activities.
Produce,
when used in relation to special nuclear material, means (1) to manufacture, make, produce, or refine special nuclear material; (2) to separate special nuclear material from other substances in which such material may be contained; or (3) to make or to produce new special nuclear material;
Research and development
means (1) theoretical analysis, exploration, or experimentation; or (2) the extension of investigative findings and theories of a scientific or technical nature into practical application for experimental and demonstration purposes, including the experimental production and testing of models, devices, equipment, materials, and processes;
Restricted Data
means all data concerning (1) design, manufacture or utilization of atomic weapons; (2) the production of special nuclear material; or (3) the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but shall not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to section 142 of the Act;
Sealed source
means any special nuclear material that is encased in a capsule designed to prevent leakage or escape of the special nuclear material.
Site Area emergency
means events may occur, are in progress, or have occurred that could lead to a significant release of radioactive material and that could require a response by offsite response organizations to protect persons offsite.
Source material
means source material as defined in section 11z. of the Act and in the regulations contained in part 40 of this chapter;
Special nuclear material
means (1) plutonium, uranium 233, uranium enriched in the isotope 233 or in the isotope 235, and any other material which the Commission, pursuant to the provisions of section 51 of the act, determines to be special nuclear material, but does not include source material; or (2) any material artificially enriched by any of the foregoing but does not include source material;
Special nuclear material of low strategic significance
means:
(1) Less than an amount of special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition of strategic nuclear material of moderate strategic significance in this section, but more than 15 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in U-235 isotope) or 15 grams of uranium-233 or 15 grams of plutonium or the combination of 15 grams when computed by the equation, grams = (grams contained U-235) + (grams plutonium) + (grams U-233); or
(2) Less than 10,000 grams but more than 1,000 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 10 percent or more but less than 20 percent in the U-235 isotope); or
(3) 10,000 grams or more of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched above natural but less than 10 percent in the U-235 isotope).
This class of material is sometimes referred to as a Category III quantity of material.
Special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance
means:
(1) Less than a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material but more than 1,000 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U-235 isotope) or more than 500 grams of uranium-233 or plutonium, or in a combined quantity of more than 1,000 grams when computed by the equation, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2 (grams U-233 + grams plutonium); or
(2) 10,000 grams or more of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 10 percent or more but less than 20 percent in the U-235 isotope).
This class of material is sometimes referred to as a Category II quantity of material.
Special nuclear material scrap
means the various forms of special nuclear material generated during chemical and mechanical processing, other than recycle material and normal process intermediates, which are unsuitable for use in their present form, but all or part of which will be used after further processing.
Strategic special nuclear material
means uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U
235
isotope), uranium-233, or plutonium.
Transient shipment
means a shipment of nuclear material, originating and terminating in foreign countries, on a vessel or aircraft which stops at a United States port.
Unacceptable performance deficiencies
mean deficiencies in the items relied on for safety or the management measures that need to be corrected to ensure an adequate level of protection as defined in 10 CFR 70.61(b), (c), or (d).
United States,
when used in a geographical sense, includes Puerto Rico and all territories and possessions of the United States.
Uranium enrichment facility
means:
(1) Any facility used for separating the isotopes of uranium or enriching uranium in the isotope 235, except laboratory scale facilities designed or used for experimental or analytical purposes only; or
(2) Any equipment or device, or important component part especially designed for such equipment or device, capable of separating the isotopes of uranium or enriching uranium in the isotope 235.
Worker,
when used in Subpart H of this Part, means an individual who receives an occupational dose as defined in 10 CFR 20.1003.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 70.4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 70.5
Communications.
(a) Unless otherwise specified or covered under the regional licensing program as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any communication or report concerning the regulations in this part and any application filed under these regulations may be submitted to the Commission as follows:
(1) By mail addressed to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.
(2) By hand delivery to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and
Safeguards or Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response at the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland.
(3) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, and CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html
; by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov
; or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
(4) Classified communications shall be transmitted to the NRC Headquarters' classified mailing address as specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter or delivered by hand in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b) The Commission has delegated to the four Regional Administrators licensing authority for selected parts of its decentralized licensing program for nuclear materials as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Any communication, report, or application covered under this licensing program must be submitted to the appropriate Regional Administrator. The Administrators' jurisdictions and mailing addresses are listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(1) The delegated licensing program includes authority to issue, renew, amend, cancel, modify, suspend, or revoke licenses for nuclear materials issued pursuant to 10 CFR parts 30 through 36, 39, 40, and 70 to all persons for academic, medical, and industrial uses, with the following exceptions:
(i) Activities in the fuel cycle and special nuclear material in quantities sufficient to constitute a critical mass in any room or area. This exception does not apply to license modifications relating to termination of special nuclear material licenses that authorize possession of larger quantities when the case is referred for action from NRC's Headquarters to the Regional Administrators.
(ii) Health and safety design review of sealed sources and devices and approval, for licensing purposes, of sealed sources and devices.
(iii) Processing of source material for extracting of metallic compounds (including Zirconium, Hafnium, Tantalum, Titanium, Niobium, etc.).
(iv) Distribution of products containing radioactive material under §§ 32.11 through 32.30 and 40.52 of this chapter to persons exempt from licensing requirements.
(v) New uses or techniques for use of byproduct, source, or special nuclear material.
(vi) Reviews pursuant to § 70.32(c).
(vii) Uranium enrichment facilities.
(2)
Submissions
—(i)
Region I.
The regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region I non-Agreement States and the District of Columbia: Connecticut, Delaware, and Vermont. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment or renewal of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region I, 475 Allendale Road, Suite 102, King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415; where email is appropriate it should be addressed to
RidsRgn1MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.
(ii)
Region II.
The regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region II non-Agreement States and territories: West Virginia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, renewal, or termination request of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region I, 475 Allendale Road, Suite 102, King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415; where e-mail is appropriate it should be addressed to
RidsRgn1MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.
(iii)
Region III.
(A) The regional licensing program for mining and milling involves all Federal facilities in the region, and non-Federal licensees in the Region III non-Agreement States of Indiana, Michigan, Missouri and Region III Agreement States of Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Iowa. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, renewal, or termination request of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region III, Material Licensing Section, 2443 Warrenville Road, Suite 210, Lisle, IL 60532-4352; where e-mail is appropriate it should be addressed to
RidsRgn3MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.
(B) Otherwise, the regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region III non-Agreement States: Indiana, Michigan, and Missouri. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, or renewal of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region III, Material Licensing Section, 2443 Warrenville Road, Suite 210, Lisle, IL 60532-4352; where e-mail is appropriate it should be addressed to
RidsRgn3MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.
Outside of this jurisdiction, concerning the licensing program involving mining and milling, the Agreement States of Illinois and Ohio should be contacted.
(iv)
Region IV.
(A) The regional licensing program for mining and milling involves all Federal facilities in the region, and non-Federal licensees in the Region IV non-Agreement States and territory of Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, South Dakota, Wyoming and Guam and Region IV Agreement States of Oregon, California, Nevada, New Mexico, Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, and North Dakota. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment or renewal of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region IV, Division of Nuclear Materials Safety, 1600 E. Lamar Blvd., Arlington, TX 76011-4511; where email is appropriate, it should be addressed to
RidsRgn4MailCenter@nrc.gov.
(B) Otherwise, the regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region IV non-Agreement States and territory: Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, South Dakota, Wyoming, and Guam. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment or renewal of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region IV, Division of Nuclear Materials Safety, 1600 E. Lamar Blvd., Arlington, TX 76011-4511; where email is appropriate, it should be addressed to
RidsRgn4MailCenter@nrc.gov.
Outside of this jurisdiction, concerning the licensing program involving mining and milling, the Agreement States of Colorado, Utah, Texas and Washington should be contacted.
[48 FR 16032, Apr. 14, 1983]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 70.5, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 70.6
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 70.7
Employee protection.
(a) Discrimination by a Commission licensee, an applicant for a Commission license, or a contractor or subcontractor of a Commission licensee or applicant against an employee for engaging in certain protected activities is prohibited. Discrimination includes discharge and other actions that relate to compensation, terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment. The protected activities are established in section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and in general are related to the administration or enforcement of a requirement imposed under the Atomic Energy Act or the Energy Reorganization Act.
(1) The protected activities include but are not limited to:
(i) Providing the Commission or his or her employer information about alleged violations of either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) introductory text of this section or possible violations of requirements imposed under either of those statutes;
(ii) Refusing to engage in any practice made unlawful under either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) introductory text or under these requirements if the employee has identified the alleged illegality to the employer;
(iii) Requesting the Commission to institute action against his or her employer for the administration or enforcement of these requirements;
(iv) Testifying in any Commission proceeding, or before Congress, or at any Federal or State proceeding regarding any provision (or proposed provision) of either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) introductory text.
(v) Assisting or participating in, or is about to assist or participate in, these activities.
(2) These activities are protected even if no formal proceeding is actually initiated as a result of the employee assistance or participation.
(3) This section has no application to any employee alleging discrimination prohibited by this section who, acting without direction from his or her employer (or the employer's agent), deliberately causes a violation of any requirement of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(b) Any employee who believes that he or she has been discharged or otherwise discriminated against by any person for engaging in protected activities specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may seek a remedy for the discharge or discrimination through an administrative proceeding in the Department of Labor. The administrative proceeding must be initiated within 180 days after an alleged violation occurs. The employee may do this by filing a complaint alleging the violation with the Department of Labor, Employment Standards Administration, Wage and Hour Division. The Department of Labor may order reinstatement, back pay, and compensatory damages.
(c) A violation of paragraphs (a), (e), or (f) of this section by a Commission licensee, an applicant for a Commission license, or a contractor or subcontractor of a Commission licensee or applicant may be grounds for—
(1) Denial, revocation, or suspension of the license.
(2) Imposition of a civil penalty on the licensee, applicant, or a contractor or subcontractor of the licensee or applicant.
(3) Other enforcement action.
(d) Actions taken by an employer, or others, which adversely affect an employee may be predicated upon nondiscriminatory grounds. The prohibition applies when the adverse action occurs because the employee has engaged in protected activities. An employee's engagement in protected activities does not automatically render him or her immune from discharge or discipline for legitimate reasons or from adverse action dictated by nonprohibited considerations.
(e)(1) Each specific licensee, each applicant for a specific license, and each general licensee subject to part 19 shall prominently post the revision of NRC Form 3, “Notice to Employees,” referenced in 10 CFR 19.11(c).
(2) The posting of NRC Form 3 must be at locations sufficient to permit employees protected by this section to observe a copy on the way to or from their place of work. Premises must be posted not later than 30 days after an application is docketed and remain posted while the application is pending before the Commission, during the term of the license, and for 30 days following license termination.
(3) Copies of NRC Form 3 may be obtained by writing to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter, via email to
Forms.Resource@nrc.gov,
or by visiting
the NRC's online library at
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/forms/.
(f) No agreement affecting the compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, including an agreement to settle a complaint filed by an employee with the Department of Labor pursuant to section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, may contain any provision which would prohibit, restrict, or otherwise discourage an employee from participating in protected activity as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section including, but not limited to, providing information to the NRC or to his or her employer on potential violations or other matters within NRC's regulatory responsibilities.
[58 FR 52413, Oct. 8, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 24552, May 9, 1995; 61 FR 6765, Feb. 22, 1996; 68 FR 58816, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 63974, Nov. 14, 2007; 73 FR 30459, May 28, 2008; 79 FR 66605, Nov. 10, 2014]
§ 70.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0009.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 70.9, 70.17, 70.19, 70.20a, 70.20b, 70.21, 70.22, 70.24, 70.25, 70.32, 70.33, 70.34, 70.38, 70.39, 70.42, 70.50, 70.51, 70.52, 70.59, 70.61, 70.62, 70.64, 70.65, 70.72, 70.73, 70.74, and Appendix A.
(c) This part contains information collection requirements in addition to those approved under the control number specified in paragraph (a) of this section. These information collection requirements and the control numbers under which they are approved are as follows:
(1) In § 70.21(g), Form N-71 and associated forms are approved under control number 3150-0056.
(2) In § 70.38, NRC form 314 is approved under control number 3150-0028.
(3) In § 70.21(g), DOC/NRC Forms AP-1, AP-A, and associated forms are approved under control number 0694-0135.
[49 FR 19628, May 9, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 19305, May 22, 1987; 56 FR 40769, Aug. 16, 1991; 57 FR 18392, Apr. 30, 1992; 58 FR 39634, July 26, 1993; 62 FR 52189, Oct. 6, 1997; 65 FR 56225, Sept. 18, 2000; 67 FR 78142, Dec. 23, 2003; 73 FR 78606, Dec. 23, 2008]
§ 70.9
Completeness and accuracy of information.
(a) Information provided to the Commission by an applicant for a license or by a licensee or information required by statute or by the Commission's regulations, orders, or license conditions to be maintained by the applicant or the licensee shall be complete and accurate in all material respects.
(b) Each applicant or licensee shall notify the Commission of information identified by the applicant or licensee as having for the regulated activity a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. An applicant or licensee violates this paragraph only if the applicant or licensee fails to notify the Commission of information that the applicant or licensee has identified as having a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. Notification shall be provided to the Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office within two working days of identifying the information. This requirement is not applicable to information which is already required to be provided to the Commission by other reporting or updating requirements.
[52 FR 49373, Dec. 31, 1987]
§ 70.10
Deliberate misconduct.
(a) Any licensee, applicant for a license, employee of a licensee or applicant; or any contractor (including a supplier or consultant), subcontractor, employee of a contractor or subcontractor of any licensee or applicant for a license, who knowingly provides to any licensee, applicant, contractor, or
subcontractor, any components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services that relate to a licensee's or applicant's activities in this part, may not:
(1) Engage in deliberate misconduct that causes or would have caused, if not detected, a licensee or applicant to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order; or any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued by the Commission; or
(2) Deliberately submit to the NRC, a licensee, an applicant, or a licensee's or applicant's contractor or subcontractor, information that the person submitting the information knows to be incomplete or inaccurate in some respect material to the NRC.
(b) A person who violates paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be subject to enforcement action in accordance with the procedures in 10 CFR part 2, subpart B.
(c) For the purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, deliberate misconduct by a person means an intentional act or omission that the person knows:
(1) Would cause a licensee or applicant to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order; or any term, condition, or limitation, of any license issued by the Commission; or
(2) Constitutes a violation of a requirement, procedure, instruction, contract, purchase order, or policy of a licensee, applicant, contractor, or subcontractor.
[63 FR 1899, Jan. 13, 1998]

# Subpart B—Exemptions
§ 70.11
Persons using special nuclear material under certain Department of Energy and Nuclear Regulatory Commission contracts.
Except to the extent that Department facilities or activities of the types subject to licensing pursuant to section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 are involved, any prime contractor of the Department is exempt from the requirements for a license set forth in section 53 of the Act and from the regulations in this part to the extent that such contractor, under his prime contract with the Department receives title to, owns, acquires, delivers, receives, possesses, uses, or transfers special nuclear material for:
(a) The performance of work for the Department at a United States Government-owned or controlled site, including the transportation of special nuclear material to or from such site and the performance of contract services during temporary interruptions of such transportation; (b) research in, or development, manufacture, storage, testing or transportation of, atomic weapons or components thereof; or (c) the use or operation of nuclear reactors or other nuclear devices in a United States Government-owned vehicle or vessel. In addition to the foregoing exemptions, and subject to the requirement for licensing of Department facilities and activities pursuant to section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, any prime contractor or subcontractor of the Department or the Commission is exempt from the requirements for a license set forth in section 53 of the Act and from the regulations in this part to the extent that such prime contractor or subcontractor receives title to, owns, acquires, delivers, receives, possesses, uses, or transfers special nuclear material under his prime contract or subcontract when the Commission determines that the exemption of the prime contractor or subcontractor is authorized by law; and that, under the terms of the contract or subcontract there is adequate assurance that the work thereunder can be accomplished without undue risk to the public health and safety.
[40 FR 14085, Mar. 28, 1975; 40 FR 16047, Apr. 9, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 6924, Feb. 17, 1978; 65 FR 54950, Sept. 12, 2000]
§ 70.12
Carriers.
Common and contract carriers, freight forwarders, warehousemen, and the U.S. Postal Service are exempt from the regulations in this part to the extent that they transport special nuclear material in the regular course of carriage for another or storage incident thereto. This exemption does not apply to the storage in transit or transport of material by persons covered by the general license issued under § 70.20a and § 70.20b.
[46 FR 12696, Feb. 18, 1981]
§ 70.13
Department of Defense.
The regulations in this part do not apply to the Department of Defense to the extent that the Department receives, possesses and uses special nuclear material in accordance with the direction of the President pursuant to section 91 of the Act.
§ 70.14
Foreign military aircraft.
The regulations in this part do not apply to persons who carry special nuclear material (other than plutonium) in aircraft of the armed forces of foreign nations subject to 49 U.S.C. 40103(d).
[71 FR 15012, Mar. 27, 2006]
§ 70.17
Specific exemptions.
(a) The Commission may, upon application of any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant such exemptions from the requirements of the regulations in this part as it determines are authorized by law and will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security and are otherwise in the public interest.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The DOE is exempt from the requirements of the regulations in this part to the extent that its activities are subject to the requirements of part 60 or part 63 of this chapter.
(d) Except as specifically provided in part 61 of this chapter, any licensee is exempt from the requirements of the regulations in this part to the extent that its activities are subject to the requirements of part 61 of this chapter.
[37 FR 5749, Mar. 21, 1972, as amended at 45 FR 65536, Oct. 3, 1980; 46 FR 13987, Feb. 25, 1981; 47 FR 57481, Dec. 27, 1982; Redesignated at 65 FR 56225, Sept. 18, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 55815, Nov. 2, 2001]

# Subpart C—General Licenses
§ 70.18
Types of licenses.
Licenses for special nuclear material are of two types: general and specific. Any general license provided in this part is effective without the filing of applications with the Commission or the issuance of licensing documents to particular persons. Specific licenses are issued to named persons upon applications filed pursuant to the regulations in this part.
[29 FR 5884, May 5, 1964]
§ 70.19
General license for calibration or reference sources.
(a) A general license is hereby issued to those persons listed below to receive title to, own, acquire, deliver, receive, possess, use and transfer in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, plutonium in the form of calibration or reference sources:
(1) Any person in a non-agreement State who holds a specific license issued by the Commission or the Atomic Energy Commission which authorizes him to receive, possess, use and transfer byproduct material, source material, or special nuclear material;
(2) Any Government agency as defined in § 70.4 that holds a specific license issued by the Commission that authorizes it to receive, possess, use, or transfer byproduct material, source material, or special nuclear material; and
(3) Any person in an agreement State who holds a specific license issued by the Commission or the Atomic Energy Commission which authorizes him to receive, possess, use and transfer special nuclear material.
(b) The general license in paragraph (a) of this section applies only to calibration or reference sources which have been manufactured or initially transferred in accordance with the specifications contained in a specific license issued pursuant to § 70.39 or in accordance with the specifications contained in a specific license issued by an agreement State which authorizes manufacture of the sources for distribution to persons generally licensed by the agreement State.
(c) The general license in paragraph (a) of this section is subject to the provisions of §§ 70.32, 70.50, 70.55, 70.56, 70.91, 70.81, and 70.82; the provisions of §§ 74.11 and 74.19 of this chapter; and to the provisions of parts 19, 20, and 21 of this chapter. In addition, persons who receive title to own, acquire, deliver, receive, possess, use or transfer one or more calibration or reference sources under this general license:
(1) Shall not possess at any one time, at any one location of storage or use, more than 5 microcuries of plutonium in such sources;
(2) Shall not receive, possess, use or transfer such source unless the source, or the storage container, bears a label which includes the following statement or a substantially similar statement which contains the information called for in the following statement:
1
1
Sources generally licensed under this section prior to January 19, 1975 may bear labels authorized by the regulations in effect on January 1, 1975.
The receipt, possession, use and transfer of this source, Model ______, Serial No. ______, are subject to a general license and the regulations of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission or of a State with which the Commission has entered into an agreement for the exercise of regulatory authority. Do not remove this label.

# caution—radioactive material—this source contains plutonium. do not touch radioactive portion of this source.

# (Name of Manufacturer or Initial Transferor)
(3) Shall not transfer, abandon, or dispose of such source except by transfer to a person authorized by a license from the Commission or the Atomic Energy Commission or an Agreement State to receive the source.
(4) Shall store such source, except when the source is being used, in a closed container adequately designed and constructed to contain plutonium which might otherwise escape during storage.
(5) Shall not use such source for any purpose other than the calibration of radiation detectors or the standardization of other sources.
(d) The general license in paragraph (a) of this section does not authorize the manufacture, import, or export of calibration or reference sources containing plutonium.
[29 FR 5884, May 5, 1964, as amended at 32 FR 8124, June 7, 1967; 38 FR 22221, Aug. 17, 1973; 40 FR 8792, Mar. 3, 1975; 42 FR 28896, June 6, 1977; 43 FR 6924, Feb. 17, 1978; 48 FR 32329, July 15, 1983; 56 FR 40769, Aug. 16, 1991; 57 FR 33428, July 29, 1992; 67 FR 78142, Dec. 23, 2002; 72 FR 35145, June 27, 2007]
§ 70.20
General license to own special nuclear material.
A general license is hereby issued to receive title to and own special nuclear material without regard to quantity. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a general licensee under this section is not authorized to acquire, deliver, receive, possess, use, transfer, import, or export special nuclear material, except as authorized in a specific license.
[33 FR 9810, July 9, 1968]
§ 70.20a
General license to possess special nuclear material for transport.
(a) A general license is issued to any person to possess formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material of the types and quantities subject to the requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26 and 73.27 of this chapter, and irradiated reactor fuel containing material of the types and quantities subject to the requirements of § 73.37 of this chapter, in the regular course of carriage for another or storage incident. Carriers generally licensed under § 70.20b are exempt from the requirements of this section. Carriers of irradiated reactor fuel for the United States Department of Energy are also exempt from the requirements of this section. The general license is subject to the applicable provisions of §§ 70.7 (a) through (e), 70.32 (a) and (b), and §§ 70.42, 70.52, 70.55, 70.91, 70.81, 70.82 and 10 CFR 74.11.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the general license issued under this section does not authorize any person to conduct any activity that would be authorized by a license issued pursuant to parts 30 through 36, 39, 40, 50, 72, 110, or other sections of this part.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the duties of a general licensee under this section while in possession of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material or irradiated reactor fuel in the regular course of carriage for another or storage incident thereto shall be limited to providing for the physical protection of such material against theft or sabotage. Unless otherwise provided by this section, a general license under this section is not subject
to the requirements of parts 19, 20, 70 and 73.
(d) Any person who possesses formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material under this general license:
(1) Shall have submitted and received approval of a transportation security plan. The security plan shall outline the procedures that will be used to meet the requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26, 73.27 and 73.70(g) of this chapter including a plan for the selection, qualification, and training of armed escorts, or the specification and design of a specially designed truck or trailer as appropriate.
(2) Shall assure that the transportation is in accordance with the applicable physical protection requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26, 73.27 and 73.70(g) of this chapter and the applicable approved transportation security plan.
(3) Shall be subject to part 26 and § 73.80 of this chapter.
(e) Any person who possesses irradiated reactor fuel under this general license shall:
(1) Assure or receive certification from the shipper that the transportation is in accordance with the applicable physical protection requirements of § 73.37 of this chapter; and
(2) Comply with the reporting requirements of § 73.1200 of this chapter.
[44 FR 26851, May 8, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 68186, Nov. 28, 1979; 46 FR 12696, Feb. 18, 1981; 47 FR 30458, July 14, 1982; 53 FR 31682, Aug. 19, 1988; 58 FR 7737, Feb. 9, 1993; 58 FR 31471, June 3, 1993; 67 FR 78142, Dec. 23, 2002; 72 FR 35145, June 27, 2007; 88 FR 15881, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 70.20b
General license for carriers of transient shipments of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, special nuclear material of low strategic significance, and irradiated reactor fuel.
(a) A general license is hereby issued to any person to possess transient shipments of the following kinds and quantities of special nuclear material:
(1) A formula quantity of special nuclear material of the types and quantities subject to the requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26, and 73.27 of this chapter.
(2) Special nuclear material of moderate and low strategic significance of the types and quantities subject to the requirements of § 73.67 of this chapter.
(3) Irradiated reactor fuel of the type and quantity subject to the requirements of § 73.37 of this chapter.
(b) Persons generally licensed under this section are exempt from the requirements of parts 19 and 20 of this chapter and the requirements of this part, except §§ 70.32 (a) and (b), 70.52, 70.55, 70.91, 70.81, and 70.82.
(c) Persons generally licensed under this section to possess a transient shipment of special nuclear material of the kind and quantity specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall provide physical protection for that shipment in accordance with or equivalent to §§ 73.20(a), 73.20(b), 73.25, and 73.1200 of this chapter from the time a shipment enters a United States port until it exits that or another United States port.
(d) Persons generally licensed under this section to possess a transient shipment of special nuclear material of moderate or low strategic significance of the kind and quantity specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall provide physical protection for that shipment in accordance with or equivalent to § 73.67 of this chapter and shall comply with the requirements of § 73.1200 of this chapter.
(e) Persons generally licensed under this section to possess a transient shipment of irradiated reactor fuel of the kind and quantity specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall provide physical protection for that shipment in accordance with or equivalent to § 73.37 of this chapter and shall comply with the requirements of § 73.1200 of this chapter.
(f)(1) Persons generally licensed under this section, who plan to carry transient shipments with scheduled stops at United States ports, shall notify in writing the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a). Classified notifications shall be sent to the NRC headquarters classified mailing address listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
(2) A person generally licensed under this section shall assure that:
(i) The notification will be received at least 10 days before transport of the shipment commences at the shipping facility;
(ii) The NRC Headquarters Operations Center shall be notified by telephone at least 2 days before commencement of the shipment at the numbers listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter. Classified notifications shall be made by secure telephone.
(iii) The NRC Headquarters Operations Center shall be notified by telephone of schedule changes greater than ±6 hours at the numbers listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter. Classified notifications shall be made by secure telephone.
(3) Persons who are generally licensed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include the information listed in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (ix) of this section. Persons who are generally licensed under § 70.20b(a)(2) and § 70.20b(a)(3) must include the information listed in paragraphs (f)(3) (i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) Location of all scheduled stops in United States territory;
(ii) Arrival and departure times for all scheduled stops in United States territory;
(iii) The type of transport vehicle;
(iv) A physical description of the shipment (elements, isotopes, and enrichments);
(v) The number and types of containers;
(vi) The name and telephone number of the carrier's representative at each stopover location in United States territory;
(vii) The estimated time and date that shipment will commence and that each country (other than the United States) along the route is scheduled to be entered;
(viii) For shipments between countries that are not party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, provide assurances, as far as is practicable, that this nuclear material will be protected during international transport at levels described in Annex I to that Convention (see appendices E and F of part 73 of this chapter); and
(ix) A physical protection plan for implementing the requirement of § 70.20b(c), which will include the use of armed personnel to protect the shipment during the time the shipment is in a United States port.
(g) Persons generally licensed under this section making unscheduled stops at United States ports, immediately after the decision to make an unscheduled stop, shall:
(1) Provide to the Director, Office of Security Policy and Incident Response, the information required under paragraph (f) of this section.
(2) In the case of persons generally licensed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, arrange for local law enforcement authorities or trained and qualified private guards to protect the shipment during the stop.
(3) In the case of persons generally licensed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, arrange for the shipment to be protected as required in § 73.67(e) of this chapter.
(4) In the case of persons generally licensed under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, arrange for the shipment to be protected as required in § 73.37(e) of this chapter.
(5) Implement these arrangements within a reasonable time after the arrival of the shipment at a United States port to remain in effect until the shipment exits that or another United States port.
[52 FR 9652, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 24552, May 9, 1995; 67 FR 3585, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 14529, Mar. 26, 2003; 68 FR 23575, May 5, 2003; 68 FR 58817, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 35145, June 27, 2007; 74 FR 62683, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 88 FR 15881, Mar. 14, 2023]

# Subpart D—License Applications
§ 70.21
Filing.
(a)(1) A person may apply for a license to possess and use special nuclear material in a plutonium processing or fuel fabrication plant, or for a uranium enrichment facility license, by filing the application with the Director of the NRC's Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards in accordance with the instructions in § 70.5(a). If the application is on paper or CD-ROM, only one copy need be provided. If the
application is to be submitted electronically, see guidance for electronic submissions to the Commission.
(2) A person may apply for any other license issued under this part, by filing the application in accordance with the instructions in § 70.5(a). If the application is on paper, only one copy need be provided. If the application is to be submitted electronically, see guidance for electronic submissions to the Commission.
(3) Information contained in previous applications, statements, or reports filed with the Commission may be incorporated by reference if the references are clear and specific.
(b) An application for license filed pursuant to the regulations in this part will be considered also as an application for licenses authorizing other activities for which licenses are required by the Act, provided the application specifies the additional activities for which licenses are requested and complies with regulations of the Commission as to applications for such licenses.
(c) Any application which contains Restricted Data shall be prepared in such manner that all Restricted Data are separated from the unclassified information.
(d) Applications and documents submitted to the Commission in connection with applications may be made available for public inspection in accordance with the provisions of the regulations contained in part 2 of this chapter.
(e) Each application for a special nuclear material license, other than a license exempted from part 170 of this chapter, shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed in § 170.31 of this chapter. No fee will be required to accompany an application for renewal or amendment of a license, except as provided in § 170.31 of this chapter.
(f) An application for a license to possess and use special nuclear material for processing and fuel fabrication, scrap recovery or conversion of uranium hexafluoride, or for the conduct of any other activity which the Commission has determined pursuant to subpart A of part 51 of this chapter will significantly affect the quality of the environment shall be filed at least 9 months prior to commencement of construction of the plant or facility in which the activity will be conducted, and shall be accompanied by an Environmental Report required under subpart A of part 51 of this chapter.
(g)(1) In response to a written request by the Commission, each applicant for a construction authorization or license and each recipient of a construction authorization or a license to possess and use special nuclear material shall submit facility information, as described in § 75.10 of this chapter, on IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms and site information on DOC/NRC Form AP-A and associated forms;
(2) As required by the Additional Protocol, applicants and licensees specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall submit location information described in § 75.11 of this chapter on DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms; and
(3) Shall permit verification thereof by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and take other action as necessary to implement the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement, as described in Part 75 of this chapter.
(h) A license application for a uranium enrichment facility must be accompanied by an Environmental Report required under subpart A of part 51 of this chapter.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956, as amended at 23 FR 1122, Feb. 21, 1958; 31 FR 4670, Mar. 19, 1966; 34 FR 19546, Dec. 11, 1969; 36 FR 146, Jan. 6, 1971; 37 FR 5749, Mar. 21, 1972; 49 FR 9406, Mar. 12, 1984; 49 FR 19628, 19632, May 9, 1984; 49 FR 21699, May 23, 1984; 57 FR 18392, Apr. 30, 1992; 68 FR 58817, Oct. 10, 2003; 73 FR 78606, Dec. 23, 2008; 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 70.22
Contents of applications.
(a) Each application for a license shall contain the following information:
(1) The full name, address, age (if an individual), and citizenship of the applicant and the names and addresses of three personal references. If the applicant is a corporation or other entity, it shall indicate the State where it was incorporated or organized, the location of the principal office, the names, addresses, and citizenship of its principal officers, and shall include information
known to the applicant concerning the control or ownership, if any, exercised over the applicant by any alien, foreign corporation, or foreign government;
(2) The activity for which the special nuclear material is requested, or in which special nuclear material will be produced, the place at which the activity is to be performed and the general plan for carrying out the activity;
(3) The period of time for which the license is requested;
(4) The name, amount, and specifications (including the chemical and physical form and, where applicable, isotopic content) of the special nuclear material the applicant proposes to use or produce;
(5) [Reserved]
(6) The technical qualifications, including training and experience of the applicant and members of his staff to engage in the proposed activities in accordance with the regulations in this chapter;
(7) A description of equipment and facilities which will be used by the applicant to protect health and minimize danger to life or property (such as handling devices, working areas, shields, measuring and monitoring instruments, devices for the disposal of radioactive effluents and wastes, storage facilities, criticality accident alarm systems, etc.);
(8) Proposed procedures to protect health and minimize danger to life or property (such as procedures to avoid accidental criticality, procedures for personnel monitoring and waste disposal, post-criticality accident emergency procedures, etc.).

# Note:
Where the nature of the proposed activities is such as to require consideration of the applicant's financial qualifications to engage in the proposed activities in accordance with the regulations in this chapter, the Commission may request the applicant to submit information with respect to his financial qualifications.
(9) As provided by § 70.25, certain applications for specific licenses filed under this part must contain a proposed decommissioning funding plan or a certification of financial assurance for decommissioning. In the case of renewal applications submitted on or before July 27, 1990, this submittal may follow the renewal application but must be submitted on or before July 27, 1990.
(b) Each application for a license to possess special nuclear material, to possess equipment capable of enriching uranium, to operate an uranium enrichment facility, to possess and use at any one time and location special nuclear material in a quantity exceeding one effective kilogram, except for applications for use as sealed sources and for those uses involved in the operation of a nuclear reactor licensed pursuant to part 50 of this chapter and those involved in a waste disposal operation, must contain a full description of the applicant's program for control and accounting of such special nuclear material or enrichment equipment that will be in the applicant's possession under license to show how compliance with the requirements of §§ 74.31, 74.33, 74.41, or 74.51 of this chapter, as applicable, will be accomplished.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) The Commission may at any time after the filing of the original application, and before the expiration of the license, require further statements in order to enable the Commission to determine whether the application should be granted or denied or whether a license should be modified or revoked. All applications and statements shall be signed by the applicant or licensee or a corporate officer thereof.
(e) Each application and statement shall contain complete and accurate disclosure as to all matters and things required to be disclosed.
(f) Each application for a license to possess and use special nuclear material in a plutonium processing and fuel fabrication plant shall contain, in addition to the other information required by this section, a description of the plantsite, a description and safety assessment of the design bases of the principal structure, systems, and components of the plant, including provisions for protection against natural phenomena, and a description of the quality assurance program to be applied to the design, fabrication, construction, testing and operation of the
structures, systems, and components of the plant.
1
1
The description of the quality assurance program should include a discussion of how the criteria in appendix B of part 50 of this chapter will be met.
(g)(1) Each application for a license that would authorize the transport or delivery to a carrier for transport of special nuclear material in an amount specified in § 73.1(b)(2) of this chapter must include (i) a description of the plan for physical protection of special nuclear material in transit in accordance with §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26, 73.27, and 73.67 (a), (e), and (g) for 10 kg or more of special nuclear material of low strategic significance, and § 73.70(g) of this chapter including, as appropriate, a plan for the selection, qualification, and training of armed escorts, or the specification and design of a specially designed truck or trailer, and (ii) a licensee safeguards contingency plan or response procedures, as appropriate, for dealing with threats, thefts, and radiological sabotage relating to the special nuclear material in transit.
(2) Each application for such a license involving formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material must include the first four categories of information contained in the applicant's safeguards contingency plan. (The first four categories of information, as set forth in appendix C to part 73 of this chapter, are Background, Generic Planning Base, Licensee Planning Base, and Responsibility Matrix. The fifth category of information, Procedures, does not have to be submitted for approval.)
(3) The licensee shall retain this description of the plan for physical protection of special nuclear material in transit and the safeguards contingency plan or safeguards response procedures and each change to the plan or procedures as a record for a period of three years following the date on which the licensee last possessed the appropriate type and quantity of special nuclear material requiring this record under each license.
(h)(1) Each application for a license to possess or use, at any site or contiguous sites subject to licensee control, a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material, as defined in § 70.4, other than a license for possession or use of this material in the operation of a nuclear reactor licensed pursuant to part 50 of this chapter, must include a physical security plan. The plan must describe how the applicant will meet the applicable requirements of part 73 of this chapter in the conduct of the activity to be licensed, including the identification and description of jobs as required by 10 CFR 11.11(a). The plan must list tests, inspections, audits, and other means to be used to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of 10 CFR parts 11 and 73, if applicable.
(2) The licensee shall retain a copy of this physical security plan and each change to the plan as a record for a period of three years following the date on which the licensee last possessed the appropriate type and quantity of special nuclear material requiring this record under each license.
(i)(1) Each application to possess enriched uranium or plutonium for which a criticality accident alarm system is required, uranium hexafluoride in excess of 50 kilograms in a single container or 1000 kilograms total, or in excess of 2 curies of plutonium in unsealed form or on foils or plated sources, must contain either:
(i) An evaluation showing that the maximum dose to a member of the public offsite due to a release of radioactive materials would not exceed 1 rem effective dose equivalent or an intake of 2 milligrams of soluble uranium, or
(ii) An emergency plan for responding to the radiological hazards of an accidental release of special nuclear material and to any associated chemical hazards directly incident thereto.
(2) One or more of the following factors may be used to support an evaluation submitted under paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section:
(i) The radioactive material is physically separated so that only a portion could be involved in an accident;
(ii) All or part of the radioactive material is not subject to release during an accident or to criticality because of the way it is stored or packaged;
(iii) In the case of fires or explosions, the release fraction would be lower than 0.001 due to the chemical or physical form of the material;
(iv) The solubility of the material released would reduce the dose received;
(v) The facility design or engineered safety features in the facility would cause the release fraction to be lower than 0.001;
(vi) Operating restrictions or procedures would prevent a release large enough to cause a member of the public offsite to receive a dose exceeding 1 rem effective dose equivalent; or
(vii) Other factors appropriate for the specific facility.
(3) Emergency plans submitted under paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section must include the following information:
(i)
Facility description.
A brief description of the licensee's facility and area near the site.
(ii)
Types of accidents.
An identification of each type of radioactive materials accident for which protective actions may be needed.
(iii)
Classification of accidents.
A classification system for classifying accidents as alerts or site area emergencies.
(iv)
Detection of accidents.
Identification of the means of detecting each type of accident in a timely manner.
(v)
Mitigation of consequences.
A brief description of the means and equipment for mitigating the consequences of each type of accident, including those provided to protect workers onsite, and a description of the program for maintaining the equipment.
(vi)
Assessment of releases.
A brief description of the methods and equipment to assess releases of radioactive materials.
(vii)
Responsibilities.
A brief description of the responsibilities of licensee personnel should an accident occur, including identification of personnel responsible for promptly notifying offsite response organizations and the NRC; also responsibilities for developing, maintaining, and updating the plan.
(viii)
Notification and coordination.
A commitment to and a brief description of the means to promptly notify offsite response organizations and request offsite assistance, including medical assistance for the treatment of contaminated injured onsite workers when appropriate. A control point must be established. The notification and coordination must be planned so that unavailability of some personnel, parts of the facility, and some equipment will not prevent the notification and coordination. The licensee shall also commit to notify the NRC operations center immediately after notification of the appropriate offsite response organizations and not later than one hour after the licensee declares an emergency.
2
2
These reporting requirements do not supersede or release licensees of complying with the requirements under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, Title III, Public Law 99-499 or other state or Federal reporting requirements.
(ix) Information to be communicated. A brief description of the types of information on facility status, radioactive releases, and recommended protective actions, if necessary, to be given to offsite response organizations and to the NRC.
(x) Training. A brief description of the frequency, performance objectives and plans for the training that the licensee will provide workers on how to respond to an emergency including any special instructions and orientation tours the licensee would offer to fire, police, medical and other emergency personnel. The training shall familiarize personnel with site-specific emergency procedures. Also, the training shall thoroughly prepare site personnel for their responsibilities in the event of accident scenarios postulated as most probable for the specific site, including the use of team training for such scenarios.
(xi) Safe shutdown. A brief description of the means of restoring the facility to a safe condition after an accident.
(xii) Exercises. Provisions for conducting quarterly communications checks with offsite response organizations and biennial onsite exercises to test response to simulated emergencies. Quarterly communications checks with offsite response organizations must include the check and update of all necessary telephone numbers. The licensee shall invite offsite response organizations to participate in the biennial exercises. Participation
of offsite response organizations in biennial exercises although recommended is not required. Exercises must use accident scenarios postulated as most probable for the specific site and the scenarios shall not be known to most exercise participants. The licensee shall critique each exercise using individuals not having direct implementation responsibility for the plan. Critiques of exercises must evaluate the appropriateness of the plan, emergency procedures, facilities, equipment, training of personnel, and overall effectiveness of the response. Deficiencies found by the critiques must be corrected.
(xiii) Hazardous chemicals. A certification that the applicant has met its responsibilities under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, Title III, Pub. L. 99-499, if applicable to the applicant's activities at the proposed place of use of the special nuclear material.
(4) The licensee shall allow the offsite response organizations expected to respond in case of an accident 60 days to comment on the licensee's emergency plan before submitting it to NRC. The licensee shall provide any comments received within the 60 days to the NRC with the emergency plan.
(j)(1) Each application for a license to possess or use at any site or contiguous sites subject to control by the licensee uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the uranium-235 isotope), uranium-233, or plutonium alone or in any combination in a quantity of 5,000 grams or more computed by the formula, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2.5 (grams U-233 + grams plutonium) other than a license for possession or use of this material in the operation of a nuclear reactor licensed pursuant to part 50 of this chapter, must include a licensee safeguards contingency plan for dealing with threats, thefts, and radiological sabotage, as defined in part 73 of this chapter, relating to nuclear facilities licensed under part 50 of this chapter or to the possession of special nuclear material licensed under this part.
(2) Each application for such a license must include the first four categories of information contained in the applicant's safeguards contingency plan. (The first four categories of information, as set forth in appendix C to part 73 of this chapter, are Background, Generic Planning Base, Licensee Planning Base, and Responsibility Matrix.) The fifth category of information, Procedures, does not have to be submitted for approval.
(3) The licensee shall retain a copy of this safeguards contingency plan as a record until the Commission terminates each license obtained by this application or any application for renewal of a license and retain each change to the plan as a record for three years after the date of the change.
(k) Each application for a license to possess or use at any site or contiguous sites subject to licensee control, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance or 10 kg or more of special nuclear material of low strategic significance as defined under § 70.4, other than a license for possession or use of this material in the operation of a nuclear power reactor licensed pursuant to part 50 of this chapter, must include a physical security plan that demonstrates how the applicant plans to meet the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g) of § 73.67 of this chapter, as appropriate. The licensee shall retain a copy of this physical security plan as a record for the period during which the licensee possesses the appropriate type and quantity of special nuclear material under each license, and if any portion of the plan is superseded, retain that superseded portion of the plan for 3 years after the effective date of the change.
(l) Each applicant for a license shall protect Safeguards Information against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21 and the requirements of § 73.22, or 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable, and shall protect classified information in accordance with the requirements of parts 25 and 95 of this chapter, as applicable.
(m) Each application for a license to possess equipment capable of enriching uranium or operate an enrichment facility, and produce, possess, or use more than one effective kilogram of special nuclear material at any site or contiguous sites subject to control by the applicant, must contain a full description of the applicant's security
program to protect against theft, and to protect against unauthorized viewing of classified enrichment equipment, and unauthorized disclosure of classified matter in accordance with the requirements of 10 CFR parts 25 and 95.
(n) A license application that involves the use of special nuclear material in a uranium enrichment facility must include the applicant's provisions for liability insurance.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 70.22, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 70.23
Requirements for the approval of applications.
(a) An application for a license will be approved if the Commission determines that:
(1) The special nuclear material is to be used for the conduct of research or development activities of a type specified in section 31 of the Act,
1
in activities licensed by the Commission under section 103 or 104 of the Act, or for such other uses as the Commission determines to be appropriate to carry out the purposes of the Act;
1
The types of research and development activities specified in section 31 are those relating to:
(1) Nuclear processes;
(2) The theory and production of atomic energy, including processes, materials, and devices related to such production;
(3) Utilization of special nuclear material and radioactive material for medical, biological, agricultural, health or military purposes;
(4) Utilization of special nuclear material, atomic energy, and radioactive material and processes entailed in the utilization or production of atomic energy or such material for all other purposes, including industrial use, the generation of usable energy, and the demonstration of the practical value of utilization or production facilities for industrial or commercial purposes; and
(5) The protection of health and the promotion of safety during research and production activities.
(2) The applicant is qualified by reason of training and experience to use the material for the purpose requested in accordance with the regulations in this chapter;
(3) The applicant's proposed equipment and facilities are adequate to protect health and minimize danger to life or property;
(4) The applicant's proposed procedures to protect health and to minimize danger to life or property are adequate;
(5) Where the nature of the proposed activities is such as to require consideration by the Commission, that the applicant appears to be financially qualified to engage in the proposed activities in accordance with the regulations in this part;
(6) Where the applicant is required to submit a summary description of the fundamental material controls provided in his procedures for the control of and accounting for special nuclear material pursuant to § 70.22 (b), the applicant's proposed controls are adequate;
(7) Where the proposed activity is processing and fuel fabrication, scrap recovery, conversion of uranium hexafluoride, uranium enrichment facility construction and operation, or any other activity which the NRC determines will significantly affect the quality of the environment, the Director of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or his/her designee, before commencement of construction of the plant or facility in which the activity will be conducted, on the basis of information filed and evaluations made pursuant to subpart A of part 51 of this chapter, has concluded, after weighing the environmental, economic, technical, and other benefits against environmental costs and considering available alternatives, that the action called for is the issuance of the proposed license, with any appropriate conditions to protect environmental values. Commencement of construction prior to this conclusion is grounds for denial to possess and use special nuclear material in the plant or facility. Commencement of construction as defined in section 70.4 may include non-construction activities if the activity has a reasonable nexus to radiological safety and security.
(8) Where the proposed activity is the operation of a plutonium processing and fuel fabrication plant, construction of the principal structures, systems,
and components approved pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section has been completed in accordance with the application;
(9) Where the applicant is required to submit a plan for physical protection of special nuclear material in transit pursuant to § 70.22(g), of this chapter, the applicant's plan is adequate;
(10) Where the applicant is required to submit a physical security plan pursuant to § 70.22(h), the applicant's proposed plan is adequate;
(11) Where the proposed activity is processing and fuel fabrication, scrap recovery, conversion of uranium hexafluoride, or involves the use of special nuclear material in a uranium enrichment facility, the applicant's proposed emergency plan is adequate.
(12) Where the proposed activity is use of special nuclear material in a uranium enrichment facility, the applicable provisions of part 140 of this chapter have been satisfied.
(b) The Commission will approve construction of the principal structures, systems, and components of a plutonium processing and fuel fabrication plant on the basis of information filed pursuant to § 70.22(f) when the Commission has determined that the design bases of the principal structures, systems, and components, and the quality assurance program provide reasonable assurance of protection against natural phenomena and the consequences of potential accidents.
2
Failure to obtain Commission approval prior to beginning of such construction may be grounds for denial of a license to possess and use special nuclear material in a plutonium processing and fuel fabrication plant.
2
The criteria in appendix B of part 50 of this chapter will be used by the Commission in determining the adequacy of the quality assurance program.
[36 FR 17574, Sept. 2, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 5749, Mar. 21, 1972; 38 FR 30534, 30538, Nov. 6, 1973; 39 FR 26286, July 18, 1974; 42 FR 17126, Mar. 31, 1977; 43 FR 6924, Feb. 17, 1978; 49 FR 9406, Mar. 12, 1984; 54 FR 14064, Apr. 7, 1989; 57 FR 18392, Apr. 30, 1992; 67 FR 78142, Dec. 23, 2002; 76 FR 56966, Sept. 15, 2011; 88 FR 80950, Nov. 21, 2023]
§ 70.23a
Hearing required for uranium enrichment facility.
The Commission will hold a hearing under 10 CFR part 2, subparts A, C, G, and I, on each application for issuance of a license for construction and operation of a uranium enrichment facility. The Commission will publish public notice of the hearing in the
Federal Register
at least thirty (30) days before the hearing.
[69 FR 2280, Jan. 14, 2004]
§ 70.24
Criticality accident requirements.
(a) Each licensee authorized to possess special nuclear material in a quantity exceeding 700 grams of contained uranium-235, 520 grams of uranium-233, 450 grams of plutonium, 1,500 grams of contained uranium-235 if no uranium enriched to more than 4 percent by weight of uranium-235 is present, 450 grams of any combination thereof, or one-half such quantities if massive moderators or reflectors made of graphite, heavy water or beryllium may be present, shall maintain in each area in which such licensed special nuclear material is handled, used, or stored, a monitoring system meeting the requirements of either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2), as appropriate, and using gamma- or neutron-sensitive radiation detectors which will energize clearly audible alarm signals if accidental criticality occurs. This section is not intended to require underwater monitoring when special nuclear material is handled or stored beneath water shielding or to require monitoring systems when special nuclear material is being transported when packaged in accordance with the requirements of part 71 of this chapter.
(1) The monitoring system shall be capable of detecting a criticality that produces an absorbed dose in soft tissue of 20 rads of combined neutron and gamma radiation at an unshielded distance of 2 meters from the reacting material within one minute. Coverage of all areas shall be provided by two detectors.
(2) Persons licensed prior to December 6, 1974, to possess special nuclear material subject to this section may maintain a monitoring system capable
of detecting a criticality which generates radiation levels of 300 rems per hour one foot from the source of the radiation. The monitoring devices in the system shall have a preset alarm point of not less than 5 millirems per hour (in order to avoid false alarms) nor more than 20 millirems per hour. In no event may any such device be farther than 120 feet from the special nuclear material being handled, used, or stored; lesser distances may be necessary to meet the requirements of this paragraph (a)(2) on account of intervening shielding or other pertinent factors.
(3) The licensee shall maintain emergency procedures for each area in which this licensed special nuclear material is handled, used, or stored to ensure that all personnel withdraw to an area of safety upon the sounding of the alarm. These procedures must include the conduct of drills to familiarize personnel with the evacuation plan, and designation of responsible individuals for determining the cause of the alarm, and placement of radiation survey instruments in accessible locations for use in such an emergency. The licensee shall retain a copy of current procedures for each area as a record for as long as licensed special nuclear material is handled, used, or stored in the area. The licensee shall retain any superseded portion of the procedures for three years after the portion is superseded.
(b) Each licensee authorized to possess special nuclear material in quantities in excess of those specified in paragraph (a) shall:
(1) Provide the means for identifying quickly which individuals have received doses of 10 rads or more.
(2) Maintain facilities and supplies at the site for decontamination of personnel, arrangements for the services of a physician and other medical personnel qualified to handle radiation emergencies, arrangements for transportation of injured or contaminated individuals to treatment facilities, and arrangements for treatment of individuals at treatment facilities outside the site boundary.
(c) Holders of licenses for construction or operation of a nuclear reactor issued pursuant to part 50 of this chapter, except critical assembly reactors, are exempt for the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section with respect to special nuclear material used or to be used in the reactor.
(d)(1) The requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section do not apply to a holder of a construction permit or operating license for a nuclear power reactor issued under part 50 of this chapter or a combined license issued under part 52 of this chapter, if the holder complies with the requirements of paragraph (b) of 10 CFR 50.68.
(2) An exemption from § 70.24 held by a licensee who thereafter elects to comply with requirements of paragraph (b) of 10 CFR 50.68 does not exempt that licensee from complying with any of the requirements in § 50.68, but shall be ineffective so long as the licensee elects to comply with § 50.68.
[39 FR 39021, Nov. 5, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 31522, July 29, 1976; 53 FR 19252, May 27, 1988; 62 FR 63828, Dec. 3, 1997; 63 FR 9403, Feb. 25, 1998; 63 FR 63130, Nov. 12, 1998; 88 FR 80950, Nov. 21, 2023]
§ 70.25
Financial assurance and recordkeeping for decommissioning.
(a) Each applicant for a specific license of the types described in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section shall submit a decommissioning funding plan as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(1) A specific license for a uranium enrichment facility;
(2) A specific license authorizing the possession and use of unsealed special nuclear material in quantities exceeding 10
5
times the applicable quantities set forth in appendix B to part 30. A decommissioning funding plan must also be submitted when a combination of isotopes is involved if R divided by 10
5
is greater than 1 (unity rule), where R is the sum of the ratios of the quantity of each isotope to the applicable value in appendix B to part 30.
(b) Each applicant for a specific license authorizing possession and use of unsealed special nuclear material in quantities specified in paragraph (d) of this section shall either—
(1) Submit a decommissioning funding plan as described in paragraph (e) of this section; or
(2) Submit a certification that financial assurance for decommissioning has
been provided in the amount prescribed by paragraph (d) of this section using one of the methods described in paragraph (f) of this section. For an applicant, this certification may state that the appropriate assurance will be obtained after the application has been approved and the license issued but before the receipt of licensed material. If the applicant defers execution of the financial instrument until after the license has been issued, a signed original of the financial instrument obtained to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section must be submitted to NRC before receipt of licensed material. If the applicant does not defer execution of the financial instrument, the applicant shall submit to NRC, as part of the certification, a signed original of the financial instrument obtained to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.
(c)(1) Each holder of a specific license issued on or after July 27, 1990, which is of a type described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, shall provide financial assurance for decommissioning in accordance with the criteria set forth in this section.
(2) Each holder of a specific license issued before July 27, 1990, and of a type described in paragraph (a) of this section shall submit a decommissioning funding plan as described in paragraph (e) of this section or a certification of financial assurance for decommissioning in an amount at least equal to $1,125,000 in accordance with the criteria set forth in this section. If the licensee submits the certification of financial assurance rather than a decommissioning funding plan, the licensee shall include a decommissioning funding plan in any application for license renewal.
(3) Each holder of a specific license issued before July 27, 1990, and of a type described in paragraph (b) of this section shall submit, on or before July 27, 1990, a decommissioning funding plan, described in paragraph (e) of this section, or a certification of financial assurance for decommissioning in accordance with the criteria set forth in this section.
(4) Any licensee who has submitted an application before July 27, 1990, for renewal of license in accordance with § 70.33 shall provide financial assurance for decommissioning in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. This assurance must be submitted when this rule becomes effective November 24, 1995.
(5) If, in surveys made under 10 CFR 20.1501(a), residual radioactivity in the facility and environment, including the subsurface, is detected at levels that would, if left uncorrected, prevent the site from meeting the 10 CFR 20.1402 criteria for unrestricted use, the licensee must submit a decommissioning funding plan within one year of when the survey is completed.
(d) Table of required amounts of financial assurance for decommissioning by quantity of material. Licensees required to submit the $1,125,000 amount must do so by December 2, 2004. Licensees required to submit the $225,000 amount must do so by June 2, 2005. Licensees having possession limits exceeding the upper bounds of this table must base financial assurance on a decommissioning funding plan.
Greater than 10
4
but less than or equal to 10
5
times the applicable quantities of appendix B to part 30. (For a combination of isotopes, if R, as defined in § 70.25(a), divided by 10
4
is greater than 1 but R divided by 10
5
is less than or equal to 1.)
$1,125,000
Greater than 10
3
but less than or equal to 10
4
times the applicable quantities of appendix B to part 30. (For a combination of isotopes, if R, as defined in § 70.25(a), divided by 10
3
is greater than 1 but R divided by 10
4
is less than or equal to 1.)
$225,000
(e)(1) Each decommissioning funding plan must be submitted for review and approval and must contain—
(i) A detailed cost estimate for decommissioning, in an amount reflecting:
(A) The cost of an independent contractor to perform all decommissioning activities;
(B) The cost of meeting the 10 CFR 20.1402 criteria for unrestricted use,
provided that, if the applicant or licensee can demonstrate its ability to meet the provisions of 10 CFR 20.1403, the cost estimate may be based on meeting the 10 CFR 20.1403 criteria;
(C) The volume of onsite subsurface material containing residual radioactivity that will require remediation; and
(D) An adequate contingency factor.
(ii) Identification of and justification for using the key assumptions contained in the DCE;
(iii) A description of the method of assuring funds for decommissioning from paragraph (f) of this section, including means for adjusting cost estimates and associated funding levels periodically over the life of the facility;
(iv) A certification by the licensee that financial assurance for decommissioning has been provided in the amount of the cost estimate for decommissioning; and
(v) A signed original, or, if permitted, a copy, of the financial instrument obtained to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section (unless a previously submitted and accepted financial instrument continues to cover the cost estimate for decommissioning).
(2) At the time of license renewal and at intervals not to exceed 3 years, the decommissioning funding plan must be resubmitted with adjustments as necessary to account for changes in costs and the extent of contamination. If the amount of financial assurance will be adjusted downward, this can not be done until the updated decommissioning funding plan is approved. The decommissioning funding plan must update the information submitted with the original or prior approved plan, and must specifically consider the effect of the following events on decommissioning costs:
(i) Spills of radioactive material producing additional residual radioactivity in onsite subsurface material;
(ii) Waste inventory increasing above the amount previously estimated;
(iii) Waste disposal costs increasing above the amount previously estimated;
(iv) Facility modifications;
(v) Changes in authorized possession limits;
(vi) Actual remediation costs that exceed the previous cost estimate;
(vii) Onsite disposal; and
(viii) Use of a settling pond.
(f) The financial instrument must include the licensee's name, license number, and docket number; and the name, address, and other contact information of the issuer, and, if a trust is used, the trustee. When any of the foregoing information changes, the licensee must, within 30 days, submit financial instruments reflecting such changes. Financial assurance for decommissioning must be provided by one or more of the following methods:
(1)
Prepayment.
Prepayment is the deposit before the start of operation into an account segregated from licensee assets and outside the licensee's administrative control of cash or liquid assets such that the amount of funds would be sufficient to pay decommissioning costs. Prepayment must be made into a trust account, and the trustee and the trust must be acceptable to the Commission.
(2)
A surety method, insurance, or other guarantee method.
These methods guarantee that decommissioning costs will be paid. A surety method may be in the form of a surety bond, or letter of credit. A parent company guarantee of funds for decommissioning costs based on a financial test may be used if the guarantee and test are as contained in appendix A to part 30 of this chapter. For commercial corporations that issue bonds, a guarantee of funds by the applicant or licensee for decommissioning costs based on a financial test may be used if the guarantee and test are as contained in appendix C to part 30 of this chapter. For commercial companies that do not issue bonds, a guarantee of funds by the applicant or licensee for decommissioning costs may be used if the guarantee and test are as contained in appendix D to part 30 of this chapter. For nonprofit entities, such as colleges, universities, and nonprofit hospitals, a guarantee of funds by the applicant or licensee may be used if the guarantee and test are as contained in appendix E to part 30 of this chapter. Except for an external sinking fund, a parent company guarantee or a guarantee by the applicant
or licensee may not be used in combination with any other financial methods used to satisfy the requirements of this section. A guarantee by the applicant or licensee may not be used in any situation where the applicant or licensee has a parent company holding majority control of the voting stock of the company. Any surety method or insurance used to provide financial assurance for decommissioning must contain the following conditions:
(i) The surety method or insurance must be open-ended or, if written for a specified term, such as five years, must be renewed automatically unless 90 days or more prior to the renewal date, the issurer notifies the Commission, the beneficiary, and the licensee of its intention not to renew. The surety method or insurance must also provide that the full face amount be paid to the beneficiary automatically prior to the expiration without proof of forfeiture if the licensee fails to provide a replacement acceptable to the Commission within 30 days after receipt of notification of cancellation.
(ii) The surety method or insurance must be payable to a trust established for decommissioning costs. The trustee and trust must be acceptable to the Commission. An acceptable trustee includes an appropriate State or Federal government agency or an entity which has the authority to act as a trustee and whose trust operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency.
(iii) The surety method or insurance must remain in effect until the Commission has terminated the license.
(3)
An external sinking fund in which deposits are made at least annually, coupled with a surety method, insurance, or other guarantee method, the value of which may decrease by the amount being accumulated in the sinking fund.
An external sinking fund is a fund established and maintained by setting aside funds periodically in an account segregated from licensee assets and outside the licensee's administrative control in which the total amount of funds would be sufficient to pay decommissioning costs at the time termination of operation is expected. An external sinking fund must be in the form of a trust. If the other guarantee method is used, no surety or insurance may be combined with the external sinking fund. The surety, insurance, or other guarantee provisions must be as stated in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(4) In the case of Federal, State, or local government licensees, a statement of intent containing a cost estimate for decommissioning or an amount based on the Table in paragraph (d) of this section, and indicating that funds for decommissioning will be obtained when necessary.
(5) When a governmental entity is assuming custody and ownership of a site, an arrangement that is deemed acceptable by such governmental entity.
(g) Each person licensed under this part shall keep records of information important to the decommissioning of a facility in an identified location until the site is released for unrestricted use. If records important to the decommissioning of a facility are kept for other purposes, reference to these records and their locations may be used. Information the Commission considers important to decommissioning consists of—
(1) Records of spills or other unusual occurrences involving the spread of contamination in and around the facility, equipment, or site. These records may be limited to instances when contamination remains after any cleanup procedures or when there is reasonable likelihood that contaminants may have spread to inaccessible areas as in the case of possible seepage into porous materials such as concrete. These records must include any known information on identification of involved nuclides, quantities, forms, and concentrations.
(2) As-built drawings and modifications of structures and equipment in restricted areas where radioactive materials are used and/or stored and of locations of possible inaccessible contamination such as buried pipes which may be subject to contamination. If required drawings are referenced, each relevant document need not be indexed individually. If drawings are not available, the licensee shall substitute appropriate records of available information concerning these areas and locations.
(3) Except for areas containing only sealed sources (provided the sources have not leaked or no contamination remains after cleanup of any leak), a list contained in a single document and updated every 2 years, of the following:
(i) All areas designated and formerly designated as restricted areas as defined under 10 CFR 20.1003 (For requirements prior to January 1, 1994, see 10 CFR 20.3 as contained in the CFR edition revised as of January 1, 1993.);
(ii) All areas outside of restricted areas that require documentation under § 70.25(g)(1);
(iii) All areas outside of restricted areas where current and previous wastes have been buried as documented under 10 CFR 20.2108; and
(iv) All areas outside of restricted areas that contain material such that, if the license expired, the licensee would be required to either decontaminate the area to meet the criteria for decommissioning in 10 CFR part 20, subpart E, or apply for approval for disposal under 10 CFR 20.2002.
(4) Records of the cost estimate performed for the decommissioning funding plan or of the amount certified for decommissioning, and records of the funding method used for assuring funds if either a funding plan or certification is used.
(h) In providing financial assurance under this section, each licensee must use the financial assurance funds only for decommissioning activities and each licensee must monitor the balance of funds held to account for market variations. The licensee must replenish the funds, and report such actions to the NRC, as follows:
(1) If, at the end of a calendar quarter, the fund balance is below the amount necessary to cover the cost of decommissioning, but is not below 75 percent of the cost, the licensee must increase the balance to cover the cost, and must do so within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter.
(2) If, at any time, the fund balance falls below 75 percent of the amount necessary to cover the cost of decommissioning, the licensee must increase the balance to cover the cost, and must do so within 30 days of the occurrence.
(3) Within 30 days of taking the actions required by paragraph (h)(1) or (h)(2) of this section, the licensee must provide a written report of such actions to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, and state the new balance of the fund.
[53 FR 24053, June 27, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 23474, May 21, 1991; 57 FR 18393, Apr. 30, 1992; 58 FR 39634, July 26, 1993; 58 FR 67662, Dec. 22, 1993; 58 FR 68731, Dec. 29, 1993; 59 FR 1618, Jan. 12, 1994; 60 FR 38239, July 26, 1995; 61 FR 24675, May 16, 1996; 62 FR 39091, July 21, 1997; 63 FR 29544, June 1, 1998; 68 FR 57337, Oct. 3, 2003; 76 FR 35572, June 17, 2011; 78 FR 34250, June 7, 2013; 78 FR 75450, Dec. 12, 2013; 79 FR 75740, Dec. 19, 2014]

# Subpart E—Licenses
§ 70.31
Issuance of licenses.
(a) Upon a determination that an application meets the requirements of the act and of the regulations of the Commission, the Commission will issue a license in such form and containing such conditions and limitations as it deems appropriate or necessary to effectuate the purposes of the act.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Each license issued to a person for use of special nuclear material in activities in which special nuclear material will be produced shall (subject to the provisions of § 70.41(b)) be deemed to authorize such person to receive title to, own, acquire, receive, possess, use, and transfer the special nuclear material produced in the course of such authorized activities.
(d) No license will be issued by the Commission to any person within the United States if the Commission finds that the issuance of such license would be inimical to the common defense and security or would constitute an unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public.
(e) No license to construct and operate a uranium enrichment facility may be issued until a hearing pursuant to 10 CFR part 2, subparts G and I, is completed and decision issued on the application.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956, as amended at 32 FR 2563, Feb. 7, 1967; 32 FR 4056, Mar. 15, 1967; 43 FR 6925, Feb. 17, 1978; 57 FR 18393, Apr. 30, 1992]
§ 70.32
Conditions of licenses.
(a) Each license shall contain and be subject to the following conditions:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) No right to the special nuclear material shall be conferred by the license except as defined by the license;
(3) Neither the license nor any right under the license shall be assigned or otherwise transferred in violation of the provisions of the Act;
(4) All special nuclear material shall be subject to the right of recapture or control reserved by section 108 and to all other provisions of the Act;
(5) No special nuclear material may be used in any utilization or production facility except in accordance with the provisions of the Act;
(6) The licensee shall not use the special nuclear material to construct an atomic weapon or any component of an atomic weapon;
(7) Except to the extent that the indemnification and limitation of liability provisions of part 140 of this chapter apply, the licensee will hold the United States and the Department harmless from any damages resulting from the use or possession of special nuclear material leased from the Department by the licensee;
(8) The license shall be subject to and the licensee shall observe, all applicable rules, regulations and orders of the Commission.
(9)(i) Each licensee shall notify the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator, in writing, immediately following the filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition for bankruptcy under any Chapter of Title 11 (Bankruptcy) of the United States Code by or against:
(A) The licensee;
(B) An entity (as that term is defined in 11 U.S.C. 101(15)) controlling the licensee or listing the license or licensee as property of the estate; or
(C) An affiliate (as that term is defined in 11 U.S.C. 101(2)) of the licensee.
(ii) This notification must indicate:
(A) The bankruptcy court in which the petition for bankruptcy was filed; and
(B) The date of the filing of the petition.
(b) The Commission may incorporate in any license such additional conditions and requirements with respect to the licensee's ownership, receipt, possession, use, and transfer of special nuclear material as it deems appropriate or necessary in order to:
(1) Promote the common defense and security;
(2) Protect health or to minimize danger to life or property;
(3) Protect restricted data;
(4) Guard against the loss or diversion of special nuclear material;
(5) Require such reports and the keeping of such records, and to provide for such inspections, of activities under the license as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes of the act and regulations thereunder.
(c)(1) Each license authorizing the possession and use at any one time and location of uranium source material at an uranium enrichment facility or special nuclear material in a quantity exceeding one effective kilogram, except for use as sealed sources and those uses involved in the operation of a nuclear reactor licensed pursuant to part 50 of this chapter and those involved in a waste disposal operation, shall contain and be subject to a condition requiring the licensee to maintain and follow:
(i) The program for control and accounting of uranium source material at an uranium enrichment facility and special nuclear material at all applicable facilities as implemented pursuant to § 70.22(b), or §§ 74.31(b), 74.33(b), 74.41(b), or 74.51(c) of this chapter, as appropriate;
(ii) The measurement control program for uranium source material at an uranium enrichment facility and for special nuclear material at all applicable facilities as implemented pursuant to §§ 74.31(b), 74.33(b), 74.45(c), or 74.59(e) of this chapter, as appropriate; and
(iii) Other material control procedures as the Commission determines to be essential for the safeguarding of uranium source material at an uranium enrichment facility or of special nuclear material and providing that the licensee shall make no change that would decrease the effectiveness of the material control and accounting program implemented pursuant to § 70.22(b), or §§ 74.31(b), 74.33(b), 74.41(b), or 74.51(c) of this chapter, and the
measurement control program implemented pursuant to §§ 74.31(b), 74.33(b), 74.41(b), or 74.59(e) of this chapter without the prior approval of the Commission. A licensee desiring to make changes that would decrease the effectiveness of its material control and accounting program or its measurement control program shall submit an application for amendment to its license pursuant to § 70.34.
(2) The licensee shall maintain records of changes to the material control and accounting program made without prior Commission approval for a period of 5 years from the date of the change. Licensees located in all four Regions as indicated in appendix A of part 73 of this chapter shall furnish to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a), a report containing a description of each change within:
(i) Two months of the change if it pertains to uranium-233, uranium-235 contained in uranium enriched 20 percent or more in the uranium-235 isotope, or plutonium, except plutonium containing 80 percent or more by weight of the isotope Pu-238, and
(ii) Six months of the change if it pertains to uranium enriched less than 20 percent in the uranium-235 isotope, or plutonium containing 80 percent or more by weight of the isotope Pu-238.
(d) The licensee shall make no change which would decrease the effectiveness of the plan for physical protection of special nuclear material in transit prepared pursuant to § 70.22(g) or § 73.20(c) of this chapter without the prior approval of the Commission. A licensee desiring to make such changes shall submit an application for a change in the technical specifications incorporated in his or her license, if any, or for an amendment to the license pursuant to § 50.90 or § 70.34 of this chapter, as appropriate. The licensee may make changes to the plan for physical protection of special nuclear material without prior Commission approval if these changes do not decrease the effectiveness of the plan. The licensee shall retain a copy of the plan as a record for the period during which the licensee possesses a formula quantity of special nuclear material requiring this record under each license and each change to the plan for three years from the effective date of the change. Within two months after each change, a report containing a description of the change must be furnished to the Director of the NRC's Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a); and a copy must be sent to the appropriate NRC Regional Office shown in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
(e) The licensee shall make no change which would decrease the effectiveness of a security plan prepared pursuant to §§ 70.22(h), 70.22(k), or 73.20(c) without the prior approval of the Commission. A licensee desiring to make such a change shall submit an application for an amendment to its license pursuant to § 70.34. The licensee shall maintain records of changes to the plan made without prior Commission approval, for three years from the effective date of the change, and shall, within two months after the change is made, furnish a report containing a description of each change to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards; the report may be sent using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a), and a copy of the report must be sent to the appropriate NRC Regional Office shown in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
(f) [Reserved]
(g) The licensee shall prepare and maintain safeguards contingency plan procedures in accordance with appendix C to part 73 of this chapter for bringing about the actions and decisions contained in the Responsibility Matrix of its safeguards contingency plan. The licensee shall retain the current safeguards contingency plan procedures as a record for the entire period during which the licensee possesses the appropriate type and quantity of special nuclear material under each license for which the procedures were developed and, if any portion of the plan is superseded, retain that superseded portion for 3 years after the effective date of the change. The licensee shall not make a change that would decrease the safeguards effectiveness of the first four categories of information (
i.e.
, Background, Generic
Planning Base, Licensee Planning Base, and Responsibility Matrix) contained in any licensee safeguards contingency plan prepared pursuant to §§ 70.22(g), 70.22(j), 72.184, 73.20(c), 73.26(e)(1), 73.46(h)(1), or 73.50(g)(1) of this chapter without the prior approval of the NRC. A licensee desiring to make such a change shall submit an application for an amendment to its license pursuant to § 70.34. The licensee may make changes to the licensee safeguards contingency plan without prior NRC approval if the changes do not decrease the safeguards effectiveness of the plan. The licensee shall maintain each change to the plan made without prior approval as a record during the period for which possession of a formula quantity of special nuclear material is authorized under a license and retain the superseded portion for 3 years after the effective date of the change, and shall, within 60 days after the change is made, furnish a report containing a description of each change to the Director of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards; the report may be sent using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a), and a copy of the report must be sent to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate NRC Regional Office as specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
(h) [Reserved]
(i) Licensees required to submit emergency plans in accordance with § 70.22(i) shall follow the emergency plan approved by the Commission. The licensee may change the approved plan without Commission approval if the changes do not decrease the effectiveness of the plan. Within six months after each change is made, the licensee shall, using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a), furnish the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, a copy of each change, with copies to the appropriate NRC Regional Office specified in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter and to affected offsite response organizations. Proposed changes that decrease the effectiveness of the approved emergency plan may not be implemented without prior application to and prior approval by the Commission.
(j) Each licensee who possesses special nuclear material, or who transports, or delivers to a carrier for transport, a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, or special nuclear material of low strategic significance, or more than 100 grams of irradiated reactor fuel shall ensure that Safeguards Information is protected against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21 and the requirements of § 73.22 or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable, and shall protect classified information in accordance with the requirements of parts 25 and 95 of this chapter, as applicable.
(k) No person may commence operation of a uranium enrichment facility until the Commission verifies through inspection that the facility has been constructed in accordance with the requirements of the license. The Commission shall publish notice of the inspection results in the
Federal Register.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 70.32, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 70.33
Applications for renewal of licenses.
Applications for renewal of a license should be filed in accordance with §§ 70.21 and 70.22. Information contained in previous applications, statements or reports filed with the Commission under the license may be incorporated by reference, provided that such references are clear and specific.
[75 FR 73944, Nov. 30, 2010]
§ 70.34
Amendment of licenses.
Applications for amendment of a license shall be filed in accordance with § 70.21(a) and shall specify the respects in which the licensee desires his license to be amended and the grounds for such amendment.
§ 70.35
Commission action on applications to renew or amend.
In considering an application by a licensee to renew or amend his license, the Commission will apply the criteria set forth in § 70.23.
§ 70.36
Inalienability of licenses.
(a) No license granted under the regulations in this part and no right to possess or utilize special nuclear material granted by any license issued pursuant to the regulations in this part shall be transferred, assigned or in any manner disposed of, either voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, through transfer of control of any license to any person unless the Commission shall after securing full information, find that the transfer is in accordance with the provisions of the Act, and shall give its consent in writing.
(b) An application for transfer of license must include:
(1) The identity, technical and financial qualifications of the proposed transferee; and
(2) Financial assurance for decommissioning information required by § 70.25.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956, as amended at 35 FR 11461, July 17, 1970; 76 FR 35573, June 17, 2011]
§ 70.37
Disclaimer of warranties.
Neither the Government nor the Commission makes any warranty or other representation that special nuclear material (a) will not result in injury or damage when used for purposes approved by the Commission, (b) will accomplish the results for which it is requested and approved by the Commission, or (c) is safe for any other use.
§ 70.38
Expiration and termination of licenses and decommissioning of sites and separate buildings or outdoor areas.
(a) Each specific license expires at the end of the day on the expiration date stated in the license unless the licensee has filed an application for renewal under § 70.33 not less than 30 days before the expiration date stated in the existing license. If an application for renewal has been filed at least 30 days before the expiration date stated in the existing license, the existing license expires at the end of the day on which the Commission makes a final determination to deny the renewal application or, if the determination states an expiration date, the expiration date stated in the determination.
(b) Each specific license revoked by the Commission expires at the end of the day on the date of the Commission's final determination to revoke the license, or on the expiration date stated in the determination, or as otherwise provided by Commission Order.
(c) Each specific license continues in effect, beyond the expiration date if necessary, with respect to possession of special nuclear material until the Commission notifies the licensee in writing that the license is terminated. During this time, the licensee shall—
(1) Limit actions involving special nuclear material to those related to decommissioning; and
(2) Continue to control entry to restricted areas until they are suitable for release in accordance with NRC requirements.
(d) Within 60 days of the occurrence of any of the following, consistent with the administrative directions in § 70.5, each licensee shall provide notification to the NRC in writing and either begin decommissioning its site, or any separate building or outdoor area that contains residual radioactivity, so that the building or outdoor area is suitable for release in accordance with NRC requirements, or submit within 12 months of notification a decommissioning plan, if required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and begin decommissioning upon approval of that plan if—
(1) The license has expired pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section; or
(2) The licensee has decided to permanently cease principal activities, as defined in this part, at the entire site or in any separate building or outdoor area; or
(3) No principal activities under the license have been conducted for a period of 24 months; or
(4) No principal activities have been conducted for a period of 24 months in any separate building or outdoor area that contains residual radioactivity such that the building or outdoor area is unsuitable for release in accordance with NRC requirements.
(e) Coincident with the notification required by paragraph (d) of this section, the licensee shall maintain in effect all decommissioning financial assurances established by the licensee pursuant to § 70.25 in conjunction with a license issuance or renewal or as required by this section. The amount of the financial assurance must be increased, or may be decreased, as appropriate, to cover the detailed cost estimate for decommissioning established pursuant to paragraph (g)(4)(v) of this section.
(1) Any licensee who has not provided financial assurance to cover the detailed cost estimate submitted with the decommissioning plan shall do so when this rule becomes effective November 24, 1995.
(2) Following approval of the decommissioning plan, a licensee may reduce the amount of the financial assurance as decommissioning proceeds and radiological contamination is reduced at the site with the approval of the Commission.
(f) The Commission may grant a request to delay or postpone initiation of the decommissioning process if the Commission determines that this relief is not detrimental to the public health and safety and is otherwise in the public interest. The request must be submitted no later than 30 days before notification pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. The schedule for decommissioning set forth in paragraph (d) of this section may not commence until the Commission has made a determination on the request.
(g)(1) A decommissioning plan must be submitted if required by license condition or if the procedures and activities necessary to carry out decommissioning of the site or separate building or outdoor area have not been previously approved by the Commission and these procedures could increase potential health and safety impacts to workers or to the public, such as in any of the following cases:
(i) Procedures would involve techniques not applied routinely during cleanup or maintenance operations;
(ii) Workers would be entering areas not normally occupied where surface contamination and radiation levels are significantly higher than routinely encountered during operation;
(iii) Procedures could result in significantly greater airborne concentrations of radioactive materials than are present during operation; or
(iv) Procedures could result in significantly greater releases of radioactive material to the environment than those associated with operation.
(2) The Commission may approve an alternate schedule for submittal of a decommissioning plan required pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section if the Commission determines that the alternative schedule is necessary to the effective conduct of decommissioning operations and presents no undue risk from radiation to the public health and safety and is otherwise in the public interest.
(3) The procedures listed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section may not be carried out prior to approval of the decommissioning plan.
(4) The proposed decommissioning plan for the site or separate building or outdoor area must include:
(i) A description of the conditions of the site or separate building or outdoor area sufficient to evaluate the acceptability of the plan;
(ii) A description of planned decommissioning activities;
(iii) A description of methods used to ensure protection of workers and the environment against radiation hazards during decommissioning;
(iv) A description of the planned final radiation survey; and
(v) An updated detailed cost estimate for decommissioning, comparison of that estimate with present funds set aside for decommissioning, and a plan for assuring the availability of adequate funds for completion of decommissioning.
(vi) A description of the physical security plan and material control and accounting plan provisions in place during decommissioning.
(vii) For decommissioning plans calling for completion of decommissioning later than 24 months after plan approval, a justification for the delay based on the criteria in paragraph (i) of this section.
(5) The proposed decommissioning plan will be approved by the Commission if the information therein demonstrates that the decommissioning will be completed as soon as practical and that the health and safety of workers and the public will be adequately protected.
(h)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, licensees shall complete decommissioning of the site or separate building or outdoor area as soon as practicable but no later than 24 months following the initiation of decommissioning.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, when decommissioning involves the entire site, the licensee shall request license termination as soon as practicable but no later than 24 months following the initiation of decommissioning.
(i) The Commission may approve a request for an alternate schedule for completion of decommissioning of the site or separate building or outdoor area, and license termination if appropriate, if the Commission determines that the alternative is warranted by consideration of the following:
(1) Whether it is technically feasible to complete decommissioning within the allotted 24-month period;
(2) Whether sufficient waste disposal capacity is available to allow completion of decommissioning within the allotted 24-month period;
(3) Whether a significant volume reduction in wastes requiring disposal will be achieved by allowing short-lived radionuclides to decay;
(4) Whether a significant reduction in radiation exposure to workers can be achieved by allowing short-lived radionuclides to decay; and
(5) Other site-specific factors which the Commission may consider appropriate on a case-by-case basis, such as regulatory requirements of other government agencies, lawsuits, groundwater treatment activities, monitored natural groundwater restoration, actions that could result in more environmental harm than deferred cleanup, and other factors beyond the control of the licensee.
(j) As the final step in decommissioning, the licensee shall—
(1) Certify the disposition of all licensed material, including accumulated wastes, by submitting a completed NRC Form 314 or equivalent information; and
(2) Conduct a radiation survey of the premises where the licensed activities were carried out and submit a report of the results of this survey, unless the licensee demonstrates in some other manner that the premises are suitable for release in accordance with the criteria for decommissioning in 10 CFR part 20, subpart E. The licensee shall, as appropriate—
(i) Report levels of gamma radiation in units of millisieverts (microroentgen) per hour at one meter from surfaces, and report levels of radioactivity, including alpha and beta, in units of megabecquerels (disintegrations per minute or microcuries) per 100 square centimeters removable and fixed for surfaces, megabecquerels (microcuries) per milliliter for water, and becquerels (picocuries) per gram for solids such as soils or concrete; and
(ii) Specify the survey instrument(s) used and certify that each instrument is properly calibrated and tested.
(k) Specific licenses, including expired licenses, will be terminated by written notice to the licensee when the Commission determines that:
(1) Special nuclear material has been properly disposed;
(2) Reasonable effort has been made to eliminate residual radioactive contamination, if present; and
(3)(i) A radiation survey has been performed which demonstrates that the premises are suitable for release in accordance with the criteria for decommissioning in 10 CFR part 20, subpart E; or
(ii) Other information submitted by the licensee is sufficient to demonstrate that the premises are suitable for release in accordance with the criteria for decommissioning in 10 CFR part 20, subpart E.
(4) Records required by § 70.51(a) have been received.
[59 FR 36037, July 15, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 38240, July 26, 1995; 61 FR 1115, Jan. 16, 1996; 61 FR 24675, May 16, 1996; 61 FR 29637, 29638, June 12, 1996; 62 FR 39091, July 21, 1997; 66 FR 24049, May 11, 2001; 73 FR 42675, July 23, 2008; 83 FR 58465, Nov. 20, 2018]
§ 70.39
Specific licenses for the manufacture or initial transfer of calibration or reference sources.
(a) An application for a specific license to manufacture or initially transfer calibration or reference sources containing plutonium, for distribution to persons generally licensed under § 70.19, will be approved if:
(1) The applicant satisfies the general requirements of § 70.23.
(2) The applicant submits sufficient information regarding each type of calibration or reference source pertinent to evaluation of the potential radiation exposure, including:
(i) Chemical and physical form and maximum quantity of plutonium in the source;
(ii) Details of construction and design;
(iii) Details of the method of incorporation and binding of the plutonium in the source;
(iv) Procedures for and results of prototype testing of sources, which are designed to contain more than 0.005 microcurie of plutonium, to demonstrate that the plutonium contained in each source will not be released or be removed from the source under normal conditions of use;
(v) Details of quality control procedures to be followed in manufacture of the source;
(vi) Description of labeling to be affixed to the source or the storage container for the source;
(vii) Any additional information, including experimental studies and tests, required by the Commission to facilitate a determination of the safety of the source.
(3) Each source will contain no more than 5 microcuries of plutonium.
(4) The Commission determines, with respect to any type of source containing more than 0.005 microcurie of plutonium, that:
(i) The method of incorporation and binding of the plutonium in the source is such that the plutonium will not be released or be removed from the source under normal conditions of use and handling of the source; and
(ii) The source has been subjected to and has satisfactorily passed the prototype tests prescribed by paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(5) For any type of source which is designed to contain more than 0.005 microcurie of plutonium, the applicant has conducted prototype tests, in the order listed, on each of five prototypes of such source, which contains more than 0.005 microcurie of plutonium, as follows:
(i)
Initial measurement.
The quantity of radioactive material deposited on the source shall be measured by direct counting of the source.
(ii)
Dry wipe test.
The entire radioactive surface of the source shall be wiped with filter paper with the application of moderate finger pressure. Removal of radioactive material from the source shall be determined by measuring the radioactivity on the filter paper or by direct measurement of the radioactivity on the source following the dry wipe.
(iii)
Wet wipe test.
The entire radioactive surface of the source shall be wiped with filter paper, moistened with water, with the application of moderate finger pressure. Removal of radioactive material from the source shall be determined by measuring the radioactivity on the filter paper after it has dried or by direct measurement of the radioactivity on the source following the wet wipe.
(iv)
Water soak test.
The source shall be immersed in water at room temperature for a period of 24 consecutive hours. The source shall then be removed from the water. Removal of radioactive material from the source shall be determined by direct measurement of the radioactivity on the source after it has dried or by measuring the radioactivity in the residue obtained by evaporation of the water in which the source was immersed.
(v)
Dry wipe test.
On completion of the preceding tests in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section, the dry wipe test described in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section shall be repeated.
(vi)
Observations.
Removal of more than 0.005 microcurie of radioactivity in any test prescribed by this paragraph shall be cause for rejection of the source design. Results of prototype tests submitted to the Commission shall be given in terms of radioactivity in microcuries and percent of removal
from the total amount of radioactive material deposited on the source.
(b) Each person licensed under this section shall affix to each source, or storage container for the source, a label which shall contain sufficient information relative to safe use and storage of the source and shall include the following statement or a substantially similar statement which contains the information called for in the following statement.
1
1
Sources generally licensed under this section prior to January 19, 1975 may bear labels authorized by the regulations in effect on January 1, 1975.
The receipt, possession, use and transfer of this source, Model ______, Serial No. ______, are subject to a general license and the regulations of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission or of a State with which the Commission has entered into an agreement for the exercise of regulatory authority. Do not remove this label.
caution—radioactive material—this source contains plutonium. do not touch radioactive portion of this source.

# (Name of Manufacturer or Initial Transferor)
(c) Each person licensed under this section shall perform a dry wipe test upon each source containing more than 0.1 microcurie of plutonium prior to transferring the source to a general licensee under § 70.19. This test shall be performed by wiping the entire radioactive surface of the source with a filter paper with the application of moderate finger pressure. The radioactivity on the paper shall be measured by using radiation detection instrumentation capable of detecting 0.005 microcurie of plutonium. If any such test discloses more than 0.005 microcurie of radioactive material, the source shall be deemed to be leaking or losing plutonium and shall not be transferred to a general licensee under § 70.19.
[29 FR 5884, May 5, 1964, as amended at 32 FR 2563, Feb. 7, 1967; 38 FR 1272, Jan. 11, 1973; 40 FR 8792, Mar. 3, 1975; 42 FR 43966, Sept. 1, 1977; 43 FR 6925, Feb. 17, 1978]
§ 70.40
Ineligibility of certain applicants.
A license may not be issued to the Corporation if the Commission determines that:
(a) The Corporation is owned, controlled, or dominated by an alien, a foreign corporation, or a foreign government; or
(b) The issuance of such a license would be inimical to—
(1) The common defense and security of the United States; or
(2) The maintenance of a reliable and economical domestic source of enrichment services.
[62 FR 6669, Feb. 12, 1997]

# Subpart F—Acquisition, Use and Transfer of Special Nuclear Material, Creditors' Rights
§ 70.41
Authorized use of special nuclear material.
(a) Each licensee shall confine his possession and use of special nuclear material to the locations and purposes authorized in his license. Except as otherwise provided in the license, each license issued pursuant to the regulations in this part shall carry with it the right to receive title to, own, acquire, receive, possess and use special nuclear material. Preparation for shipment and transport of special nuclear material shall be in accordance with the provisions of part 71 of this chapter.
(b) The possession, use and transfer of any special nuclear material produced by a licensee, in connection with or as a result of use of special nuclear material received under his license, shall be subject to the provisions of the license and the regulations in this part.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956, as amended at 38 FR 33970, Dec. 10, 1973; 43 FR 6925, Feb. 17, 1978]
§ 70.42
Transfer of special nuclear material.
(a) No licensee shall transfer special nuclear material except as authorized pursuant to this section.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in his license and subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, any licensee may transfer special nuclear material:
(1) To the Department;
(2) To the agency in any Agreement State which regulates radioactive materials pursuant to an agreement with the Commission or the Atomic Energy Commission under section 274 of the Act, if the quantity transferred is not sufficient to form a critical mass;
(3) To any person exempt from the licensing requirements of the Act and regulations in this part, to the extent permitted under such exemption;
(4) To any person in an Agreement State, subject to the jurisdiction of that State, who has been exempted from the licensing requirements and regulations of that State, to the extent permitted under such exemption;
(5) To any person authorized to receive such special nuclear material under terms of a specific license or a general license or their equivalents issued by the Commission or an Agreement State;
(6) To any person abroad pursuant to an export license issued under part 110 of this chapter; or
(7) As otherwise authorized by the Commission in writing.
(c) Before transferring special nuclear material to a specific licensee of the Commission or an Agreement State or to a general licensee who is required to register with the Commission or with an Agreement State prior to receipt of the special nuclear material, the licensee transferring the material shall verify that the transferee's license authorizes receipt of the type, form, and quantity of special nuclear material to be transferred.
(d) The following methods for the verification required by paragraph (c) of this section are acceptable:
(1) The transferor may have in his or her possession, and read, a current copy of the transferee's specific license or registration certificate. The transferor shall retain a copy of each license or certificate for three years from the date that it was obtained.
(2) The transferor may have in its possession a written certification by the transferee that the transferee is authorized by license or registration certificate to receive the type, form, and quantity of special nuclear material to be transferred, specifying the license or registration certificate number, issuing agency, and expiration date. The transferor shall retain the written certification as a record for three years from the date of receipt of the certification;
(3) For emergency shipments the transferor may accept oral certification by the transferee that he or she is authorized by license or registration certification to receive the type, form, and quantity of special nuclear material to be transferred, specifying the license or registration certificate number, issuing agency, and expiration date, provided that the oral certification is confirmed in writing within ten days. The transferor shall retain the written confirmation of the oral certification for three years from the date of receipt of the confirmation;
(4) The transferor may obtain other sources of information compiled by a reporting service from official records of the Commission or the licensing agency of an Agreement State as to the identity of licensees and the scope and expiration dates of licenses and registrations. The transferor shall retain the compilation of information as a record for three years from the date that it was obtained; or
(5) When none of the methods of verification described in paragraphs (d) (1) to (4) of this section are readily available or when a transferor desires to verify that information received by one of these methods is correct or up-to-date, the transferor may obtain and record confirmation from the Commission or the licensing agency of an Agreement State that the transferee is licensed to receive the special nuclear material. The transferor shall retain the record of confirmation for three years from the date the record is made.
[38 FR 33970, Dec. 10, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 8792, Mar. 3, 1975; 43 FR 6925, Feb. 21, 1978; 53 FR 19253, May 27, 1988]
§ 70.44
Creditor regulations.
(a) Pursuant to section 184 of the Act, the Commission consents, without individual application, to the creation of any mortgage, pledge, or other lien upon any special nuclear material, not owned by the United States, which is subject to licensing:
Provided:
(1) That the rights of any creditor so secured may be exercised only in compliance with and subject to the same requirements and restrictions as would apply to the licensee pursuant to the provisions of the license, the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and regulations issued by the Commission pursuant to said Act; and
(2) That no creditor so secured may take possession of the special nuclear material pursuant to the provisions of this section prior to either the issuance of a license by the Commission authorizing such possession or the transfer of a license pursuant to § 70.36.
(b) Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to affect the means of acquiring, or the priority of, any tax lien or other lien provided by law.
(c) As used in this section,
creditor
includes, without implied limitation, the trustee under any mortgage, pledge, or lien on special nuclear material made to secure any creditor, any trustee or receiver of the special nuclear material appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in any action brought for the benefit of any creditor secured by such mortgage, pledge, or lien, any purchaser of such special nuclear material at the sale thereof upon foreclosure of such mortgage, pledge, or lien or upon exercise of any power of sale contained therein, or any assignee of any such purchaser.
[32 FR 2563, Feb. 7, 1967, as amended at 35 FR 11461, July 17, 1970]

# Subpart G—Special Nuclear Material Control, Records, Reports and Inspections
§ 70.50
Reporting requirements.
(a)
Immediate report.
Each licensee shall notify the NRC as soon as possible but not later than 4 hours after the discovery of an event that prevents immediate protective actions necessary to avoid exposures to radiation or radioactive materials that could exceed regulatory limits or releases of licensed material that could exceed regulatory limits (events may include fires, explosions, toxic gas releases, etc.).
(b)
Twenty-four hour report.
Each licensee shall notify the NRC within 24 hours after the discovery of any of the following events involving licensed material:
(1) An unplanned contamination event that:
(i) Requires access to the contaminated area, by workers or the public, to be restricted for more than 24 hours by imposing additional radiological controls or by prohibiting entry into the area;
(ii) Involves a quantity of material greater than five times the lowest annual limit on intake specified in Appendix B of §§ 20.1001-20.2401 of 10 CFR part 20 for the material; and
(iii) Has access to the area restricted for a reason other than to allow isotopes with a half-life of less than 24 hours to decay prior to decontamination.
(2) An event in which equipment is disabled or fails to function as designed when:
(i) The equipment is required by regulation or licensee condition to prevent releases exceeding regulatory limits, to prevent exposures to radiation and radioactive materials exceeding regulatory limits, or to mitigate the consequences of an accident;
(ii) The equipment is required to be available and operable when it is disabled or fails to function; and
(iii) No redundant equipment is available and operable to perform the required safety function.
(3) An event that requires unplanned medical treatment at a medical facility of an individual with spreadable radioactive contamination on the individual's clothing or body.
(4) An unplanned fire or explosion damaging any licensed material or any device, container, or equipment containing licensed material when:
(i) The quantity of material involved is greater than five times the lowest annual limit on intake specified in appendix B of §§ 20.1001-20.2401 of 10 CFR part 20 for the material; and
(ii) The damage affects the integrity of the licensed material or its container.
(c)
Preparation and submission of reports.
Reports made by licensees in response to the requirements of this section must be made as follows:
(1) Licensees shall make reports required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and by § 70.74 and appendix A of this part, if applicable, by telephone to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the numbers specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter. To the extent that the information is available at the time of notification, the information provided in these reports must include:
(i) Caller's name, position title, and call-back telephone number;
(ii) Date, time, and exact location of the event;
(iii) Description of the event, including:
(A) Radiological or chemical hazards involved, including isotopes, quantities, and chemical and physical form of any material released;
(B) Actual or potential health and safety consequences to the workers, the public, and the environment, including relevant chemical and radiation data for actual personnel exposures to radiation or radioactive materials or hazardous chemicals produced from licensed materials (e.g., level of radiation exposure, concentration of chemicals, and duration of exposure);
(C) The sequence of occurrences leading to the event, including degradation or failure of structures, systems, equipment, components, and activities of personnel relied on to prevent potential accidents or mitigate their consequences; and
(D) Whether the remaining structures, systems, equipment, components, and activities of personnel relied on to prevent potential accidents or mitigate their consequences are available and reliable to perform their function;
(iv) External conditions affecting the event;
(v) Additional actions taken by the licensee in response to the event;
(vi) Status of the event (e.g., whether the event is on-going or was terminated);
(vii) Current and planned site status, including any declared emergency class;
(viii) Notifications, related to the event, that were made or are planned to any local, State, or other Federal agencies;
(ix) Status of any press releases, related to the event, that were made or are planned.
(2)
Written report.
Each licensee that makes a report required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall submit a written follow-up report within 30 days of the initial report. Written reports prepared pursuant to other regulations may be submitted to fulfill this requirement if the report contains all the necessary information, and the appropriate distribution is made. These written reports must be sent to the NRC's Document Control Desk, using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a), with a copy to the appropriate NRC regional office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter. The reports must include the following:
(i) Complete applicable information required by § 70.50(c)(1);
(ii) The probable cause of the event, including all factors that contributed to the event and the manufacturer and model number (if applicable) of any equipment that failed or malfunctioned;
(iii) Corrective actions taken or planned to prevent occurrence of similar or identical events in the future and the results of any evaluations or assessments; and
(iv) For licensees subject to Subpart H of this part, whether the event was identified and evaluated in the Integrated Safety Analysis.
(d) The provisions of § 70.50 do not apply to licensees subject to § 50.72. They do apply to those Part 50 licensees possessing material licensed under Part 70 that are not subject to the notification requirements in § 50.72.
[56 FR 40769, Aug. 16, 1991; 56 FR 64980, Dec. 13, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 14087, Mar. 25, 1994; 65 FR 56226, Sept. 18, 2000; 68 FR 58817, Oct. 10, 2003; 79 FR 57725, Sept. 26, 2014; 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 70.51
Records requirements.
(a) Before license termination, licensees shall forward the following records to the appropriate NRC Regional Office:
(1) Records of disposal of licensed material made under 10 CFR 20.2002 (including burials authorized before January 28, 1981
1
), 20.2003, 20.2004, 20.2005;
1
A previous § 20.304 permitted burial of small quantities of licensed materials in soil before January 28, 1981, without specific Commission authorization.
See
§ 20.304 contained in the 10 CFR, parts 0 to 199, edition revised as of January 1, 1981.
(2) Records required by 10 CFR 20.2103(b)(4); and
(3) Records required by § 70.25(g).
(b) If licensed activities are transferred or assigned in accordance with § 70.32(a)(3), the licensee shall transfer the following records to the new licensee and the new licensee will be responsible for maintaining these records until the license is terminated:
(1) Records of disposal of licensed material made under 10 CFR 20.2002 (including burials authorized before January 28, 1981
1
), 20.2003, 20.2004, 20.2005;
(2) Records required by 10 CFR 20.2103(b)(4); and
(3) Records required by § 70.25(g).
(c)(1) Records which must be maintained pursuant to this part may be the original or a reproduced copy, or microform if the reproduced copy or microform is duly authenticated by authorized personnel, and the microform is capable of producing a clear and legible copy after storage for the period specified by Commission regulations. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, and specifications, must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.
(2) If there is a conflict between the Commission's regulations in this part, license condition, or other written Commission approval or authorization pertaining to the retention period for the same type of record, the retention period specified in the regulations in this part for these records shall apply unless the Commission, under § 70.17 has granted a specific exemption from the record retention requirements specified in the regulations in this part.
[67 FR 78142, Dec. 23, 2002, as amended at 72 FR 35145, June 27, 2007]
§ 70.52
Reports of accidental criticality.
(a) Each licensee shall notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone at the numbers specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter within 1 hour after discovery of any case of accidental criticality.
(b) This notification must be made to the NRC Operations Center via the Emergency Notification System if the licensee is party to that system. If the Emergency Notification System is inoperative or unavailable, the licensee shall make the required notification via commercial telephonic service or other dedicated telephonic system or any other method that will ensure that a report is received by the NRC Operations Center within one hour.
[67 FR 78143, Dec. 23, 2002, as amended at 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 70.55
Inspections.
(a) Each licensee shall afford to the Commission at all reasonable times opportunity to inspect special nuclear material and the premises and facilities wherein special nuclear material is used, produced, or stored.
(b) Each licensee shall make available to the Commission for inspection, upon reasonable notice, records kept by the licensee pertaining to his receipt, possession, use, acquisition, import, export, or transfer of special nuclear material.
(c)(1) In the case of fuel cycle facilities where nuclear reactor fuel is fabricated or processed each licensee shall upon request by the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator, provide rent-free office space for the exclusive use of Commission inspection personnel. Heat, air conditioning, light, electrical outlets and janitorial services shall be furnished by each licensee. The office shall be convenient to and have full access to the facility and, shall provide the inspector both visual and acoustic privacy.
(2) For a site with a single fuel facility licensed pursuant to part 70, the space provided shall be adequate to accommodate a full-time inspector, a part-time secretary and transient NRC personnel and will be generally commensurate with other office facilities at the site. A space of 250 square feet either within the site's office complex or in an office trailer or other on site space is suggested as a guide. For sites containing multiple fuel facilities, additional space may be requested to accommodate additional full-time inspector(s). The office space that is provided shall be subject to the approval of the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator. All furniture, supplies and communication equipment will be furnished by the Commission.
(3) The licensee shall afford any NRC resident inspector assigned to that site or other NRC inspectors identified by the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, as likely to inspect the facility, immediate unfettered access, equivalent to access provided regular plant employees, following proper identification and compliance with applicable access control measures for security, radiological protection, and personal safety.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956. Redesignated at 25 FR 1607, Feb. 25, 1960, and 25 FR 12730, Dec. 13, 1960, and amended at 32 FR 2563, Feb. 7, 1967; 44 FR 47919, Aug. 16, 1979; 52 FR 31612, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 6877, Feb. 15, 1989; 55 FR 5979, Feb. 21, 1990]
§ 70.56
Tests.
Each licensee shall perform, or permit the Commission to perform, such tests as the Commission deems appropriate or necessary for the administration of the regulations in this part, including tests of (a) special nuclear material, (b) facilities wherein special nuclear material is utilized, produced or stored, (c) radiation detection and monitoring instruments, and (d) other equipment and devices used in connection with the production, utilization or storage of special nuclear material.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956. Redesignated at 25 FR 1607, Feb. 25, 1960, and 25 FR 12730, Dec. 13, 1960]
§ 70.59
Effluent monitoring reporting requirements.
Within 60 days after January 1 and July 1 of each year, and using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a), each licensee authorized to possess and use special nuclear material for processing and fuel fabrication, scrap recovery, conversion of uranium hexafluoride, or in a uranium enrichment facility shall submit a report addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, with a copy to the appropriate NRC Regional Office shown in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter. The report must specify the quantity of each of the principal radionuclides released to unrestricted areas in liquid and gaseous effluents during the previous six months of operation, and such other information as the Commission may require to estimate maximum potential annual radiation doses to the public resulting from effluent releases. If quantities of radioactive materials released during the reporting periods are significantly above the licensee's design objectives previously reviewed as part of the licensing action, the report must cover this specifically. On the basis of these reports and any additional information the Commission may obtain from the licensee or others, the Commission may from time to time require the licensee to take such action as the Commission deems appropriate.
[68 FR 58817, Oct. 10, 2003]

# Subpart H—Additional Requirements for Certain Licensees Authorized To Possess a Critical Mass of Special Nuclear Material

# Source:
65 FR 56226, Sept. 18, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 70.60
Applicability.
The regulations in § 70.61 through § 70.76 apply, in addition to other applicable Commission regulations, to each applicant or licensee that is or plans to be authorized to possess greater than a
critical mass of special nuclear material, and engaged in enriched uranium processing, fabrication of uranium fuel or fuel assemblies, uranium enrichment, enriched uranium hexafluoride conversion, plutonium processing, fabrication of mixed-oxide fuel or fuel assemblies, scrap recovery of special nuclear material, or any other activity that the Commission determines could significantly affect public health and safety. The regulations in § 70.61 through § 70.76 do not apply to decommissioning activities performed pursuant to other applicable Commission regulations including § 70.25 and § 70.38 of this part. Also, the regulations in § 70.61 through § 70.76 do not apply to activities that are certified by the Commission pursuant to part 76 of this chapter or licensed by the Commission pursuant to other parts of this chapter. Unless specifically addressed in § 70.61 through § 70.76, implementation by current licensees of the Subpart H requirements shall be completed no later than the time of the ISA Summary submittal required in § 70.62(c)(3)(ii).
§ 70.61
Performance requirements.
(a) Each applicant or licensee shall evaluate, in the integrated safety analysis performed in accordance with § 70.62, its compliance with the performance requirements in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(b) The risk of each credible high-consequence event must be limited. Engineered controls, administrative controls, or both, shall be applied to the extent needed to reduce the likelihood of occurrence of the event so that, upon implementation of such controls, the event is highly unlikely or its consequences are less severe than those in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. High consequence events are those internally or externally initiated events that result in:
(1) An acute worker dose of 1 Sv (100 rem) or greater total effective dose equivalent;
(2) An acute dose of 0.25 Sv (25 rem) or greater total effective dose equivalent to any individual located outside the controlled area identified pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section;
(3) An intake of 30 mg or greater of uranium in soluble form by any individual located outside the controlled area identified pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section; or
(4) An acute chemical exposure to an individual from licensed material or hazardous chemicals produced from licensed material that:
(i) Could endanger the life of a worker, or
(ii) Could lead to irreversible or other serious, long-lasting health effects to any individual located outside the controlled area identified pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section. If an applicant possesses or plans to possess quantities of material capable of such chemical exposures, then the applicant shall propose appropriate quantitative standards for these health effects, as part of the information submitted pursuant to § 70.65 of this subpart.
(c) The risk of each credible intermediate-consequence event must be limited. Engineered controls, administrative controls, or both shall be applied to the extent needed so that, upon implementation of such controls, the event is unlikely or its consequences are less than those in paragraphs (c)(1)-(4) of this section. Intermediate consequence events are those internally or externally initiated events that are not high consequence events, that result in:
(1) An acute worker dose of 0.25 Sv (25 rem) or greater total effective dose equivalent;
(2) An acute dose of 0.05 Sv (5 rem) or greater total effective dose equivalent to any individual located outside the controlled area identified pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section;
(3) A 24-hour averaged release of radioactive material outside the restricted area in concentrations exceeding 5000 times the values in Table 2 of Appendix B to Part 20; or
(4) An acute chemical exposure to an individual from licensed material or hazardous chemicals produced from licensed material that:
(i) Could lead to irreversible or other serious, long-lasting health effects to a worker, or
(ii) Could cause mild transient health effects to any individual located outside the controlled area as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. If an applicant possesses or plans to possess
quantities of material capable of such chemical exposures, then the applicant shall propose appropriate quantitative standards for these health effects, as part of the information submitted pursuant to § 70.65 of this subpart.
(d) In addition to complying with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the risk of nuclear criticality accidents must be limited by assuring that under normal and credible abnormal conditions, all nuclear processes are subcritical, including use of an approved margin of subcriticality for safety. Preventive controls and measures must be the primary means of protection against nuclear criticality accidents.
(e) Each engineered or administrative control or control system necessary to comply with paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section shall be designated as an item relied on for safety. The safety program, established and maintained pursuant to § 70.62 of this subpart, shall ensure that each item relied on for safety will be available and reliable to perform its intended function when needed and in the context of the performance requirements of this section.
(f) Each licensee must establish a controlled area, as defined in § 20.1003. In addition, the licensee must retain the authority to exclude or remove personnel and property from the area. For the purpose of complying with the performance requirements of this section, individuals who are not workers, as defined in § 70.4, may be permitted to perform ongoing activities (e.g., at a facility not related to the licensed activities) in the controlled area, if the licensee:
(1) Demonstrates and documents, in the integrated safety analysis, that the risk for those individuals at the location of their activities does not exceed the performance requirements of paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4)(ii), (c)(2), and (c)(4)(ii) of this section; or
(2) Provides training that satisfies 10 CFR 19.12(a)(1)-(5) to these individuals and ensures that they are aware of the risks associated with accidents involving the licensed activities as determined by the integrated safety analysis, and conspicuously posts and maintains notices stating where the information in 10 CFR 19.11(a) may be examined by these individuals. Under these conditions, the performance requirements for workers specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may be applied to these individuals.
[65 FR 56226, Sept. 18, 2000, as amended at 87 FR 20697, Apr. 8, 2022]
§ 70.62
Safety program and integrated safety analysis.
(a)
Safety program.
(1) Each licensee or applicant shall establish and maintain a safety program that demonstrates compliance with the performance requirements of § 70.61. The safety program may be graded such that management measures applied are graded commensurate with the reduction of the risk attributable to that item. Three elements of this safety program; namely, process safety information, integrated safety analysis, and management measures, are described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(2) Each licensee or applicant shall establish and maintain records that demonstrate compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(3) Each licensee or applicant shall maintain records of failures readily retrievable and available for NRC inspection, documenting each discovery that an item relied on for safety or management measure has failed to perform its function upon demand or has degraded such that the performance requirements of § 70.61 are not satisfied. These records must identify the item relied on for safety or management measure that has failed and the safety function affected, the date of discovery, date (or estimated date) of the failure, duration (or estimated duration) of the time that the item was unable to perform its function, any other affected items relied on for safety or management measures and their safety function, affected processes, cause of the failure, whether the failure was in the context of the performance requirements or upon demand or both, and any corrective or compensatory action that was taken. A failure must be recorded at the time of discovery and the record of that failure updated promptly upon the conclusion of each failure investigation of an item relied on for safety or management measure.
(b)
Process safety information.
Each licensee or applicant shall maintain process safety information to enable the performance and maintenance of an integrated safety analysis. This process safety information must include information pertaining to the hazards of the materials used or produced in the process, information pertaining to the technology of the process, and information pertaining to the equipment in the process.
(c)
Integrated safety analysis.
(1) Each licensee or applicant shall conduct and maintain an integrated safety analysis, that is of appropriate detail for the complexity of the process, that identifies:
(i) Radiological hazards related to possessing or processing licensed material at its facility;
(ii) Chemical hazards of licensed material and hazardous chemicals produced from licensed material;
(iii) Facility hazards that could affect the safety of licensed materials and thus present an increased radiological risk;
(iv) Potential accident sequences caused by process deviations or other events internal to the facility and credible external events, including natural phenomena;
(v) The consequence and the likelihood of occurrence of each potential accident sequence identified pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, and the methods used to determine the consequences and likelihoods; and
(vi) Each item relied on for safety identified pursuant to § 70.61(e) of this subpart, the characteristics of its preventive, mitigative, or other safety function, and the assumptions and conditions under which the item is relied upon to support compliance with the performance requirements of § 70.61.
(2) Integrated safety analysis team qualifications. To assure the adequacy of the integrated safety analysis, the analysis must be performed by a team with expertise in engineering and process operations. The team shall include at least one person who has experience and knowledge specific to each process being evaluated, and persons who have experience in nuclear criticality safety, radiation safety, fire safety, and chemical process safety. One member of the team must be knowledgeable in the specific integrated safety analysis methodology being used.
(3) Requirements for existing licensees. Individuals holding an NRC license on September 18, 2000 shall, with regard to existing licensed activities:
(i) By April 18, 2001, submit for NRC approval, a plan that describes the integrated safety analysis approach that will be used, the processes that will be analyzed, and the schedule for completing the analysis of each process.
(ii) By October 18, 2004, or in accordance with the approved plan submitted under § 70.62(c)(3)(i), complete an integrated safety analysis, correct all unacceptable performance deficiencies, and submit, for NRC approval, an integrated safety analysis summary, including a description of the management measures, in accordance with § 70.65. The Commission may approve a request for an alternative schedule for completing the correction of unacceptable performance deficiencies if the Commission determines that the alternative is warranted by consideration of the following:
(A) Adequate compensatory measures have been established;
(B) Whether it is technically feasible to complete the correction of the unacceptable performance deficiency within the allotted 4-year period;
(C) Other site-specific factors which the Commission may consider appropriate on a case-by-case basis and that are beyond the control of the licensee.
(iii) Pending the correction of unacceptable performance deficiencies identified during the conduct of the integrated safety analysis, the licensee shall implement appropriate compensatory measures to ensure adequate protection.
(d)
Management measures.
Each applicant or licensee shall establish management measures to ensure compliance with the performance requirements of § 70.61. The measures applied to a particular engineered or administrative control or control system may be graded commensurate with the reduction of the risk attributable to that control or control system. The management measures shall ensure that engineered and administrative controls and control systems that are identified
as items relied on for safety pursuant to § 70.61(e) of this subpart are designed, implemented, and maintained, as necessary, to ensure they are available and reliable to perform their function when needed, to comply with the performance requirements of § 70.61 of this subpart.
§ 70.64
Requirements for new facilities or new processes at existing facilities.
(a)
Baseline design criteria.
Each prospective applicant or licensee shall address the following baseline design criteria in the design of new facilities. Each existing licensee shall address the following baseline design criteria in the design of new processes at existing facilities that require a license amendment under § 70.72. The baseline design criteria must be applied to the design of new facilities and new processes, but do not require retrofits to existing facilities or existing processes (e.g., those housing or adjacent to the new process); however, all facilities and processes must comply with the performance requirements in § 70.61. Licensees shall maintain the application of these criteria unless the analysis performed pursuant to § 70.62(c) demonstrates that a given item is not relied on for safety or does not require adherence to the specified criteria.
(1)
Quality standards and records.
The design must be developed and implemented in accordance with management measures, to provide adequate assurance that items relied on for safety will be available and reliable to perform their function when needed. Appropriate records of these items must be maintained by or under the control of the licensee throughout the life of the facility.
(2)
Natural phenomena hazards.
The design must provide for adequate protection against natural phenomena with consideration of the most severe documented historical events for the site.
(3)
Fire protection.
The design must provide for adequate protection against fires and explosions.
(4)
Environmental and dynamic effects.
The design must provide for adequate protection from environmental conditions and dynamic effects associated with normal operations, maintenance, testing, and postulated accidents that could lead to loss of safety functions.
(5)
Chemical protection.
The design must provide for adequate protection against chemical risks produced from licensed material, facility conditions which affect the safety of licensed material, and hazardous chemicals produced from licensed material.
(6)
Emergency capability.
The design must provide for emergency capability to maintain control of:
(i) Licensed material and hazardous chemicals produced from licensed material;
(ii) Evacuation of on-site personnel; and
(iii) Onsite emergency facilities and services that facilitate the use of available offsite services.
(7)
Utility services.
The design must provide for continued operation of essential utility services.
(8)
Inspection, testing, and maintenance.
The design of items relied on for safety must provide for adequate inspection, testing, and maintenance, to ensure their availability and reliability to perform their function when needed.
(9)
Criticality control.
The design must provide for criticality control including adherence to the double contingency principle.
(10)
Instrumentation and controls.
The design must provide for inclusion of instrumentation and control systems to monitor and control the behavior of items relied on for safety.
(b) Facility and system design and facility layout must be based on defense-in-depth practices.
1
The design must incorporate, to the extent practicable:
1
As used in § 70.64, Requirements for new facilities or new processes at existing facilities, defense-in-depth practices means a design philosophy, applied from the outset and through completion of the design, that is based on providing successive levels of protection such that health and safety will not be wholly dependent upon any single element of the design, construction, maintenance, or operation of the facility. The net effect of incorporating defense-in-depth practices is a conservatively designed facility and system that will exhibit greater tolerance to failures and external challenges. The risk insights obtained through performance of the integrated safety analysis can be then used to supplement the final design by focusing
attention on the prevention and mitigation of the higher-risk potential accidents.
(1) Preference for the selection of engineered controls over administrative controls to increase overall system reliability; and
(2) Features that enhance safety by reducing challenges to items relied on for safety.
§ 70.65
Additional content of applications.
(a) In addition to the contents required by § 70.22, each application must include a description of the applicant's safety program established under § 70.62.
(b) The integrated safety analysis summary must be submitted with the license or renewal application (and amendment application as necessary), but shall not be incorporated in the license. However, changes to the integrated safety analysis summary shall meet the conditions of § 70.72. The integrated safety analysis summary must contain:
(1) A general description of the site with emphasis on those factors that could affect safety (
i.e.,
meteorology, seismology);
(2) A general description of the facility with emphasis on those areas that could affect safety, including an identification of the controlled area boundaries;
(3) A description of each process (defined as a single reasonably simple integrated unit operation within an overall production line) analyzed in the integrated safety analysis in sufficient detail to understand the theory of operation; and, for each process, the hazards that were identified in the integrated safety analysis pursuant to § 70.62(c)(1)(i)-(iii) and a general description of the types of accident sequences;
(4) Information that demonstrates the licensee's compliance with the performance requirements of § 70.61, including a description of the management measures; the requirements for criticality monitoring and alarms in § 70.24; and, if applicable, the requirements of § 70.64;
(5) A description of the team, qualifications, and the methods used to perform the integrated safety analysis;
(6) A list briefly describing each item relied on for safety which is identified pursuant to § 70.61(e) in sufficient detail to understand their functions in relation to the performance requirements of § 70.61;
(7) A description of the proposed quantitative standards used to assess the consequences to an individual from acute chemical exposure to licensed material or chemicals produced from licensed materials which are on-site, or expected to be on-site as described in § 70.61(b)(4) and (c)(4);
(8) A descriptive list that identifies all items relied on for safety that are the sole item preventing or mitigating an accident sequence that exceeds the performance requirements of § 70.61; and
(9) A description of the definitions of unlikely, highly unlikely, and credible as used in the evaluations in the integrated safety analysis.
§ 70.66
Additional requirements for approval of license application.
(a) An application for a license from an applicant subject to subpart H will be approved if the Commission determines that the applicant has complied with the requirements of §§ 70.21, 70.22, 70.23, and 70.60 through 70.65.
(b) Submittals by existing licensees in accordance with § 70.62(c)(3)(i) will be approved if the Commission determines that:
(1) The integrated safety analysis approach is in accordance with the requirements of §§ 70.61, 70.62(c)(1), and 70.62(c)(2); and
(2) The schedule is in compliance with § 70.62(c)(3)(ii).
(c) Submittals by existing licensees in accordance with § 70.62(c)(3)(ii) will be approved if the Commission determines that:
(1) The requirements of § 70.65(b) are satisfied; and
(2) The performance requirements in § 70.61 (b), (c) and (d) are satisfied, based on the information in the ISA Summary, together with other information submitted to NRC or available to NRC at the licensee's site.
§ 70.72
Facility changes and change process.
(a) The licensee shall establish a configuration management system to evaluate, implement, and track each change to the site, structures, processes, systems, equipment, components, computer programs, and activities of personnel. This system must be documented in written procedures and must assure that the following are addressed prior to implementing any change:
(1) The technical basis for the change;
(2) Impact of the change on safety and health or control of licensed material;
(3) Modifications to existing operating procedures including any necessary training or retraining before operation;
(4) Authorization requirements for the change;
(5) For temporary changes, the approved duration (e.g., expiration date) of the change; and
(6) The impacts or modifications to the integrated safety analysis, integrated safety analysis summary, or other safety program information, developed in accordance with § 70.62.
(b) Any change to site, structures, processes, systems, equipment, components, computer programs, and activities of personnel must be evaluated by the licensee as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, before the change is implemented. The evaluation of the change must determine, before the change is implemented, if an amendment to the license is required to be submitted in accordance with § 70.34.
(c) The licensee may make changes to the site, structures, processes, systems, equipment, components, computer programs, and activities of personnel, without prior Commission approval, if the change:
(1) Does not:
(i) Create new types of accident sequences that, unless mitigated or prevented, would exceed the performance requirements of § 70.61 and that have not previously been described in the integrated safety analysis summary; or
(ii) Use new processes, technologies, or control systems for which the licensee has no prior experience;
(2) Does not remove, without at least an equivalent replacement of the safety function, an item relied on for safety that is listed in the integrated safety analysis summary and is necessary for compliance with the performance requirements of § 70.61;
(3) Does not alter any item relied on for safety, listed in the integrated safety analysis summary, that is the sole item preventing or mitigating an accident sequence that exceeds the performance requirements of § 70.61; and
(4) Is not otherwise prohibited by this section, license condition, or order.
(d)(1) For changes that require pre-approval under § 70.72, the licensee shall submit an amendment request to the NRC in accordance with § 70.34 and § 70.65 of this chapter.
(2) For changes that do not require pre-approval under § 70.72, the licensee shall submit to NRC annually, within 30 days after the end of the calendar year during which the changes occurred, a brief summary of all changes to the records required by § 70.62(a)(2) of this subpart.
(3) For all changes that affect the integrated safety analysis summary, the licensee shall submit to NRC annually, within 30 days after the end of the calendar year during which the changes occurred, revised integrated safety analysis summary pages.
(e) If a change covered by § 70.72 is made, the affected on-site documentation must be updated promptly.
(f) The licensee shall maintain records of changes to its facility carried out under this section. These records must include a written evaluation that provides the bases for the determination that the changes do not require prior Commission approval under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section. These records must be maintained until termination of the license.
[65 FR 56226, Sept. 18, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 56346, Sept. 27, 2006]
§ 70.73
Renewal of licenses.
Applications for renewal of a license must be filed in accordance with §§ 2.109, 70.21, 70.22, 70.33, 70.38, and 70.65 of this chapter. Information contained in previous applications, statements, or reports filed with the Commission under the license may be incorporated
by reference, provided that these references are clear and specific.
§ 70.74
Additional reporting requirements.
(a)
Reports to NRC Operations Center.
(1) Each licensee shall report to the NRC Operations Center the events described in Appendix A to Part 70.
(2) Reports must be made by a knowledgeable licensee representative and by any method that will ensure compliance with the required time period for reporting.
(3) The information provided must include a description of the event and other related information as described in § 70.50(c)(1).
(4) Follow-up information to the reports must be provided until all information required to be reported in § 70.50(c)(1) of this subpart is complete.
(5) Each licensee shall provide reasonable assurance that reliable communication with the NRC Operations Center is available during each event.
(b)
Written reports.
Each licensee that makes a report required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall submit a written follow-up report within 60 days of the initial report. The written report must be sent to the NRC's Document Control Desk, using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a), with a copy to the appropriate NRC regional office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter. The reports must include the information as described in § 70.50(c)(2)(i) through (iv).
[65 FR 56226, Sept. 18, 2000, as amended at 79 FR 57725, Sept. 26, 2014]
§ 70.76
Backfitting.
(a) For each licensee, this provision shall apply to Subpart H requirements as soon as the NRC approves that licensee's ISA Summary pursuant to § 70.66. For requirements other than Subpart H, this provision applies regardless of the status of the approval of a licensee's ISA Summary.
(1) Backfitting is defined as the modification of, or addition to, systems, structures, or components of a facility; or to the procedures or organization required to operate a facility; any of which may result from a new or amended provision in the Commission rules or the imposition of a regulatory staff position interpreting the Commission rules that is either new or different from a previous NRC staff position.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the Commission shall require a systematic and documented analysis pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section for backfits which it seeks to impose.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the Commission shall require the backfitting of a facility only when it determines, based on the analysis described in paragraph (b) of this section, that there is a substantial increase in the overall protection of the public health and safety or the common defense and security to be derived from the backfit and that the direct and indirect costs of implementation for that facility are justified in view of this increased protection.
(4) The provisions of paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section are inapplicable and, therefore, backfit analysis is not required and the standards in paragraph (a)(3) of this section do not apply where the Commission finds and declares, with appropriately documented evaluation for its finding, any of the following:
(i) That a modification is necessary to bring a facility into compliance with Subpart H of this part;
(ii) That a modification is necessary to bring a facility into compliance with a license or the rules or orders of the Commission, or into conformance with written commitments by the licensee;
(iii) That regulatory action is necessary to ensure that the facility provides adequate protection to the health and safety of the public and is in accord with the common defense and security; or
(iv) That the regulatory action involves defining or redefining what level of protection to the public health and safety or common defense and security should be regarded as adequate.
(5) The Commission shall always require the backfitting of a facility if it determines that the regulatory action is necessary to ensure that the facility provides adequate protection to the health and safety of the public and is
in accord with the common defense and security.
(6) The documented evaluation required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section must include a statement of the objectives of and reasons for the modification and the basis for invoking the exception. If immediate effective regulatory action is required, then the documented evaluation may follow, rather than precede, the regulatory action.
(7) If there are two or more ways to achieve compliance with a license or the rules or orders of the Commission, or with written license commitments, or there are two or more ways to reach an adequate level of protection, then ordinarily the licensee is free to choose the way that best suits its purposes. However, should it be necessary or appropriate for the Commission to prescribe a specific way to comply with its requirements or to achieve adequate protection, then cost may be a factor in selecting the way, provided that the objective of compliance or adequate protection is met.
(b) In reaching the determination required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Commission will consider how the backfit should be scheduled in light of other ongoing regulatory activities at the facility and, in addition, will consider information available concerning any of the following factors as may be appropriate and any other information relevant and material to the proposed backfit:
(1) Statement of the specific objectives that the proposed backfit is designed to achieve;
(2) General description of the activity that would be required by the licensee in order to complete the backfit;
(3) Potential change in the risk to the public from the accidental release of radioactive material and hazardous chemicals produced from licensed material;
(4) Potential impact on radiological exposure or exposure to hazardous chemicals produced from licensed material of facility employees;
(5) Installation and continuing costs associated with the backfit, including the cost of facility downtime;
(6) The potential safety impact of changes in facility or operational complexity, including the relationship to proposed and existing regulatory requirements;
(7) The estimated resource burden on the NRC associated with the proposed backfit and the availability of such resources;
(8) The potential impact of differences in facility type, design, or age on the relevancy and practicality of the proposed backfit; and
(9) Whether the proposed backfit is interim or final and, if interim, the justification for imposing the proposed backfit on an interim basis.
(c) No license will be withheld during the pendency of backfit analyses required by the Commission's rules.
(d) The Executive Director for Operations shall be responsible for implementation of this section, and all analyses required by this section shall be approved by the Executive Director for Operations or his or her designee.
[65 FR 56226, Sept. 18, 2000]

# Subpart I—Modification and Revocation of Licenses
§ 70.81
Modification and revocation of licenses.
(a) The terms and conditions of all licenses shall be subject to amendment, revision, or modification by reason of amendments to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, or by reason of rules, regulations or orders issued in accordance with the Act or any amendments thereto;
(b) Any license may be revoked, suspended or modified for any material false statements in the application or any statement of fact required under section 182 of the Act or because of conditions revealed by such application or statement of fact or any report, record, or inspection or other means which would warrant the Commission to refuse to grant a license on an original application, or for failure to construct or operate a facility in accordance with the terms of the construction permit or license, the technical specifications in the application, or for violation of, or failure to observe any of the terms and conditions of the Act, or of any regulation of the Commission.
(c) Upon revocation, suspension or modification of a license, the Commission may immediately retake possession of all special nuclear material held by the licensee. In cases found by the Commission to be of extreme importance to the national defense or security, or to the health and safety of the public, the Commission may recapture any special nuclear material held by the licensee prior to any of the procedures provided under section 551-558 of title 5 of the United States Code.
(d) Except in cases of willfulness or those in which the public health, interest or safety requires otherwise, no license shall be modified, suspended or revoked unless, prior to the institution of proceedings therefor, facts or conduct which may warrant such action shall have been called to the attention of the licensee in writing and the licensee shall have been accorded opportunity to demonstrate or achieve compliance with all lawful requirements.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956, as amended at 35 FR 11461, July 17, 1970. Redesignated at 65 FR 56226, Sept. 18, 2000]
§ 70.82
Suspension and operation in war or national emergency.
Whenever Congress declares that a state of war or national emergency exists, the Commission, if it finds it necessary to the common defense and security may,
(a) Suspend any license it has issued.
(b) Order the recapture of special nuclear material.
(c) Order the operation of any licensed facility.
(d) Order entry into any plant or facility in order to recapture special nuclear material or to operate the facility. Just compensation shall be paid for any damages caused by recapture of special nuclear material or by operation of any facility, pursuant to this section.
[21 FR 764, Feb. 3, 1956, as amended at 32 FR 4056, Mar. 15, 1967; 35 FR 11461, July 17, 1970. Redesignated at 65 FR 56226, Sept. 18, 2000]

# Subpart J—Enforcement
§ 70.91
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
[57 FR 55077, Nov. 24, 1992. Redesignated at 65 FR 56226, Sept. 18, 2000]
§ 70.92
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in part 70 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 70 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 70.1, 70.2, 70.4, 70.5, 70.6, 70.8, 70.11, 70.12, 70.13, 70.14, 70.17, 70.18, 70.23, 70.31, 70.33, 70.34, 70.35, 70.37,
70.66, 70.73, 70.76, 70.81, 70.82, 70.63, 70.91, and 70.92.
[57 FR 55077, Nov. 24, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 65 FR 56226, Sept. 18, 2000]
Pt. 70, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 70—Reportable Safety Events
Licensees must comply with reporting requirements in this appendix. As required by 10 CFR 70.74, licensees subject to the requirements in subpart H of part 70, shall report:
(a)
One hour reports.
Events to be reported to the NRC Operations Center within 1 hour of discovery, supplemented with the information in 10 CFR 70.50(c)(1) as it becomes available, followed by a written report within 60 days:
(1) An inadvertent nuclear criticality.
(2) An acute intake by an individual of 30 mg or greater of uranium in a soluble form.
(3) An acute chemical exposure to an individual from licensed material or hazardous chemicals produced from licensed material that exceeds the quantitative standards established to satisfy the requirements in § 70.61(b)(4).
(4) An event or condition such that no items relied on for safety, as documented in the Integrated Safety Analysis summary, remain available and reliable, in an accident sequence evaluated in the Integrated Safety Analysis, to perform their function:
(i) In the context of the performance requirements in § 70.61(b) and § 70.61(c), or
(ii) Prevent a nuclear criticality accident (
i.e.,
loss of all controls in a particular sequence).
(b)
Twenty-four hour reports.
Events to be reported to the NRC Operations Center within 24 hours of discovery, supplemented with the information in 10 CFR 70.50(c)(1) as it becomes available, followed by a written report within 60 days:
(1) Any event or condition that results in the facility being in a state that was not analyzed, was improperly analyzed, or is different from that analyzed in the Integrated Safety Analysis, and which results in failure to meet the performance requirements of § 70.61.
(2) Loss or degradation of items relied on for safety that results in failure to meet the performance requirement of § 70.61.
(3) An acute chemical exposure to an individual from licensed material or hazardous chemicals produced from licensed materials that exceeds the quantitative standards that satisfy the requirements of § 70.61(c)(4).
(4) Any natural phenomenon or other external event, including fires internal and external to the facility, that has affected or may have affected the intended safety function or availability or reliability of one or more items relied on for safety.
(c)
Concurrent Reports.
Any event or situation, related to the health and safety of the public or onsite personnel, or protection of the environment, for which a news release is planned or notification to other government agencies has been or will be made, shall be reported to the NRC Operations Center concurrent to the news release or other notification.
[65 FR 56231, Sept. 18, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 73944, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 57725, Sept. 26, 2014]
Pt. 71

# PART 71—PACKAGING AND TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
71.0
Purpose and scope.
71.1
Communications and records.
71.2
Interpretations.
71.3
Requirement for license.
71.4
Definitions.
71.5
Transportation of licensed material.
71.6
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
71.7
Completeness and accuracy of information.
71.8
Deliberate misconduct.
71.9
Employee protection.
71.10
Public inspection of application.
71.11
Protection of Safeguards Information.

# Subpart B—Exemptions
71.12
Specific exemptions.
71.13
Exemption of physicians.
71.14
Exemption for low-level materials.
71.15
Exemption from classification as fissile material.
71.16
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—General Licenses
71.17
General license: NRC-approved package.
71.18
[Reserved]
71.19
Previously approved package.
71.21
General license: Use of foreign approved package.
71.22
General license: Fissile material.
71.23
General license: Plutonium-beryllium special form material.
71.24-71.25
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Application for Package Approval
71.31
Contents of application.
71.33
Package description.
71.35
Package evaluation.
71.37
Quality assurance.
71.38
Renewal of a certificate of compliance.
71.39
Requirement for additional information.

# Subpart E—Package Approval Standards
71.41
Demonstration of compliance.
71.43
General standards for all packages.
71.45
Lifting and tie-down standards for all packages.
71.47
External radiation standards for all packages.
71.51
Additional requirements for Type B packages.
71.53
[Reserved]
71.55
General requirements for fissile material packages.
71.57
[Reserved]
71.59
Standards for arrays of fissile material packages.
71.61
Special requirements for Type B packages containing more than 10
5
A
2
.
71.63
Special requirement for plutonium shipments.
71.64
Special requirements for plutonium air shipments.
71.65
Additional requirements.

# Subpart F—Package, Special Form, and LSA-III Tests
71.70
Incorporation by reference.
71.71
Normal conditions of transport.
71.73
Hypothetical accident conditions.
71.74
Accident conditions for air transport of plutonium.
71.75
Qualification of special form radioactive material.
71.77
Qualification of LSA-III Material.

# Subpart G—Operating Controls and Procedures
71.81
Applicability of operating controls and procedures.
71.83
Assumptions as to unknown properties.
71.85
Preliminary determinations.
71.87
Routine determinations.
71.88
Air transport of plutonium.
71.89
Opening instructions.
71.91
Records.
71.93
Inspection and tests.
71.95
Reports.
71.97
Advance notification of shipment of irradiated reactor fuel and nuclear waste.
71.99
Violations.
71.100
Criminal penalties.

# Subpart H—Quality Assurance
71.101
Quality assurance requirements.
71.103
Quality assurance organization.
71.105
Quality assurance program.
71.106
Changes to quality assurance program.
71.107
Package design control.
71.109
Procurement document control.
71.111
Instructions, procedures, and drawings.
71.113
Document control.
71.115
Control of purchased material, equipment, and services.
71.117
Identification and control of materials, parts, and components.
71.119
Control of special processes.
71.121
Internal inspection.
71.123
Test control.
71.125
Control of measuring and test equipment.
71.127
Handling, storage, and shipping control.
71.129
Inspection, test, and operating status.
71.131
Nonconforming materials, parts, or components.
71.133
Corrective action.
71.135
Quality assurance records.
71.137
Audits.
Appendix A to Part 71—Determination of A
1
and A
2

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 161, 182, 183, 223, 234, 1701 (42 U.S.C. 2073, 2077, 2092, 2093, 2111, 2201, 2232, 2233, 2273, 2282, 2297f); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 202, 206, 211 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5842, 5846, 5851); Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, sec. 180 (42 U.S.C. 10175); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.
Section 71.97 also issued under Sec. 301, Pub. L. 96-295, 94 Stat. 789 (42 U.S.C. 5841 note).

# Source:
60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 71.0
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part establishes—
(1) Requirements for packaging, preparation for shipment, and transportation of licensed material; and
(2) Procedures and standards for NRC approval of packaging and shipping procedures for fissile material and for a quantity of other licensed material in excess of a Type A quantity.
(b) The packaging and transport of licensed material are also subject to other parts of this chapter (e.g., 10 CFR parts 20, 21, 30, 40, 70, and 73) and to the regulations of other agencies (e.g., the U.S. Department of Transportation
(DOT) and the U.S. Postal Service)
1
having jurisdiction over means of transport. The requirements of this part are in addition to, and not in substitution for, other requirements.
1
Postal Service manual (Domestic Mail Manual), Section 124, which is incorporated by reference at 39 CFR 111.1.
(c) The regulations in this part apply to any licensee authorized by specific or general license issued by the Commission to receive, possess, use, or transfer licensed material, if the licensee delivers that material to a carrier for transport, transports the material outside the site of usage as specified in the NRC license, or transports that material on public highways. No provision of this part authorizes possession of licensed material.
(d)(1) Exemptions from the requirement for license in § 71.3 are specified in § 71.14. General licenses for which no NRC package approval is required are issued in §§ 71.21 through 71.23. The general license in § 71.17 requires that an NRC certificate of compliance or other package approval be issued for the package to be used under this general license.
(2) Application for package approval must be completed in accordance with subpart D of this part, demonstrating that the design of the package to be used satisfies the package approval standards contained in subpart E of this part, as related to the tests of subpart F of this part.
(3) A licensee transporting licensed material, or delivering licensed material to a carrier for transport, shall comply with the operating control requirements of subpart G of this part; the quality assurance requirements of subpart H of this part; and the general provisions of subpart A of this part, including DOT regulations referenced in § 71.5.
(e) The regulations of this part apply to any person holding, or applying for, a certificate of compliance, issued pursuant to this part, for a package intended for the transportation of radioactive material, outside the confines of a licensee's facility or authorized place of use.
(f) The regulations in this part apply to any person required to obtain a certificate of compliance, or an approved compliance plan, pursuant to part 76 of this chapter, if the person delivers radioactive material to a common or contract carrier for transport or transports the material outside the confines of the person's plant or other authorized place of use.
(g) This part also gives notice to all persons who knowingly provide to any licensee, certificate holder, quality assurance program approval holder, applicant for a license, certificate, or quality assurance program approval, or to a contractor, or subcontractor of any of them, components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services, that relate to a licensee's, certificate holder's, quality assurance program approval holder's, or applicant's activities subject to this part, that they may be individually subject to NRC enforcement action for violation of § 71.8.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 34011, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.1
Communications and records.
(a) Except where otherwise specified, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part and applications filed under them should be sent by mail addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Division of Fuel Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html
; by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov
; or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic
signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. If the submission date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the next Federal working day becomes the official due date.
(b) Each record required by this part must be legible throughout the retention period specified by each Commission regulation. The record may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform provided that the copy or microform is authenticated by authorized personnel and that the microform is capable of producing a clear copy throughout the required retention period. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, and specifications must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004; 69 FR 58038, Sept. 29, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 62683, Dec. 1, 2009; 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015; 84 FR 65645, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 71.2
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission, other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel, will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 71.3
Requirement for license.
Except as authorized in a general license or a specific license issued by the Commission, or as exempted in this part, no licensee may—
(a) Deliver licensed material to a carrier for transport; or
(b) Transport licensed material.
§ 71.4
Definitions.
The following terms are as defined here for the purpose of this part. To ensure compatibility with international transportation standards, all limits in this part are given in terms of dual units: The International System of Units (SI) followed or preceded by U.S. standard or customary units. The U.S. customary units are not exact equivalents but are rounded to a convenient value, providing a functionally equivalent unit. For the purpose of this part, either unit may be used.
A
1
means the maximum activity of special form radioactive material permitted in a Type A package. This value is either listed in Appendix A, Table A-1, of this part, or may be derived in accordance with the procedures prescribed in Appendix A of this part.
A
2
means the maximum activity of radioactive material, other than special form material, LSA, and SCO material, permitted in a Type A package. This value is either listed in Appendix A, Table A-1, of this part, or may be derived in accordance with the procedures prescribed in Appendix A of this part.
Carrier
means a person engaged in the transportation of passengers or property by land or water as a common, contract, or private carrier, or by civil aircraft.
Certificate holder
means a person who has been issued a certificate of compliance or other package approval by the Commission.
Certificate of Compliance (CoC)
means the certificate issued by the Commission under subpart D of this part which approves the design of a package for the transportation of radioactive material.
Close reflection by water
means immediate contact by water of sufficient thickness for maximum reflection of neutrons.
Consignment
means each shipment of a package or groups of packages or load of radioactive material offered by a shipper for transport.
Containment system
means the assembly of components of the packaging intended to retain the radioactive material during transport.
Contamination
means the presence of a radioactive substance on a surface in quantities in excess of 0.4 Bq/cm
2
(1 × 10
−5
µCi/cm
2
) for beta and gamma emitters and low toxicity alpha emitters, or 0.04 Bq/cm
2
(1 × 10
−6
µCi/cm
2
) for all other alpha emitters.
(1)
Fixed contamination
means contamination that cannot be removed
from a surface during normal conditions of transport.
(2)
Non-fixed contamination
means contamination that can be removed from a surface during normal conditions of transport.
Conveyance means:
(1) For transport by public highway or rail any transport vehicle or large freight container;
(2) For transport by water any vessel, or any hold, compartment, or defined deck area of a vessel including any transport vehicle on board the vessel; and
(3) For transport by any aircraft.
Criticality Safety Index (CSI)
means the dimensionless number (rounded up to the next tenth) assigned to and placed on the label of a fissile material package, to designate the degree of control of accumulation of packages, overpacks or freight containers containing fissile material during transportation. Determination of the criticality safety index is described in §§ 71.22, 71.23, and 71.59. The criticality safety index for an overpack, freight container, consignment or conveyance containing fissile material packages is the arithmetic sum of the criticality safety indices of all the fissile material packages contained within the overpack, freight container, consignment or conveyance.
Deuterium
means, for the purposes of §§ 71.15 and 71.22, deuterium and any deuterium compounds, including heavy water, in which the ratio of deuterium atoms to hydrogen atoms exceeds 1:5000.
DOT
means the U.S. Department of Transportation.
Exclusive use
means the sole use by a single consignor of a conveyance for which all initial, intermediate, and final loading and unloading are carried out in accordance with the direction of the consignor or consignee. The consignor and the carrier must ensure that any loading or unloading is performed by personnel having radiological training and resources appropriate for safe handling of the consignment. The consignor must issue specific instructions, in writing, for maintenance of exclusive use shipment controls, and include them with the shipping paper information provided to the carrier by the consignor.
Fissile material
means the radionuclides uranium-233, uranium-235, plutonium-239, and plutonium-241, or any combination of these radionuclides. Fissile material means the fissile nuclides themselves, not material containing fissile nuclides. Unirradiated natural uranium and depleted uranium and natural uranium or depleted uranium, that has been irradiated in thermal reactors only, are not included in this definition. Certain exclusions from fissile material controls are provided in § 71.15.
Graphite
means, for the purposes of §§ 71.15 and 71.22, graphite with a boron equivalent content less than 5 parts per million and density greater than 1.5 grams per cubic centimeter.
Indian tribe
means an Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian Tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 5130.
Licensed material
means byproduct, source, or special nuclear material received, possessed, used, or transferred under a general or specific license issued by the Commission pursuant to the regulations in this chapter.
Low Specific Activity (LSA) material
means radioactive material with limited specific activity which is nonfissile or is excepted under § 71.15, and which satisfies the descriptions and limits set forth in the following section. Shielding materials surrounding the LSA material may not be considered in determining the estimated average specific activity of the package contents. The LSA material must be in one of three groups:
(1) LSA-I.
(i) Uranium and thorium ores, concentrates of uranium and thorium ores, and other ores containing naturally occurring radionuclides that are intended to be processed for the use of these radionuclides;
(ii) Natural uranium, depleted uranium, natural thorium or their compounds or mixtures, provided they are unirradiated and in solid or liquid form;
(iii) Radioactive material other than fissile material, for which the A
2
value is unlimited; or
(iv) Other radioactive material in which the activity is distributed throughout and the estimated average specific activity does not exceed 30 times the value for exempt material activity concentration determined in accordance with appendix A.
(2) LSA-II.
(i) Water with tritium concentration up to 0.8 TBq/liter (20.0 Ci/liter); or
(ii) Other radioactive material in which the activity is distributed throughout and the estimated average specific activity does not exceed 10
−4
A
2
/g for solids and gases, and 10
−5
A
2
/g for liquids.
(3) LSA-III. Solids (e.g., consolidated wastes, activated materials), excluding powders, that satisfy the requirements of § 71.77, in which:
(i) The radioactive material is distributed throughout a solid or a collection of solid objects, or is essentially uniformly distributed in a solid compact binding agent (such as concrete, bitumen, ceramic, etc.);
(ii) The radioactive material is relatively insoluble, or it is intrinsically contained in a relatively insoluble material, so that even under loss of packaging, the loss of radioactive material per package by leaching when placed in water for 7 days will not exceed 0.1 A
2
; and
(iii) The estimated average specific activity of the solid, excluding any shielding material, does not exceed 2 × 10
−3
A
2
/g.
Low toxicity alpha emitters
means natural uranium, depleted uranium, natural thorium; uranium-235, uranium-238, thorium-232, thorium-228 or thorium-230 when contained in ores or physical or chemical concentrates or tailings; or alpha emitters with a half-life of less than 10 days.
Maximum normal operating pressure
means the maximum gauge pressure that would develop in the containment system in a period of 1 year under the heat condition specified in § 71.71(c)(1), in the absence of venting, external cooling by an ancillary system, or operational controls during transport.
Natural thorium
means thorium with the naturally occurring distribution of thorium isotopes (essentially 100 weight percent thorium-232).
Normal form radioactive material
means radioactive material that has not been demonstrated to qualify as “special form radioactive material.”
Optimum interspersed hydrogenous moderation
means the presence of hydrogenous material between packages to such an extent that the maximum nuclear reactivity results.
Package
means the packaging together with its radioactive contents as presented for transport.
(1) Fissile material package or Type AF package, Type BF package, Type B(U)F package, or Type B(M)F package means a fissile material packaging together with its fissile material contents.
(2) Type A package means a Type A packaging together with its radioactive contents. A Type A package is defined and must comply with the DOT regulations in 49 CFR part 173.
(3) Type B package means a Type B packaging together with its radioactive contents. On approval, a Type B package design is designated by NRC as B(U) unless the package has a maximum normal operating pressure of more than 700 kPa (100 lbs/in
2
) gauge or a pressure relief device that would allow the release of radioactive material to the environment under the tests specified in § 71.73 (hypothetical accident conditions), in which case it will receive a designation B(M). B(U) refers to the need for unilateral approval of international shipments; B(M) refers to the need for multilateral approval of international shipments. There is no distinction made in how packages with these designations may be used in domestic transportation. To determine their distinction for international transportation,
see
DOT regulations in 49 CFR Part 173. A Type B package approved before September 6, 1983, was designated only as Type B. Limitations on its use are specified in § 71.19.
Packaging
means the assembly of components necessary to ensure compliance with the packaging requirements of this part. It may consist of
one or more receptacles, absorbent materials, spacing structures, thermal insulation, radiation shielding, and devices for cooling or absorbing mechanical shocks. The vehicle, tie-down system, and auxiliary equipment may be designated as part of the packaging.
Special form radioactive material
means radioactive material that satisfies the following conditions:
(1) It is either a single solid piece or is contained in a sealed capsule that can be opened only by destroying the capsule;
(2) The piece or capsule has at least one dimension not less than 5 mm (0.2 in); and
(3) It satisfies the requirements of § 71.75. A special form encapsulation designed in accordance with the requirements of § 71.4 in effect on June 30, 1983 (see 10 CFR part 71, revised as of January 1, 1983), and constructed before July 1, 1985; a special form encapsulation designed in accordance with the requirements of § 71.4 in effect on March 31, 1996 (see 10 CFR part 71, revised as of January 1, 1996), and constructed before April 1, 1998; and special form material that was successfully tested before September 10, 2015 in accordance with the requirements of § 71.75(d) of this section in effect before September 10, 2015 may continue to be used. Any other special form encapsulation must meet the specifications of this definition.
Specific activity of a radionuclide
means the radioactivity of the radionuclide per unit mass of that nuclide. The specific activity of a material in which the radionuclide is essentially uniformly distributed is the radioactivity per unit mass of the material.
Spent nuclear fuel or Spent fuel
means fuel that has been withdrawn from a nuclear reactor following irradiation, has undergone at least 1 year's decay since being used as a source of energy in a power reactor, and has not been chemically separated into its constituent elements by reprocessing. Spent fuel includes the special nuclear material, byproduct material, source material, and other radioactive materials associated with fuel assemblies.
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Surface Contaminated Object (SCO)
means a solid object that is not itself classed as radioactive material, but which has radioactive material distributed on any of its surfaces. SCO must be in one of two groups with surface activity not exceeding the following limits:
(1) SCO-I: A solid object on which:
(i) The nonfixed contamination on the accessible surface averaged over 300 cm
2
(or the area of the surface if less than 300 cm
2
) does not exceed 4 Bq/cm
2
(10
−4
microcurie/cm
2
) for beta and gamma and low toxicity alpha emitters, or 0.4 Bq/cm
2
(10
−5
microcurie/cm
2
) for all other alpha emitters;
(ii) The fixed contamination on the accessible surface averaged over 300 cm
2
(or the area of the surface if less than 300 cm
2
) does not exceed 4 × 10
4
Bq/cm
2
(1.0 microcurie/cm
2
) for beta and gamma and low toxicity alpha emitters, or 4 × 10
3
Bq/cm
2
(0.1 microcurie/cm
2
) for all other alpha emitters; and
(iii) The nonfixed contamination plus the fixed contamination on the inaccessible surface averaged over 300 cm
2
(or the area of the surface if less than 300 cm
2
) does not exceed 4 × 10
4
Bq/cm
2
(1 microcurie/cm
2
) for beta and gamma and low toxicity alpha emitters, or 4 × 10
3
Bq/cm
2
(0.1 microcurie/cm
2
) for all other alpha emitters.
(2) SCO-II: A solid object on which the limits for SCO-I are exceeded and on which:
(i) The nonfixed contamination on the accessible surface averaged over 300 cm
2
(or the area of the surface if less than 300 cm
2
) does not exceed 400 Bq/cm
2
(10
−2
microcurie/cm
2
) for beta and gamma and low toxicity alpha emitters or 40 Bq/cm
2
(10
−3
microcurie/cm
2
) for all other alpha emitters;
(ii) The fixed contamination on the accessible surface averaged over 300 cm
2
(or the area of the surface if less than 300 cm
2
) does not exceed 8 × 10
5
Bq/cm
2
(20 microcuries/cm
2
) for beta and gamma and low toxicity alpha emitters, or 8 × 10
4
Bq/cm
2
(2 microcuries/cm
2
) for all other alpha emitters; and
(iii) The nonfixed contamination plus the fixed contamination on the inaccessible surface averaged over 300 cm
2
(or the area of the surface if less than 300 cm
2
) does not exceed 8 × 10
5
Bq/cm
2
(20 microcuries/cm
2
) for beta and gamma and low toxicity alpha emitters, or 8 × 10
4
Bq/cm
2
(2 microcuries/cm
2
) for all other alpha emitters.
Transport index (TI)
means the dimensionless number (rounded up to the next tenth) placed on the label of a package, to designate the degree of control to be exercised by the carrier during transportation. The transport index is the number determined by multiplying the maximum radiation level in millisievert (mSv) per hour at 1 meter (3.3 ft) from the external surface of the package by 100 (equivalent to the maximum radiation level in millirem per hour at 1 meter (3.3 ft)).
Tribal official
means the highest ranking individual that represents Tribal leadership, such as the Chief, President, or Tribal Council leadership.
Type A quantity
means a quantity of radioactive material, the aggregate radioactivity of which does not exceed A
1
for special form radioactive material, or A
2
, for normal form radioactive material, where A
1
and A
2
are given in Table A-1 of this part, or may be determined by procedures described in Appendix A of this part.
Type B quantity
means a quantity of radioactive material greater than a Type A quantity.
Unirradiated uranium
means uranium containing not more than 2 × 10
3
Bq of plutonium per gram of uranium-235, not more than 9 × 10
6
Bq of fission products per gram of uranium-235, and not more than 5 × 10
−3
g of uranium-236 per gram of uranium-235.
Uranium—natural, depleted, enriched.
(1) Natural uranium means uranium (which may be chemically separated) with the naturally occurring distribution of uranium isotopes (approximately 0.711 weight percent uranium-235, and the remainder by weight essentially uranium-238).
(2) Depleted uranium means uranium containing less uranium-235 than the naturally occurring distribution of uranium isotopes.
(3) Enriched uranium means uranium containing more uranium-235 than the naturally occurring distribution of uranium isotopes.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 58038, Sept. 29, 2004; 77 FR 34204, June 11, 2012; 80 FR 34011, June 12, 2015; 80 FR 48684, Aug. 14, 2015; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015; 82 FR 52825, Nov. 15, 2017; 86 FR 67843, Nov. 30, 2021]
§ 71.5
Transportation of licensed material.
(a) Each licensee who transports licensed material outside the site of usage, as specified in the NRC license, or where transport is on public highways, or who delivers licensed material to a carrier for transport, shall comply with the applicable requirements of the DOT regulations in 49 CFR parts 107, 171 through 180, and 390 through 397, appropriate to the mode of transport.
(1) The licensee shall particularly note DOT regulations in the following areas:
(i) Packaging—49 CFR part 173: subparts A, B, and I.
(ii) Marking and labeling—49 CFR part 172: subpart D; and §§ 172.400 through 172.407 and §§ 172.436 through 172.441 of subpart E.
(iii) Placarding—49 CFR part 172: subpart F, especially §§ 172.500 through 172.519 and 172.556; and appendices B and C.
(iv) Accident reporting—49 CFR part 171: §§ 171.15 and 171.16.
(v) Shipping papers and emergency information—49 CFR part 172: subparts C and G.
(vi) Hazardous material employee training—49 CFR part 172: subpart H.
(vii) Security plans—49 CFR part 172: subpart I.
(viii) Hazardous material shipper/carrier registration—49 CFR part 107: subpart G.
(2) The licensee shall also note DOT regulations pertaining to the following modes of transportation:
(i) Rail—49 CFR part 174: subparts A through D and K.
(ii) Air—49 CFR part 175.
(iii) Vessel—49 CFR part 176: subparts A through F and M.
(iv) Public Highway—49 CFR part 177 and parts 390 through 397.
(b) If DOT regulations are not applicable to a shipment of licensed material, the licensee shall conform to the standards and requirements of the DOT specified in paragraph (a) of this section to the same extent as if the shipment or transportation were subject to DOT regulations. A request for modification, waiver, or exemption from those requirements, and any notification referred to in those requirements, must be filed with, or made to, the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004; 69 FR 58038, Sept. 29, 2004]
§ 71.6
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0008.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 71.5, 71.7, 71.9, 71.12, 71.17, 71.19, 71.22, 71.23, 71.31, 71.33, 71.35, 71.37, 71.38, 71.39, 71.41, 71.47, 71.85, 71.87, 71.89, 71.91, 71.93, 71.95, 71.97, 71.101, 71.103, 71.105, 71.106, 71.107, 71.109, 71.111, 71.113, 71.115, 71.117, 71.119, 71.121, 71.123, 71.125, 71.127, 71.129, 71.131, 71.133, 71.135, 71.137, and appendix A, paragraph II.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 80 FR 34012, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.7
Completeness and accuracy of information.
(a) Information provided to the Commission by a licensee, certificate holder, or an applicant for a license or CoC; or information required by statute or by the Commission's regulations, orders, license or CoC conditions, to be maintained by the licensee or certificate holder, must be complete and accurate in all material respects.
(b) Each licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a license or CoC must notify the Commission of information identified by the licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a license or CoC as having, for the regulated activity, a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. A licensee, certificate holder, or an applicant for a license or CoC violates this paragraph only if the licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a license or CoC fails to notify the Commission of information that the licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a license or CoC has identified as having a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. Notification must be provided to the Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office within 2 working days of identifying the information. This requirement is not applicable to information which is already required to be provided to the Commission by other reporting or updating requirements.
§ 71.8
Deliberate misconduct.
(a) This section applies to any—
(1) Licensee;
(2) Certificate holder;
(3) Quality assurance program approval holder;
(4) Applicant for a license, certificate, or quality assurance program approval;
(5) Contractor (including a supplier or consultant) or subcontractor, to any person identified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section; or
(6) Employees of any person identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.
(b) A person identified in paragraph (a) of this section who knowingly provides to any entity, listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section, any components, materials, or other goods or services that relate to a licensee's, certificate holder's, quality assurance program approval holder's, or applicant's activities subject to this part may not:
(1) Engage in deliberate misconduct that causes or would have caused, if not detected, a licensee, certificate
holder, quality assurance program approval holder, or any applicant to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order; or any term, condition or limitation of any license, certificate, or approval issued by the Commission; or
(2) Deliberately submit to the NRC, a licensee, a certificate holder, quality assurance program approval holder, an applicant for a license, certificate or quality assurance program approval, or a licensee's, applicant's, certificate holder's, or quality assurance program approval holder's contractor or subcontractor, information that the person submitting the information knows to be incomplete or inaccurate in some respect material to the NRC.
(c) A person who violates paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section may be subject to enforcement action in accordance with the procedures in 10 CFR part 2, subpart B.
(d) For the purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, deliberate misconduct by a person means an intentional act or omission that the person knows:
(1) Would cause a licensee, certificate holder, quality assurance program approval holder, or applicant for a license, certificate, or quality assurance program approval to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order; or any term, condition, or limitation of any license or certificate issued by the Commission; or
(2) Constitutes a violation of a requirement, procedure, instruction, contract, purchase order, or policy of a licensee, certificate holder, quality assurance program approval holder, applicant, or the contractor or subcontractor of any of them.
§ 71.9
Employee protection.
(a) Discrimination by a Commission licensee, certificate holder, an applicant for a Commission license or a CoC, or a contractor or subcontractor of any of these, against an employee for engaging in certain protected activities, is prohibited. Discrimination includes discharge and other actions that relate to compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment. The protected activities are established in section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and in general are related to the administration or enforcement of a requirement imposed under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended.
(1) The protected activities include, but are not limited to:
(i) Providing the Commission or his or her employer information about alleged violations of either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) of this section or possible violations of requirements imposed under either of those statutes;
(ii) Refusing to engage in any practice made unlawful under either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) of this section or under these requirements if the employee has identified the alleged illegality to the employer;
(iii) Requesting the Commission to institute action against his or her employer for the administration or enforcement of these requirements;
(iv) Testifying in any Commission proceeding, or before Congress, or at any Federal or State proceeding regarding any provision (or proposed provision) of either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) of this section; and
(v) Assisting or participating in, or is about to assist or participate in, these activities.
(2) These activities are protected even if no formal proceeding is actually initiated as a result of the employee's assistance or participation.
(3) This section has no application to any employee alleging discrimination prohibited by this section who, acting without direction from his or her employer (or the employer's agent), deliberately causes a violation of any requirement of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(b) Any employee who believes that he or she has been discharged or otherwise discriminated against by any person for engaging in protected activities specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may seek a remedy for the discharge or discrimination through an administrative proceeding in the Department of Labor. The administrative proceeding must be initiated within 180 days after an alleged violation occurs. The employee may do this by filing a
complaint alleging the violation with the Department of Labor, Employment Standards Administration, Wage and Hour Division. The Department of Labor may order reinstatement, back pay, and compensatory damages.
(c) A violation of paragraph (a), (e), or (f) of this section by a Commission licensee, certificate holder, applicant for a Commission license or a CoC, or a contractor or subcontractor of any of these may be grounds for:
(1) Denial, revocation, or suspension of the license or the CoC;
(2) Imposition of a civil penalty on the licensee, applicant, or a contractor or subcontractor of the licensee or applicant; or
(3) Other enforcement action.
(d) Actions taken by an employer, or others, which adversely affect an employee may be predicated upon nondiscriminatory grounds. The prohibition applies when the adverse action occurs because the employee has engaged in protected activities. An employee's engagement in protected activities does not automatically render him or her immune from discharge or discipline for legitimate reasons or from adverse action dictated by nonprohibited considerations.
(e)(1) Each licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a license or CoC must prominently post the current revision of NRC Form 3, “Notice to Employees,” referenced in § 19.11(c) of this chapter. This form must be posted at locations sufficient to permit employees protected by this section to observe a copy on the way to or from their place of work. The premises must be posted not later than 30 days after an application is docketed and remain posted while the application is pending before the Commission, during the term of the license or CoC, and for 30 days following license or CoC termination.
(2) Copies of NRC Form 3 may be obtained by writing to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Office listed in Appendix D to Part 20 of this chapter, via email to
Forms.Resource@nrc.gov,
or by visiting the NRC's online library at
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/forms/.
(f) No agreement affecting the compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, including an agreement to settle a complaint filed by an employee with the Department of Labor pursuant to section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, may contain any provision which would prohibit, restrict, or otherwise discourage an employee from participating in a protected activity as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section including, but not limited to, providing information to the NRC or to his or her employer on potential violations or other matters within NRC's regulatory responsibilities.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 63975, Nov. 14, 2007; 73 FR 30459, May 28, 2008; 79 FR 66605, Nov. 10, 2014]
§ 71.10
Public inspection of application.
Applications for approval of a package design under this part, which are submitted to the Commission, may be made available for public inspection, in accordance with provisions of parts 2 and 9 of this chapter. This includes an application to amend or revise an existing package design, any associated documents and drawings submitted with the application, and any responses to NRC requests for additional information.
§ 71.11
Protection of Safeguards Information.
Each licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a Certificate of Compliance for a transportation package for transport of irradiated reactor fuel, strategic special nuclear material, a critical mass of special nuclear material, or byproduct material in quantities determined by the Commission through order or regulation to be significant to the public health and safety or the common defense and security, shall protect Safeguards Information against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21 and the requirements of § 73.22 or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable.
[73 FR 63572, Oct. 24, 2008]

# Subpart B—Exemptions

# Source:
69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 71.12
Specific exemptions.
On application of any interested person or on its own initiative, the Commission may grant any exemption from the requirements of the regulations in this part that it determines is authorized by law and will not endanger life or property nor the common defense and security.
§ 71.13
Exemption of physicians.
Any physician licensed by a State to dispense drugs in the practice of medicine is exempt from § 71.5 with respect to transport by the physician of licensed material for use in the practice of medicine. However, any physician operating under this exemption must be licensed under 10 CFR part 35 or the equivalent Agreement State regulations.
§ 71.14
Exemption for low-level materials.
(a) A licensee is exempt from all the requirements of this part with respect to shipment or carriage of the following low-level materials:
(1) Natural material and ores containing naturally occurring radionuclides that are either in their natural state, or have only been processed for purposes other than for the extraction of the radionuclides, and which are not intended to be processed for the use of these radionuclides, provided the activity concentration of the material does not exceed 10 times the applicable radionuclide activity concentration values specified in appendix A, Table A-2, or Table A-3 of this part.
(2) Materials for which the activity concentration is not greater than the activity concentration values specified in appendix A, Table A-2, or Table A-3 of this part, or for which the consignment activity is not greater than the limit for an exempt consignment found in appendix A, Table A-2, or Table A-3 of this part.
(3) Non-radioactive solid objects with radioactive substances present on any surfaces in quantities not in excess of the levels cited in the definition of contamination in § 71.4.
(b) A licensee is exempt from all the requirements of this part, other than §§ 71.5 and 71.88, with respect to shipment or carriage of the following packages, provided the packages do not contain any fissile material, or the material is exempt from classification as fissile material under § 71.15:
(1) A package that contains no more than a Type A quantity of radioactive material;
(2) A package transported within the United States that contains no more than 0.74 TBq (20 Ci) of special form plutonium-244; or
(3) The package contains only LSA or SCO radioactive material, provided—
(i) That the LSA or SCO material has an external radiation dose of less than or equal to 10 mSv/h (1 rem/h), at a distance of 3 m from the unshielded material; or
(ii) That the package contains only LSA-I or SCO-I material.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 34012, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.15
Exemption from classification as fissile material.
Fissile material meeting the requirements of at least one of the paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section are exempt from classification as fissile material and from the fissile material package standards of §§ 71.55 and 71.59, but are subject to all other requirements of this part, except as noted.
(a) Individual package containing 2 grams or less fissile material.
(b) Individual or bulk packaging containing 15 grams or less of fissile material provided the package has at least 200 grams of solid nonfissile material for every gram of fissile material. Lead, beryllium, graphite, and hydrogenous material enriched in deuterium may be present in the package but must not be included in determining the required mass for solid nonfissile material.
(c)(1) Low concentrations of solid fissile material commingled with solid nonfissile material, provided that:
(i) There is at least 2000 grams of solid nonfissile material for every gram of fissile material, and
(ii) There is no more than 180 grams of fissile material distributed within 360 kg of contiguous nonfissile material.
(2) Lead, beryllium, graphite, and hydrogenous material enriched in deuterium may be present in the package but must not be included in determining the required mass of solid nonfissile material.
(d) Uranium enriched in uranium-235 to a maximum of 1 percent by weight, and with total plutonium and uranium-233 content of up to 1 percent of the mass of uranium-235, provided that the mass of any beryllium, graphite, and hydrogenous material enriched in deuterium constitutes less than 5 percent of the uranium mass, and that the fissile material is distributed homogeneously and does not form a lattice arrangement within the package.
(e) Liquid solutions of uranyl nitrate enriched in uranium-235 to a maximum of 2 percent by mass, with a total plutonium and uranium-233 content not exceeding 0.002 percent of the mass of uranium, and with a minimum nitrogen to uranium atomic ratio (N/U) of 2. The material must be contained in at least a DOT Type A package.
(f) Packages containing, individually, a total plutonium mass of not more than 1000 grams, of which not more than 20 percent by mass may consist of plutonium-239, plutonium-241, or any combination of these radionuclides.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 34012, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.16
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—General Licenses

# Source:
69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 71.17
General license: NRC-approved package.
(a) A general license is issued to any licensee of the Commission to transport, or to deliver to a carrier for transport, licensed material in a package for which a license, certificate of compliance (CoC), or other approval has been issued by the NRC.
(b) This general license applies only to a licensee who has a quality assurance program approved by the Commission as satisfying the provisions of subpart H of this part.
(c) Each licensee issued a general license under paragraph (a) of this section shall—
(1) Maintain a copy of the Certificate of Compliance, or other approval of the package, and the drawings and other documents referenced in the approval relating to the use and maintenance of the packaging and to the actions to be taken before shipment;
(2) Comply with the terms and conditions of the license, certificate, or other approval, as applicable, and the applicable requirements of subparts A, G, and H of this part; and
(3) Submit in writing before the first use of the package to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Division of Fuel Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, using an appropriate method listed in § 71.1(a), the licensee's name and license number and the package identification number specified in the package approval.
(d) This general license applies only when the package approval authorizes use of the package under this general license.
(e) For a Type B or fissile material package, the design of which was approved by NRC before April 1, 1996, the general license is subject to the additional restrictions of § 71.19.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 34012, June 12, 2015; 84 FR 65645, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 71.18
[Reserved]
§ 71.19
Previously approved package.
(a) A Type B(U) package, a Type B(M) package, or a fissile material package, previously approved by the NRC but without the designation “-85” in the identification number of the NRC CoC, may be used under the general license of § 71.17 with the following additional conditions:
(1) Fabrication of the package is satisfactorily completed by April 1, 1999, as demonstrated by application of its model number in accordance with § 71.85(c);
(2) A package used for a shipment to a location outside the United States is
subject to multilateral approval as defined in DOT regulations at 49 CFR 173.403; and
(3) A serial number which uniquely identifies each packaging which conforms to the approved design is assigned to and legibly and durably marked on the outside of each packaging.
(b) A Type B(U) package, a Type B(M) package, or a fissile material package previously approved by the NRC with the designation “-85” in the identification number of the NRC CoC, may be used under the general license of § 71.17 with the following additional conditions:
(1) Fabrication of the package must be satisfactorily completed by December 31, 2006, as demonstrated by application of its model number in accordance with § 71.85(c); and
(2) A package used for a shipment to a location outside the United States is subject to multilateral approval as defined in the DOT's regulations at 49 CFR 173.403.
(c) NRC will approve modifications to the design and authorized contents of a Type B package, or a fissile material package, previously approved by NRC, provided—
(1) The modifications of a Type B package are not significant with respect to the design, operating characteristics, or safe performance of the containment system, when the package is subjected to the tests specified in §§ 71.71 and 71.73;
(2) The modifications of a fissile material package are not significant, with respect to the prevention of criticality, when the package is subjected to the tests specified in §§ 71.71 and 71.73; and
(3) The modifications to the package satisfy the requirements of this part.
(d) NRC will revise the package identification number to designate previously approved package designs as B, BF, AF, B(U), B(M), B(U)F, B(M)F, B(U)-85, B(U)F-85, B(M)-85, B(M)F-85, or AF-85 as appropriate, and with the identification number suffix “-96” after receipt of an application demonstrating that the design meets the requirements of this part.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004; 69 FR 6139, Feb. 10, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 34012, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.21
General license: Use of foreign approved package.
(a) A general license is issued to any licensee of the Commission to transport, or to deliver to a carrier for transport, licensed material in a package, the design of which has been approved in a foreign national competent authority certificate, that has been revalidated by the DOT as meeting the applicable requirements of 49 CFR 171.23.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the general license applies only to a licensee who has a quality assurance program approved by the Commission as satisfying the applicable provisions of subpart H of this part.
(c) This general license applies only to shipments made to or from locations outside the United States.
(d) Each licensee issued a general license under paragraph (a) of this section shall—
(1) Maintain a copy of the applicable certificate, the revalidation, and the drawings and other documents referenced in the certificate, relating to the use and maintenance of the packaging and to the actions to be taken before shipment; and
(2) Comply with the terms and conditions of the certificate and revalidation, and with the applicable requirements of subparts A, G, and H of this part.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 34012, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.22
General license: Fissile material.
(a) A general license is issued to any licensee of the Commission to transport fissile material, or to deliver fissile material to a carrier for transport, if the material is shipped in accordance with this section. The fissile material need not be contained in a package which meets the standards of subparts E and F of this part; however, the material must be contained in a Type A package. The Type A package must also meet the DOT requirements of 49 CFR 173.417(a).
(b) The general license applies only to a licensee who has a quality assurance program approved by the Commission as satisfying the provisions of subpart H of this part.
(c) The general license applies only when a package's contents:
(1) Contain no more than a Type A quantity of radioactive material; and
(2) Contain less than 500 total grams of beryllium, graphite, or hydrogenous material enriched in deuterium.
(d) The general license applies only to packages containing fissile material that are labeled with a CSI which:
(1) Has been determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) Has a value less than or equal to 10; and
(3) For a shipment of multiple packages containing fissile material, the sum of the CSIs must be less than or equal to 50 (for shipment on a nonexclusive use conveyance) and less than or equal to 100 (for shipment on an exclusive use conveyance).
(e)(1) The value for the CSI must be greater than or equal to the number calculated by the following equation:
ER26JA04.012
(2) The calculated CSI must be rounded up to the first decimal place;
(3) The values of X, Y, and Z used in the CSI equation must be taken from Tables 71-1 or 71-2, as appropriate;
(4) If Table 71-2 is used to obtain the value of X, then the values for the terms in the equation for uranium-233 and plutonium must be assumed to be zero; and
(5) Table 71-1 values for X, Y, and Z must be used to determine the CSI if:
(i) Uranium-233 is present in the package;
(ii) The mass of plutonium exceeds 1 percent of the mass of uranium-235;
(iii) The uranium is of unknown uranium-235 enrichment or greater than 24 weight percent enrichment; or
(iv) Substances having a moderating effectiveness (
i.e.
, an average hydrogen density greater than H
2
O) (e.g., certain hydrocarbon oils or plastics) are present in any form, except as polyethylene used for packing or wrapping.
Table 71-1—Mass Limits for General License Packages Containing Mixed Quantities of Fissile Material or Uranium-235 of Unknown Enrichment per § 71.22(
e
)
Fissile material
Fissile material mass mixed with moderating substances having an average hydrogen density less than or equal to H
2
O (grams)
Fissile material mass mixed with moderating substances having an average hydrogen density greater than H
2
O
a
(grams)
235
U (X)
60
38
233
U (Y)
43
27
239
Pu or
241
Pu (Z)
37
24
a
When mixtures of moderating substances are present, the lower mass limits shall be used if more than 15 percent of the moderating substance has an average hydrogen density greater than H
2
O.
Table 71-2—Mass Limits for General License Packages Containing Uranium-235 of Known Enrichment per § 71.22(
e
)
Uranium enrichment in weight percent of
235
U not exceeding
Fissile material mass of
235
U (X) (grams)
24
60
20
63
15
67
11
72
10
76
9.5
78
9
81
8.5
82
8
85
7.5
88
7
90
6.5
93
6
97
5.5
102
5
108
4.5
114
4
120
3.5
132
3
150
2.5
180
2
246
1.5
408
1.35
480
1
1,020
0.92
1,800
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004; 69 FR 58038, Sept. 29, 2004]
§ 71.23
General license: Plutonium-beryllium special form material.
(a) A general license is issued to any licensee of the Commission to transport fissile material in the form of plutonium-beryllium (Pu-Be) special form sealed sources, or to deliver Pu-Be sealed sources to a carrier for transport, if the material is shipped in accordance with this section. This material need not be contained in a package which meets the standards of subparts E and F of this part; however, the material must be contained in a Type A package. The Type A package must also meet the DOT requirements of 49 CFR 173.417(a).
(b) The general license applies only to a licensee who has a quality assurance program approved by the Commission as satisfying the provisions of subpart H of this part.
(c) The general license applies only when a package's contents:
(1) Contain no more than a Type A quantity of radioactive material; and
(2) Contain less than 1000 g of plutonium, provided that: plutonium-239, plutonium-241, or any combination of these radionuclides, constitutes less than 240 g of the total quantity of plutonium in the package.
(d) The general license applies only to packages labeled with a CSI which:
(1) Has been determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) Has a value less than or equal to 100; and
(3) For a shipment of multiple packages containing Pu-Be sealed sources, the sum of the CSIs must be less than or equal to 50 (for shipment on a nonexclusive use conveyance) and less than or equal to 100 (for shipment on an exclusive use conveyance).
(e)(1) The value for the CSI must be greater than or equal to the number calculated by the following equation:
ER26JA04.013
(2) The calculated CSI must be rounded up to the first decimal place.
[69 FR 3786, Jan. 26, 2004; 69 FR 58038, Sept. 29, 2004]
§§ 71.24-71.25
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Application for Package Approval
§ 71.31
Contents of application.
(a) An application for an approval under this part must include, for each proposed packaging design, the following information:
(1) A package description as required by § 71.33;
(2) A package evaluation as required by § 71.35; and
(3) A quality assurance program description, as required by § 71.37, or a reference to a previously approved quality assurance program.
(b) Except as provided in § 71.19, an application for modification of a package design, whether for modification of the packaging or authorized contents, must include sufficient information to
demonstrate that the proposed design satisfies the package standards in effect at the time the application is filed.
(c) The applicant shall identify any established codes and standards proposed for use in package design, fabrication, assembly, testing, maintenance, and use. In the absence of any codes and standards, the applicant shall describe and justify the basis and rationale used to formulate the package quality assurance program.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 34012, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.33
Package description.
The application must include a description of the proposed package in sufficient detail to identify the package accurately and provide a sufficient basis for evaluation of the package. The description must include—
(a) With respect to the packaging—
(1) Classification as Type B(U), Type B(M), or fissile material packaging;
(2) Gross weight;
(3) Model number;
(4) Identification of the containment system;
(5) Specific materials of construction, weights, dimensions, and fabrication methods of—
(i) Receptacles;
(ii) Materials specifically used as nonfissile neutron absorbers or moderators;
(iii) Internal and external structures supporting or protecting receptacles;
(iv) Valves, sampling ports, lifting devices, and tie-down devices; and
(v) Structural and mechanical means for the transfer and dissipation of heat; and
(6) Identification and volumes of any receptacles containing coolant.
(b) With respect to the contents of the package—
(1) Identification and maximum radioactivity of radioactive constituents;
(2) Identification and maximum quantities of fissile constituents;
(3) Chemical and physical form;
(4) Extent of reflection, the amount and identity of nonfissile materials used as neutron absorbers or moderators, and the atomic ratio of moderator to fissile constituents;
(5) Maximum normal operating pressure;
(6) Maximum weight;
(7) Maximum amount of decay heat; and
(8) Identification and volumes of any coolants.
§ 71.35
Package evaluation.
The application must include the following:
(a) A demonstration that the package satisfies the standards specified in subparts E and F of this part;
(b) For a fissile material package, the allowable number of packages that may be transported in the same vehicle in accordance with § 71.59; and
(c) For a fissile material shipment, any proposed special controls and precautions for transport, loading, unloading, and handling and any proposed special controls in case of an accident or delay.
§ 71.37
Quality assurance.
(a) The applicant shall describe the quality assurance program (see Subpart H of this part) for the design, fabrication, assembly, testing, maintenance, repair, modification, and use of the proposed package.
(b) The applicant shall identify any specific provisions of the quality assurance program that are applicable to the particular package design under consideration, including a description of the leak testing procedures.
§ 71.38
Renewal of a certificate of compliance.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each Certificate of Compliance expires at the end of the day, in the month and year stated in the approval.
(b) In any case in which a person, not less than 30 days before the expiration of an existing Certificate of Compliance issued pursuant to the part, has filed an application in proper form for renewal, the existing Certificate of Compliance for which the renewal application was filed shall not be deemed to have expired until final action on the application for renewal has been taken by the Commission.
(c) In applying for renewal of an existing Certificate of Compliance, an applicant may be required to submit a
consolidated application that is comprised of as few documents as possible. The consolidated application should incorporate all changes to its certificate, including changes that are incorporated by reference in the existing certificate.
[80 FR 34012, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.39
Requirement for additional information.
The Commission may at any time require additional information in order to enable it to determine whether a license, certificate of compliance, or other approval should be granted, renewed, denied, modified, suspended, or revoked.

# Subpart E—Package Approval Standards
§ 71.41
Demonstration of compliance.
(a) The effects on a package of the tests specified in § 71.71 (“Normal conditions of transport”), and the tests specified in § 71.73 (“Hypothetical accident conditions”), and § 71.61 (“Special requirements for Type B packages containing more than 10
5
A
2
”), must be evaluated by subjecting a specimen or scale model to a specific test, or by another method of demonstration acceptable to the Commission, as appropriate for the particular feature being considered.
(b) Taking into account the type of vehicle, the method of securing or attaching the package, and the controls to be exercised by the shipper, the Commission may permit the shipment to be evaluated together with the transporting vehicle.
(c) Environmental and test conditions different from those specified in §§ 71.71 and 71.73 may be approved by the Commission if the controls proposed to be exercised by the shipper are demonstrated to be adequate to provide equivalent safety of the shipment.
(d) Packages for which compliance with the other provisions of these regulations is impracticable shall not be transported except under special package authorization. Provided the applicant demonstrates that compliance with the other provisions of the regulations is impracticable and that the requisite standards of safety established by these regulations have been demonstrated through means alternative to the other provisions, a special package authorization may be approved for one-time shipments. The applicant shall demonstrate that the overall level of safety in transport for these shipments is at least equivalent to that which would be provided if all the applicable requirements had been met.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 3794, Jan. 26, 2004; 69 FR 58039, Sept. 29, 2004]
§ 71.43
General standards for all packages.
(a) The smallest overall dimension of a package may not be less than 10 cm (4 in).
(b) The outside of a package must incorporate a feature, such as a seal, that is not readily breakable and that, while intact, would be evidence that the package has not been opened by unauthorized persons.
(c) Each package must include a containment system securely closed by a positive fastening device that cannot be opened unintentionally or by a pressure that may arise within the package.
(d) A package must be made of materials and construction that assure that there will be no significant chemical, galvanic, or other reaction among the packaging components, among package contents, or between the packaging components and the package contents, including possible reaction resulting from inleakage of water, to the maximum credible extent. Account must be taken of the behavior of materials under irradiation.
(e) A package valve or other device, the failure of which would allow radioactive contents to escape, must be protected against unauthorized operation and, except for a pressure relief device, must be provided with an enclosure to retain any leakage.
(f) A package must be designed, constructed, and prepared for shipment so that under the tests specified in § 71.71 (“Normal conditions of transport”) there would be no loss or dispersal of radioactive contents, no significant increase in external surface radiation
levels, and no substantial reduction in the effectiveness of the packaging.
(g) A package must be designed, constructed, and prepared for transport so that in still air at 38 °C (100 °F) and in the shade, no accessible surface of a package would have a temperature exceeding 50 °C (122 °F) in a nonexclusive use shipment, or 85 °C (185 °F) in an exclusive use shipment.
(h) A package may not incorporate a feature intended to allow continuous venting during transport.
§ 71.45
Lifting and tie-down standards for all packages.
(a) Any lifting attachment that is a structural part of a package must be designed with a minimum safety factor of three against yielding when used to lift the package in the intended manner, and it must be designed so that failure of any lifting device under excessive load would not impair the ability of the package to meet other requirements of this subpart. Any other structural part of the package that could be used to lift the package must be capable of being rendered inoperable for lifting the package during transport, or must be designed with strength equivalent to that required for lifting attachments.
(b) Tie-down devices:
(1) If there is a system of tie-down devices that is a structural part of the package, the system must be capable of withstanding, without generating stress in any material of the package in excess of its yield strength, a static force applied to the center of gravity of the package having a vertical component of 2 times the weight of the package with its contents, a horizontal component along the direction in which the vehicle travels of 10 times the weight of the package with its contents, and a horizontal component in the transverse direction of 5 times the weight of the package with its contents.
(2) Any other structural part of the package that could be used to tie down the package must be capable of being rendered inoperable for tying down the package during transport, or must be designed with strength equivalent to that required for tie-down devices.
(3) Each tie-down device that is a structural part of a package must be designed so that failure of the device under excessive load would not impair the ability of the package to meet other requirements of this part.
§ 71.47
External radiation standards for all packages.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each package of radioactive materials offered for transportation must be designed and prepared for shipment so that under conditions normally incident to transportation the radiation level does not exceed 2 mSv/h (200 mrem/h) at any point on the external surface of the package, and the transport index does not exceed 10.
(b) A package that exceeds the radiation level limits specified in paragraph (a) of this section must be transported by exclusive use shipment only, and the radiation levels for such shipment must not exceed the following during transportation:
(1) 2 mSv/h (200 mrem/h) on the external surface of the package, unless the following conditions are met, in which case the limit is 10 mSv/h (1000 mrem/h):
(i) The shipment is made in a closed transport vehicle;
(ii) The package is secured within the vehicle so that its position remains fixed during transportation; and
(iii) There are no loading or unloading operations between the beginning and end of the transportation;
(2) 2 mSv/h (200 mrem/h) at any point on the outer surface of the vehicle, including the top and underside of the vehicle; or in the case of a flat-bed style vehicle, at any point on the vertical planes projected from the outer edges of the vehicle, on the upper surface of the load or enclosure, if used, and on the lower external surface of the vehicle; and
(3) 0.1 mSv/h (10 mrem/h) at any point 2 meters (80 in) from the outer lateral surfaces of the vehicle (excluding the top and underside of the vehicle); or in the case of a flat-bed style vehicle, at any point 2 meters (6.6 feet) from the vertical planes projected by the outer edges of the vehicle (excluding the top and underside of the vehicle); and
(4) 0.02 mSv/h (2 mrem/h) in any normally occupied space, except that this provision does not apply to private carriers, if exposed personnel under their control wear radiation dosimetry devices in conformance with 10 CFR 20.1502.
(c) For shipments made under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the shipper shall provide specific written instructions to the carrier for maintenance of the exclusive use shipment controls. The instructions must be included with the shipping paper information.
(d) The written instructions required for exclusive use shipments must be sufficient so that, when followed, they will cause the carrier to avoid actions that will unnecessarily delay delivery or unnecessarily result in increased radiation levels or radiation exposures to transport workers or members of the general public.
§ 71.51
Additional requirements for Type B packages.
(a) A Type B package, in addition to satisfying the requirements of §§ 71.41 through 71.47, must be designed, constructed, and prepared for shipment so that under the tests specified in:
(1) Section 71.71 (“Normal conditions of transport”), there would be no loss or dispersal of radioactive contents—as demonstrated to a sensitivity of 10
−6
A
2
per hour, no significant increase in external surface radiation levels, and no substantial reduction in the effectiveness of the packaging; and
(2) Section 71.73 (“Hypothetical accident conditions”), there would be no escape of krypton-85 exceeding 10 A
2
in 1 week, no escape of other radioactive material exceeding a total amount A
2
in 1 week, and no external radiation dose rate exceeding 10 mSv/h (1 rem/h) at 1 m (40 in) from the external surface of the package.
(b) Where mixtures of different radionuclides are present, the provisions of appendix A, paragraph IV of this part shall apply, except that for Krypton-85, an effective A
2
value equal to 10 A
2
may be used.
(c) Compliance with the permitted activity release limits of paragraph (a) of this section may not depend on filters or on a mechanical cooling system.
(d) For packages which contain radioactive contents with activity greater than 10
5
A
2
, the requirements of § 71.61 must be met.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 3794, Jan. 26, 2004; 69 FR 58039, Sept. 29, 2004]
§ 71.53
[Reserved]
§ 71.55
General requirements for fissile material packages.
(a) A package used for the shipment of fissile material must be designed and constructed in accordance with §§ 71.41 through 71.47. When required by the total amount of radioactive material, a package used for the shipment of fissile material must also be designed and constructed in accordance with § 71.51.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) or (g) of this section, a package used for the shipment of fissile material must be so designed and constructed and its contents so limited that it would be subcritical if water were to leak into the containment system, or liquid contents were to leak out of the containment system so that, under the following conditions, maximum reactivity of the fissile material would be attained:
(1) The most reactive credible configuration consistent with the chemical and physical form of the material;
(2) Moderation by water to the most reactive credible extent; and
(3) Close full reflection of the containment system by water on all sides, or such greater reflection of the containment system as may additionally be provided by the surrounding material of the packaging.
(c) The Commission may approve exceptions to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section if the package incorporates special design features that ensure that no single packaging error would permit leakage, and if appropriate measures are taken before each shipment to ensure that the containment system does not leak.
(d) A package used for the shipment of fissile material must be so designed and constructed and its contents so limited that under the tests specified
in § 71.71 (“Normal conditions of transport”)—
(1) The contents would be subcritical;
(2) The geometric form of the package contents would not be substantially altered;
(3) There would be no leakage of water into the containment system unless, in the evaluation of undamaged packages under § 71.59(a)(1), it has been assumed that moderation is present to such an extent as to cause maximum reactivity consistent with the chemical and physical form of the material; and
(4) There will be no substantial reduction in the effectiveness of the packaging, including:
(i) No more than 5 percent reduction in the total effective volume of the packaging on which nuclear safety is assessed;
(ii) No more than 5 percent reduction in the effective spacing between the fissile contents and the outer surface of the packaging; and
(iii) No occurrence of an aperture in the outer surface of the packaging large enough to permit the entry of a 10 cm (4 in) cube.
(e) A package used for the shipment of fissile material must be so designed and constructed and its contents so limited that under the tests specified in § 71.73 (“Hypothetical accident conditions”), the package would be subcritical. For this determination, it must be assumed that:
(1) The fissile material is in the most reactive credible configuration consistent with the damaged condition of the package and the chemical and physical form of the contents;
(2) Water moderation occurs to the most reactive credible extent consistent with the damaged condition of the package and the chemical and physical form of the contents; and
(3) There is full reflection by water on all sides, as close as is consistent with the damaged condition of the package.
(f) For fissile material package designs to be transported by air:
(1) The package must be designed and constructed, and its contents limited so that it would be subcritical, assuming reflection by 20 cm (7.9 in) of water but no water inleakage, when subjected to sequential application of:
(i) The free drop test in § 71.73(c)(1);
(ii) The crush test in § 71.73(c)(2);
(iii) A puncture test, for packages of 250 kg or more, consisting of a free drop of the specimen through a distance of 3 m (120 in) in a position for which maximum damage is expected at the conclusion of the test sequence, onto the upper end of a solid, vertical, cylindrical, mild steel probe mounted on an essentially unyielding, horizontal surface. The probe must be 20 cm (7.9 in) in diameter, with the striking end forming the frustum of a right circular cone with the dimensions of 30 cm height, 2.5 cm top diameter, and a top edge rounded to a radius of not more than 6 mm (0.25 in). For packages less than 250 kg, the puncture test must be the same, except that a 250 kg probe must be dropped onto the specimen which must be placed on the surface; and
(iv) The thermal test in § 71.73(c)(4), except that the duration of the test must be 60 minutes.
(2) The package must be designed and constructed, and its contents limited, so that it would be subcritical, assuming reflection by 20 cm (7.9 in) of water but no water inleakage, when subjected to an impact on an unyielding surface at a velocity of 90 m/s normal to the surface, at such orientation so as to result in maximum damage. A separate, undamaged specimen can be used for this evaluation.
(3) Allowance may not be made for the special design features in paragraph (c) of this section, unless water leakage into or out of void spaces is prevented following application of the tests in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section, and subsequent application of the immersion test in § 71.73(c)(5).
(g) Packages containing uranium hexafluoride only are excepted from the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section provided that:
(1) Following the tests specified in § 71.73 (“Hypothetical accident conditions”), there is no physical contact between the valve body and any other component of the packaging, other
than at its original point of attachment, and the valve remains leak tight;
(2) There is an adequate quality control in the manufacture, maintenance, and repair of packagings;
(3) Each package is tested to demonstrate closure before each shipment; and
(4) The uranium is enriched to not more than 5 weight percent uranium-235.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995; 61 FR 28724, June 6, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 3794, Jan. 26, 2004]
§ 71.57
[Reserved]
§ 71.59
Standards for arrays of fissile material packages.
(a) A fissile material package must be controlled by either the shipper or the carrier during transport to assure that an array of such packages remains subcritical. To enable this control, the designer of a fissile material package shall derive a number “N” based on all the following conditions being satisfied, assuming packages are stacked together in any arrangement and with close full reflection on all sides of the stack by water:
(1) Five times “N” undamaged packages with nothing between the packages would be subcritical;
(2) Two times “N” damaged packages, if each package were subjected to the tests specified in § 71.73 (“Hypothetical accident conditions”) would be subcritical with optimum interspersed hydrogenous moderation; and
(3) The value of “N” cannot be less than 0.5.
(b) The CSI must be determined by dividing the number 50 by the value of “N” derived using the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The value of the CSI may be zero provided that an unlimited number of packages are subcritical, such that the value of “N” is effectively equal to infinity under the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Any CSI greater than zero must be rounded up to the first decimal place.
(c) For a fissile material package which is assigned a CSI value—
(1) Less than or equal to 50, that package may be shipped by a carrier in a nonexclusive use conveyance, provided the sum of the CSIs is limited to less than or equal to 50.
(2) Less than or equal to 50, that package may be shipped by a carrier in an exclusive use conveyance, provided the sum of the CSIs is limited to less than or equal to 100.
(3) Greater than 50, that package must be shipped by a carrier in an exclusive use conveyance, provided the sum of the CSIs is limited to less than or equal to 100.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 3795, Jan. 26, 2004]
§ 71.61
Special requirements for Type B packages containing more than 10
5
A
2
.
A Type B package containing more than 10
5
A
2
must be designed so that its undamaged containment system can withstand an external water pressure of 2 MPa (290 psi) for a period of not less than 1 hour without collapse, buckling, or inleakage of water.
[69 FR 3795, Jan. 26, 2004]
§ 71.63
Special requirement for plutonium shipments.
Shipments containing plutonium must be made with the contents in solid form, if the contents contain greater than 0.74 TBq (20 Ci) of plutonium.
[69 FR 3795, Jan. 26, 2004]
§ 71.64
Special requirements for plutonium air shipments.
(a) A package for the shipment of plutonium by air subject to § 71.88(a)(4), in addition to satisfying the requirements of §§ 71.41 through 71.63, as applicable, must be designed, constructed, and prepared for shipment so that under the tests specified in—
(1) Section 71.74 (“Accident conditions for air transport of plutonium”)—
(i) The containment vessel would not be ruptured in its post-tested condition, and the package must provide a sufficient degree of containment to restrict accumulated loss of plutonium contents to not more than an A
2
quantity in a period of 1 week;
(ii) The external radiation level would not exceed 10 mSv/h (1 rem/h) at
a distance of 1 m (40 in) from the surface of the package in its post-tested condition in air; and
(iii) A single package and an array of packages are demonstrated to be subcritical in accordance with this part, except that the damaged condition of the package must be considered to be that which results from the plutonium accident tests in § 71.74, rather than the hypothetical accident tests in § 71.73; and
(2) Section 71.74(c), there would be no detectable leakage of water into the containment vessel of the package.
(b) With respect to the package requirements of paragraph (a), there must be a demonstration or analytical assessment showing that—
(1) The results of the physical testing for package qualification would not be adversely affected to a significant extent by—
(i) The presence, during the tests, of the actual contents that will be transported in the package; and
(ii) Ambient water temperatures ranging from 0.6 °C ( + 33 °F) to 38 °C ( + 100 °F) for those qualification tests involving water, and ambient atmospheric temperatures ranging from −40 °C (−40 °F) to + 54 °C ( + 130°F) for the other qualification tests.
(2) The ability of the package to meet the acceptance standards prescribed for the accident condition sequential tests would not be adversely affected if one or more tests in the sequence were deleted.
§ 71.65
Additional requirements.
The Commission may, by rule, regulation, or order, impose requirements on any licensee, in addition to those established in this part, as it deems necessary or appropriate to protect public health or to minimize danger to life or property.

# Subpart F—Package, Special Form, and LSA-III Tests
2
2
The package standards related to the tests in this subpart are contained in subpart E of this part.
§ 71.70
Incorporations by reference.
(a) The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference in the corresponding sections noted and made a part of the regulations in part 71. These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval. A notice of any changes made to the material incorporated by reference will be published in the
Federal Register,
and the material must be available to the public. The materials can be examined, by appointment, at the NRC's Technical Library, which is located at Two White Flint North, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852; telephone: 301-415-7000; email:
Library.Resource@nrc.gov.
The materials are also available from the sources listed below. All approved material is available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 1-202-741-6030 or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(b) International Organization for Standardization, ISO Central Secretariat, Chemin de Blandonnet 8 CP 401, 1214 Vernier, Geneva, Switzerland; email:
central@iso.org;
phone: + 41 22 749 01 11; Web site:
http://www.iso.org.
(1) ISO 9978:1992(E), “Radiation protection—Sealed radioactive sources—Leakage test methods,” First Edition (February 15, 1992), incorporation by reference approved for § 71.75(a), is available for purchase from the American National Standards Institute, 25 West 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036, 212-642-4900,
http://www.ansi.org,
or
info@ansi.org.
(2) ISO 2919:1999(E), “Radiation protection—Sealed radioactive sources—General requirements and classification,” Second Edition (February 15, 1999), incorporation by reference approved for § 71.75(d), is available on
http://www.amazon.com.
[80 FR 34013, June 12, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 48684, Aug. 14, 2015]
§ 71.71
Normal conditions of transport.
(a)
Evaluation.
Evaluation of each package design under normal conditions of transport must include a determination of the effect on that design of
the conditions and tests specified in this section. Separate specimens may be used for the free drop test, the compression test, and the penetration test, if each specimen is subjected to the water spray test before being subjected to any of the other tests.
(b)
Initial conditions.
With respect to the initial conditions for the tests in this section, the demonstration of compliance with the requirements of this part must be based on the ambient temperature preceding and following the tests remaining constant at that value between −29 °C (−20 °F) and + 38 °C ( + 100 °F) which is most unfavorable for the feature under consideration. The initial internal pressure within the containment system must be considered to be the maximum normal operating pressure, unless a lower internal pressure consistent with the ambient temperature considered to precede and follow the tests is more unfavorable.
(c)
Conditions and tests
—(1)
Heat.
An ambient temperature of 38 °C (100 °F) in still air, and insolation according to the following table:
Insolation Data
Form and location of surface
Total insolation for a 12-hour period
(g cal/cm
2
)
Flat surfaces transported horizontally:
Base
None
Other surfaces
800
Flat surfaces not transported horizontally
200
Curved surfaces
400
(2)
Cold.
An ambient temperature of −40 °C (−40 °F) in still air and shade.
(3)
Reduced external pressure.
An external pressure of 25 kPa (3.5 lbf/in
2
) absolute.
(4)
Increased external pressure.
An external pressure of 140 kPa (20 lbf/in
2
) absolute.
(5)
Vibration.
Vibration normally incident to transport.
(6)
Water spray.
A water spray that simulates exposure to rainfall of approximately 5 cm/h (2 in/h) for at least 1 hour.
(7)
Free drop.
Between 1.5 and 2.5 hours after the conclusion of the water spray test, a free drop through the distance specified below onto a flat, essentially unyielding, horizontal surface, striking the surface in a position for which maximum damage is expected.
Criteria for Free Drop Test (Weight/Distance)
Package weight
Kilograms
(Pounds)
Free drop distance
Meters
(Feet)
Less than 5,000
(Less than 11,000)
1.2
(4)
5,000 to 10,000
(11,000 to 22,000)
0.9
(3)
10,000 to 15,000
(22,000 to 33,100)
0.6
(2)
More than 15,000
(More than 33,100)
0.3
(1)
(8)
Corner drop.
A free drop onto each corner of the package in succession, or in the case of a cylindrical package onto each quarter of each rim, from a height of 0.3 m (1 ft) onto a flat, essentially unyielding, horizontal surface. This test applies only to fiberboard, wood, or fissile material rectangular packages not exceeding 50 kg (110 lbs) and fiberboard, wood, or fissile material cylindrical packages not exceeding 100 kg (220 lbs).
(9)
Compression.
For packages weighing up to 5000 kg (11,000 lbs), the package must be subjected, for a period of 24 hours, to a compressive load applied uniformly to the top and bottom of the package in the position in which the package would normally be transported. The compressive load must be the greater of the following:
(i) The equivalent of 5 times the weight of the package; or
(ii) The equivalent of 13 kPa (2 lbf/in
2
) multiplied by the vertically projected area of the package.
(10)
Penetration.
Impact of the hemispherical end of a vertical steel cylinder of 3.2 cm (1.25 in) diameter and 6 kg (13 lbs) mass, dropped from a height of 1 m (40 in) onto the exposed surface of the package that is expected to be most vulnerable to puncture. The long axis of the cylinder must be perpendicular to the package surface.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 81 FR 86910, Dec. 2, 2016]
§ 71.73
Hypothetical accident conditions.
(a)
Test procedures.
Evaluation for hypothetical accident conditions is to be based on sequential application of the tests specified in this section, in the order indicated, to determine their cumulative effect on a package or array
of packages. An undamaged specimen may be used for the water immersion tests specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.
(b)
Test conditions.
With respect to the initial conditions for the tests, except for the water immersion tests, to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this part during testing, the ambient air temperature before and after the tests must remain constant at that value between −29 °C (−20 °F) and + 38 °C ( + 100 °F) which is most unfavorable for the feature under consideration. The initial internal pressure within the containment system must be the maximum normal operating pressure, unless a lower internal pressure, consistent with the ambient temperature assumed to precede and follow the tests, is more unfavorable.
(c)
Tests.
Tests for hypothetical accident conditions must be conducted as follows:
(1)
Free drop.
A free drop of the specimen through a distance of 9 m (30 ft) onto a flat, essentially unyielding, horizontal surface, striking the surface in a position for which maximum damage is expected.
(2)
Crush.
Subjection of the specimen to a dynamic crush test by positioning the specimen on a flat, essentially unyielding horizontal surface so as to suffer maximum damage by the drop of a 500-kg (1100-lb) mass from 9 m (30 ft) onto the specimen. The mass must consist of a solid mild steel plate 1 m (40 in) by 1 m (40 in) and must fall in a horizontal attitude. The crush test is required only when the specimen has a mass not greater than 500 kg (1100 lb), an overall density not greater than 1000 kg/m
3
(62.4 lb/ft
3
) based on external dimension, and radioactive contents greater than 1000 A
2
not as special form radioactive material. For packages containing fissile material, the radioactive contents greater than 1000 A
2
criterion does not apply.
(3)
Puncture.
A free drop of the specimen through a distance of 1 m (40 in) in a position for which maximum damage is expected, onto the upper end of a solid, vertical, cylindrical, mild steel bar mounted on an essentially unyielding, horizontal surface. The bar must be 15 cm (6 in) in diameter, with the top horizontal and its edge rounded to a radius of not more than 6 mm (0.25 in), and of a length as to cause maximum damage to the package, but not less than 20 cm (8 in) long. The long axis of the bar must be vertical.
(4)
Thermal.
Exposure of the specimen fully engulfed, except for a simple support system, in a hydrocarbon fuel/air fire of sufficient extent, and in sufficiently quiescent ambient conditions, to provide an average emissivity coefficient of at least 0.9, with an average flame temperature of at least 800 °C (1475 °F) for a period of 30 minutes, or any other thermal test that provides the equivalent total heat input to the package and which provides a time averaged environmental temperature of 800 °C. The fuel source must extend horizontally at least 1 m (40 in), but may not extend more than 3 m (10 ft), beyond any external surface of the specimen, and the specimen must be positioned 1 m (40 in) above the surface of the fuel source. For purposes of calculation, the surface absorptivity coefficient must be either that value which the package may be expected to possess if exposed to the fire specified or 0.8, whichever is greater; and the convective coefficient must be that value which may be demonstrated to exist if the package were exposed to the fire specified. Artificial cooling may not be applied after cessation of external heat input, and any combustion of materials of construction, must be allowed to proceed until it terminates naturally.
(5)
Immersion—fissile material.
For fissile material subject to § 71.55, in those cases where water inleakage has not been assumed for criticality analysis, immersion under a head of water of at least 0.9 m (3 ft) in the attitude for which maximum leakage is expected.
(6)
Immersion—all packages.
A separate, undamaged specimen must be subjected to water pressure equivalent to immersion under a head of water of at least 15 m (50 ft). For test purposes, an external pressure of water of 150 kPa (21.7 lbf/in
2
) gauge is considered to meet these conditions.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 3795, Jan. 26, 2004]
§ 71.74
Accident conditions for air transport of plutonium.
(a)
Test conditions—Sequence of tests.
A package must be physically tested to the following conditions in the order indicated to determine their cumulative effect.
(1) Impact at a velocity of not less than 129 m/sec (422 ft/sec) at a right angle onto a flat, essentially unyielding, horizontal surface, in the orientation (e.g., side, end, corner) expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence.
(2) A static compressive load of 31,800 kg (70,000 lbs) applied in the orientation expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence. The force on the package must be developed between a flat steel surface and a 5 cm (2 in) wide, straight, solid, steel bar. The length of the bar must be at least as long as the diameter of the package, and the longitudinal axis of the bar must be parallel to the plane of the flat surface. The load must be applied to the bar in a manner that prevents any members or devices used to support the bar from contacting the package.
(3) Packages weighing less than 227 kg (500 lbs) must be placed on a flat, essentially unyielding, horizontal surface, and subjected to a weight of 227 kg (500 lbs) falling from a height of 3 m (10 ft) and striking in the position expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence. The end of the weight contacting the package must be a solid probe made of mild steel. The probe must be the shape of the frustum of a right circular cone, 30 cm (12 in) long, 20 cm (8 in) in diameter at the base, and 2.5 cm (1 in) in diameter at the end. The longitudinal axis of the probe must be perpendicular to the horizontal surface. For packages weighing 227 kg (500 lbs) or more, the base of the probe must be placed on a flat, essentially unyielding horizontal surface, and the package dropped from a height of 3 m (10 ft) onto the probe, striking in the position expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence.
(4) The package must be firmly restrained and supported such that its longitudinal axis is inclined approximately 45° to the horizontal. The area of the package that made first contact with the impact surface in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be in the lowermost position. The package must be struck at approximately the center of its vertical projection by the end of a structural steel angle section falling from a height of at least 46 m (150 ft). The angle section must be at least 1.8 m (6 ft) in length with equal legs at least 13 cm (5 in) long and 1.3 cm (0.5 in) thick. The angle section must be guided in such a way as to fall end-on, without tumbling. The package must be rotated approximately 90° about its longitudinal axis and struck by the steel angle section falling as before.
(5) The package must be exposed to luminous flames from a pool fire of JP-4 or JP-5 aviation fuel for a period of at least 60 minutes. The luminous flames must extend an average of at least 0.9 m (3 ft) and no more than 3 m (10 ft) beyond the package in all horizontal directions. The position and orientation of the package in relation to the fuel must be that which is expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence. An alternate method of thermal testing may be substituted for this fire test, provided that the alternate test is not of shorter duration and would not result in a lower heating rate to the package. At the conclusion of the thermal test, the package must be allowed to cool naturally or must be cooled by water sprinkling, whichever is expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence.
(6) Immersion under at least 0.9 m (3 ft) of water.
(b)
Individual free-fall impact test.
(1) An undamaged package must be physically subjected to an impact at a velocity not less than the calculated terminal free-fall velocity, at mean sea level, at a right angle onto a flat, essentially unyielding, horizontal surface, in the orientation (e.g., side, end, corner) expected to result in maximum damage.
(2) This test is not required if the calculated terminal free-fall velocity of the package is less than 129 m/sec (422 ft/sec), or if a velocity not less than either 129 m/sec (422 ft/sec) or the calculated terminal free-fall velocity of
the package is used in the sequential test of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(c)
Individual deep submersion test.
An undamaged package must be physically submerged and physically subjected to an external water pressure of at least 4 MPa (600 lbs/in
2
).
§ 71.75
Qualification of special form radioactive material.
(a) Special form radioactive materials must meet the test requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Each solid radioactive material or capsule specimen to be tested must be manufactured or fabricated so that it is representative of the actual solid material or capsule that will be transported, with the proposed radioactive content duplicated as closely as practicable. Any differences between the material to be transported and the test material, such as the use of non-radioactive contents, must be taken into account in determining whether the test requirements have been met. In addition:
(1) A different specimen may be used for each of the tests;
(2) The specimen may not break or shatter when subjected to the impact, percussion, or bending tests;
(3) The specimen may not melt or disperse when subjected to the heat test;
(4) After each test, leaktightness or indispersibility of the specimen must be determined by a method no less sensitive than the leaching assessment procedure prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. For a capsule resistant to corrosion by water, and which has an internal void volume greater than 0.1 milliliter, an alternative to the leaching assessment is a demonstration of leaktightness of × 10
−4
torr-liter/s (1.3 × × 10
−4
atm-cm
3
/s) based on air at 25 °C (77 °F) and one atmosphere differential pressure for solid radioactive content, or × 10
−6
torr-liter/s (1.3 × × 10
−6
atm−cm
3
/s) for liquid or gaseous radioactive content; and
(5) A specimen that comprises or simulates radioactive material contained in a sealed capsule need not be subjected to the leaktightness procedure specified in this section, provided it is alternatively subjected to any of the tests prescribed in ISO 9978:1992(E), “Radiation protection—Sealed radioactive sources—Leakage test methods” (incorporated by reference, see § 71.70).
(b)
Test methods
—(1)
Impact Test.
The specimen must fall onto the target from a height of 9 m (30 ft) or greater in the orientation expected to result in maximum damage. The target must be a flat, horizontal surface of such mass and rigidity that any increase in its resistance to displacement or deformation, on impact by the specimen, would not significantly increase the damage to the specimen.
(2)
Percussion Test.
(i) The specimen must be placed on a sheet of lead that is supported by a smooth solid surface, and struck by the flat face of a steel billet so as to produce an impact equivalent to that resulting from a free drop of 1.4 kg (3 lbs) through 1 m (40 in);
(ii) The flat face of the billet must be 25 millimeters (mm) (1 inch) in diameter with the edge rounded off to a radius of 3 mm ±0.3 mm (0.12 in ±0.012 in);
(iii) The lead must be hardness number 3.5 to 4.5 on the Vickers scale and not more than 25 mm (1 inch) thick, and must cover an area greater than that covered by the specimen;
(iv) A fresh surface of lead must be used for each impact; and
(v) The billet must strike the specimen so as to cause maximum damage.
(3)
Bending test.
(i) This test applies only to long, slender sources with a length of 10 cm (4 inches) or greater and a length to width ratio of 10 or greater;
(ii) The specimen must be rigidly clamped in a horizontal position so that one half of its length protrudes from the face of the clamp;
(iii) The orientation of the specimen must be such that the specimen will suffer maximum damage when its free end is struck by the flat face of a steel billet;
(iv) The billet must strike the specimen so as to produce an impact equivalent to that resulting from a free vertical drop of 1.4 kg (3 lbs) through 1 m (40 in); and
(v) The flat face of the billet must be 25 mm (1 inch) in diameter with the edges rounded off to a radius of 3 mm ±0.3 mm (.12 in ±0.012 in).
(4)
Heat test.
The specimen must be heated in air to a temperature of not less than 800 °C (1475 °F), held at that
temperature for a period of 10 minutes, and then allowed to cool.
(c)
Leaching assessment methods.
(1) For indispersible solid material—
(i) The specimen must be immersed for 7 days in water at ambient temperature. The water must have a pH of 6-8 and a maximum conductivity of 10 micromho per centimeter at 20° (68 °F);
(ii) The water with specimen must then be heated to a temperature of 50 °C ±5 °C (122 °F ±9 °F) and maintained at this temperature for 4 hours.
(iii) The activity of the water must then be determined;
(iv) The specimen must then be stored for at least 7 days in still air of relative humidity not less than 90 percent at 30 °C (86 °F);
(v) The specimen must then be immersed in water under the same conditions as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, and the water with specimen must be heated to 50 °C ±5 °C (122 °F ±9 °F) and maintained at that temperature for 4 hours;
(vi) The activity of the water must then be determined. The sum of the activities determined here and in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section must not exceed 2 kilobecquerels (kBq) (0.05 microcurie (µCi)).
(2) For encapsulated material—
(i) The specimen must be immersed in water at ambient temperature. The water must have a pH of 6-8 and a maximum conductivity of 10 micromho per centimeter;
(ii) The water and specimen must be heated to a temperature of 50 °C ±5 °C (122 °F ±9 °F) and maintained at this temperature for 4 hours;
(iii) The activity of the water must then be determined;
(iv) The specimen must then be stored for at least 7 days in still air at a temperature of 30 °C (86 °F) or greater;
(v) The process in paragraph (c)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section must be repeated; and
(vi) The activity of the water must then be determined. The sum of the activities determined here and in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section must not exceed 2 kilobecquerels (kBq) (0.05 microcurie (µCi)).
(d) A specimen that comprises or simulates radioactive material contained in a sealed capsule need not be subjected to—
(1) The impact test and the percussion test of this section, provided that the specimen is:
(i) Less than 200 grams and alternatively subjected to the Class 4 impact test prescribed in ISO 2919:1999(E), “Radiation protection—Sealed radioactive sources—General requirements and classification” (incorporated by reference, see § 71.70); or
(ii) Less than 500 grams and alternatively subjected to the Class 5 impact test prescribed in ISO 2919:1999(E), “Radioactive protection—Sealed radioactive sources—General requirements and classification” (incorporated by reference, see § 71.70); and
(2) The heat test of this section, provided the specimen is alternatively subjected to the Class 6 temperature test specified in ISO 2919:1999(E), “Radioactive protection—Sealed radioactive sources—General requirements and classification” (incorporated by reference, see § 71.70).
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 34013, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.77
Qualification of LSA-III Material.
(a) LSA-III material must meet the test requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Any differences between the specimen to be tested and the material to be transported must be taken into account in determining whether the test requirements have been met.
(b)
Leaching test.
(1) The specimen, representing no less than the entire contents of the package, must be immersed for 7 days in water at ambient temperature;
(2) The volume of water to be used in the test must be sufficient to ensure that at the end of the test period the free volume of the unabsorbed and unreacted water remaining will be at least 10% of the volume of the specimen itself;
(3) The water must have an initial pH of 6-8 and a maximum conductivity 10 micromho/cm at 20 °C (68 °F); and
(4) The total activity of the free volume of water must be measured following the 7 day immersion test and must not exceed 0.1 A
2
.

# Subpart G—Operating Controls and Procedures
§ 71.81
Applicability of operating controls and procedures.
A licensee subject to this part, who, under a general or specific license, transports licensed material or delivers licensed material to a carrier for transport, shall comply with the requirements of this subpart G, with the quality assurance requirements of subpart H of this part, and with the general provisions of subpart A of this part.
§ 71.83
Assumptions as to unknown properties.
When the isotopic abundance, mass, concentration, degree of irradiation, degree of moderation, or other pertinent property of fissile material in any package is not known, the licensee shall package the fissile material as if the unknown properties have credible values that will cause the maximum neutron multiplication.
§ 71.85
Preliminary determinations.
Before the first use of any packaging for the shipment of licensed material—
(a) The certificate holder shall ascertain that there are no cracks, pinholes, uncontrolled voids, or other defects that could significantly reduce the effectiveness of the packaging;
(b) Where the maximum normal operating pressure will exceed 35 kPa (5 lbf/in
2
) gauge, the certificate holder shall test the containment system at an internal pressure at least 50 percent higher than the maximum normal operating pressure, to verify the capability of that system to maintain its structural integrity at that pressure;
(c) The certificate holder shall conspicuously and durably mark the packaging with its model number, serial number, gross weight, and a package identification number assigned by the NRC. Before applying the model number, the certificate holder shall determine that the packaging has been fabricated in accordance with the design approved by the Commission; and
(d) The licensee shall ascertain that the determinations in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section have been made.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 34013, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.87
Routine determinations.
Before each shipment of licensed material, the licensee shall ensure that the package with its contents satisfies the applicable requirements of this part and of the license. The licensee shall determine that—
(a) The package is proper for the contents to be shipped;
(b) The package is in unimpaired physical condition except for superficial defects such as marks or dents;
(c) Each closure device of the packaging, including any required gasket, is properly installed and secured and free of defects;
(d) Any system for containing liquid is adequately sealed and has adequate space or other specified provision for expansion of the liquid;
(e) Any pressure relief device is operable and set in accordance with written procedures;
(f) The package has been loaded and closed in accordance with written procedures;
(g) For fissile material, any moderator or neutron absorber, if required, is present and in proper condition;
(h) Any structural part of the package that could be used to lift or tie down the package during transport is rendered inoperable for that purpose, unless it satisfies the design requirements of § 71.45;
(i) The level of non-fixed (removable) radioactive contamination on the external surfaces of each package offered for shipment is as low as reasonably achievable, and within the limits specified in DOT regulations in 49 CFR 173.443;
(j) External radiation levels around the package and around the vehicle, if applicable, will not exceed the limits specified in § 71.47 at any time during transportation; and
(k) Accessible package surface temperatures will not exceed the limits specified in § 71.43(g) at any time during transportation.
§ 71.88
Air transport of plutonium.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any general licenses and notwithstanding any exemptions stated directly in this part or included indirectly by citation of 49 CFR chapter I, as may be applicable, the licensee shall assure that plutonium in any form, whether for import, export, or domestic shipment, is not transported by air or delivered to a carrier for air transport unless:
(1) The plutonium is contained in a medical device designed for individual human application; or
(2) The plutonium is contained in a material in which the specific activity is less than or equal to the activity concentration values for plutonium specified in Appendix A, Table A-2, of this part, and in which the radioactivity is essentially uniformly distributed; or
(3) The plutonium is shipped in a single package containing no more than an A
2
quantity of plutonium in any isotope or form, and is shipped in accordance with § 71.5; or
(4) The plutonium is shipped in a package specifically authorized for the shipment of plutonium by air in the Certificate of Compliance for that package issued by the Commission.
(b) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section is to be interpreted as removing or diminishing the requirements of § 73.24 of this chapter.
(c) For a shipment of plutonium by air which is subject to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the licensee shall, through special arrangement with the carrier, require compliance with 49 CFR 175.704, U.S. Department of Transportation regulations applicable to the air transport of plutonium.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 3795, Jan. 26, 2004]
§ 71.89
Opening instructions.
Before delivery of a package to a carrier for transport, the licensee shall ensure that any special instructions needed to safely open the package have been sent to, or otherwise made available to, the consignee for the consignee's use in accordance with 10 CFR 20.1906(e).
§ 71.91
Records.
(a) Each licensee shall maintain, for a period of 3 years after shipment, a record of each shipment of licensed material not exempt under § 71.14, showing where applicable—
(1) Identification of the packaging by model number and serial number;
(2) Verification that there are no significant defects in the packaging, as shipped;
(3) Volume and identification of coolant;
(4) Type and quantity of licensed material in each package, and the total quantity of each shipment;
(5) For each item of irradiated fissile material—
(i) Identification by model number and serial number;
(ii) Irradiation and decay history to the extent appropriate to demonstrate that its nuclear and thermal characteristics comply with license conditions; and
(iii) Any abnormal or unusual condition relevant to radiation safety;
(6) Date of the shipment;
(7) For fissile packages and for Type B packages, any special controls exercised;
(8) Name and address of the transferee;
(9) Address to which the shipment was made; and
(10) Results of the determinations required by § 71.87 and by the conditions of the package approval.
(b) Each certificate holder shall maintain, for a period of 3 years after the life of the packaging to which they apply, records identifying the packaging by model number, serial number, and date of manufacture.
(c) The licensee, certificate holder, and an applicant for a CoC, shall make available to the Commission for inspection, upon reasonable notice, all records required by this part. Records are only valid if stamped, initialed, or signed and dated by authorized personnel, or otherwise authenticated.
(d) The licensee, certificate holder, and an applicant for a CoC shall maintain sufficient written records to furnish evidence of the quality of packaging. The records to be maintained include results of the determinations required by § 71.85; design, fabrication,
and assembly records; results of reviews, inspections, tests, and audits; results of monitoring work performance and materials analyses; and results of maintenance, modification, and repair activities. Inspection, test, and audit records must identify the inspector or data recorder, the type of observation, the results, the acceptability, and the action taken in connection with any deficiencies noted. These records must be retained for 3 years after the life of the packaging to which they apply.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 3795, Jan. 26, 2004; 80 FR 34013, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.93
Inspection and tests.
(a) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall permit the Commission, at all reasonable times, to inspect the licensed material, packaging, premises, and facilities in which the licensed material or packaging is used, provided, constructed, fabricated, tested, stored, or shipped.
(b) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall perform, and permit the Commission to perform, any tests the Commission deems necessary or appropriate for the administration of the regulations in this chapter.
(c) The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC shall notify the NRC, in accordance with § 71.1, 45 days in advance of starting fabrication of the first packaging under a CoC. This paragraph applies to any packaging used for the shipment of licensed material which has either—
(1) A decay heat load in excess of 5 kW; or
(2) A maximum normal operating pressure in excess of 103 kPa (15 lbf/in
2
) gauge.
[69 FR 3796, Jan. 26, 2004]
§ 71.95
Reports.
(a) The licensee, after requesting the certificate holder's input, shall submit a written report to the Commission of—
(1) Instances in which there is a significant reduction in the effectiveness of any NRC-approved Type B or Type AF packaging during use; or
(2) Details of any defects with safety significance in any NRC-approved Type B or fissile material packaging, after first use.
(3) Instances in which the conditions of approval in the Certificate of Compliance were not observed in making a shipment.
(b) The licensee shall submit a written report to the Commission of instances in which the conditions in the certificate of compliance were not followed during a shipment.
(c) Each licensee shall submit, in accordance with § 71.1, a written report required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section within 60 days of the event or discovery of the event. The licensee shall also provide a copy of each report submitted to the NRC to the applicable certificate holder. Written reports prepared under other regulations may be submitted to fulfill this requirement if the reports contain all the necessary information, and the appropriate distribution is made. Using an appropriate method listed in § 71.1(a), the licensee shall report to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Division of Fuel Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. These written reports must include the following:
(1) A brief abstract describing the major occurrences during the event, including all component or system failures that contributed to the event and significant corrective action taken or planned to prevent recurrence.
(2) A clear, specific, narrative description of the event that occurred so that knowledgeable readers conversant with the requirements of part 71, but not familiar with the design of the packaging, can understand the complete event. The narrative description must include the following specific information as appropriate for the particular event.
(i) Status of components or systems that were inoperable at the start of the event and that contributed to the event;
(ii) Dates and approximate times of occurrences;
(iii) The cause of each component or system failure or personnel error, if known;
(iv) The failure mode, mechanism, and effect of each failed component, if known;
(v) A list of systems or secondary functions that were also affected for failures of components with multiple functions;
(vi) The method of discovery of each component or system failure or procedural error;
(vii) For each human performance-related root cause, a discussion of the cause(s) and circumstances;
(viii) The manufacturer and model number (or other identification) of each component that failed during the event; and
(ix) For events occurring during use of a packaging, the quantities and chemical and physical form(s) of the package contents.
(3) An assessment of the safety consequences and implications of the event. This assessment must include the availability of other systems or components that could have performed the same function as the components and systems that failed during the event.
(4) A description of any corrective actions planned as a result of the event, including the means employed to repair any defects, and actions taken to reduce the probability of similar events occurring in the future.
(5) Reference to any previous similar events involving the same packaging that are known to the licensee or certificate holder.
(6) The name and telephone number of a person within the licensee's organization who is knowledgeable about the event and can provide additional information.
(7) The extent of exposure of individuals to radiation or to radioactive materials without identification of individuals by name.
(d)
Report legibility.
The reports submitted by licensees and/or certificate holders under this section must be of sufficient quality to permit reproduction and micrographic processing.
[69 FR 3796, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 75740, Dec. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65645, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 71.97
Advance notification of shipment of irradiated reactor fuel and nuclear waste.
(a)(1) As specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, each licensee shall provide advance notification to the governor of a State, or the governor's designee, of the shipment of licensed material, within or across the boundary of the State, before the transport, or delivery to a carrier, for transport, of licensed material outside the confines of the licensee's plant or other place of use or storage.
(2) As specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, after June 11, 2013, each licensee shall provide advance notification to the Tribal official of participating Tribes referenced in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, or the official's designee, of the shipment of licensed material, within or across the boundary of the Tribe's reservation, before the transport, or delivery to a carrier, for transport, of licensed material outside the confines of the licensee's plant or other place of use or storage.
(b) Advance notification is also required under this section for the shipment of licensed material, other than irradiated fuel, meeting the following three conditions:
(1) The licensed material is required by this part to be in Type B packaging for transportation;
(2) The licensed material is being transported to or across a State boundary en route to a disposal facility or to a collection point for transport to a disposal facility; and
(3) The quantity of licensed material in a single package exceeds the least of the following:
(i) 3000 times the A
1
value of the radionuclides as specified in appendix A, Table A-1 for special form radioactive material;
(ii) 3000 times the A
2
value of the radionuclides as specified in appendix A, Table A-1 for normal form radioactive material; or
(iii) 1000 TBq (27,000 Ci).
(c)
Procedures for submitting advance notification.
(1) The notification must be made in writing to:
(i) The office of each appropriate governor or governor's designee;
(ii) The office of each appropriate Tribal official or Tribal official's designee; and
(iii) The Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response.
(2) A notification delivered by mail must be postmarked at least 7 days before the beginning of the 7-day period during which departure of the shipment is estimated to occur.
(3) A notification delivered by any other means than mail must reach the office of the governor or of the governor's designee or the Tribal official or Tribal official's designee at least 4 days before the beginning of the 7-day period during which departure of the shipment is estimated to occur.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Contact information for each State, including telephone and mailing addresses of governors and governors' designees, and participating Tribes, including telephone and mailing addresses of Tribal officials and Tribal official's designees, is available on the NRC Web site at:
https://scp.nrc.gov/special/designee.pdf.
(iii) A list of the names and mailing addresses of the governors' designees and Tribal officials' designees of participating Tribes is available on request from the Director, Division of Materials Safety, Security, State, and Tribal Programs, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.
(4) The licensee shall retain a copy of the notification as a record for 3 years.
(d)
Information to be furnished in advance notification of shipment.
Each advance notification of shipment of irradiated reactor fuel or nuclear waste must contain the following information:
(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the shipper, carrier, and receiver of the irradiated reactor fuel or nuclear waste shipment;
(2) A description of the irradiated reactor fuel or nuclear waste contained in the shipment, as specified in the regulations of DOT in 49 CFR 172.202 and 172.203(d);
(3) The point of origin of the shipment and the 7-day period during which departure of the shipment is estimated to occur;
(4) The 7-day period during which arrival of the shipment at State boundaries or Tribal reservation boundaries is estimated to occur;
(5) The destination of the shipment, and the 7-day period during which arrival of the shipment is estimated to occur; and
(6) A point of contact, with a telephone number, for current shipment information.
(e)
Revision notice.
A licensee who finds that schedule information previously furnished to a governor or governor's designee or a Tribal official or Tribal official's designee, in accordance with this section, will not be met, shall telephone a responsible individual in the office of the governor of the State or of the governor's designee or the Tribal official or the Tribal official's designee and inform that individual of the extent of the delay beyond the schedule originally reported. The licensee shall maintain a record of the name of the individual contacted for 3 years.
(f)
Cancellation notice.
(1) Each licensee who cancels an irradiated reactor fuel or nuclear waste shipment for which advance notification has been sent shall send a cancellation notice to the governor of each State or to the governor's designee previously notified, each Tribal official or to the Tribal official's designee previously notified, and to the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response.
(2) The licensee shall state in the notice that it is a cancellation and identify the advance notification that is being canceled. The licensee shall retain a copy of the notice as a record for 3 years.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 14529, Mar. 26, 2003; 68 FR 23575, May 5, 2003; 68 FR 58818, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62683, Dec. 1, 2009; 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 77 FR 34204, June 11, 2012; 78 FR 17021, Mar. 19, 2013; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 30288, June 28, 2018; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 71.99
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or (3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; or
(iv) Any term , condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
§ 71.100
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in part 71 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 71 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 71.0, 71.2, 71.4, 71.6, 71.7, 71.10, 71.31, 71.33, 71.35, 71.37, 71.38, 71.39, 71.40, 71.41, 71.43, 71.45, 71.47, 71.51, 71.55, 71.59, 71.65, 71.71, 71.73, 71.74, 71.75, 71.77, 71.99, and 71.100.
[60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 3796, Jan. 26, 2004]

# Subpart H—Quality Assurance

# Source:
69 FR 3796, Jan. 26, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 71.101
Quality assurance requirements.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart describes quality assurance requirements applying to design, purchase, fabrication, handling, shipping, storing, cleaning, assembly, inspection, testing, operation, maintenance, repair, and modification of components of packaging that are important to safety. As used in this subpart, “quality assurance” comprises all those planned and systematic actions necessary to provide adequate confidence that a system or component will perform satisfactorily in service. Quality assurance includes quality control, which comprises those quality assurance actions related to control of the physical characteristics and quality of the material or component to predetermined requirements. Each certificate holder and applicant for a package approval is responsible for satisfying the quality assurance requirements that apply to design, fabrication, testing, and modification of packaging subject to this subpart. Each licensee is responsible for satisfying the quality assurance requirements that apply to its use of a packaging for the shipment of licensed material subject to this subpart.
(b)
Establishment of program.
Each licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish, maintain, and execute a quality assurance program satisfying each of the applicable criteria of §§ 71.101 through 71.137 and satisfying any specific provisions that are applicable to the licensee's activities including procurement of packaging. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall execute the applicable criteria in a graded approach to an extent that is commensurate with the quality assurance requirement's importance to safety.
(c)
Approval of program.
(1) Before the use of any package for the shipment of licensed material subject to this subpart, each licensee shall obtain Commission approval of its quality assurance program. Using an appropriate method listed in § 71.1(a), each licensee shall file a description of its quality assurance program, including a discussion of which requirements of this subpart are applicable and how they will
be satisfied, by submitting the description to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Division of Fuel Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards.
(2) Before the fabrication, testing, or modification of any package for the shipment of licensed material subject to this subpart, each certificate holder, or applicant for a Certificate of Compliance shall obtain Commission approval of its quality assurance program. Each certificate holder or applicant for a CoC shall, in accordance with § 71.1, file a description of its quality assurance program, including a discussion of which requirements of this subpart are applicable and how they will be satisfied.
(d)
Existing package designs.
The provisions of this paragraph deal with packages that have been approved for use in accordance with this part before January 1, 1979, and which have been designed in accordance with the provisions of this part in effect at the time of application for package approval. Those packages will be accepted as having been designed in accordance with a quality assurance program that satisfies the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Existing packages.
The provisions of this paragraph deal with packages that have been approved for use in accordance with this part before January 1, 1979, have been at least partially fabricated before that date, and for which the fabrication is in accordance with the provisions of this part in effect at the time of application for approval of package design. These packages will be accepted as having been fabricated and assembled in accordance with a quality assurance program that satisfies the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.
(f)
Previously approved programs.
A Commission-approved quality assurance program that satisfies the applicable criteria of subpart H of this part, Appendix B of part 50 of this chapter, or subpart G of part 72 of this chapter, and that is established, maintained, and executed regarding transport packages, will be accepted as satisfying the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Before first use, the licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall notify the NRC, in accordance with § 71.1, of its intent to apply its previously approved subpart H, Appendix B, or subpart G quality assurance program to transportation activities. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall identify the program by date of submittal to the Commission, Docket Number, and date of Commission approval.
(g)
Radiography containers.
A program for transport container inspection and maintenance limited to radiographic exposure devices, source changers, or packages transporting these devices and meeting the requirements of § 34.31(b) of this chapter or equivalent Agreement State requirement, is deemed to satisfy the requirements of §§ 71.17(b) and 71.101(b).
[69 FR 3796, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 34013, June 12, 2015; 84 FR 65645, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 71.103
Quality assurance organization.
(a) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a Certificate of Compliance shall be responsible for the establishment and execution of the quality assurance program. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a Certificate of Compliance may delegate to others, such as contractors, agents, or consultants, the work of establishing and executing the quality assurance program, or any part of the quality assurance program, but shall retain responsibility for the program. These activities include performing the functions associated with attaining quality objectives and the quality assurance functions.
(b) The quality assurance functions are—
(1) Assuring that an appropriate quality assurance program is established and effectively executed; and
(2) Verifying, by procedures such as checking, auditing, and inspection, that activities affecting the functions that are important to safety have been correctly performed.
(c) The persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions must have sufficient authority and organizational freedom to—
(1) Identify quality problems;
(2) Initiate, recommend, or provide solutions; and
(3) Verify implementation of solutions.
(d) The persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions shall report to a management level that assures that the required authority and organizational freedom, including sufficient independence from cost and schedule, when opposed to safety considerations, are provided.
(e) Because of the many variables involved, such as the number of personnel, the type of activity being performed, and the location or locations where activities are performed, the organizational structure for executing the quality assurance program may take various forms, provided that the persons and organizations assigned the quality assurance functions have the required authority and organizational freedom.
(f) Irrespective of the organizational structure, the individual(s) assigned the responsibility for assuring effective execution of any portion of the quality assurance program, at any location where activities subject to this section are being performed, must have direct access to the levels of management necessary to perform this function.
[69 FR 3796, Jan. 26, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 34014, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.105
Quality assurance program.
(a) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish, at the earliest practicable time consistent with the schedule for accomplishing the activities, a quality assurance program that complies with the requirements of §§ 71.101 through 71.137. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall document the quality assurance program by written procedures or instructions and shall carry out the program in accordance with those procedures throughout the period during which the packaging is used. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall identify the material and components to be covered by the quality assurance program, the major organizations participating in the program, and the designated functions of these organizations.
(b) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC, through its quality assurance program, shall provide control over activities affecting the quality of the identified materials and components to an extent consistent with their importance to safety, and as necessary to assure conformance to the approved design of each individual package used for the shipment of radioactive material. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall assure that activities affecting quality are accomplished under suitably controlled conditions. Controlled conditions include the use of appropriate equipment; suitable environmental conditions for accomplishing the activity, such as adequate cleanliness; and assurance that all prerequisites for the given activity have been satisfied. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall take into account the need for special controls, processes, test equipment, tools, and skills to attain the required quality, and the need for verification of quality by inspection and test.
(c) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall base the requirements and procedures of its quality assurance program on the following considerations concerning the complexity and proposed use of the package and its components:
(1) The impact of malfunction or failure of the item to safety;
(2) The design and fabrication complexity or uniqueness of the item;
(3) The need for special controls and surveillance over processes and equipment;
(4) The degree to which functional compliance can be demonstrated by inspection or test; and
(5) The quality history and degree of standardization of the item.
(d) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall provide for indoctrination and training of personnel performing activities affecting quality, as necessary to assure that suitable proficiency is achieved and maintained. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall review the status and adequacy of the quality assurance program at established intervals. Management of other
organizations participating in the quality assurance program shall review regularly the status and adequacy of that part of the quality assurance program they are executing.
§ 71.106
Changes to quality assurance program.
(a) Each quality assurance program approval holder shall submit, in accordance with § 71.1(a), a description of a proposed change to its NRC-approved quality assurance program that will reduce commitments in the program description as approved by the NRC. The quality assurance program approval holder shall not implement the change before receiving NRC approval.
(1) The description of a proposed change to the NRC-approved quality assurance program must identify the change, the reason for the change, and the basis for concluding that the revised program incorporating the change continues to satisfy the applicable requirements of subpart H of this part.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) Each quality assurance program approval holder may change a previously approved quality assurance program without prior NRC approval, if the change does not reduce the commitments in the quality assurance program previously approved by the NRC. Changes to the quality assurance program that do not reduce the commitments shall be submitted to the NRC every 24 months, in accordance with § 71.1(a). In addition to quality assurance program changes involving administrative improvements and clarifications, spelling corrections, and non-substantive changes to punctuation or editorial items, the following changes are not considered reductions in commitment:
(1) The use of a quality assurance standard approved by the NRC that is more recent than the quality assurance standard in the certificate holder's or applicant's current quality assurance program at the time of the change;
(2) The use of generic organizational position titles that clearly denote the position function, supplemented as necessary by descriptive text, rather than specific titles, provided that there is no substantive change to either the functions of the position or reporting responsibilities;
(3) The use of generic organizational charts to indicate functional relationships, authorities, and responsibilities, or alternatively, the use of descriptive text, provided that there is no substantive change to the functional relationships, authorities, or responsibilities;
(4) The elimination of quality assurance program information that duplicates language in quality assurance regulatory guides and quality assurance standards to which the quality assurance program approval holder has committed to on record; and
(5) Organizational revisions that ensure that persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions continue to have the requisite authority and organizational freedom, including sufficient independence from cost and schedule when opposed to safety considerations.
(c) Each quality assurance program approval holder shall maintain records of quality assurance program changes.
[80 FR 34014, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.107
Package design control.
(a) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to assure that applicable regulatory requirements and the package design, as specified in the license or CoC for those materials and components to which this section applies, are correctly translated into specifications, drawings, procedures, and instructions. These measures must include provisions to assure that appropriate quality standards are specified and included in design documents and that deviations from standards are controlled. Measures must be established for the selection and review for suitability of application of materials, parts, equipment, and processes that are essential to the functions of the materials, parts, and components of the packaging that are important to safety.
(b) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures for the identification and control of design interfaces and for coordination among participating design
organizations. These measures must include the establishment of written procedures, among participating design organizations, for the review, approval, release, distribution, and revision of documents involving design interfaces. The design control measures must provide for verifying or checking the adequacy of design, by methods such as design reviews, alternate or simplified calculational methods, or by a suitable testing program. For the verifying or checking process, the licensee shall designate individuals or groups other than those who were responsible for the original design, but who may be from the same organization. Where a test program is used to verify the adequacy of a specific design feature in lieu of other verifying or checking processes, the licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall include suitable qualification testing of a prototype or sample unit under the most adverse design conditions. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall apply design control measures to the following:
(1) Criticality physics, radiation shielding, stress, thermal, hydraulic, and accident analyses;
(2) Compatibility of materials;
(3) Accessibility for inservice inspection, maintenance, and repair;
(4) Features to facilitate decontamination; and
(5) Delineation of acceptance criteria for inspections and tests.
(c) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall subject design changes, including field changes, to design control measures commensurate with those applied to the original design. Changes in the conditions specified in the CoC require prior NRC approval.
§ 71.109
Procurement document control.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to assure that adequate quality is required in the documents for procurement of material, equipment, and services, whether purchased by the licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC or by its contractors or subcontractors. To the extent necessary, the licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall require contractors or subcontractors to provide a quality assurance program consistent with the applicable provisions of this part.
§ 71.111
Instructions, procedures, and drawings.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall prescribe activities affecting quality by documented instructions, procedures, or drawings of a type appropriate to the circumstances and shall require that these instructions, procedures, and drawings be followed. The instructions, procedures, and drawings must include appropriate quantitative or qualitative acceptance criteria for determining that important activities have been satisfactorily accomplished.
§ 71.113
Document control.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to control the issuance of documents such as instructions, procedures, and drawings, including changes, that prescribe all activities affecting quality. These measures must assure that documents, including changes, are reviewed for adequacy, approved for release by authorized personnel, and distributed and used at the location where the prescribed activity is performed.
§ 71.115
Control of purchased material, equipment, and services.
(a) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to assure that purchased material, equipment, and services, whether purchased directly or through contractors and subcontractors, conform to the procurement documents. These measures must include provisions, as appropriate, for source evaluation and selection, objective evidence of quality furnished by the contractor or subcontractor, inspection at the contractor or subcontractor source, and examination of products on delivery.
(b) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall have available documentary evidence that material and equipment conform to the procurement specifications before installation or use of the material and equipment. The licensee, certificate
holder, and applicant for a CoC shall retain, or have available, this documentary evidence for the life of the package to which it applies. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall assure that the evidence is sufficient to identify the specific requirements met by the purchased material and equipment.
(c) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall assess the effectiveness of the control of quality by contractors and subcontractors at intervals consistent with the importance, complexity, and quantity of the product or services.
§ 71.117
Identification and control of materials, parts, and components.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures for the identification and control of materials, parts, and components. These measures must assure that identification of the item is maintained by heat number, part number, or other appropriate means, either on the item or on records traceable to the item, as required throughout fabrication, installation, and use of the item. These identification and control measures must be designed to prevent the use of incorrect or defective materials, parts, and components.
§ 71.119
Control of special processes.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to assure that special processes, including welding, heat treating, and nondestructive testing are controlled and accomplished by qualified personnel using qualified procedures in accordance with applicable codes, standards, specifications, criteria, and other special requirements.
§ 71.121
Internal inspection.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish and execute a program for inspection of activities affecting quality by or for the organization performing the activity, to verify conformance with the documented instructions, procedures, and drawings for accomplishing the activity. The inspection must be performed by individuals other than those who performed the activity being inspected. Examination, measurements, or tests of material or products processed must be performed for each work operation where necessary to assure quality. If direct inspection of processed material or products is not carried out, indirect control by monitoring processing methods, equipment, and personnel must be provided. Both inspection and process monitoring must be provided when quality control is inadequate without both. If mandatory inspection hold points, which require witnessing or inspecting by the licensee's designated representative and beyond which work should not proceed without the consent of its designated representative, are required, the specific hold points must be indicated in appropriate documents.
§ 71.123
Test control.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish a test program to assure that all testing required to demonstrate that the packaging components will perform satisfactorily in service is identified and performed in accordance with written test procedures that incorporate the requirements of this part and the requirements and acceptance limits contained in the package approval. The test procedures must include provisions for assuring that all prerequisites for the given test are met, that adequate test instrumentation is available and used, and that the test is performed under suitable environmental conditions. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall document and evaluate the test results to assure that test requirements have been satisfied.
§ 71.125
Control of measuring and test equipment.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to assure that tools, gauges, instruments, and other measuring and testing devices used in activities affecting quality are properly controlled, calibrated, and adjusted at specified times to maintain accuracy within necessary limits.
§ 71.127
Handling, storage, and shipping control.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to control, in accordance with instructions, the handling, storage, shipping, cleaning, and preservation of materials and equipment to be used in packaging to prevent damage or deterioration. When necessary for particular products, special protective environments, such as inert gas atmosphere, and specific moisture content and temperature levels must be specified and provided.
§ 71.129
Inspection, test, and operating status.
(a) The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to indicate, by the use of markings such as stamps, tags, labels, routing cards, or other suitable means, the status of inspections and tests performed upon individual items of the packaging. These measures must provide for the identification of items that have satisfactorily passed required inspections and tests, where necessary to preclude inadvertent bypassing of the inspections and tests.
(b) The licensee shall establish measures to identify the operating status of components of the packaging, such as tagging valves and switches, to prevent inadvertent operation.
§ 71.131
Nonconforming materials, parts, or components.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to control materials, parts, or components that do not conform to the licensee's requirements to prevent their inadvertent use or installation. These measures must include, as appropriate, procedures for identification, documentation, segregation, disposition, and notification to affected organizations. Nonconforming items must be reviewed and accepted, rejected, repaired, or reworked in accordance with documented procedures.
§ 71.133
Corrective action.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to assure that conditions adverse to quality, such as deficiencies, deviations, defective material and equipment, and nonconformances, are promptly identified and corrected. In the case of a significant condition adverse to quality, the measures must assure that the cause of the condition is determined and corrective action taken to preclude repetition. The identification of the significant condition adverse to quality, the cause of the condition, and the corrective action taken must be documented and reported to appropriate levels of management.
§ 71.135
Quality assurance records.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a Certificate of Compliance shall maintain sufficient written records to describe the activities affecting quality. These records must include changes to the quality assurance program as required by § 71.106, the instructions, procedures, and drawings required by § 71.111 to prescribe quality assurance activities, and closely related specifications such as required qualifications of personnel, procedures, and equipment. The records must include the instructions or procedures that establish a records retention program that is consistent with applicable regulations and designates factors such as duration, location, and assigned responsibility. The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a Certificate of Compliance shall retain these records for 3 years beyond the date when the licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a Certificate of Compliance last engage in the activity for which the quality assurance program was developed. If any portion of the quality assurance program, written procedures or instructions is superseded, the licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a Certificate of Compliance shall retain the superseded material for 3 years after it is superseded.
[80 FR 34014, June 12, 2015]
§ 71.137
Audits.
The licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall carry out a comprehensive system of planned and periodic audits to verify compliance with all aspects of the quality assurance program and to determine the effectiveness of the program. The audits
must be performed in accordance with written procedures or checklists by appropriately trained personnel not having direct responsibilities in the areas being audited. Audited results must be documented and reviewed by management having responsibility in the area audited. Followup action, including reaudit of deficient areas, must be taken where indicated.
Pt. 71, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 71—Determination of A
1

# and A
2
I. Values of A
1
and A
2
for individual radionuclides, which are the bases for many activity limits elsewhere in these regulations, are given in Table A-1. The curie (Ci) values specified are obtained by converting from the Terabecquerel (TBq) value. The Terabecquerel values are the regulatory standard. The curie values are for information only and are not intended to be the regulatory standard. Where values of A
1
and A
2
are unlimited, it is for radiation control purposes only. For nuclear criticality safety, some materials are subject to controls placed on fissile material.
II. a. For individual radionuclides whose identities are known, but which are not listed in Table A-1, the A
1
and A
2
values contained in Table A-3 may be used. Otherwise, the licensee shall obtain prior Commission approval of the A
1
and A
2
values for radionuclides not listed in Table A-1, before shipping the material.
b. For individual radionuclides whose identities are known, but which are not listed in Table A-2, the exempt material activity concentration and exempt consignment activity values contained in Table A-3 may be used. Otherwise, the licensee shall obtain prior Commission approval of the exempt material activity concentration and exempt consignment activity values for radionuclides not listed in Table A-2, before shipping the material.
c. The licensee shall submit requests for prior approval, described under paragraphs II.a. and II.b. of this Appendix, to the Commission, in accordance with § 71.1 of this part.
III. In the calculations of A
1
and A
2
for a radionuclide not in Table A-1, a single radioactive decay chain, in which radionuclides are present in their naturally occurring proportions, and in which no daughter radionuclide has a half-life either longer than 10 days, or longer than that of the parent radionuclide, shall be considered as a single radionuclide, and the activity to be taken into account, and the A
1
and A
2
value to be applied, shall be those corresponding to the parent radionuclide of that chain. In the case of radioactive decay chains in which any daughter radionuclide has a half-life either longer than 10 days, or greater than that of the parent radionuclide, the parent and those daughter radionuclides shall be considered as mixtures of different radionuclides.
IV. For mixtures of radionuclides whose identities and respective activities are known, the following conditions apply:
a. For special form radioactive material, the maximum quantity transported in a Type A package is as follows:
ER12JN15.094
where B(i) is the activity of radionuclide i in special form, and A
1
(i) is the A
1
value for radionuclide i.
b. For normal form radioactive material, the maximum quantity transported in a Type A package is as follows:
ER12JN15.095
where B(i) is the activity of radionuclide i in normal form, and A
2
(i) is the A
2
value for radionuclide i.
c. If the package contains both special and normal form radioactive material, the activity that may be transported in a Type A package is as follows:
ER12JN15.096
where B(i) is the activity of radionuclide i as special form radioactive material, A
1
(i) is the A
1
value for radionuclide i, C(j) is the activity of radionuclide j as normal form radioactive material, and A
2
(j) is the A
2
value for radionuclide j.
d. Alternatively, the A
1
value for mixtures of special form material may be determined as follows:
ER12JN15.097
where f(i) is the fraction of activity for radionuclide i in the mixture and A
1
(i) is the appropriate A
1
value for radionuclide i.
e. Alternatively, the A
2
value for mixtures of normal form material may be determined as follows:
ER12JN15.098
where f(i) is the fraction of activity for radionuclide i in the mixture and A
2
(i) is the appropriate A
2
value for radionuclide i.
f. The exempt activity concentration for mixtures of nuclides may be determined as follows:
ER12JN15.099
where f(i) is the fraction of activity concentration of radionuclide i in the mixture and [A](i) is the activity concentration for exempt material containing radionuclide i.
g. The activity limit for an exempt consignment for mixtures of radionuclides may be determined as follows:
ER12JN15.100
where f(i) is the fraction of activity of radionuclide i in the mixture and A(i) is the activity limit for exempt consignments for radionuclide i.
V.a. When the identity of each radionuclide is known, but the individual activities of some of the radionuclides are not known, the radionuclides may be grouped, and the lowest A
1
or A
2
value, as appropriate, for the radionuclides in each group may be used in applying the formulas in paragraph IV. Groups may be based on the total alpha activity and the total beta/gamma activity when these are known, using the lowest A
1
or A
2
values for the alpha emitters and beta/gamma emitters.
b. When the identity of each radionuclide is known but the individual activities of some of the radionuclides are not known, the radionuclides may be grouped and the lowest [A] (activity concentration for exempt material) or A (activity limit for exempt consignment) value, as appropriate, for the radionuclides in each group may be used in applying the formulas in paragraph IV of this appendix. Groups may be based on the total alpha activity and the total beta/gamma activity when these are known, using the lowest [A] or A values for the alpha emitters and beta/gamma emitters, respectively.
Table A-1—A
1
and A
2
Values For Radionuclides
Symbol of
radionuclide
Element and
atomic number
A
1
(TBq)
A
1
(Ci)
b
A
2
(TBq)
A
2
(Ci)
b
Specific activity
(TBq/g)
(Ci/g)
Ac-225 (a)
Actinium (89)
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−3
1.6 × 10
−1
2.1 × 10
3
5.8 × 10
4
Ac-227 (a)
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
9.0 × 10
−5
2.4 × 10
−3
2.7
7.2 × 10
1
Ac-228
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
8.4 × 10
4
2.2 × 10
6
Ag-105
Silver (47)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0 × 10
4
Ag-108m (a)
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
9.7 × 10
−1
2.6 × 10
1
Ag-110m (a)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
1.8 × 10
2
4.7 × 10
3
Ag-111
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
5.8 × 10
3
1.6 × 10
5
Al-26
Aluminum (13)
1.0 × 10
−1
2.7
1.0 × 10
−1
2.7
7.0 × 10
−4
1.9 × 10
−2
Am-241
Americium (95)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
1.3 × 10
−1
3.4
Am-242m (a)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
3.6 × 10
−1
1.0 × 10
1
Am-243 (a)
5.0
1.4 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
7.4 × 10
−3
2.0 × 10
−1
Ar-37
Argon (18)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.7 × 10
3
9.9 × 10
4
Ar-39
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
1.3
3.4 × 10
1
Ar-41
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
1.5 × 10
6
4.2 × 10
7
As-72
Arsenic (33)
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
6.2 × 10
4
1.7 × 10
6
As-73
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
8.2 × 10
2
2.2 × 10
4
As-74
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
3.7 × 10
3
9.9 × 10
4
As-76
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
5.8 × 10
4
1.6 × 10
6
As-77
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
3.9 × 10
4
1.0 × 10
6
At-211 (a)
Astatine (85)
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
7.6 × 10
4
2.1 × 10
6
Au-193
Gold (79)
7.0
1.9 × 10
2
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
3.4 × 10
4
9.2 × 10
5
Au-194
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.5 × 10
4
4.1 × 10
5
Au-195
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
6.0
1.6 × 10
2
1.4 × 10
2
3.7 × 10
3
Au-198
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
9.0 × 10
3
2.4 × 10
5
Au-199
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
7.7 × 10
3
2.1 × 10
5
Ba-131 (a)
Barium (56)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
3.1 × 10
3
8.4 × 10
4
Ba-133
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
9.4
2.6 × 10
2
Ba-133m
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.2 × 10
4
6.1 × 10
5
Ba-140 (a)
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
2.7 × 10
3
7.3 × 10
4
Be-7
Beryllium (4)
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
1.3 × 10
4
3.5 × 10
5
Be-10
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
8.3 × 10
−4
2.2 × 10
−2
Bi-205
Bismuth (83)
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
1.5 × 10
3
4.2 × 10
4
Bi-206
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.8 × 10
3
1.0 × 10
5
Bi-207
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
1.9
5.2 × 10
1
Bi-210
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
4.6 × 10
3
1.2 × 10
5
Bi-210m (a)
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
2.1 × 10
−5
5.7 × 10
−4
Bi-212 (a)
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
5
1.5 × 10
7
Bk-247
Berkelium (97)
8.0
2.2 × 10
2
8.0 × 10
−4
2.2 × 10
−2
3.8 × 10
−2
1.0
Bk-249 (a)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
6.1 × 10
1
1.6 × 10
3
Br-76
Bromine (35)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
9.4 × 10
4
2.5 × 10
6
Br-77
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
2.6 × 10
4
7.1 × 10
5
Br-82
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
4
1.1 × 10
6
C-11
Carbon (6)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.1 × 10
7
8.4 × 10
8
C-14
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
1.6 × 10
−1
4.5
Ca-41
Calcium (20)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
3.1 × 10
−3
8.5 × 10
−2
Ca-45
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.6 × 10
2
1.8 × 10
4
Ca-47 (a)
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
2.3 × 10
4
6.1 × 10
5
Cd-109
Cadmium (48)
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
9.6 × 10
1
2.6 × 10
3
Cd-113m
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
8.3
2.2 × 10
2
Cd-115 (a)
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
1.9 × 10
4
5.1 × 10
5
Cd-115m
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
9.4 × 10
2
2.5 × 10
4
Ce-139
Cerium (58)
7.0
1.9 × 10
2
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.5 × 10
2
6.8 × 10
3
Ce-141
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.8 × 10
4
Ce-143
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.5 × 10
4
6.6 × 10
5
Ce-144 (a)
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
1.2 × 10
2
3.2 × 10
3
Cf-248
Californium (98)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
6.0 × 10
−3
1.6 × 10
−1
5.8 × 10
1
1.6 × 10
3
Cf-249
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
8.0 × 10
−4
2.2 × 10
−2
1.5 × 10
−1
4.1
Cf-250
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
−3
5.4 × 10
−2
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
Cf-251
7.0
1.9 × 10
2
7.0 × 10
−4
1.9 × 10
−2
5.9 × 10
−2
1.6
Cf-252
1.0 × 10
−1
2.7
3.0 × 10
−3
8.1 × 10
−2
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
Cf-253 (a)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
−2
1.1
1.1 × 10
3
2.9 × 10
4
Cf-254
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
3.1 × 10
2
8.5 × 10
3
Cl-36
Chlorine (17)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.2 × 10
−3
3.3 × 10
−2
Cl-38
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
4.9 × 10
6
1.3 × 10
8
Cm-240
Curium (96)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
7.5 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
4
Cm-241
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.1 × 10
2
1.7 × 10
4
Cm-242
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.0 × 10
−2
2.7 × 10
−1
1.2 × 10
2
3.3 × 10
3
Cm-243
9.0
2.4 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
1.9 × 10
−3
5.2 × 10
1
Cm-244
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
−3
5.4 × 10
−2
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
Cm-245
9.0
2.4 × 10
2
9.0 × 10
−4
2.4 × 10
−2
6.4 × 10
−3
1.7 × 10
−1
Cm-246
9.0
2.4 × 10
2
9.0 × 10
−4
2.4 × 10
−2
1.1 × 10
−2
3.1 × 10
−1
Cm-247 (a)
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
3.4 × 10
−6
9.3 × 10
−5
Cm-248
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
3.0 × 10
−4
8.1 × 10
−3
1.6 × 10
−4
4.2 × 10
−3
Co-55
Cobalt (27)
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
5
3.1 × 10
6
Co-56
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0 × 10
4
Co-57
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
3.1 × 10
2
8.4 × 10
3
Co-58
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.2 × 10
3
3.2 × 10
4
Co-58m
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.2 × 10
5
5.9 × 10
6
Co-60
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.2 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
Cr-51
Chromium (24)
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
3.4 × 10
3
9.2 × 10
4
Cs-129
Cesium (55)
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
2.8 × 10
4
7.6 × 10
5
Cs-131
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
3.8 × 10
3
1.0 × 10
5
Cs-132
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
5.7 × 10
3
1.5 × 10
5
Cs-134
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
4.8 × 10
1
1.3 × 10
3
Cs-134m
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
5
8.0 × 10
6
Cs-135
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
4.3 × 10
−5
1.2 × 10
−3
Cs-136
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
3
7.3 × 10
4
Cs-137 (a)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.2
8.7 × 10
1
Cu-64
Copper (29)
6.0
1.6 × 10
2
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.4 × 10
5
3.9 × 10
6
Cu-67
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
2.8 × 10
4
7.6 × 10
5
Dy-159
Dysprosium (66)
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
2.1 × 10
2
5.7 × 10
3
Dy-165
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
5
8.2 × 10
6
Dy-166 (a)
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
8.6 × 10
3
2.3 × 10
5
Er-169
Erbium (68)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
3.1 × 10
3
8.3 × 10
4
Er-171
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
9.0 × 10
4
2.4 × 10
6
Eu-147
Europium (63)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
1.4 × 10
3
3.7 × 10
4
Eu-148
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
2
1.6 × 10
4
Eu-149
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
3.5 × 10
2
9.4 × 10
3
Eu-150 (short lived)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
6.1 × 10
4
1.6 × 10
6
Eu-150 (long lived)
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
6.1 × 10
4
1.6 × 10
6
Eu-152
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.5
1.8 × 10
2
Eu-152m
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
8.2 × 10
4
2.2 × 10
6
Eu-154
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
9.8
2.6 × 10
2
Eu-155
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
1.8 × 10
1
4.9 × 10
2
Eu-156
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
2.0 × 10
3
5.5 × 10
4
F-18
Fluorine (9)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.5 × 10
6
9.5 × 10
7
Fe-52 (a)
Iron (26)
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
2.7 × 10
5
7.3 × 10
6
Fe-55
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
8.8 × 10
1
2.4 × 10
3
Fe-59
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
1.8 × 10
3
5.0 × 10
4
Fe-60 (a)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
7.4 × 10
−4
2.0 × 10
−2
Ga-67
Gallium (31)
7.0
1.9 × 10
2
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
2.2 × 10
4
6.0 × 10
5
Ga-68
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
1.5 × 10
6
4.1 × 10
7
Ga-72
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
5
3.1 × 10
6
Gd-146 (a)
Gadolinium (64)
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
6.9 × 10
2
1.9 × 10
4
Gd-148
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
−3
5.4 × 10
−2
1.2
3.2 × 10
1
Gd-153
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
9.0
2.4 × 10
2
1.3 × 10
2
3.5 × 10
3
Gd-159
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.9 × 10
4
1.1 × 10
6
Ge-68 (a)
Germanium (32)
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
2.6 × 10
2
7.1 × 10
3
Ge-71
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
5.8 × 10
3
1.6 × 10
5
Ge-77
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
1.3 × 10
5
3.6 × 10
6
Hf-172 (a)
Hafnium (72)
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
4.1 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
Hf-175
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.9 × 10
2
1.1 × 10
4
Hf-181
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
6.3 × 10
2
1.7 × 10
4
Hf-182
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
8.1 × 10
−6
2.2 × 10
−4
Hg-194 (a)
Mercury (80)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.3 × 10
−1
3.5
Hg-195m (a)
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
1.5 × 10
4
4.0 × 10
5
Hg-197
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
9.2 × 10
3
2.5 × 10
5
Hg-197m
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
2.5 × 10
4
6.7 × 10
5
Hg-203
5.0
1.4 × 10
2
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
5.1 × 10
2
1.4 × 10
4
Ho-166
Holmium (67)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
2.6 × 10
4
7.0 × 10
5
Ho-166m
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
6.6 × 10
−2
1.8
I-123
Iodine (53)
6.0
1.6 × 10
2
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
7.1 × 10
4
1.9 × 10
6
I-124
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
9.3 × 10
3
2.5 × 10
5
I-125
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
6.4 × 10
2
1.7 × 10
4
I-126
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
2.9 × 10
3
8.0 × 10
4
I-129
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
6.5 × 10
−6
1.8 × 10
−4
I-131
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
4.6 × 10
3
1.2 × 10
5
I-132
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
3.8 × 10
5
1.0 × 10
7
I-133
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
4.2 × 10
4
1.1 × 10
6
I-134
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
9.9 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
7
I-135 (a)
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.3 × 10
5
3.5 × 10
6
In-111
Indium (49)
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
1.5 × 10
4
4.2 × 10
5
In-113m
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
6.2 × 10
5
1.7 × 10
7
In-114m (a)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
8.6 × 10
2
2.3 × 10
4
In-115m
7.0
1.9 × 10
2
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
2.2 × 10
5
6.1 × 10
6
Ir-189 (a)
Iridium (77)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.9 × 10
3
5.2 × 10
4
Ir-190
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
2.3 × 10
3
6.2 × 10
4
Ir-192
c
1.0
c
2.7 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.4 × 10
2
9.2 × 10
3
Ir-194
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.1 × 10
4
8.4 × 10
5
K-40
Potassium (19)
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
2.4 × 10
−7
6.4 × 10
−6
K-42
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
2.2 × 10
5
6.0 × 10
6
K-43
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.2 × 10
5
3.3 × 10
6
Kr-79
Krypton (36)
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
4.2 × 10
4
1.1 × 10
6
Kr-81
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
7.8 × 10
−4
2.1 × 10
−2
Kr-85
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.5 × 10
1
3.9 × 10
2
Kr-85m
8.0
2.2 × 10
2
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
5
8.2 × 10
6
Kr-87
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
1.0 × 10
6
2.8 × 10
7
La-137
Lanthanum (57)
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
6.0
1.6 × 10
2
1.6 × 10
−3
4.4 × 10
−2
La-140
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
2.1 × 10
4
5.6 × 10
5
Lu-172
Lutetium (71)
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
4.2 × 10
3
1.1 × 10
5
Lu-173
8.0
2.2 × 10
2
8.0
2.2 × 10
2
5.6 × 10
1
1.5 × 10
3
Lu-174
9.0
2.4 × 10
2
9.0
2.4 × 10
2
2.3 × 10
1
6.2 × 10
2
Lu-174m
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
2
5.3 × 10
3
Lu-177
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
4.1 × 10
3
1.1 × 10
5
Mg-28 (a)
Magnesium (12)
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
2.0 × 10
5
5.4 × 10
6
Mn-52
Manganese (25)
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
1.6 × 10
4
4.4 × 10
5
Mn-53
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
6.8 × 10
−5
1.8 × 10
−3
Mn-54
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
2.9 × 10
2
7.7 × 10
3
Mn-56
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
8.0 × 10
5
2.2 × 10
7
Mo-93
Molybdenum (42)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
4.1 × 10
−2
1.1
Mo-99
a
h
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.8 × 10
4
4.8 × 10
5
N-13
Nitrogen (7)
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
7
1.5 × 10
9
Na-22
Sodium (11)
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
2.3 × 10
2
6.3 × 10
3
Na-24
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
3.2 × 10
5
8.7 × 10
6
Nb-93m
Niobium (41)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
8.8
2.4 × 10
2
Nb-94
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
6.9 × 10
−3
1.9 × 10
−1
Nb-95
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.5 × 10
3
3.9 × 10
4
Nb-97
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
9.9 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
7
Nd-147
Neodymium (60)
6.0
1.6 × 10
2
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
3
8.1 × 10
4
Nd-149
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
4.5 × 10
5
1.2 × 10
7
Ni-59
Nickel (28)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
3.0 × 10
−3
8.0 × 10
−2
Ni-63
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
2.1
5.7 × 10
1
Ni-65
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
7.1 × 10
5
1.9 × 10
7
Np-235
Neptunium (93)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
5.2 × 10
1
1.4 × 10
3
Np-236 (short-lived)
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
4.7 × 10
−4
1.3 × 10
−2
Np-236 (long-lived)
9.0 × 10
0
2.4 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
4.7 × 10
−4
1.3 × 10
−2
Np-237
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
−3
5.4 × 10
−2
2.6 × 10
−5
7.1 × 10
−4
Np-239
7.0
1.9 × 10
2
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
8.6 × 10
3
2.3 × 10
5
Os-185
Osmium (76)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
2.8 × 10
2
7.5 × 10
3
Os-191
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
1.6 × 10
3
4.4 × 10
4
Os-191m
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
4.6 × 10
4
1.3 × 10
6
Os-193
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.0 × 10
4
5.3 × 10
5
Os-194 (a)
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
1.1 × 10
1
3.1 × 10
2
P-32
Phosphorus (15)
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
4
2.9 × 10
5
P-33
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
5.8 × 10
3
1.6 × 10
5
Pa-230 (a)
Protactinium (91)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−2
1.9
1.2 × 10
3
3.3 × 10
4
Pa-231
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
4.0 × 10
−4
1.1 × 10
−2
1.7 × 10
−3
4.7 × 10
−2
Pa-233
5.0
1.4 × 10
2
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.7 × 10
2
2.1 × 10
4
Pb-201
Lead (82)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.2 × 10
4
1.7 × 10
6
Pb-202
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
1.2 × 10
−4
3.4 × 10
−3
Pb-203
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
4
3.0 × 10
5
Pb-205
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
4.5 × 10
−6
1.2 × 10
−4
Pb-210 (a)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−2
1.4
2.8
7.6 × 10
1
Pb-212 (a)
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
5.1 × 10
4
1.4 × 10
6
Pd-103 (a)
Palladium (46)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.8 × 10
3
7.5 × 10
4
Pd-107
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
1.9 × 10
−5
5.1 × 10
−4
Pd-109
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
7.9 × 10
4
2.1 × 10
6
Pm-143
Promethium (61)
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
1.3 × 10
2
3.4 × 10
3
Pm-144
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
9.2 × 10
1
2.5 × 10
3
Pm-145
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
5.2
1.4 × 10
2
Pm-147
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
3.4 × 10
1
9.3 × 10
2
Pm-148m (a)
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
7.9 × 10
2
2.1 × 10
4
Pm-149
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.5 × 10
4
4.0 × 10
5
Pm-151
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
4
7.3 × 10
5
Po-210
Polonium (84)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
1.7 × 10
2
4.5 × 10
3
Pr-142
Praseodymium (59)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.3 × 10
4
1.2 × 10
6
Pr-143
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.5 × 10
3
6.7 × 10
4
Pt-188 (a)
Platinum (78)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
2.5 × 10
3
6.8 × 10
4
Pt-191
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
8.7 × 10
3
2.4 × 10
5
Pt-193
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.4
3.7 × 10
1
Pt-193m
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.8 × 10
3
1.6 × 10
5
Pt-195m
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
6.2 × 10
3
1.7 × 10
5
Pt-197
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.2 × 10
4
8.7 × 10
5
Pt-197m
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.7 × 10
5
1.0 × 10
7
Pu-236
Plutonium (94)
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
3.0 × 10
−3
8.1 × 10
−2
2.0 × 10
1
5.3 × 10
2
Pu-237
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
4.5 × 10
2
1.2 × 10
4
Pu-238
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
6.3 × 10
−1
1.7 × 10
1
Pu-239
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
2.3 × 10
−3
6.2 × 10
−2
Pu-240
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
8.4 × 10
−3
2.3 × 10
−1
Pu-241 (a)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
6.0 × 10
−2
1.6
3.8
1.0 × 10
2
Pu-242
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
1.5 × 10
−4
3.9 × 10
−3
Pu-244 (a)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
6.7 × 10
−7
1.8 × 10
−5
Ra-223 (a)
Radium (88)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−3
1.9 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
3
5.1 × 10
4
Ra-224 (a)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
5.9 × 10
3
1.6 × 10
5
Ra-225 (a)
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
4.0 × 10
−3
1.1 × 10
−1
1.5 × 10
3
3.9 × 10
4
Ra-226 (a)
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
3.0 × 10
−3
8.1 × 10
−2
3.7 × 10
−2
1.0
Ra-228 (a)
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
Rb-81
Rubidium (37)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
3.1 × 10
5
8.4 × 10
6
Rb-83 (a)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
6.8 × 10
2
1.8 × 10
4
Rb-84
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.8 × 10
3
4.7 × 10
4
Rb-86
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
3
8.1 × 10
4
Rb-87
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
3.2 × 10
−9
8.6 × 10
−8
Rb(nat)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
6.7 × 10
6
1.8 × 10
8
Re-184
Rhenium (75)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.9 × 10
2
1.9 × 10
4
Re-184m
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.6 × 10
2
4.3 × 10
3
Re-186
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
6.9 × 10
3
1.9 × 10
5
Re-187
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
1.4 × 10
−9
3.8 × 10
−8
Re-188
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
3.6 × 10
4
9.8 × 10
5
Re-189 (a)
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.5 × 10
4
6.8 × 10
5
Re(nat)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
0.0
2.4 × 10
−8
Rh-99
Rhodium (45)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
3
8.2 × 10
4
Rh-101
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
4.1 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
Rh-102
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
4.5 × 10
1
1.2 × 10
3
Rh-102m
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.3 × 10
2
6.2 × 10
3
Rh-103m
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.2 × 10
6
3.3 × 10
7
Rh-105
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
3.1 × 10
4
8.4 × 10
5
Rn-222 (a)
Radon (86)
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
4.0 × 10
−3
1.1 × 10
−1
5.7 × 10
3
1.5 × 10
5
Ru-97
Ruthenium (44)
5.0
1.4 × 10
2
5.0
1.4 × 10
2
1.7 × 10
4
4.6 × 10
5
Ru-103 (a)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
1.2 × 10
3
3.2 × 10
4
Ru-105
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.5 × 10
5
6.7 × 10
6
Ru-106 (a)
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
1.2 × 10
2
3.3 × 10
3
S-35
Sulphur (16)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
1.6 × 10
3
4.3 × 10
4
Sb-122
Antimony (51)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
1.5 × 10
4
4.0 × 10
5
Sb-124
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
6.5 × 10
2
1.7 × 10
4
Sb-125
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
3.9 × 10
1
1.0 × 10
3
Sb-126
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
3.1 × 10
3
8.4 × 10
4
Sc-44
Scandium (21)
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
6.7 × 10
5
1.8 × 10
7
Sc-46
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
1.3 × 10
3
3.4 × 10
4
Sc-47
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
3.1 × 10
4
8.3 × 10
5
Sc-48
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
5.5 × 10
4
1.5 × 10
6
Se-75
Selenium (34)
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
1.5 × 10
4
Se-79
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.6 × 10
−3
7.0 × 10
−2
Si-31
Silicon (14)
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.4 × 10
6
3.9 × 10
7
Si-32
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
3.9
1.1 × 10
2
Sm-145
Samarium (62)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
9.8 × 10
1
2.6 × 10
3
Sm-147
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
8.5 × 10
−10
2.3 × 10
−8
Sm-151
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
9.7 × 10
−1
2.6 × 10
1
Sm-153
9.0
2.4 × 10
2
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.6 × 10
4
4.4 × 10
5
Sn-113 (a)
Tin (50)
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
3.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
4
Sn-117m
7.0
1.9 × 10
2
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
3
8.2 × 10
4
Sn-119m
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
1.4 × 10
2
3.7 × 10
3
Sn-121m (a)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
Sn-123
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
2
8.2 × 10
3
Sn-125
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
3
1.1 × 10
5
Sn-126 (a)
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
1.0 × 10
−3
2.8 × 10
−2
Sr-82 (a)
Strontium (38)
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
2.3 × 10
3
6.2 × 10
4
Sr-85
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
8.8 × 10
2
2.4 × 10
4
Sr-85m
5.0
1.4 × 10
2
5.0
1.4 × 10
2
1.2 × 10
6
3.3 × 10
7
Sr-87m
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
4.8 × 10
5
1.3 × 10
7
Sr-89
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.9 × 10
4
Sr-90 (a)
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
5.1
1.4 × 10
2
Sr-91 (a)
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
1.3 × 10
5
3.6 × 10
6
Sr-92 (a)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
4.7 × 10
5
1.3 × 10
7
T(H-3)
Tritium (1)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.6 × 10
2
9.7 × 10
3
Ta-178 (long-lived)
Tantalum (73)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
4.2 × 10
6
1.1 × 10
8
Ta-179
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
4.1 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
Ta-182
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
2.3 × 10
2
6.2 × 10
3
Tb-157
Terbium (65)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
5.6 × 10
−1
1.5 × 10
1
Tb-158
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
5.6 × 10
−1
1.5 × 10
1
Tb-160
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
4.2 × 10
2
1.1 × 10
4
Tc-95m (a)
Technetium (43)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
8.3 × 10
2
2.2 × 10
4
Tc-96
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
1.2 × 10
4
3.2 × 10
5
Tc-96m (a)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
1.4 × 10
6
3.8 × 10
7
Tc-97
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
5.2 × 10
−5
1.4 × 10
−3
Tc-97m
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
5.6 × 10
2
1.5 × 10
4
Tc-98
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
3.2 × 10
−5
8.7 × 10
−4
Tc-99
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
6.3 × 10
−4
1.7 × 10
−2
Tc-99m
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
1.9 × 10
5
5.3 × 10
6
Te-121
Tellurium (52)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.4 × 10
3
6.4 × 10
4
Te-121m
5.0
1.4 × 10
2
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
2.6 × 10
2
7.0 × 10
3
Te-123m
8.0
2.2 × 10
2
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
3.3 × 10
2
8.9 × 10
3
Te-125m
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
6.7 × 10
2
1.8 × 10
4
Te-127
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
9.8 × 10
4
2.6 × 10
6
Te-127m (a)
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
3.5 × 10
2
9.4 × 10
3
Te-129
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
7.7 × 10
5
2.1 × 10
7
Te-129m (a)
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0 × 10
4
Te-131m (a)
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
4
8.0 × 10
5
Te-132 (a)
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
4
3.0 × 10
5
Th-227
Thorium (90)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
5.0 × 10
−3
1.4 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
3
3.1 × 10
4
Th-228 (a)
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
3.0 × 10
1
8.2 × 10
2
Th-229
5.0
1.4 × 10
2
5.0 × 10
−4
1.4 × 10
−2
7.9 × 10
−3
2.1 × 10
−1
Th-230
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
7.6 × 10
−4
2.1 × 10
−2
Th-231
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
2.0 × 10
4
5.3 × 10
5
Th-232
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
4.0 × 10
−9
1.1 × 10
−7
Th-234 (a)
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
8.6 × 10
2
2.3 × 10
4
Th(nat)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
8.1 × 10
−9
2.2 × 10
−7
Ti-44 (a)
Titanium (22)
5.0 × 10
−1
1.4 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
6.4
1.7 × 10
2
Tl-200
Thallium (81)
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
2.2 × 10
4
6.0 × 10
5
Tl-201
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
7.9 × 10
3
2.1 × 10
5
Tl-202
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0 × 10
3
5.3 × 10
4
Tl-204
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
1.7 × 10
1
4.6 × 10
2
Tm-167
Thulium (69)
7.0
1.9 × 10
2
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
3.1 × 10
3
8.5 × 10
4
Tm-170
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.2 × 10
2
6.0 × 10
3
Tm-171
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
U-230 (fast lung absorption) (a)(d)
Uranium (92)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.0 × 10
−1
2.7
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
4
U-230 (medium lung absorption) (a)(e)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
−3
1.1 × 10
−1
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
4
U-230 (slow lung absorption) (a)(f)
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
3.0 × 10
−3
8.1 × 10
−2
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
4
U-232 (fast lung absorption) (d)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
1.0 × 10
−2
2.7 × 10
−1
8.3 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
U-232 (medium lung absorption) (e)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
7.0 × 10
−3
1.9 × 10
−1
8.3 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
U-232 (slow lung absorption) (f)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
8.3 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
U-233 (fast lung absorption) (d)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
9.0 × 10
−2
2.4
3.6 × 10
−4
9.7 × 10
−3
U-233 (medium lung absorption) (e)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
3.6 × 10
−4
9.7 × 10
−3
U-233 (slow lung absorption) (f)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
6.0 × 10
−3
1.6 × 10
−1
3.6 × 10
−4
9.7 × 10
−3
U-234 (fast lung absorption) (d)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
9.0 × 10
−2
2.4
2.3 × 10
−4
6.2 × 10
−3
U-234 (medium lung absorption) (e)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
2.3 × 10
−4
6.2 × 10
−3
U-234 (slow lung absorption) (f)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
6.0 × 10
−3
1.6 × 10
−1
2.3 × 10
−4
6.2 × 10
−3
U-235 (all lung absorption types) (a),(d),(e),(f)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
8.0 × 10
−8
2.2 × 10
−6
U-236 (fast lung absorption) (d)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
2.4 × 10
−6
6.5 × 10
−5
U-236 (medium lung absorption) (e)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
2.0 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
−6
6.5 × 10
−5
U-236 (slow lung absorption) (f)
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
6.0 × 10
−3
1.6 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
−6
6.5 × 10
−5
U-238 (all lung absorption types) (d),(e),(f)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
1.2 × 10
−8
3.4 × 10
−7
U (nat)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
2.6 × 10
−8
7.1 × 10
−7
U (enriched to 20% or less)(g)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
See Table A-4
See Table A-4
U (dep)
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
See Table A-4
See Table A-4
V-48
Vanadium (23)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
6.3 × 10
3
1.7 × 10
5
V-49
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.0 × 10
2
8.1 × 10
3
W-178 (a)
Tungsten (74)
9.0
2.4 × 10
2
5.0
1.4 × 10
2
1.3 × 10
3
3.4 × 10
4
W-181
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
2.2 × 10
2
6.0 × 10
3
W-185
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
3.5 × 10
2
9.4 × 10
3
W-187
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
2.6 × 10
4
7.0 × 10
5
W-188 (a)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.7 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
4
Xe-122 (a)
Xenon (54)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.8 × 10
4
1.3 × 10
6
Xe-123
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
7.0 × 10
−1
1.9 × 10
1
4.4 × 10
5
1.2 × 10
7
Xe-127
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
1.0 × 10
3
2.8 × 10
4
Xe-131m
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
4.0 × 10
1
1.1 × 10
3
3.1 × 10
3
8.4 × 10
4
Xe-133
2.0 × 10
1
5.4 × 10
2
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
2
6.9 × 10
3
1.9 × 10
5
Xe-135
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
9.5 × 10
4
2.6 × 10
6
Y-87 (a)
Yttrium (39)
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
1.7 × 10
4
4.5 × 10
5
Y-88
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
5.2 × 10
2
1.4 × 10
4
Y-90
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
2.0 × 10
4
5.4 × 10
5
Y-91
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
9.1 × 10
2
2.5 × 10
4
Y-91m
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
1.5 × 10
6
4.2 × 10
7
Y-92
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
2.0 × 10
−1
5.4
3.6 × 10
5
9.6 × 10
6
Y-93
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
3.0 × 10
−1
8.1
1.2 × 10
5
3.3 × 10
6
Yb-169
Ytterbium (70)
4.0
1.1 × 10
2
1.0
2.7 × 10
1
8.9 × 10
2
2.4 × 10
4
Yb-175
3.0 × 10
1
8.1 × 10
2
9.0 × 10
−1
2.4 × 10
1
6.6 × 10
3
1.8 × 10
5
Zn-65
Zinc (30)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
3.0 × 10
2
8.2 × 10
3
Zn-69
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.8 × 10
6
4.9 × 10
7
Zn-69m (a)
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
6.0 × 10
−1
1.6 × 10
1
1.2 × 10
5
3.3 × 10
6
Zr-88
Zirconium (40)
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
3.0
8.1 × 10
1
6.6 × 10
2
1.8 × 10
4
Zr-93
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
Unlimited
9.3 × 10
−5
2.5 × 10
−3
Zr-95 (a)
2.0
5.4 × 10
1
8.0 × 10
−1
2.2 × 10
1
7.9 × 10
2
2.1 × 10
4
Zr-97 (a)
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
4.0 × 10
−1
1.1 × 10
1
7.1 × 10
4
1.9 × 10
6
a
A
1
and/or A
2
values include contributions from daughter nuclides with half-lives less than 10 days, as listed in the following:
Mg-28
Al-28
Ca-47
Sc-47
Ti-44
Sc-44
Fe-52
Mn-52m
Fe-60
Co-60m
Zn-69m
Zn-69
Ge-68
Ga-68
Rb-83
Kr-83m
Sr-82
Rb-82
Sr-90
Y-90
Sr-91
Y-91m
Sr-92
Y-92
Y-87
Sr-87m
Zr-95
Nb-95m
Zr-97
Nb-97m, Nb-97
Mo-99
Tc-99m
Tc-95m
Tc-95
Tc-96m
Tc-96
Ru-103
Rh-103m
Ru-106
Rh-106
Pd-103
Rh-103m
Ag-108m
Ag-108
Ag-110m
Ag-110
Cd-115
In-115m
In-114m
In-114
Sn-113
In-113m
Sn-121m
Sn-121
Sn-126
Sb-126m
Te-127m
Te-127
Te-129m
Te-129
Te-131m
Te-131
Te-132
I-132
I-135
Xe-135m
Xe-122
I-122
Cs-137
Ba-137m
Ba-131
Cs-131
Ba-140
La-140
Ce-144
Pr-144m, Pr-144
Pm-148m
Pm-148
Gd-146
Eu-146
Dy-166
Ho-166
Hf-172
Lu-172
W-178
Ta-178
W-188
Re-188
Re-189
Os-189m
Os-194
Ir-194
Ir-189
Os-189m
Pt-188
Ir-188
Hg-194
Au-194
Hg-195m
Hg-195
Pb-210
Bi-210
Pb-212
Bi-212, Tl-208, Po-212
Bi-210m
Tl-206
Bi-212
Tl-208, Po-212
At-211
Po-211
Rn-222
Po-218, Pb-214, At-218, Bi-214, Po-214
Ra-223
Rn-219, Po-215, Pb-211, Bi-211, Po-211, Tl-207
Ra-224
Rn-220, Po-216, Pb-212, Bi-212, Tl-208, Po-212
Ra-225
Ac-225, Fr-221, At-217, Bi-213, Tl-209, Po-213, Pb-209
Ra-226
Rn-222, Po-218, Pb-214, At-218, Bi-214, Po-214
Ra-228
Ac-228
Ac-225
Fr-221, At-217, Bi-213, Tl-209, Po-213, Pb-209
Ac-227
Fr-223
Th-228
Ra-224, Rn-220, Po-216, Pb-212, Bi-212, Tl-208, Po-212
Th-234
Pa-234m, Pa-234
Pa-230
Ac-226, Th-226, Fr-222, Ra-222, Rn-218, Po-214
U-230
Th-226, Ra-222, Rn-218, Po-214
U-235
Th-231
Pu-241
U-237
Pu-244
U-240, Np-240m
Am-242m
Am-242, Np-238
Am-243
Np-239
Cm-247
Pu-243
Bk-249
Am-245
Cf-253
Cm-249
b
The values of A
1
and A
2
in Curies (Ci) are approximate and for information only; the regulatory standard units are Terabecquerels (TBq) (see Appendix A to Part 71—Determination of A
1
and A
2
, Section I).
c
The activity of Ir-192 in special form may be determined from a measurement of the rate of decay or a measurement of the radiation level at a prescribed distance from the source.
d
These values apply only to compounds of uranium that take the chemical form of UF
6
, UO
2
F
2
and UO
2
(NO
3
)
2
in both normal and accident conditions of transport.
e
These values apply only to compounds of uranium that take the chemical form of UO
3
, UF
4
, UCl
4
and hexavalent compounds in both normal and accident conditions of transport.
f
These values apply to all compounds of uranium other than those specified in notes (d) and (e) of this table.
g
These values apply to unirradiated uranium only.
h
A
2
= 0.74 TBq (20 Ci) for Mo-99 for domestic use.
Table A-2—Exempt Material Activity Concentrations and Exempt Consignment Activity Limits for Radionuclides
Symbol of
radionuclide
Element and atomic number
Activity concentration for exempt material
(Bq/g)
Activity concentration for exempt material
(Ci/g)
Activity limit for exempt consignment
(Bq)
Activity limit for exempt consignment
(Ci)
Ac-225
Actinium (89)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Ac-227
1.0 × 10
−1
2.7 × 10
−12
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Ac-228
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ag-105
Silver (47)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ag-108m (b)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ag-110m
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ag-111
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Al-26
Aluminum (13)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Am-241
Americium (95)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Am-242m (b)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Am-243 (b)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Ar-37
Argon (18)
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Ar-39
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Ar-41
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
9
2.7 × 10
−2
As-72
Arsenic (33)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
As-73
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
As-74
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
As-76
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
As-77
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
At-211
Astatine (85)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Au-193
Gold (79)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Au-194
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Au-195
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Au-198
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Au-199
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ba-131
Barium (56)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ba-133
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ba-133m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ba-140 (b)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Be-7
Beryllium (4)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Be-10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Bi-205
Bismuth (83)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Bi-206
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Bi-207
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Bi-210
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Bi-210m
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Bi-212 (b)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Bk-247
Berkelium (97)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Bk-249
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Br-76
Bromine (35)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Br-77
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Br-82
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
C-11
Carbon (6)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
C-14
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Ca-41
Calcium (20)
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Ca-45
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Ca-47
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Cd-109
Cadmium (48)
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Cd-113m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Cd-115
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Cd-115m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ce-139
Cerium (58)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ce-141
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Ce-143
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ce-144 (b)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Cf-248
Californium (98)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Cf-249
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Cf-250
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Cf-251
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Cf-252
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Cf-253
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Cf-254
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Cl-36
Chlorine (17)
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Cl-38
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Cm-240
Curium (96)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Cm-241
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Cm-242
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Cm-243
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Cm-244
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Cm-245
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Cm-246
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Cm-247
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Cm-248
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Co-55
Cobalt (27)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Co-56
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Co-57
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Co-58
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Co-58m
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Co-60
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Cr-51
Chromium (24)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Cs-129
Cesium (55)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Cs-131
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Cs-132
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Cs-134
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Cs-134m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Cs-135
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Cs-136
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Cs-137 (b)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Cu-64
Copper (29)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Cu-67
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Dy-159
Dysprosium (66)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Dy-165
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Dy-166
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Er-169
Erbium (68)
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Er-171
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Eu-147
Europium (63)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Eu-148
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Eu-149
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Eu-150 (short lived)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Eu-150 (long lived)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Eu-152
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Eu-152m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Eu-154
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Eu-155
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Eu-156
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
F-18
Fluorine (9)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Fe-52
Iron (26)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Fe-55
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Fe-59
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Fe-60
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Ga-67
Gallium (31)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ga-68
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Ga-72
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Gd-146
Gadolinium (64)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Gd-148
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Gd-153
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Gd-159
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ge-68
Germanium (32)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Ge-71
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Ge-77
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Hf-172
Hafnium (72)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Hf-175
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Hf-181
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Hf-182
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Hg-194
Mercury (80)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Hg-195m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Hg-197
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Hg-197m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Hg-203
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Ho-166
Holmium (67)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Ho-166m
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
I-123
Iodine (53)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
I-124
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
I-125
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
I-126
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
I-129
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
I-131
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
I-132
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
I-133
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
I-134
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
I-135
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
In-111
Indium (49)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
In-113m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
In-114m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
In-115m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ir-189
Iridium (77)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Ir-190
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ir-192
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Ir-194
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
K-40
Potassium (19)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
K-42
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
K-43
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Kr-79
Krypton (36)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Kr-81
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Kr-85
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Kr-85m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
10
2.7 × 10
−1
Kr-87
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
9
2.7 × 10
−2
La-137
Lanthanum (57)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
La-140
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Lu-172
Lutetium (71)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Lu-173
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Lu-174
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Lu-174m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Lu-177
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Mg-28
Magnesium (12)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Mn-52
Manganese (25)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Mn-53
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
9
2.7 × 10
−2
Mn-54
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Mn-56
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Mo-93
Molybdenum (42)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Mo-99
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
N-13
Nitrogen (7)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
9
2.7 × 10
−2
Na-22
Sodium (11)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Na-24
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Nb-93m
Niobium (41)
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Nb-94
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Nb-95
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Nb-97
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Nd-147
Neodymium (60)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Nd-149
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ni-59
Nickel (28)
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Ni-63
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Ni-65
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Np-235
Neptunium (93)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Np-236 (short-lived)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Np-236 (long-lived)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Np-237 (b)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Np-239
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Os-185
Osmium (76)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Os-191
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Os-191m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Os-193
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Os-194
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
P-32
Phosphorus (15)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
P-33
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Pa-230
Protactinium (91)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pa-231
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Pa-233
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Pb-201
Lead (82)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pb-202
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pb-203
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pb-205
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Pb-210 (b)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Pb-212 (b)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Pd-103
Palladium (46)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Pd-107
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Pd-109
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pm-143
Promethium (61)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pm-144
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pm-145
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Pm-147
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Pm-148m
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pm-149
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pm-151
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Po-210
Polonium (84)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Pr-142
Praseodymium (59)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Pr-143
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pt-188
Platinum (78)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pt-191
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pt-193
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Pt-193m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Pt-195m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pt-197
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pt-197m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Pu-236
Plutonium (94)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Pu-237
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Pu-238
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Pu-239
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Pu-240
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Pu-241
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Pu-242
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Pu-244
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Ra-223 (b)
Radium (88)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Ra-224 (b)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Ra-225
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Ra-226 (b)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Ra-228 (b)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Rb-81
Rubidium (37)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Rb-83
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Rb-84
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Rb-86
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Rb-87
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Rb(nat)
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Re-184
Rhenium (75)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Re-184m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Re-186
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Re-187
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
1.0 × 10
9
2.7 × 10
−2
Re-188
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Re-189
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Re(nat)
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
1.0 × 10
9
2.7 × 10
−2
Rh-99
Rhodium (45)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Rh-101
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Rh-102
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Rh-102m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Rh-103m
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Rh-105
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Rn-222 (b)
Radon (86)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Ru-97
Ruthenium (44)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Ru-103
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ru-105
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ru-106 (b)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
S-35
Sulphur (16)
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Sb-122
Antimony (51)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Sb-124
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sb-125
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sb-126
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Sc-44
Scandium (21)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Sc-46
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sc-47
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sc-48
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Se-75
Selenium (34)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Se-79
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Si-31
Silicon (14)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Si-32
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sm-145
Samarium (62)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Sm-147
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Sm-151
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Sm-153
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sn-113
Tin (50)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Sn-117m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sn-119m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Sn-121m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Sn-123
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sn-125
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Sn-126
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Sr-82
Strontium (38)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Sr-85
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sr-85m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Sr-87m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sr-89
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Sr-90 (b)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Sr-91
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Sr-92
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
T(H-3)
Tritium (1)
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
1.0 × 10
9
2.7 × 10
−2
Ta-178 (long-lived)
Tantalum (73)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Ta-179
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Ta-182
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Tb-157
Terbium (65)
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Tb-158
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Tb-160
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Tc-95m
Technetium (43)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Tc-96
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Tc-96m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Tc-97
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
Tc-97m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Tc-98
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Tc-99
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Tc-99m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Te-121
Tellurium (52)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Te-121m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Te-123m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Te-125m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Te-127
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Te-127m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Te-129
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Te-129m
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Te-131m
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Te-132
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Th-227
Thorium (90)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Th-228 (b)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Th-229 (b)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Th-230
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Th-231
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Th-232
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Th-234 (b)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Th (nat) (b)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Ti-44
Titanium (22)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Tl-200
Thallium (81)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Tl-201
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Tl-202
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Tl-204
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Tm-167
Thulium (69)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Tm-170
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Tm-171
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
8
2.7 × 10
−3
U-230 (fast lung absorption) (b),(d)
Uranium (92)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
U-230 (medium lung absorption) (e)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
U-230 (slow lung absorption) (f)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
U-232 (fast lung absorption) (b),(d)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
U-232 (medium lung absorption) (e)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
U-232 (slow lung absorption) (f)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
U-233 (fast lung absorption) (d)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
U-233 (medium lung absorption) (e)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
U-233 (slow lung absorption) (f)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
U-234 (fast lung absorption) (d)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
U-234 (medium lung absorption) (e)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
U-234 (slow lung absorption) (f)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
U-235 (all lung absorption types) (b),(d),(e),(f)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
U-236 (fast lung absorption) (d)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
U-236 (medium lung absorption) (e)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
U-236 (slow lung absorption) (f)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
U-238 (all lung absorption types) (b),(d),(e),(f)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
U (nat) (b)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
U (enriched to 20% or less)(g)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
U (dep)
1.0
2.7 × 10
−11
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
V-48
Vanadium (23)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
V-49
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
W-178
Tungsten (74)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
W-181
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
W-185
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
W-187
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
W-188
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Xe-122
Xenon (54)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
9
2.7 × 10
−2
Xe-123
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
9
2.7 × 10
−2
Xe-127
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Xe-131m
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Xe-133
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Xe-135
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
10
2.7 × 10
−1
Y-87
Yttrium (39)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Y-88
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Y-90
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Y-91
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Y-91m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Y-92
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Y-93
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
Yb-169
Ytterbium (70)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Yb-175
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Zn-65
Zinc (30)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Zn-69
1.0 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Zn-69m
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Zr-88
Zirconium (40)
1.0 × 10
2
2.7 × 10
−9
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Zr-93 (b)
1.0 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
7
2.7 × 10
−4
Zr-95
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
6
2.7 × 10
−5
Zr-97 (b)
1.0 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1.0 × 10
5
2.7 × 10
−6
a
[Reserved]
b
Parent nuclides and their progeny included in secular equilibrium are listed as follows:
Sr-90
Y-90
Zr-93
Nb-93m
Zr-97
Nb-97
Ru-106
Rh-106
Ag-108m
Ag-108
Cs-137
Ba-137m
Ce-144
Pr-144
Ba-140
La-140
Bi-212
Tl-208 (0.36), Po-212 (0.64)
Pb-210
Bi-210, Po-210
Pb-212
Bi-212, Tl-208 (0.36), Po-212 (0.64)
Rn-222
Po-218, Pb-214, Bi-214, Po-214
Ra-223
Rn-219, Po-215, Pb-211, Bi-211, Tl-207
Ra-224
Rn-220, Po-216, Pb-212, Bi-212, Tl-208 (0.36), Po-212 (0.64)
Ra-226
Rn-222, Po-218, Pb-214, Bi-214, Po-214, Pb-210, Bi-210, Po-210
Ra-228
Ac-228
Th-228
Ra-224, Rn-220, Po-216, Pb-212, Bi-212, Tl-208 (0.36), Po-212(0.64)
Th-229
Ra-225, Ac-225, Fr-221, At-217, Bi-213, Po-213, Pb-209
Th-nat
Ra-228, Ac-228, Th-228, Ra-224, Rn-220, Po-216, Pb-212, Bi-212, Tl-208 (0.36), Po-212 (0.64)
Th-234
Pa-234m
U-230
Th-226, Ra-222, Rn-218, Po-214
U-232
Th-228, Ra-224, Rn-220, Po-216, Pb-212, Bi-212, Tl-208 (0.36), Po-212 (0.64)
U-235
Th-231
U-238
Th-234, Pa-234m
U-nat
Th-234, Pa-234m, U-234, Th-230, Ra-226, Rn-222, Po-218, Pb-214, Bi-214, Po-214, Pb-210, Bi-210, Po-210
Np-237
Pa-233
Am-242m
Am-242
Am-243
Np-239
c
[Reserved]
d
These values apply only to compounds of uranium that take the chemical form of UF
6
, UO
2
F
2
and UO
2
(NO
3
)
2
in both normal and accident conditions of transport.
e
These values apply only to compounds of uranium that take the chemical form of UO
3
, UF
4
, UCl
4
and hexavalent compounds in both normal and accident conditions of transport.
f
These values apply to all compounds of uranium other than those specified in notes (d) and (e) of this table.
g
These values apply to unirradiated uranium only.
Table A-3—General Values for A
1
and A
2
Contents
A
1
(TBq)
(Ci)
A
2
(TBq)
(Ci)
Activity concentration for exempt material
(Bq/g)
Activity concentration for exempt material
(Ci/g)
Activity limits for exempt consignments
(Bq)
Activity limits for exempt consignments
(Ci)
Only beta or gamma emitting radionuclides are known to be present
1 × 10
−1
2.7 × 10
0
2 × 10
−2
5.4 × 10
−1
1 × 10
1
2.7 × 10
−10
1 × 10
4
2.7 × 10
−7
Alpha emitting nuclides, but no neutron emitters, are known to be present (a)
2 × 10
−1
5.4 × 10
0
9 × 10
−5
2.4 × 10
−3
1 × 10
−1
2.7 × 10
−12
1 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
Neutron emitting nuclides are known to be present or no relevant data are available
1 × 10
−3
2.7 × 10
−2
9 × 10
−5
2.4 × 10
−3
1 × 10
−1
2.7 × 10
−12
1 × 10
3
2.7 × 10
−8
a
If beta or gamma emitting nuclides are known to be present, the A
1
value of 0.1 TBq (2.7 Ci) should be used.
Table A-4—Activity-mass Relationships for Uranium
Uranium Enrichment
1
wt % U-235 present
Specific Activity
TBq/g
Ci/g
0.45
1.8 × 10
−8
5.0 × 10
−7
0.72
2.6 × 10
−8
7.1 × 10
−7
1
2.8 × 10
−8
7.6 × 10
−7
1.5
3.7 × 10
−8
1.0 × 10
−6
5
1.0 × 10
−7
2.7 × 10
−6
10
1.8 × 10
−7
4.8 × 10
−6
20
3.7 × 10
−7
1.0 × 10
−5
35
7.4 × 10
−7
2.0 × 10
−5
50
9.3 × 10
−7
2.5 × 10
−5
90
2.2 × 10
−6
5.8 × 10
−5
93
2.6 × 10
−6
7.0 × 10
−5
95
3.4 × 10
−6
9.1 × 10
−5
1
The figures for uranium include representative values for the activity of the uranium-234 that is concentrated during the enrichment process.
[69 FR 3800, Jan. 26, 2004; 69 FR 58039, Sept. 29, 2004, as amended at 77 FR 39908, July 6, 2012; 80 FR 34014, June 12, 2015; 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]
Pt. 72

# PART 72—LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INDEPENDENT STORAGE OF SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL, HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE, AND REACTOR-RELATED GREATER THAN CLASS C WASTE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
72.1
Purpose.
72.2
Scope.
72.3
Definitions.
72.4
Communications.
72.5
Interpretations.
72.6
License required; types of licenses.
72.7
Specific exemptions.
72.8
Denial of licensing by Agreement States.
72.9
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
72.10
Employee protection.
72.11
Completeness and accuracy of information.
72.12
Deliberate misconduct.
72.13
Applicability.

# Subpart B—License Application, Form, and Contents
72.16
Filing of application for specific license.
72.18
Elimination of repetition.
72.20
Public inspection of application.
72.22
Contents of application: General and financial information.
72.24
Contents of application: Technical information.
72.26
Contents of application: Technical specifications.
72.28
Contents of application: Applicant's technical qualifications.
72.30
Financial assurance and recordkeeping for decommissioning.
72.32
Emergency Plan.
72.34
Environmental report.

# Subpart C—Issuance and Conditions of License
72.40
Issuance of license.
72.42
Duration of license; renewal.
72.44
License conditions.
72.46
Public hearings.
72.48
Changes, tests, and experiments.
72.50
Transfer of license.
72.52
Creditor regulations.
72.54
Expiration and termination of licenses and decommissioning of sites and separate buildings or outdoor areas.
72.56
Application for amendment of license.
72.58
Issuance of amendment.
72.60
Modification, revocation, and suspension of license.
72.62
Backfitting.

# Subpart D—Records, Reports, Inspections, and Enforcement
72.70
Safety analysis report updating.
72.72
Material balance, inventory, and records requirements for stored materials.
72.74
Reports of accidental criticality or loss of special nuclear material.
72.75
Reporting requirements for specific events and conditions.
72.76
Material status reports.
72.78
Nuclear material transaction reports.
72.79
Facility information and verification.
72.80
Other records and reports.
72.82
Inspections and tests.
72.84
Violations.
72.86
Criminal penalties.

# Subpart E—Siting Evaluation Factors
72.90
General considerations.
72.92
Design basis external natural events.
72.94
Design basis external man-induced events.
72.96
Siting limitations.
72.98
Identifying regions around an ISFSI or MRS site.
72.100
Defining potential effects of the ISFSI or MRS on the region.
72.102
Geological and seismological characteristics for applications before October 16, 2003 and applications for other than dry cask modes of storage.
72.103
Geological and seismological characteristics for applications for dry cask modes of storage on or after October 16, 2003.
72.104
Criteria for radioactive materials in effluents and direct radiation from an ISFSI or MRS.
72.106
Controlled area of an ISFSI or MRS.
72.108
Spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related greater than Class C waste transportation.

# Subpart F—General Design Criteria
72.120
General considerations.
72.122
Overall requirements.
72.124
Criteria for nuclear criticality safety.
72.126
Criteria for radiological protection.
72.128
Criteria for spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, reactor-related greater than Class C waste, and other radioactive waste storage and handling.
72.130
Criteria for decommissioning.

# Subpart G—Quality Assurance
72.140
Quality assurance requirements.
72.142
Quality assurance organization.
72.144
Quality assurance program.
72.146
Design control.
72.148
Procurement document control.
72.150
Instructions, procedures, and drawings.
72.152
Document control.
72.154
Control of purchased material, equipment, and services.
72.156
Identification and control of materials, parts, and components.
72.158
Control of special processes.
72.160
Licensee and certificate holder inspection.
72.162
Test control.
72.164
Control of measuring and test equipment.
72.166
Handling, storage, and shipping control.
72.168
Inspection, test, and operating status.
72.170
Nonconforming materials, parts, or components.
72.172
Corrective action.
72.174
Quality assurance records.
72.176
Audits.

# Subpart H—Physical Protection
72.180
Physical protection plan.
72.182
Design for physical protection.
72.184
Safeguards contingency plan.
72.186
Change to physical security and safeguards contingency plans.

# Subpart I—Training and Certification of Personnel
72.190
Operator requirements.
72.192
Operator training and certification program.
72.194
Physical requirements.

# Subpart J—Provision of MRS Information to State Governments and Indian Tribes
72.200
Provision of MRS information.
72.202
Participation in license reviews.
72.204
Notice to States.
72.206
Representation.

# Subpart K—General License for Storage of Spent Fuel at Power Reactor Sites
72.210
General license issued.
72.212
Conditions of general license issued under § 72.210.
72.214
List of approved spent fuel storage casks.
72.216
[Reserved]
72.218
Termination of licenses.
72.220
Violations.

# Subpart L—Approval of Spent Fuel Storage Casks
72.230
Procedures for spent fuel storage cask submittals.
72.232
Inspection and tests.
72.234
Conditions of approval.
72.236
Specific requirements for spent fuel storage cask approval and fabrication.
72.238
Issuance of an NRC Certificate of Compliance.
72.240
Conditions for spent fuel storage cask renewal.
72.242
Recordkeeping and reports.
72.244
Application for amendment of a certificate of compliance.
72.246
Issuance of amendment to a certificate of compliance.
72.248
Safety analysis report updating.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 51, 53, 57, 62, 63, 65, 69, 81, 161, 182, 183, 184, 186, 187, 189, 223, 234, 274 (42 U.S.C. 2071, 2073, 2077, 2092, 2093, 2095, 2099, 2111, 2201, 2210e, 2232, 2233, 2234, 2236, 2237, 2238, 2273, 2282, 2021); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 202, 206, 211 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5842, 5846, 5851); National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332); Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, secs. 117(a), 132, 133, 134, 135, 137, 141, 145(g), 148, 218(a) (42 U.S.C. 10137(a), 10152, 10153, 10154, 10155, 10157, 10161, 10165(g), 10168, 10198(a)); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Source:
53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 72 appear at 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015, and at 81 FR 86910, Dec. 2, 2016.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 72.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part establish requirements, procedures, and criteria for the issuance of licenses to receive, transfer, and possess power reactor spent fuel, power reactor-related Greater than Class C (GTCC) waste, and other radioactive materials associated with spent fuel storage in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) and the terms and conditions under which the Commission will issue these licenses. The regulations in this part also establish requirements, procedures, and criteria for the issuance of licenses to the Department of Energy (DOE) to receive, transfer, package, and possess power reactor spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, power reactor-related GTCC waste, and other radioactive materials associated with the storage of these materials in a monitored retrievable storage installation (MRS). The term Monitored Retrievable Storage Installation or MRS, as defined in § 72.3, is derived from the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA) and includes any installation that meets this definition. The regulations in this part also establish requirements, procedures, and criteria for the issuance of Certificates of Compliance approving spent fuel storage cask designs.
[66 FR 51838, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.2
Scope.
(a) Except as provided in § 72.6(b), licenses issued under this part are limited to the receipt, transfer, packaging, and possession of:
(1) Power reactor spent fuel to be stored in a complex that is designed and constructed specifically for storage of power reactor spent fuel aged for at least one year, other radioactive materials associated with spent fuel storage, and power reactor-related GTCC waste in a solid form in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI); or
(2) Power reactor spent fuel to be stored in a monitored retrievable storage installation (MRS) owned by DOE that is designed and constructed specifically for the storage of spent fuel aged for at least one year, high-level radioactive waste that is in a solid form, other radioactive materials associated with storage of these materials, and power reactor-related GTCC waste that is in a solid form.
(b) The regulations in this part pertaining to an independent spent fuel
storage installation (ISFSI) and a spent fuel storage cask apply to all persons in the United States, including persons in Agreement States. The regulations in this part pertaining to a monitored retrievable storage installation (MRS) apply only to DOE.
(c) The requirements of this regulation are applicable, as appropriate, to both wet and dry modes of storage of—
(1) Spent fuel and solid reactor-related GTCC waste in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI); and
(2) Spent fuel, solid high-level radioactive waste, and solid reactor-related GTCC waste in a monitored retrievable storage installation (MRS).
(d) Licenses covering the storage of spent fuel in an existing spent fuel storage installation shall be issued in accordance with the requirements of this part as stated in § 72.40, as applicable.
(e) This part also gives notice to all persons who knowingly provide to any licensee, certificate holder, applicant for a license or certificate, contractor, or subcontractor, components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services, that relate to a licensee's, certificate holder's, or applicant's activities subject to this part, that they may be individually subject to NRC enforcement action for violation of § 72.12.
(f) Certificates of Compliance approving spent fuel storage cask designs shall be issued in accordance with the requirements of subpart L of this part.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 40692, Aug. 15, 1991; 63 FR 1900, Jan. 13, 1998; 64 FR 33183, June 22, 1999; 64 FR 56121, Oct. 15, 1999; 66 FR 51838, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 919) including any amendments thereto.
Affected Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe—
(1) Within whose reservation boundaries a monitored retrievable storage facility is proposed to be located;
(2) Whose federally defined possessory or usage rights to other lands outside of the reservation's boundaries arising out of congressionally ratified treaties may be substantially and adversely affected by the locating of such a facility:
Provided,
That the Secretary of the Interior finds, upon the petition of the appropriate governmental officials of the Tribe, that such effects are both substantial and adverse to the Tribe.
Affected unit of local government
means any unit of local government with jurisdiction over the site where an MRS is proposed to be located.
AMP,
for the purposes of this part, means a program for addressing aging effects that may include prevention, mitigation, condition monitoring, and performance monitoring.
As low as is reasonably achievable (ALARA)
means as low as is reasonably achievable taking into account the state of technology, and the economics of improvement in relation to—
(1) Benefits to the public health and safety,
(2) Other societal and socioeconomic considerations, and
(3) The utilization of atomic energy in the public interest.
Atomic energy
means all forms of energy released in the course of nuclear fission or nuclear transformation.
Byproduct material
means—
(1) Any radioactive material (except special nuclear material) yielded in, or made radioactive by, exposure to the radiation incident to the process of producing or using special nuclear material;
(2)(i) Any discrete source of radium-226 that is produced, extracted, or converted after extraction, before, on, or after August 8, 2005, for use for a commercial, medical, or research activity; or
(ii) Any material that—
(A) Has been made radioactive by use of a particle accelerator; and
(B) Is produced, extracted, or converted after extraction, before, on, or after August 8, 2005, for use for a commercial, medical, or research activity; and
(3) Any discrete source of naturally occurring radioactive material, other than source material, that—
(i) The Commission, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the head of
any other appropriate Federal agency, determines would pose a threat similar to the threat posed by a discrete source of radium-226 to the public health and safety or the common defense and security; and
(ii) Before, on, or after August 8, 2005, is extracted or converted after extraction for use in a commercial, medical, or research activity.
Certificate holder
means a person who has been issued a Certificate of Compliance by the Commission for a spent fuel storage cask design.
Certificate of Compliance
or
CoC
means the certificate issued by the Commission that approves the design of a spent fuel storage cask in accordance with the provisions of subpart L of this part.
Commencement of construction
means any clearing of land, excavation, or other substantial action that would adversely affect the natural environment of a site, but does not mean:
(1) Changes desirable for the temporary use of the land for public recreational uses, necessary borings or excavations to determine subsurface materials and foundation conditions, or other preconstruction monitoring to establish background information related to the suitability of the site or to the protection of environmental values;
(2) Construction of environmental monitoring facilities;
(3) Procurement or manufacture of components of the installation; or
(4) Construction of means of access to the site as may be necessary to accomplish the objectives of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
Confinement systems
means those systems, including ventilation, that act as barriers between areas containing radioactive substances and the environment.
Controlled area
means that area immediately surrounding an ISFSI or MRS for which the licensee exercises authority over its use and within which ISFSI or MRS operations are performed.
Decommission
means to remove a facility or site safely from service and reduce residual radioactivity to a level that permits—
(1) Release of the property for unrestricted use and termination of the license; or
(2) Release of the property under restricted conditions and termination of the license.
Design bases
means that information that identifies the specific functions to be performed by a structure, system, or component of a facility or of a spent fuel storage cask and the specific values or ranges of values chosen for controlling parameters as reference bounds for design. These values may be restraints derived from generally accepted state-of-the-art practices for achieving functional goals or requirements derived from analysis (based on calculation or experiments) of the effects of a postulated event under which a structure, system, or component must meet its functional goals. The values for controlling parameters for external events include—
(1) Estimates of severe natural events to be used for deriving design bases that will be based on consideration of historical data on the associated parameters, physical data, or analysis of upper limits of the physical processes involved; and
(2) Estimates of severe external man-induced events to be used for deriving design bases that will be based on analysis of human activity in the region, taking into account the site characteristics and the risks associated with the event.
Design capacity
means the quantity of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste, the maximum burn up of the spent fuel in MWD/MTU, the terabequerel (curie) content of the waste, and the total heat generation in Watts (btu/hour) that the storage installation is designed to accommodate.
DOE
means the U.S. Department of Energy or its duly authorized representatives.
Floodplain
means the lowland and relatively flat areas adjoining inland and coastal waters including floodprone areas of offshore islands. Areas subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year are included.
Greater than Class C waste or GTCC waste
means low-level radioactive waste that exceeds the concentration limits of radionuclides established for Class C waste in § 61.55 of this chapter.
High-level radioactive waste
or
HLW
means—
(1) the highly radioactive material resulting from the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel, including liquid waste produced directly in reprocessing and any solid material derived from such liquid waste that contains fission products in sufficient concentrations; and
(2) other highly radioactive material that the Commission, consistent with existing law, determines by rule requires permanent isolation.
Historical data
means a compilation of the available published and unpublished information concerning a particular type of event.
Independent spent fuel storage installation
or
ISFSI
means a complex designed and constructed for the interim storage of spent nuclear fuel, solid reactor-related GTCC waste, and other radioactive materials associated with spent fuel and reactor-related GTCC waste storage. An ISFSI which is located on the site of another facility licensed under this part or a facility licensed under part 50 of this chapter and which shares common utilities and services with that facility or is physically connected with that other facility may still be considered independent.
Indian Tribe
means an Indian Tribe as defined in the Indian Self Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638).
Monitored Retrievable Storage Installation or MRS
means a complex designed, constructed, and operated by DOE for the receipt, transfer, handling, packaging, possession, safeguarding, and storage of spent nuclear fuel aged for at least one year, solidified high-level radioactive waste resulting from civilian nuclear activities, and solid reactor-related GTCC waste, pending shipment to a HLW repository or other disposal.
NEPA
means the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 including any amendments thereto.
NWPA
means the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 including any amendments thereto.
Person
means—
(1) Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government agency other than the Commission or the Department of Energy (DOE), except that the DOE shall be considered a person within the meaning of the regulations in this part to the extent that its facilities and activities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended (88 Stat. 1244), and Sections 131, 132, 133, 135, 137, and 141 of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 2229, 2230, 2232, 2241);
(2) Any State, any political subdivision of a State, or any political entity within a State;
(3) Any foreign government or nation, or any political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity; and
(4) Any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
Population
means the people that may be affected by the change in environmental conditions due to the construction, operation, or decommissioning of an ISFSI or MRS.
Principal activities,
as used in this part, means activities authorized by the license which are essential to achieving the purpose(s) for which the license was issued or amended, excluding activities incidental to decontamination or decommissioning.
Reconciliation
means the process of evaluating and comparing licensee reports required under this part to the projected material balances generated by the Nuclear Materials Management and Safeguards System. This process is considered complete when the licensee resolves any differences between the reported and projected balances, including those listed for foreign obligated materials.
Region
means the geographical area surrounding and including the site, which is large enough to contain all the features related to a phenomenon
or to a particular event that could potentially impact the safe or environmentally sound construction, operation, or decommissioning of an independent spent fuel storage or monitored retrievable storage installation.
Reservation
means—
(1) Any Indian reservation or dependent Indian community referred to in clause (a) or (b) of section 1151 of title 18, United States Code; or
(2) Any land selected by an Alaska Native village or regional corporation under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
).
Site
means the real property on which the ISFSI or MRS is located.
Source material
means—
(1) Uranium or thorium, or any combination thereof, in any physical or chemical form or
(2) Ores that contain by weight one-twentieth of one percent (0.05%) or more of:
(i) Uranium,
(ii) Thorium, or
(iii) Any combination thereof.
Source material does not include special nuclear material.
Special nuclear material
means—
(1) Plutonium, uranium-233, uranium enriched in the isotope 233 or in the isotope 235, and any other material which the Commission, pursuant to the provisions of section 51 of the Act, determines to be special nuclear material, but does not include source material; or
(2) Any material artificially enriched by any of the foregoing but does not include source material.
Spent fuel storage cask
or
cask
means all the components and systems associated with the container in which spent fuel or other radioactive materials associated with spent fuel are stored in an ISFSI.
Spent nuclear fuel
or
Spent fuel
means fuel that has been withdrawn from a nuclear reactor following irradiation, has undergone at least one year's decay since being used as a source of energy in a power reactor, and has not been chemically separated into its constituent elements by reprocessing. Spent fuel includes the special nuclear material, byproduct material, source material, and other radioactive materials associated with fuel assemblies.
Structures, systems, and components important to safety
means those features of the ISFSI, MRS, and spent fuel storage cask whose functions are—
(1) To maintain the conditions required to store spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste safely;
(2) To prevent damage to the spent fuel, the high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste container during handling and storage; or
(3) To provide reasonable assurance that spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste can be received, handled, packaged, stored, and retrieved without undue risk to the health and safety of the public.
Term certified by the cask's Certificate of Compliance,
for the purposes of this part, means, for an initial CoC, the period of time commencing with the CoC effective date and ending with the CoC expiration date, and for a renewed CoC, the period of time commencing with the most recent CoC renewal date and ending with the CoC expiration date.
TLAAs,
for the purposes of this part, means those licensee or certificate holder calculations and analyses that:
(1) Involve structures, systems, and components important to safety within the scope of the license renewal, as delineated in subpart F of this part, or within the scope of the spent fuel storage certificate renewal, as delineated in subpart L of this part, respectively;
(2) Consider the effects of aging;
(3) Involve time-limited assumptions defined by the current operating term, for example, 40 years;
(4) Were determined to be relevant by the licensee or certificate holder in making a safety determination;
(5) Involve conclusions or provide the basis for conclusions related to the capability of structures, systems, and components to perform their intended safety functions; and
(6) Are contained or incorporated by reference in the design bases.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 36038, July 15, 1994; 62 FR 39092, July 21, 1997; 64 FR 53614, Oct. 4, 1999; 64 FR 56121, Oct. 15, 1999; 66 FR 51839, Oct. 11, 2001; 72 FR 55933, Oct. 1, 2007; 73 FR 32462, June 9, 2008; 76 FR 8889, Feb. 16, 2011; 88 FR 57879, Aug. 24, 2023]
§ 72.4
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part and applications filed under them should be sent by mail addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Division of Fuel Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland between 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. eastern time; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. If the submission deadline date falls on a Saturday, or Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the next Federal working day becomes the official due date.
[68 FR 58818, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 72.5
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by an officer or employee of the Commission, other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel, will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 72.6
License required; types of licenses.
(a) Licenses for the receipt, handling, storage, and transfer of spent fuel or high-level radioactive waste are of two types: general and specific. Licenses for the receipt, handling, storage, and transfer of reactor-related GTCC are specific licenses. Any general license provided in this part is effective without the filing of an application with the Commission or the issuance of a licensing document to a particular person. A specific license is issued to a named person upon application filed pursuant to regulations in this part.
(b) A general license is hereby issued to receive title to and own spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste without regard to quantity. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a general licensee under this paragraph is not authorized to acquire, deliver, receive, possess, use, or transfer spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste except as authorized in a specific license.
(c) Except as authorized in a specific license and in a general license under subpart K of this part issued by the Commission in accordance with the regulations in this part, no person may acquire, receive, or possess—
(1) Spent fuel for the purpose of storage in an ISFSI; or
(2) Spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or radioactive material associated with high-level radioactive waste for the purpose of storage in an MRS.
[66 FR 51839, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.7
Specific exemptions.
The Commission may, upon application by any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant such exemptions from the requirements of the regulations in this part as it determines are authorized by law and will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security and are otherwise in the public interest.
§ 72.8
Denial of licensing by Agreement States.
Agreement States may not issue licenses covering the storage of spent fuel and reactor-related GTCC waste in an ISFSI or the storage of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and reactor-related GTCC waste in an MRS.
[66 FR 51839, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.9
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0132.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 72.7, 72.11, 72.16, 72.22 through 72.34, 72.42, 72.44, 72.48 through 72.56, 72.62, 72.70, through 72.80, 72.90, 72.92, 72.94, 72.98, 72.100, 72.102, 72.103, 72.104, 72.108, 72.120, 72.126, 72.140 through 72.176, 72.180 through 72.186, 72.192, 72.206, 72.212, 72.218, 72.230, 72.232, 72.234, 72.236, 72.240, 72.242, 72.244, 72.248.
(c) In § 72.79, Form N-71 and associated forms are approved under control number 3150-0056, and DOC/IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms, NRC Forms AP-1, AP-A, and associated forms are approved under control number 0694-0135.
[64 FR 56122, Oct. 15, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 67101, Nov. 4, 2002; 68 FR 54149, Sept. 16, 2003; 73 FR 78607, Dec. 23, 2008; 77 FR 39909, July 6, 2012; 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 72.10
Employee protection.
(a) Discrimination by a Commission licensee, certificate holder, an applicant for a Commission license or a CoC, or a contractor or subcontractor of any of these, against an employee for engaging in certain protected activities, is prohibited. Discrimination includes discharge and other actions that relate to compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment. The protected activities are established in section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and in general are related to the administration or enforcement of a requirement imposed under the Atomic Energy Act or the Energy Reorganization Act.
(1) The protected activities include but are not limited to:
(i) Providing the Commission or his or her employer information about alleged violations of either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) introductory text of this section or possible violations of requirements imposed under either of those statutes;
(ii) Refusing to engage in any practice made unlawful under either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) introductory text or under these requirements if the employee has identified the alleged illegality to the employer;
(iii) Requesting the Commission to institute action against his or her employer for the administration or enforcement of these requirements;
(iv) Testifying in any Commission proceeding, or before Congress, or at any Federal or State proceeding regarding any provision (or proposed provision) of either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) introductory text.
(v) Assisting or participating in, or is about to assist or participate in, these activities.
(2) These activities are protected even if no formal proceeding is actually initiated as a result of the employee assistance or participation.
(3) This section has no application to any employee alleging discrimination prohibited by this section who, acting without direction from his or her employer (or the employer's agent), deliberately causes a violation of any requirement of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(b) Any employee who believes that he or she has been discharged or otherwise discriminated against by any person for engaging in protected activities specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may seek a remedy for the discharge or discrimination through an administrative proceeding in the Department of Labor. The administrative proceeding must be initiated within 180 days after an alleged violation occurs. The employee may do this by filing a complaint alleging the violation with
the Department of Labor, Employment Standards Administration, Wage and Hour Division. The Department of Labor may order reinstatement, back pay, and compensatory damages.
(c) A violation of paragraph (a), (e), or (f) of this section by a Commission licensee, certificate holder, applicant for a Commission license or a CoC, or a contractor or subcontractor of any of these may be grounds for:
(1) Denial, revocation, or suspension of the license or the CoC.
(2) Imposition of a civil penalty on the licensee, applicant, or a contractor or subcontractor of the licensee or applicant.
(3) Other enforcement action.
(d) Actions taken by an employer, or others, which adversely affect an employee may be predicated upon nondiscriminatory grounds. The prohibition applies when the adverse action occurs because the employee has engaged in protected activities. An employee's engagement in protected activities does not automatically render him or her immune from discharge or discipline for legitimate reasons or from adverse action dictated by nonprohibited considerations.
(e)(1) Each licensee, certificate holder, and applicant for a license or CoC must prominently post the revision of NRC Form 3, “Notice to Employees,” referenced in 10 CFR 19.11(c). This form must be posted at locations sufficient to permit employees protected by this section to observe a copy on the way to or from their place of work. The premises must be posted not later than 30 days after an application is docketed and remain posted while the application is pending before the Commission, during the term of the license or CoC, and for 30 days following license or CoC termination.
(2) Copies of NRC Form 3 may be obtained by writing to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Office listed in Appendix D to Part 20 of this chapter, via email to
Forms.Resource@nrc.gov,
or by visiting the NRC's online library at
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/forms/.
(f) No agreement affecting the compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, including an agreement to settle a complaint filed by an employee with the Department of Labor pursuant to section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, may contain any provision which would prohibit, restrict, or otherwise discourage an employee from participating in protected activity as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section including, but not limited to, providing information to the NRC or to his or her employer on potential violations or other matters within NRC's regulatory responsibilities.
[58 FR 52414, Oct. 8, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 24552, May 9, 1995; 61 FR 6766, Feb. 22, 1996; 64 FR 56122, Oct. 15, 1999; 68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 63975, Nov. 14, 2007; 73 FR 30460, May 28, 2008; 79 FR 66606, Nov. 10, 2014]
§ 72.11
Completeness and accuracy of information.
(a) Information provided to the Commission by a licensee, certificate holder, or an applicant for a license or CoC; or information required by statute or by the Commission's regulations, orders, license or CoC conditions, to be maintained by the licensee or certificate holder, must be complete and accurate in all material respects.
(b) Each licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a license or CoC must notify the Commission of information identified by the licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a license or CoC as having, for the regulated activity, a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. A licensee, certificate holder, or an applicant for a license or CoC violates this paragraph only if the licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a license or CoC fails to notify the Commission of information that the licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a license or CoC has identified as having a significant implication for public health and safety or common defense and security. Notification must be provided to the Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office within two working days of identifying the information. This requirement is not applicable to information which is already
required to be provided to the Commission by other reporting or updating requirements.
[64 FR 56122, Oct. 15, 1999]
§ 72.12
Deliberate misconduct.
(a) Any licensee, certificate holder, applicant for a license or certificate, employee of a licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a license or certificate; or any contractor (including a supplier or consultant) or subcontractor, employee of a contractor or subcontractor of any licensee, certificate holder, or applicant for a license or certificate who knowingly provides to any licensee, certificate holder, applicant for a license or certificate, contractor, or subcontractor, any components, materials, or other goods or services that relate to a licensee's, certificate holder's, or applicant's activities subject to this part, may not:
(1) Engage in deliberate misconduct that causes or would have caused, if not detected, a licensee, certificate holder or applicant to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order; or any term, condition, or limitation of any license or certificate issued by the Commission; or
(2) Deliberately submit to the NRC, a licensee, a certificate holder, an applicant for a license or certificate, or a licensee's, applicant's, or certificate holder's contractor or subcontractor, information that the person submitting the information knows to be incomplete or inaccurate in some respect material to the NRC.
(b) A person who violates paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be subject to enforcement action in accordance with the procedures in 10 CFR part 2, subpart B.
(c) For the purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, deliberate misconduct by a person means an intentional act or omission that the person knows:
(1) Would cause a licensee, certificate holder or applicant for a license or certificate to be in violation of any rule, regulation, or order; or any term, condition, or limitation, of any license or certificate issued by the Commission; or
(2) Constitutes a violation of a requirement, procedure, instruction, contract, purchase order, or policy of a licensee, certificate holder, applicant, contractor, or subcontractor.
[63 FR 1900, Jan. 13, 1998]
§ 72.13
Applicability.
(a) This section identifies those sections, under this part, that apply to the activities associated with a specific license, a general license, or a certificate of compliance.
(b) The following sections apply to activities associated with a specific license: §§ 72.1; 72.2(a) through (e); 72.3 through 72.13(b); 72.16 through 72.34; 72.40 through 72.62; 72.70 through 72.86; 72.90 through 72.108; 72.120 through 72.130; 72.140 through 72.176; 72.180 through 72.186; 72.190 through 72.194; and 72.200 through 72.206.
(c) The following sections apply to activities associated with a general license: 72.1; 72.2(a)(1), (b), (c), and (e); 72.3 through 72.6(c)(1); 72.7 through 72.13(a) and (c); 72.30(b), (c), (d), (e) and (f); 72.32(c) and (d); 72.44(b) and (f); 72.48; 72.50(a); 72.52(a), (b), (d), and (e); 72.60; 72.62; 72.72 through 72.80(f); 72.82 through 72.86; 72.104; 72.106; 72.122; 72.124; 72.126; 72.140 through 72.176; 72.190; 72.194; 72.210 through 72.220, and 72.240(a).
(d) The following sections apply to activities associated with a certificate of compliance: §§ 72.1; 72.2(e) and (f); 72.3; 72.4; 72.5; 72.7; 72.9 through 72.13(a) and (d); 72.48; 72.84(a); 72.86; 72.124; 72.140 through 72.176; 72.214; and 72.230 through 72.248.
[65 FR 50616, Aug. 21, 2000, as amended at 76 FR 35573, June 17, 2011]

# Subpart B—License Application, Form, and Contents
§ 72.16
Filing of application for specific license.
(a)
Place of filing.
Each application for a license, or amendment thereof, under this part should be filed with the Director of the NRC's Division of Fuel Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards in accordance with § 72.4.
(b)
Oath or affirmation.
Each application for a license or license amendment (including amendments to such applications), except for those filed by DOE,
must be executed in an original signed by the applicant or duly authorized officer thereof under oath or affirmation. Each application for a license or license amendment (including amendments to such applications) filed by DOE must be signed by the Secretary of Energy or the Secretary's authorized representative.
(c)
Copies of application on paper or CD-ROM.
If the application is on paper, it must be the signed original. The applicant shall maintain the capability to generate additional copies for distribution in accordance with instruction from the Director or the Director's designee.
(d)
Fees.
The application, amendment, and renewal fees applicable to a license covering an ISFSI are those shown in § 170.31 of this chapter.
(e)
Notice of docketing.
Upon receipt of an application for a license or license amendment under this part, the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or the Director's designee will assign a docket number to the application, notify the applicant of the docket number, instruct the applicant to distribute copies retained by the applicant in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, and cause a notice of docketing to be published in the
Federal Register.
The notice of docketing shall identify the site of the ISFSI or the MRS by locality and State and may include a notice of hearing or a notice of proposed action and opportunity for hearing as provided by § 72.46 of this part. In the case of an application for a license or an amendment to a license for an MRS, the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or the Director's designee, in accordance with § 72.200 of this part, shall send a copy of the notice of docketing to the Governor and legislature of any State in which an MRS is or may be located, to the Chief Executive of the local municipality, to the Governors of any contiguous States and to the governing body of any affected Indian Tribe.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 53 FR 43421, Oct. 27, 1988; 66 FR 51839, Oct. 11, 2001; 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003; 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 72.18
Elimination of repetition.
In any application under this part, the applicant may incorporate by reference information contained in previous applications, statements, or reports filed with the Commission: Provided, That such references are clear and specific.
§ 72.20
Public inspection of application.
Applications and documents submitted to the Commission in connection with applications may be made available for public inspection in accordance with provisions of the regulations contained in parts 2 and 9 of this chapter.
§ 72.22
Contents of application: General and financial information.
Each application must state:
(a) Full name of applicant;
(b) Address of applicant;
(c) Description of business or occupation of applicant;
(d) If applicant is:
(1) An individual: Citizenship and age;
(2) A partnership: Name, citizenship, and address of each partner and the principal location at which the partnership does business;
(3) A corporation or an unincorporated association:
(i) The State in which it is incorporated or organized and the principal location at which it does business; and
(ii) The names, addresses, and citizenship of its directors and principal officers;
(4) Acting as an agent or representative of another person in filing the application: The identification of the principal and the information required under this paragraph with respect to such principal.
(5) The Department of Energy:
(i) The identification of the DOE organization responsible for the construction and operation of the ISFSI or MRS, including a description of any delegations of authority and assignments of responsibilities.
(ii) For each application for a license for an MRS, the provisions of the public law authorizing the construction and operation of the MRS.
(e) Except for DOE, information sufficient to demonstrate to the Commission the financial qualifications of the applicant to carry out, in accordance with the regulations in this chapter, the activities for which the license is sought. The information must state the place at which the activity is to be performed, the general plan for carrying out the activity, and the period of time for which the license is requested. The information must show that the applicant either possesses the necessary funds, or that the applicant has reasonable assurance of obtaining the necessary; funds or that by a combination of the two, the applicant will have the necessary funds available to cover the following:
(1) Estimated construction costs;
(2) Estimated operating costs over the planned life of the ISFSI; and
(3) Estimated decommissioning costs, and the necessary financial arrangements to provide reasonable assurance before licensing, that decommissioning will be carried out after the removal of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and/or reactor-related GTCC waste from storage.
(f) Each applicant for a license under this part to receive, transfer, and possess power reactor spent fuel, power reactor-related Greater than Class C (GTCC) waste, and other radioactive materials associated with spent fuel storage in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) shall protect Safeguards Information against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21 and the requirements of § 73.22 or § 73.23, as applicable.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 51839, Oct. 11, 2001; 73 FR 63573, Oct. 24, 2008]
§ 72.24
Contents of application: Technical information.
Each application for a license under this part must include a Safety Analysis Report describing the proposed ISFSI or MRS for the receipt, handling, packaging, and storage of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and/or reactor-related GTCC waste as appropriate, including how the ISFSI or MRS will be operated. The minimum information to be included in this report must consist of the following:
(a) A description and safety assessment of the site on which the ISFSI or MRS is to be located, with appropriate attention to the design bases for external events. Such assessment must contain an analysis and evaluation of the major structures, systems, and components of the ISFSI or MRS that bear on the suitability of the site when the ISFSI or MRS is operated at its design capacity. If the proposed ISFSI or MRS is to be located on the site of a nuclear power plant or other licensed facility, the potential interactions between the ISFSI or MRS and such other facility—including shared common utilities and services—must be evaluated.
(b) A description and discussion of the ISFSI or MRS structures with special attention to design and operating characteristics, unusual or novel design features, and principal safety considerations.
(c) The design of the ISFSI or MRS in sufficient detail to support the findings in § 72.40 for the term requested in the application, including:
(1) The design criteria for the ISFSI or MRS pursuant to subpart F of this part, with identification and justification for any additions to or departures from the general design criteria;
(2) the design bases and the relation of the design bases to the design criteria;
(3) Information relative to materials of construction, general arrangement, dimensions of principal structures, and descriptions of all structures, systems, and components important to safety, in sufficient detail to support a finding that the ISFSI or MRS will satisfy the design bases with an adequate margin for safety; and
(4) Applicable codes and standards.
(d) An analysis and evaluation of the design and performance of structures, systems, and components important to safety, with the objective of assessing the impact on public health and safety resulting from operation of the ISFSI or MRS and including determination of:
(1) The margins of safety during normal operations and expected operational occurrences during the life of the ISFSI or MRS; and
(2) The adequacy of structures, systems, and components provided for the prevention of accidents and the mitigation of the consequences of accidents, including natural and manmade phenomena and events.
(e) The means for controlling and limiting occupational radiation exposures within the limits given in part 20 of this chapter, and for meeting the objective of maintaining exposures as low as is reasonably achievable.
(f) The features of ISFSI or MRS design and operating modes to reduce to the extent practicable radioactive waste volumes generated at the installation.
(g) An identification and justification for the selection of those subjects that will be probable license conditions and technical specifications. These subjects must cover the design, construction, preoperational testing, operation, and decommissioning of the ISFSI or MRS.
(h) A plan for the conduct of operations, including the planned managerial and administrative controls system, and the applicant's organization, and program for training of personnel pursuant to subpart I.
(i) If the proposed ISFSI or MRS incorporates structures, systems, or components important to safety whose functional adequacy or reliability have not been demonstrated by prior use for that purpose or cannot be demonstrated by reference to performance data in related applications or to widely accepted engineering principles, an identification of these structures, systems, or components along with a schedule showing how safety questions will be resolved prior to the initial receipt of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and/or reactor-related GTCC waste as appropriate for storage at the ISFSI or MRS.
(j) The technical qualifications of the applicant to engage in the proposed activities, as required by § 72.28.
(k) A description of the applicant's plans for coping with emergencies, as required by § 72.32.
(l) A description of the equipment to be installed to maintain control over radioactive materials in gaseous and liquid effluents produced during normal operations and expected operational occurrences. The description must identify the design objectives and the means to be used for keeping levels of radioactive material in effluents to the environment as low as is reasonably achievable and within the exposure limits stated in § 72.104. The description must include:
(1) An estimate of the quantity of each of the principal radionuclides expected to be released annually to the environment in liquid and gaseous effluents produced during normal ISFSI or MRS operations;
(2) A description of the equipment and processes used in radioactive waste systems; and
(3) A general description of the provisions for packaging, storage, and disposal of solid wastes containing radioactive materials resulting from treatment of gaseous and liquid effluents and from other sources.
(m) An analysis of the potential dose equivalent or committed dose equivalent to an individual outside the controlled area from accidents or natural phenomena events that result in the release of radioactive material to the environment or direct radiation from the ISFSI or MRS. The calculations of individual dose equivalent or committed dose equivalent must be performed for direct exposure, inhalation, and ingestion occurring as a result of the postulated design basis event.
(n) A description of the quality assurance program that satisfies the requirements of subpart G to be applied to the design, fabrication, construction, testing, operation, modification, and decommissioning of the structures, systems, and components of the ISFSI or MRS important to safety. The description must identify the structures, systems, and components important to safety. The program must also apply to managerial and administrative controls used to ensure safe operation of the ISFSI or MRS.
(o) A description of the detailed security measures for physical protection, including design features and the plans required by subpart H. For an application from DOE for an ISFSI or MRS, DOE will provide a description of the physical protection plan for protection against radiological sabotage as required by subpart H.
(p) A description of the program covering preoperational testing and initial operations.
(q) A description of the decommissioning plan required under § 72.30.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 63 FR 26961, May 15, 1998; 64 FR 53615, Oct. 4, 1999; 66 FR 51839, Oct. 11, 2001; 76 FR 8890, Feb. 16, 2011]
§ 72.26
Contents of application: Technical specifications.
Each application under this part shall include proposed technical specifications in accordance with the requirements of § 72.44 and a summary statement of the bases and justifications for these technical specifications.
§ 72.28
Contents of application: Applicant's technical qualifications.
Each application under this part must include:
(a) The technical qualifications, including training and experience, of the applicant to engage in the proposed activities;
(b) A description of the personnel training program required under subpart I;
(c) A description of the applicant's operating organization, delegations of responsibility and authority and the minimum skills and experience qualifications relevant to the various levels of responsibility and authority; and
(d) A commitment by the applicant to have and maintain an adequate complement of trained and certified installation personnel prior to the receipt of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and/or reactor-related GTCC waste as appropriate for storage.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 51840, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.30
Financial assurance and recordkeeping for decommissioning.
(a) Each application under this part must include a proposed decommissioning plan that contains sufficient information on proposed practices and procedures for the decontamination of the site and facilities and for disposal of residual radioactive materials after all spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and reactor-related GTCC waste have been removed, in order to provide reasonable assurance that the decontamination and decommissioning of the ISFSI or MRS at the end of its useful life will provide adequate protection to the health and safety of the public. This plan must identify and discuss those design features of the ISFSI or MRS that facilitate its decontamination and decommissioning at the end of its useful life.
(b) Each holder of, or applicant for, a license under this part must submit for NRC review and approval a decommissioning funding plan that must contain:
(1) Information on how reasonable assurance will be provided that funds will be available to decommission the ISFSI or MRS.
(2) A detailed cost estimate for decommissioning, in an amount reflecting:
(i) The cost of an independent contractor to perform all decommissioning activities;
(ii) An adequate contingency factor; and
(iii) The cost of meeting the § 20.1402 of this chapter criteria for unrestricted use, provided that, if the applicant or licensee can demonstrate its ability to meet the provisions of § 20.1403 of this chapter, the cost estimate may be based on meeting the § 20.1403 criteria.
(3) Identification of and justification for using the key assumptions contained in the DCE.
(4) A description of the method of assuring funds for decommissioning from paragraph (e) of this section, including means for adjusting cost estimates and associated funding levels periodically over the life of the facility.
(5) The volume of onsite subsurface material containing residual radioactivity that will require remediation to meet the criteria for license termination.
(6) A certification that financial assurance for decommissioning has been provided in the amount of the cost estimate for decommissioning.
(c) At the time of license renewal and at intervals not to exceed 3 years, the decommissioning funding plan must be resubmitted with adjustments as necessary to account for changes in costs and the extent of contamination. If the amount of financial assurance will be adjusted downward, this can not be
done until the updated decommissioning funding plan is approved. The decommissioning funding plan must update the information submitted with the original or prior approved plan and must specifically consider the effect of the following events on decommissioning costs:
(1) Spills of radioactive material producing additional residual radioactivity in onsite subsurface material.
(2) Facility modifications.
(3) Changes in authorized possession limits.
(4) Actual remediation costs that exceed the previous cost estimate.
(d) If, in surveys made under 10 CFR 20.1501(a), residual radioactivity in soils or groundwater is detected at levels that would require such radioactivity to be reduced to a level permitting release of the property for unrestricted use under the decommissioning requirements in part 20 of this chapter, the licensee must submit a new or revised decommissioning funding plan within one year of when the survey is completed.
(e) The financial instrument must include the licensee's name, license number, and docket number; and the name, address, and other contact information of the issuer, and, if a trust is used, the trustee. When any of the foregoing information changes, the licensee must, within 30 days, submit financial instruments reflecting such changes. Financial assurance for decommissioning must be provided by one or more of the following methods:
(1)
Prepayment.
Prepayment is the deposit before the start of operation into an account segregated from licensee assets and outside the licensee's administrative control of cash or liquid assets such that the amount of funds would be sufficient to pay decommissioning costs. Prepayment must be made into a trust account, and the trustee and the trust must be acceptable to the Commission.
(2)
A surety method, insurance, or other guarantee method.
These methods guarantee that decommissioning costs will be paid. A surety method may be in the form of a surety bond, or letter of credit. A parent company guarantee of funds for decommissioning costs based on a financial test may be used if the guarantee and test are as contained in Appendix A to part 30 of this chapter. For commercial corporations that issue bonds, a guarantee of funds by the applicant or licensee for decommissioning costs based on a financial test may be used if the guarantee and test are as contained in Appendix C to part 30 of this chapter. For commercial companies that do not issue bonds, a guarantee of funds by the applicant or licensee for decommissioning costs may be used if the guarantee and test are as contained in Appendix D to part 30 of this chapter. Except for an external sinking fund, a parent company guarantee or a guarantee by the applicant or licensee may not be used in combination with other financial methods to satisfy the requirements of this section. A guarantee by the applicant or licensee may not be used in any situation where the applicant or licensee has a parent company holding majority control of the voting stock of the company. Any surety method or insurance used to provide financial assurance for decommissioning must contain the following conditions:
(i) The surety method or insurance must be open-ended or, if written for a specified term, such as five years, must be renewed automatically unless 90 days or more prior to the renewal date, the issuer notifies the Commission, the beneficiary, and the licensee of its intention not to renew. The surety method or insurance must also provide that the full face amount be paid to the beneficiary automatically prior to the expiration without proof of forfeiture if the licensee fails to provide a replacement acceptable to the Commission withing 30 days after receipt of notification or cancellation.
(ii) The surety method or insurance must be payable to a trust established for decommissioning costs. The trustee and trust must be acceptable to the Commission. An acceptable trustee includes an appropriate State or Federal government agency or an entity which has the authority to act as a trustee and whose trust operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency.
(iii) The surety or insurance must remain in effect until the Commission has terminated the license.
(3)
An external sinking fund in which deposits are made at least annually, coupled with a surety method, insurance, or other guarantee method, the value of which may decrease by the amount being accumulated in the sinking fund.
An external sinking fund is a fund established and maintained by setting aside funds periodically in an account segregated from licensee assets and outside the licensee's administrative control in which the total amount of funds would be sufficient to pay decommissioning costs at the time termination of operation is expected. An external sinking fund must be in the form of a trust. If the other guarantee method is used, no surety or insurance may be combined with the external sinking fund. The surety, insurance, or other guarantee provisions must be as stated in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(4) In the case of Federal, State, or local government licensees, a statement of intent containing a cost estimate for decommissioning, and indicating that funds for decommissioning will be obtained when necessary.
(5) In the case of licensees who are issued a power reactor license under part 50 of this chapter or ISFSI licensees who are an electric utility, as defined in part 50 of this chapter, with a specific license issued under this part, the methods of 10 CFR 50.75(b), (e), and (h), as applicable. In the event that funds remaining to be placed into the licensee's ISFSI decommissioning external sinking fund are no longer approved for recovery in rates by a competent rate making authority, the licensee must make changes to provide financial assurance using one or more of the methods stated in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this section.
(6) When a governmental entity is assuming ownership of a site, an arrangement that is deemed acceptable by such governmental entity.
(f) Each person licensed under this part shall keep records of information important to the decommissioning of a facility in an identified location until the site is released for unrestricted use. If records important to the decommissioning of a facility are kept for other purposes, reference to these records and their locations may be used. Information the Commission considers important to decommissioning consists of—
(1) Records of spills or other unusual occurrences involving the spread of contamination in and around the facility, equipment, or site. These records may be limited to instances when contamination remains after any cleanup procedures or when there is reasonable likelihood that contaminants may have spread to inaccessible areas as in the case of possible seepage into porous materials such as concrete. These records must include any known information on identification of involved nuclides, quantities, forms, and concentrations.
(2) As-built drawings and modifications of structures and equipment in restricted areas where radioactive materials are used and/or stored, and of locations of possible inaccessible contamination such as buried pipes which may be subject to contamination. If required drawings are referenced, each relevant document need not be indexed individually. If drawings are not available, the licensee shall substitute appropriate records of available information concerning these areas and locations.
(3) A list contained in a single document and updated no less than every 2 years of the following:
(i) All areas designated and formerly designated as restricted areas as defined under 10 CFR 20.1003; and
(ii) All areas outside of restricted areas that require documentation under § 72.30(f)(1).
(4) Records of the cost estimate performed for the decommissioning funding plan and records of the funding method used for assuring funds are available for decommissioning.
(g) In providing financial assurance under this section, each licensee must use the financial assurance funds only for decommissioning activities and each licensee must monitor the balance of funds held to account for market variations. The licensee must replenish the funds, and report such actions to the NRC, as follows:
(1) If, at the end of a calendar year, the fund balance is below the amount necessary to cover the cost of decommissioning, but is not below 75 percent of the cost, the licensee must increase
the balance to cover the cost, and must do so within 30 days after the end of the calendar year.
(2) If, at any time, the fund balance falls below 75 percent of the amount necessary to cover the cost of decommissioning, the licensee must increase the balance to cover the cost, and must do so within 30 days of the occurrence.
(3) Within 30 days of taking the actions required by paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section, the licensee must provide a written report of such actions to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, and state the new balance of the fund.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 29191, July 18, 1990; 58 FR 39635, July 26, 1993; 58 FR 67662, Dec. 22, 1993; 58 FR 68732, Dec. 29, 1993; 59 FR 1618, Jan. 12, 1994; 61 FR 24675, May 16, 1996; 62 FR 39092, July 21, 1997; 63 FR 29544, June 1, 1998; 66 FR 51840, Oct. 11, 2001; 67 FR 78351, Dec. 24, 2002; 76 FR 35573, June 17, 2011; 79 FR 75741 Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 72.32
Emergency Plan.
(a) Each application for an ISFSI that is licensed under this part which is: Not located on the site of a nuclear power reactor, or not located within the exclusion area as defined in 10 CFR part 100 of a nuclear power reactor, or located on the site of a nuclear power reactor which does not have an operating license, or located on the site of a nuclear power reactor that is not authorized to operate must be accompanied by an Emergency Plan that includes the following information:
(1)
Facility description.
A brief description of the licensee's facility and area near the site.
(2)
Types of accidents.
An identification of each type of radioactive materials accident.
(3)
Classification of accidents.
A classification system for classifying accidents as “alerts.”
(4)
Detection of accidents.
Identification of the means of detecting an accident condition.
(5)
Mitigation of consequences.
A brief description of the means of mitigating the consequences of each type of accident, including those provided to protect workers onsite, and a description of the program for maintaining the equipment.
(6)
Assessment of releases.
A brief description of the methods and equipment to assess releases of radioactive materials.
(7)
Responsibilities.
A brief description of the responsibilities of licensee personnel should an accident occur, including identification of personnel responsible for promptly notifying offsite response organizations and the NRC; also responsibilities for developing, maintaining, and updating the plan.
(8)
Notification and coordination.
A commitment to and a brief description of the means to promptly notify offsite response organizations and request offsite assistance, including medical assistance for the treatment of contaminated injured onsite workers when appropriate. A control point must be established. The notification and coordination must be planned so that unavailability of some personnel, parts of the facility, and some equipment will not prevent the notification and coordination. The licensee shall also commit to notify the NRC operations center immediately after notifications of the appropriate offsite response organizations and not later than one hour after the licensee declares an emergency.
10
1
These reporting requirements do not supersede or release licensees of complying with the requirements under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, Title III, Pub. L. 99-499 or other State or Federal reporting requirements.
(9)
Information to be communicated.
A brief description of the types of information on facility status; radioactive releases; and recommended protective actions, if necessary, to be given to offsite response organizations and to the NRC.
(10)
Training.
A brief description of the training the licensee will provide workers on how to respond to an emergency and any special instructions and orientation tours the licensee would offer to fire, police, medical and other emergency personnel.
(11)
Safe condition.
A brief description of the means of restoring the facility to a safe condition after an accident.
(12)
Exercises.
(i) Provisions for conducting semiannual communications checks with offsite response organizations and biennial onsite exercises to
test response to simulated emergencies. Radiological/Health Physics, Medical, and Fire drills shall be conducted annually. Semiannual communications checks with offsite response organizations must include the check and update of all necessary telephone numbers. The licensee shall invite offsite response organizations to participate in the biennial exercise.
(ii) Participation of offsite response organizations in biennial exercises, although recommended, is not required. Exercises must use scenarios not known to most exercise participants. The licensee shall critique each exercise using individuals not having direct implementation responsibility for conducting the exercise. Critiques of exercises must evaluate the appropriateness of the plan, emergency procedures, facilities, equipment, training of personnel, and overall effectiveness of the response. Deficiencies found by the critiques must be corrected.
(13)
Hazardous chemicals.
A certification that the applicant has met its responsibilities under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, Title III, Pub. L. 99-499, with respect to hazardous materials at the facility.
(14)
Comments on Plan.
The licensee shall allow the offsite response organizations expected to respond in case of an accident 60 days to comment on the initial submittal of the licensee's emergency plan before submitting it to NRC. Subsequent plan changes need not have the offsite comment period unless the plan changes affect the offsite response organizations. The licensee shall provide any comments received within the 60 days to the NRC with the emergency plan.
(15)
Offsite assistance.
The applicant's emergency plans shall include a brief description of the arrangements made for requesting and effectively using offsite assistance on site and provisions that exist for using other organizations capable of augmenting the planned onsite response.
(16) Arrangements made for providing information to the public.
(b) Each application for an MRS that is licensed under this part and each application for an ISFSI that is licensed under this part and that may process and/or repackage spent fuel, must be accompanied by an Emergency Plan that includes the following information:
(1)
Facility description.
A brief description of the licensee facility and area near the site.
(2)
Types of accidents.
An identification of each type of radioactive materials accident.
(3)
Classification of accidents.
A classification system for classifying accidents as “alerts” or “site area emergencies.”
(4)
Detection of accidents.
Identification of the means of detecting an accident condition.
(5)
Mitigation of consequences.
A brief description of the means of mitigating the consequences of each type of accident, including those provided to protect workers on site, and a description of the program for maintaining the equipment.
(6)
Assessment of releases.
A brief description of the methods and equipment to assess releases of radioactive materials.
(7)
Responsibilities.
A brief description of the responsibilities of licensee personnel should an accident occur, including identification of personnel responsible for promptly notifying offsite response organizations and the NRC; also responsibilities for developing, maintaining, and updating the plan.
(8)
Notification and coordination.
A commitment to and a brief description of the means to promptly notify offsite response organizations and request offsite assistance, including medical assistance for the treatment of contaminated injured onsite workers when appropriate. A control point must be established. The notification and coordination must be planned so that unavailability of some personnel, parts of the facility, and some equipment will not prevent the notification and coordination. The licensee shall also commit to notify the NRC operations center immediately after notifications of the appropriate offsite response organizations and not later than one hour after the licensee declares an emergency.
11
2
These reporting requirements do not supersede or release licensees of complying
with the requirements under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, Title III, Pub. L. 99-499 or other State or Federal reporting requirements.
(9)
Information to be communicated.
A brief description of the types of information on facility status; radioactive releases; and recommended protective actions, if necessary, to be given to offsite response organizations and to the NRC.
(10)
Training.
A brief description of the training the licensee will provide workers on how to respond to an emergency and any special instructions and orientation tours the licensee would offer to fire, police, medical and other emergency personnel.
(11)
Safe condition.
A brief description of the means of restoring the facility to a safe condition after an accident.
(12)
Exercises.
(i) Provisions for conducting quarterly communications checks with offsite response organizations and biennial onsite exercises to test response to simulated emergencies. Radiological/Health Physics, Medical, and Fire Drills shall be held semiannually. Quarterly communications checks with offsite response organizations must include the check and update of all necessary telephone numbers. The licensee shall invite offsite response organizations to participate in the biennial exercises.
(ii) Participation of offsite response organizations in the biennial exercises, although recommended, is not required. Exercises must use scenarios not known to most exercise participants. The licensee shall critique each exercise using individuals not having direct implementation responsibility for conducting the exercise. Critiques of exercises must evaluate the appropriateness of the plan, emergency procedures, facilities, equipment, training of personnel, and overall effectiveness of the response. Deficiencies found by the critiques must be corrected.
(13)
Hazardous chemicals.
A certification that the applicant has met its responsibilities under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, Title III, Pub. L. 99-499, with respect to hazardous materials at the facility.
(14)
Comments on Plan.
The licensee shall allow the offsite response organizations expected to respond in case of an accident 60 days to comment on the initial submittal of the licensee's emergency plan before submitting it to NRC. Subsequent plan changes need not have the offsite comment period unless the plan changes affect the offsite response organizations. The licensee shall provide any comments received within the 60 days to the NRC with the emergency plan.
(15)
Offsite assistance.
The applicant's emergency plans shall include the following:
(i) A brief description of the arrangements made for requesting and effectively using offsite assistance on site and provisions that exist for using other organizations capable of augmenting the planned onsite response.
(ii) Provisions that exist for prompt communications among principal response organizations to offsite emergency personnel who would be responding onsite.
(iii) Adequate emergency facilities and equipment to support the emergency response onsite are provided and maintained.
(iv) Adequate methods, systems, and equipment for assessing and monitoring actual or potential consequences of a radiological emergency condition are available.
(v) Arrangements are made for medical services for contaminated and injured onsite individuals.
(vi) Radiological Emergency Response Training has been made available to those offsite who may be called to assist in an emergency onsite.
(16) Arrangements made for providing information to the public.
(c) For an ISFSI that is:
(1) located on the site, or
(2) Located within the exclusion area as defined in 10 CFR part 100, of a nuclear power reactor licensed for operation by the Commission, the emergency plan that meets either the requirements in § 50.160 of this chapter, or the requirements in appendix E to part 50 of this chapter and § 50.47(b) of this chapter shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this section.
(d) A licensee with a license issued under this part may take reasonable
action that departs from a license condition or a technical specification (contained in a license issued under this part) in an emergency when this action is immediately needed to protect the public health and safety and no action consistent with license conditions and technical specifications that can provide adequate or equivalent protection is immediately apparent.
[60 FR 32441, June 22, 1995, as amended at 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 80078, Nov. 16, 2023]
§ 72.34
Environmental report.
Each application for an ISFSI or MRS license under this part must be accompanied by an Environmental Report which meets the requirements of subpart A of part 51 of this chapter.

# Subpart C—Issuance and Conditions of License
§ 72.40
Issuance of license.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the Commission will issue a license under this part upon a determination that the application for a license meets the standards and requirements of the Act and the regulations of the Commission, and upon finding that:
(1) The applicant's proposed ISFSI or MRS design complies with subpart F;
(2) The proposed site complies with the criteria in subpart E;
(3) If on the site of a nuclear power plant or other licensed activity or facility, the proposed ISFSI would not pose an undue risk to the safe operation of such nuclear power plant or other licensed activity or facility;
(4) The applicant is qualified by reason of training and experience to conduct the operation covered by the regulations in this part;
(5) The applicant's proposed operating procedures to protect health and to minimize danger to life or property are adequate;
(6) Except for DOE, the applicant for an ISFSI or MRS is financially qualified to engage in the proposed activities in accordance with the regulations in this part;
(7) The applicant's quality assurance plan complies with subpart G;
(8) The applicant's physical protection provisions comply with subpart H. DOE has complied with the safeguards and physical security provisions identified in § 72.24(o);
(9) The applicant's personnel training program complies with subpart I;
(10) Except for DOE, the applicant's decommissioning plan and its financing pursuant to § 72.30 provide reasonable assurance that the decontamination and decommissioning of the ISFSI or MRS at the end of its useful life will provide adequate protection to the health and safety of the public;
(11) The applicant's emergency plan complies with § 72.32;
(12) The applicable provisions of part 170 of this chapter have been satisfied;
(13) There is reasonable assurance that: (i) The activities authorized by the license can be conducted without endangering the health and safety of the public and (ii) these activities will be conducted in compliance with the applicable regulations of this chapter; and
(14) The issuance of the license will not be inimical to the common defense and security.
(b) A license to store spent fuel and reactor-related GTCC waste in the proposed ISFSI or to store spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and reactor-related GTCC waste in the proposed MRS may be denied if construction on the proposed facility begins before a finding approving issuance of the proposed license with any appropriate conditions to protect environmental values. Grounds for denial may be the commencement of construction prior to a finding by the Director, Office of Nuclear Materials Safety and Safeguards or designee or a finding after a public hearing by the presiding officer, Atomic Safety and Licensing Board, or the Commission acting as a collegial body, as appropriate, that the action called for is the issuance of the proposed license with any appropriate conditions to protect environmental values. This finding is to be made on the basis of information filed and evaluations made pursuant to subpart A of part 51 of this chapter or in the case of an MRS on the basis of evaluations made pursuant to sections 141(c) and (d) or 148(a) and (c) of NWPA (96 Stat.
2242, 2243, 42 U.S.C. 10161(c), (d); 101 Stat. 1330-235, 1330-236, 42 U.S.C. 10168(a), (c)), as appropriate, and after weighing the environmental, economic, technical and other benefits against environmental costs and considering available alternatives.
(c) For facilities that have been covered under previous licensing actions including the issuance of a construction permit under part 50 of this chapter, a reevaluation of the site is not required except where new information is discovered which could alter the original site evaluation findings. In this case, the site evaluation factors involved will be reevaluated.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 51840, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.42
Duration of license; renewal.
(a) Each license issued under this part must be for a fixed period of time to be specified in the license. The license term for an ISFSI must not exceed 40 years from the date of issuance. The license term for an MRS must not exceed 40 years from the date of issuance. Licenses for either type of installation may be renewed by the Commission at the expiration of the license term upon application by the licensee for a period not to exceed 40 years and under the requirements of this rule. Application for ISFSI license renewals must include the following:
(1) TLAAs that demonstrate that structures, systems, and components important to safety will continue to perform their intended function for the requested period of extended operation; and
(2) A description of the AMP for management of issues associated with aging that could adversely affect structures, systems, and components important to safety.
(b) Applications for renewal of a license should be filed in accordance with the applicable provisions of subpart B of this part at least 2 years before the expiration of the existing license. The application must also include design bases information as documented in the most recently updated FSAR as required by § 72.70. Information contained in previous applications, statements, or reports filed with the Commission under the license may be incorporated by reference provided that these references are clear and specific.
(c) In any case in which a licensee, not less than two years prior to expiration of its existing license, has filed an application in proper form for renewal of a license, the existing license shall not expire until a final decision concerning the application for renewal has been made by the Commission.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 76 FR 8890, Feb. 16, 2011]
§ 72.44
License conditions.
(a) Each license issued under this part shall include license conditions. The license conditions may be derived from the analyses and evaluations included in the Safety Analysis Report and amendments thereto submitted pursuant to § 72.24. License conditions pertain to design, construction and operation. The Commission may also include additional license conditions as it finds appropriate.
(b) Each license issued under this part shall be subject to the following conditions, even if they are not explicitly stated therein;
(1) Neither the license nor any right thereunder shall be transferred, assigned, or disposed of in any manner, either voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, through transfer of control of the license to any person, unless the Commission shall, after securing full information, find that the transfer is in accordance with the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and give its consent in writing.
(2) The license shall be subject to revocation, suspension, modification, or amendment in accordance with the procedures provided by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and Commission regulations.
(3) Upon request of the Commission, the licensee shall, at any time before expiration of the license, submit written statements, signed under oath or affirmation if appropriate, to enable the Commission to determine whether or not the license should be modified, suspended, or revoked.
(4) The licensee shall have an NRC-approved program in effect that covers
the training and certification of personnel that meets the requirements of subpart I before the licensee may receive spent fuel and/or reactor-related GTCC waste for storage at an ISFSI or the receipt of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and/or reactor-related GTCC waste for storage at an MRS.
(5) The license shall permit the operation of the equipment and controls that are important to safety of the ISFSI or the MRS only by personnel whom the licensee has certified as being adequately trained to perform such operations, or by uncertified personnel who are under the direct visual supervision of a certified individual.
(6)(i) Each licensee shall notify the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator, in writing, immediately following the filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition for bankruptcy under any Chapter of Title II (Bankruptcy) of the United States Code by or against:
(A) The licensee;
(B) An entity (as that term is defined in 11 U.S.C. 101(14)) controlling the licensee or listing the license or licensee as property of the estate; or
(C) An affiliate (as that term is defined in 11 U.S.C. 101(2)) of the licensee.
(ii) This notification must indicate:
(A) The bankruptcy court in which the petition for bankruptcy was filed; and
(B) The date of the filing of the petition.
(c) Each license issued under this part must include technical specifications. Technical specifications must include requirements in the following categories:
(1)
Functional and operating limits and monitoring instruments and limiting control settings.
(i) Functional and operating limits for an ISFSI or MRS are limits on fuel or waste handling and storage conditions that are found to be necessary to protect the integrity of the stored fuel or waste container, to protect employees against occupational exposures and to guard against the uncontrolled release of radioactive materials; and
(ii) Monitoring instruments and limiting control settings for an ISFSI or MRS are those related to fuel or waste handling and storage conditions having significant safety functions.
(2)
Limiting conditions.
Limiting conditions are the lowest functional capability or performance levels of equipment required for safe operation.
(3)
Surveillance requirements.
Surveillance requirements include:
(i) Inspection and monitoring of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste in storage;
(ii) Inspection, test and calibration activities to ensure that the necessary integrity of required systems and components is maintained;
(iii) Confirmation that operation of the ISFSI or MRS is within the required functional and operating limits; and
(iv) Confirmation that the limiting conditions required for safe storage are met.
(4)
Design features.
Design features include items that would have a significant effect on safety if altered or modified, such as materials of construction and geometric arrangements.
(5)
Administrative controls.
Administrative controls include the organization and management procedures, recordkeeping, review and audit, and reporting requirements necessary to assure that the operations involved in the storage of spent fuel and reactor-related GTCC waste in an ISFSI and the storage of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and reactor-related GTCC waste in an MRS are performed in a safe manner.
(d) Each license authorizing the receipt, handling, and storage of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and/or reactor-related GTCC waste under this part must include technical specifications that, in addition to stating the limits on the release of radioactive materials for compliance with limits of part 20 of this chapter and the “as low as is reasonably achievable” objectives for effluents, require that:
(1) Operating procedures for control of effluents be established and followed, and equipment in the radioactive waste treatment systems be maintained and used, to meet the requirements of § 72.104;
(2) An environmental monitoring program be established to ensure compliance with the technical specifications for effluents; and
(3) An annual report be submitted to the Commission in accordance with § 72.4, specifying the quantity of each of the principal radionuclides released to the environment in liquid and in gaseous effluents during the previous 12 months of operation and such other information as may be required by the Commission to estimate maximum potential radiation dose commitment to the public resulting from effluent releases. On the basis of this report and any additional information that the Commission may obtain from the licensee or others, the Commission may from time to time require the licensee to take such action as the Commission deems appropriate. The report must be submitted within 60 days after the end of the 12-month monitoring period.
(e) The licensee shall make no change that would decrease the effectiveness of the physical security plan prepared pursuant to § 72.180 without the prior approval of the Commission. A licensee desiring to make such a change shall submit an application for an amendment to the license pursuant to § 72.56. A licensee may make changes to the physical security plan without prior Commission approval, provided that such changes do not decrease the effectiveness of the plan. The licensee shall furnish to the Commission a report containing a description of each change within two months after the change is made, and shall maintain records of changes to the plan made without prior Commission approval for a period of 3 years from the date of the change.
(f) A licensee shall follow and maintain in effect an emergency plan that is approved by the Commission. The licensee may make changes to the approved plan without Commission approval only if such changes do not decrease the effectiveness of the plan. Within six months after any change is made, the licensee shall submit, in accordance with § 72.4, a report containing a description of any changes made in the plan addressed to Director, Division of Fuel Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, with a copy to the appropriate NRC Regional Office shown in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter. Proposed changes that decrease the effectiveness of the approved emergency plan must not be implemented unless the licensee has received prior approval of such changes from the Commission.
(g) A license issued to DOE under this part for an MRS authorized by section 142(b) of NWPA (101 Stat. 1330-232, 42 U.S.C. 10162(b)) must include the following conditions:
(1) Construction of the MRS may not begin until the Commission has authorized the construction of a repository under section 114(d) of NWPA (96 Stat. 2215, as amended by 101 Stat. 1330-230, 42 U.S.C. 10134 (d)) and part 60 or 63 of this chapter;
(2) Construction of the MRS or acceptance of spent nuclear fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and/or reactor-related GTCC waste at the MRS is prohibited during such time as the repository license is revoked by the Commission or construction of the repository ceases.
(3) The quantity of spent nuclear fuel or high-level radioactive waste at the site of the MRS at any one time may not exceed 10,000 metric tons of heavy metal until a repository authorized under NWPA and part 60 or 63 of this chapter first accepts spent nuclear fuel or solidified high-level radioactive waste; and
(4) The quantity of spent nuclear fuel or high-level radioactive waste at the site of the MRS at any one time may not exceed 15,000 metric tons of heavy metal.
(h) Each licensee shall protect Safeguards Information against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements of § 73.21 and the requirements of § 73.22 or § 73.23, as applicable.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 64 FR 33183, June 22, 1999; 66 FR 51840, Oct. 11, 2001; 66 FR 55815, Nov. 2, 2001; 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003; 73 FR 63573, Oct. 24, 2008; 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 72.46
Public hearings.
(a) In connection with each application for a license under this part, the Commission shall issue or cause to be
issued a notice of proposed action and opportunity for hearing in accordance with § 2.105 or § 2.1107 of this chapter, as appropriate, or, if the Commission finds that a hearing is required in the public interest, a notice of hearing in accordance with § 2.104 of this chapter.
(b)(1) In connection with each application for an amendment to a license under this part, the Commission shall, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, issue or cause to be issued a notice of proposed action and opportunity for hearing in accordance with § 2.105 or § 2.1107 of this chapter, as appropriate, or, if the Commission finds that a hearing is required in the public interest, a notice of hearing in accordance with § 2.104 of this chapter.
(2) The Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or the Director's designee may dispense with a notice of proposed action and opportunity for hearing or a notice of hearing and take immediate action on an amendment to a license issued under this part upon a determination that the amendment does not present a genuine issue as to whether the health and safety of the public will be significantly affected. After taking the action, the Director or the Director's designee shall promptly publish a notice in the
Federal Register
of the action taken and of the right of interested persons to request a hearing on whether the action should be rescinded or modified. If the action taken amends an MRS license, the Director or the Director's designee shall also inform the appropriate State and local officials.
(c) The notice of proposed action and opportunity for hearing or the notice of hearing may be included in the notice of docketing required to be published by § 72.16 of this part.
(d) If no request for a hearing or petition for leave to intervene is filed within the time prescribed in the notice of proposed action and opportunity for hearing, the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or the Director's designee may take the proposed action, and thereafter shall promptly inform the appropriate State and local officials and publish a notice in the
Federal Register
of the action taken. In accordance with § 2.764(c) of this chapter, the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards shall not issue an initial license for the construction and operation of an ISFSI located at a site other than a reactor site or an MRS until expressly authorized to do so by the Commission.
(e) If an application for (or an amendment to) a specific license issued under this part incorporates by reference information on the design of a spent fuel storage cask for which NRC approval pursuant to subpart L of this part has been issued or is being sought, the scope of any public hearing held to consider the application will not include any cask design issues.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 20886, Apr. 28, 1995; 65 FR 50617, Aug. 21, 2000]
§ 72.48
Changes, tests, and experiments.
(a) Definitions for the purposes of this section:
(1)
Change
means a modification or addition to, or removal from, the facility or spent fuel storage cask design or procedures that affects a design function, method of performing or controlling the function, or an evaluation that demonstrates that intended functions will be accomplished.
(2)
Departure from a method of evaluation described in the FSAR (as updated) used in establishing the design bases or in the safety analyses
means:
(i) Changing any of the elements of the method described in the FSAR (as updated) unless the results of the analysis are conservative or essentially the same; or
(ii) Changing from a method described in the FSAR to another method unless that method has been approved by NRC for the intended application.
(3)
Facility
means either an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) or a Monitored Retrievable Storage facility (MRS).
(4) The
facility or spent fuel storage cask design as described in the Final Safety Analysis Report (FSAR) (as updated)
means:
(i) The structures, systems, and components (SSC) that are described in the FSAR (as updated),
(ii) The design and performance requirements for such SSCs described in the FSAR (as updated), and
(iii) The evaluations or methods of evaluation included in the FSAR (as updated) for such SSCs which demonstrate that their intended function(s) will be accomplished.
(5)
Final Safety Analysis Report (as updated)
means:
(i) For specific licensees, the Safety Analysis Report for a facility submitted and updated in accordance with § 72.70;
(ii) For general licensees, the Safety Analysis Report for a spent fuel storage cask design, as amended and supplemented; and
(iii) For certificate holders, the Safety Analysis Report for a spent fuel storage cask design submitted and updated in accordance with § 72.248.
(6)
Procedures as described in the Final Safety Analysis Report (as updated)
means those procedures that contain information described in the FSAR (as updated) such as how SSCs are operated and controlled (including assumed operator actions and response times).
(7)
Tests or experiments not described in the Final Safety Analysis Report (as updated)
means any activity where any SSC is utilized or controlled in a manner which is either:
(i) Outside the reference bounds of the design bases as described in the FSAR (as updated) or
(ii) Inconsistent with the analyses or descriptions in the FSAR (as updated).
(b) This section applies to:
(1) Each holder of a general or specific license issued under this part, and
(2) Each holder of a Certificate of Compliance (CoC) issued under this part.
(c)(1) A licensee or certificate holder may make changes in the facility or spent fuel storage cask design as described in the FSAR (as updated), make changes in the procedures as described in the FSAR (as updated), and conduct tests or experiments not described in the FSAR (as updated), without obtaining either:
(i) A license amendment pursuant to § 72.56 (for specific licensees) or
(ii) A CoC amendment submitted by the certificate holder pursuant to § 72.244 (for general licensees and certificate holders) if:
(A) A change to the technical specifications incorporated in the specific license is not required; or
(B) A change in the terms, conditions, or specifications incorporated in the CoC is not required; and
(C) The change, test, or experiment does not meet any of the criteria in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) A specific licensee shall obtain a license amendment pursuant to § 72.56, a certificate holder shall obtain a CoC amendment pursuant to § 72.244, and a general licensee shall request that the certificate holder obtain a CoC amendment pursuant to § 72.244, prior to implementing a proposed change, test, or experiment if the change, test, or experiment would:
(i) Result in more than a minimal increase in the frequency of occurrence of an accident previously evaluated in the FSAR (as updated);
(ii) Result in more than a minimal increase in the likelihood of occurrence of a malfunction of a system, structure, or component (SSC) important to safety previously evaluated in the FSAR (as updated);
(iii) Result in more than a minimal increase in the consequences of an accident previously evaluated in the FSAR (as updated);
(iv) Result in more than a minimal increase in the consequences of a malfunction of an SSC important to safety previously evaluated in the FSAR (as updated);
(v) Create a possibility for an accident of a different type than any previously evaluated in the FSAR (as updated);
(vi) Create a possibility for a malfunction of an SSC important to safety with a different result than any previously evaluated in the FSAR (as updated);
(vii) Result in a design basis limit for a fission product barrier as described in the FSAR (as updated) being exceeded or altered; or
(viii) Result in a departure from a method of evaluation described in the FSAR (as updated) used in establishing the design bases or in the safety analyses.
(3) In implementing this paragraph, the FSAR (as updated) is considered to include FSAR changes resulting from
evaluations performed pursuant to this section and analyses performed pursuant to § 72.56 or § 72.244 since the last update of the FSAR pursuant to § 72.70, or § 72.248 of this part.
(4) The provisions in this section do not apply to changes to the facility or procedures when the applicable regulations establish more specific criteria for accomplishing such changes.
(d)(1) The licensee and certificate holder shall maintain records of changes in the facility or spent fuel storage cask design, of changes in procedures, and of tests and experiments made pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. These records must include a written evaluation which provides the bases for the determination that the change, test, or experiment does not require a license or CoC amendment pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) The licensee and certificate holder shall submit, as specified in § 72.4, a report containing a brief description of any changes, tests, and experiments, including a summary of the evaluation of each. A report shall be submitted at intervals not to exceed 24 months.
(3) The records of changes in the facility or spent fuel storage cask design shall be maintained until:
(i) Spent fuel is no longer stored in the facility or the spent fuel storage cask design is no longer being used, or
(ii) The Commission terminates the license or CoC issued pursuant to this part.
(4) The records of changes in procedures and of tests and experiments shall be maintained for a period of 5 years.
(5) The holder of a spent fuel storage cask design CoC, who permanently ceases operation, shall provide the records of changes to the new certificate holder or to the Commission, as appropriate, in accordance with § 72.234(d)(3).
(6)(i) A general licensee shall provide a copy of the record for any changes to a spent fuel storage cask design to the applicable certificate holder within 60 days of implementing the change.
(ii) A specific licensee using a spent fuel storage cask design, approved pursuant to subpart L of this part, shall provide a copy of the record for any changes to a spent fuel storage cask design to the applicable certificate holder within 60 days of implementing the change.
(iii) A certificate holder shall provide a copy of the record for any changes to a spent fuel storage cask design to any general or specific licensee using the cask design within 60 days of implementing the change.
[64 FR 53615, Oct. 4, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 11527, Feb. 26, 2001]
§ 72.50
Transfer of license.
(a) No license or any part included in a license issued under this part for an ISFSI or MRS shall be transferred, assigned, or in any manner disposed of, either voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, through transfer of control of the license to any person, unless the Commission gives its consent in writing.
(b)(1) An application for transfer of a license must include as much of the information described in §§ 72.22 and 72.28 with respect to the identity and the technical and financial qualifications of the proposed transferee as would be required by those sections if the application were for an initial license. The application must also include a statement of the purposes for which the transfer of the license is requested and the nature of the transaction necessitating or making desirable the transfer of the license.
(2) The Commission may require any person who submits an application for the transfer of a license pursuant to the provisions of this section to file a written consent from the existing licensee, or a certified copy of an order or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, attesting to the person's right—subject to the licensing requirements of the Act and these regulations—to possession of the radioactive materials and the storage installation involved.
(3) The application shall describe the financial assurance that will be provided for the decommissioning of the facility under § 72.30.
(c) After appropriate notice to interested persons, including the existing licensee, and observance of such procedures as may be required by the Act or
regulations or orders of the Commission, the Commission will approve an application for the transfer of a license, if the Commission determines that:
(1) The proposed transferee is qualified to be the holder of the license; and
(2) Transfer of the license is consistent with applicable provisions of the law, and the regulations and orders issued by the Commission.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 76 FR 35574, June 17, 2011]
§ 72.52
Creditor regulations.
(a) This section does not apply to an ISFSI or MRS constructed and operated by DOE.
(b) Pursuant to section 184 of the Act, the Commission consents, without individual application, to the creation of any mortgage, pledge, or other lien on special nuclear material contained in spent fuel not owned by the United States that is the subject of a license or on any interest in special nuclear material in spent fuel; Provided:
(1) That the rights of any creditor so secured may be exercised only in compliance with and subject to the same requirements and restrictions as would apply to the licensee pursuant to the provisions of the license, the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and regulations issued by the Commission pursuant to said Act; and
(2) That no creditor so secured may take possession of the spent fuel and/or reactor-related GTCC waste under the provisions of this section before—
(i) The Commission issues a license authorizing possession; or
(ii) The license is transferred.
(c) Any creditor so secured may apply for transfer of the license covering spent fuel and/or reactor-related GTCC waste by filing an application for transfer of the license under § 72.50(b). The Commission will act upon the application under § 72.50(c).
(d) Nothing contained in this regulation shall be deemed to affect the means of acquiring, or the priority of, any tax lien or other lien provided by law.
(e) As used in this section, “creditor” includes, without implied limitation—
(1) The trustee under any mortgage, pledge, or lien on spent fuel and/or reactor-related GTCC waste in storage made to secure any creditor;
(2) Any trustee or receiver of spent fuel and/or reactor-related GTCC waste appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in any action brought for the benefit of any creditor secured by a mortgage, pledge, or lien;
(3) Any purchaser of the spent fuel and/or reactor-related GTCC waste at the sale thereof upon foreclosure of the mortgage, pledge, or lien or upon exercise of any power of sale contained therein; or
(4) Any assignee of any such purchaser.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 51840, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.54
Expiration and termination of licenses and decommissioning of sites and separate buildings or outdoor areas.
(a) Each specific license expires at the end of the day on the expiration date stated in the license except when a licensee has filed an application for renewal pursuant to § 72.42 not less than 24 months before the expiration of the existing license. If an application for renewal has been filed at least 24 months prior to the expiration date stated in the existing license, the existing license expires at the end of the day on which the Commission makes a final determination to deny the renewal application or, if the determination states an expiration date, the expiration date stated in the determination.
(b) Each specific license revoked by the Commission expires at the end of the day on the date of the Commission's final determination to revoke the license or on the expiration date stated in the determination or as otherwise provided by Commission Order.
(c) Each specific license continues in effect, beyond the expiration date if necessary, with respect to possession of licensed material until the Commission notifies the licensee in writing that the license is terminated. During this time, the licensee shall—
(1) Limit actions involving spent fuel, reactor-related GTCC waste, or other licensed material to those related to decommissioning; and
(2) Continue to control entry to restricted areas until they are suitable for release in accordance with NRC requirements.
(d) As required by § 72.42(b), or within 60 days of the occurrence of any of the following, consistent with the administrative directions in § 72.4, each licensee shall notify the NRC in writing, and submit within 12 months of this notification, a final decommissioning plan and begin decommissioning upon approval of the plan if—
(1) The licensee has decided to permanently cease principal activities, as defined in this part, at the entire site or any separate building or outdoor area that contains residual radioactivity such that the building or outdoor area is unsuitable for release in accordance with NRC requirements; or
(2) No principal activities under the license have been conducted for a period of 24 months; or
(3) No principal activities have been conducted for a period of 24 months in any separate building or outdoor area that contains residual radioactivity such that the building or outdoor area is unsuitable for release in accordance with NRC requirements.
(e) Coincident with the notification required by paragraph (d) of this section, the licensee shall maintain in effect all decommissioning financial assurances established by the licensee pursuant to § 72.30 in conjunction with a license issuance or renewal or as required by this section. The amount of the financial assurance must be increased, or may be decreased, as appropriate, to cover the detailed cost estimate for decommissioning established pursuant to paragraph (g)(5) of this section.
(1) Any licensee who has not provided financial assurance to cover the detailed cost estimate submitted with the decommissioning plan shall do so when this rule becomes effective November 24, 1995.
(2) Following approval of the decommissioning plan, a licensee may reduce the amount of the financial assurance as decommissioning proceeds and radiological contamination is reduced at the site with the approval of the Commission.
(f)(1) The Commission may grant a request to delay or postpone initiation of the decommissioning process if the Commission determines that this relief is not detrimental to the public health and safety and is otherwise in the public interest. The request must be submitted no later than 30 days before notification pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. The schedule for decommissioning set forth in paragraph (d) of this section may not commence until the Commission has made a determination on the request.
(2) The Commission may approve an alternate schedule for submittal of the final decommissioning plan required pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section if the Commission determines that the alternate schedule is necessary to the effective conduct of decommissioning operations and presents no undue risk from radiation to the public health and safety, and is otherwise to the public interest.
(g) The proposed final decommissioning plan must include—
(1) A description of the current conditions of the site or separate building or outdoor area sufficient to evaluate the acceptability of the plan;
(2) The choice of the alternative for decommissioning with a description of the activities involved;
(3) A description of controls and limits on procedures and equipment to protect occupational and public health and safety;
(4) A description of the planned final radiation survey; and
(5) An updated detailed cost estimate for the chosen alternative for decommissioning, comparison of that estimate with present funds set aside for decommissioning, and plan for assuring the availability of adequate funds for completion of decommissioning including means for adjusting cost estimates and associated funding levels over any storage or surveillance period; and
(6) A description of technical specifications and quality assurance provisions in place during decommissioning.
(h) For final decommissioning plans in which the major dismantlement activities are delayed by first placing the ISFSI or MRS in storage, planning for these delayed activities may be less detailed. Updated detailed plans must be
submitted and approved prior to the start of these activities.
(i) If the final decommissioning plan demonstrates that the decommissioning will be completed as soon as practicable, performed in accordance with the regulations in this chapter, and will not be inimical to the common defense and security or to the health and safety of the public, and after notice to interested persons, the Commission will approve the plan subject to any appropriate conditions and limitations and issue an order authorizing decommissioning.
(j)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, each licensee shall complete decommissioning of the site or separate building or outdoor area as soon as practicable but no later than 24 months following approval of the final decommissioning plan by the Commission.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, when decommissioning involves the entire site, each licensee shall request license termination as soon as practicable but no later than 24 months following approval of the final decommissioning plan by the Commission.
(k) The Commission may approve a request for an alternate schedule for completion of decommissioning of the site or separate building or outdoor area, and license termination if appropriate, if the Commission determines that the alternate schedule is warranted by consideration of the following:
(1) Whether it is technically feasible to complete decommissioning within the allotted 24-month period;
(2) Whether sufficient waste disposal capacity is available to allow completion of decommissioning within the allotted 24-month period;
(3) Whether a significant volume reduction in wastes requiring disposal will be achieved by allowing short-lived radionuclides to decay;
(4) Whether a significant reduction in radiation exposure to workers can be achieved by allowing short-lived radionuclides to decay; and
(5) Other site-specific factors that the Commission may consider appropriate on a case-by-case basis, such as regulatory requirements of other government agencies, lawsuits, groundwater treatment activities, monitored natural groundwater restoration, actions that could result in more environmental harm than deferred cleanup, and other factors beyond the control of the licensee.
(l) As the final step in decommissioning, the licensee shall—
(1) Certify the disposition of all licensed material, including accumulated wastes, by submitting a completed NRC Form 314 or equivalent information; and
(2) Conduct a radiation survey of the premises where the licensed activities were conducted and submit a report of the results of this survey, unless the licensee demonstrates in some other manner that the premises are suitable for release in accordance with the criteria for decommissioning in 10 CFR part 20, subpart E. The licensee shall, as appropriate—
(i) Report levels of gamma radiation in units of millisieverts (microroentgen) per hour at one meter from surfaces, and report levels of radioactivity, including alpha and beta, in units of megabecquerels (disintegrations per minute or microcuries) per 100 square centimeters removable and fixed for surfaces, megabecquerels (microcuries) per milliliter for water, and becquerels (picocuries) per gram for solids such as soils or concrete; and
(ii) Specify the survey instrument(s) used and certify that each instrument is properly calibrated and tested.
(m) Specific licenses, including expired licenses, will be terminated by written notice to the licensee when the Commission determines that—
(1) The decommissioning has been performed in accordance with the approved final decommissioning plan and the order authorizing decommissioning; and
(2)(i) A radiation survey has been performed which demonstrates that the premises are suitable for release in accordance with the criteria for decommissioning in 10 CFR part 20, subpart E; or
(ii) Other information submitted by the licensee is sufficient to demonstrate that the premises are suitable
for release in accordance with the criteria for decommissioning in 10 CFR part 20, subpart E.
(3) Records required by § 72.80(e) have been received.
[59 FR 36038, July 15, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 38240, July 26, 1995; 61 FR 24675, May 16, 1996; 61 FR 29638, June 12, 1996; 62 FR 39092, July 21, 1997; 62 FR 59276, Nov. 3, 1997; 66 FR 51840, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.56
Application for amendment of license.
Whenever a holder of a specific license desires to amend the license (including a change to the license conditions), an application for an amendment shall be filed with the Commission fully describing the changes desired and the reasons for such changes, and following as far as applicable the form prescribed for original applications.
[64 FR 53616, Oct. 4, 1999]
§ 72.58
Issuance of amendment.
In determining whether an amendment to a license will be issued to the applicant, the Commission will be guided by the considerations that govern the issuance of initial licenses.
§ 72.60
Modification, revocation, and suspension of license.
(a) The terms and conditions of all licenses are subject to amendment, revision, or modification by reason of amendments to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or by reason or rules, regulations, or orders issued in accordance with the Act or any amendments thereto.
(b) Any license may be modified, revoked, or suspended in whole or in part for any of the following:
(1) Any material false statement in the application or in any statement of fact required under section 182 of the Act;
(2) Conditions revealed by the application or statement of fact or any report, record, inspection or other means which would warrant the Commission to refuse to grant a license on an original application;
(3) Failure to operate an ISFSI or MRS in accordance with the terms of the license;
(4) Violation of, or failure to observe, any of the terms and conditions of the Act, or of any applicable regulation, license, or order of the Commission.
(c) Upon revocation of a license, the Commission may immediately cause the retaking of possession of all special nuclear material contained in spent fuel and/or reactor-related GTCC waste held by the licensee. In cases found by the Commission to be of extreme importance to the national defense and security or to the health and safety of the public, the Commission may cause the taking of possession of any special nuclear material contained in spent fuel and/or reactor-related GTCC waste held by the licensee before following any of the procedures provided under sections 551-558 of title 5 of the United States Code.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 51841, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.62
Backfitting.
(a) As used in this section,
backfitting
means the addition, elimination, or modification, after the license has been issued, of:
(1) Structures, systems, or components of an ISFSI or MRS, or
(2) Procedures or organization required to operate an ISFSI or MRS.
(b) The Commission will require backfitting of an ISFSI or MRS if it finds that such action is necessary to assure adequate protection to occupational or public health and safety, or to bring the ISFSI or MRS into compliance with a license or the rules or orders of the Commission, or into conformance with written commitments by a licensee.
(c) The Commission may require the backfitting of an ISFSI or MRS if it finds:
(1) That there is a substantial increase in the overall protection of the occupational or public health and safety to be derived from the backfit, and
(2) That the direct and indirect costs of implementation for that ISFSI or MRS are justified in view of this increased protection.
(d) The Commission may at any time require a holder of a license to submit such information concerning the backfitting or the proposed backfitting
of an ISFSI or MRS as it deems appropriate.

# Subpart D—Records, Reports, Inspections, and Enforcement
§ 72.70
Safety analysis report updating.
(a) Each specific licensee for an ISFSI or MRS shall update periodically, as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the final safety analysis report (FSAR) to assure that the information included in the report contains the latest information developed.
(1) Each licensee shall submit an original FSAR to the Commission, in accordance with § 72.4, within 90 days after issuance of the license.
(2) The original FSAR shall be based on the safety analysis report submitted with the application and reflect any changes and applicant commitments developed during the license approval and/or hearing process.
(b) Each update shall contain all the changes necessary to reflect information and analyses submitted to the Commission by the licensee or prepared by the licensee pursuant to Commission requirement since the submission of the original FSAR or, as appropriate, the last update to the FSAR under this section. The update shall include the effects
1
of:
1
Effects of changes includes appropriate revisions of descriptions in the FSAR such that the FSAR (as updated) is complete and accurate.
(1) All changes made in the ISFSI or MRS or procedures as described in the FSAR;
(2) All safety analyses and evaluations performed by the licensee either in support of approved license amendments, or in support of conclusions that changes did not require a license amendment in accordance with § 72.48;
(3) All final analyses and evaluations of the design and performance of structures, systems, and components that are important to safety taking into account any pertinent information developed during final design, construction, and preoperational testing; and
(4) All analyses of new safety issues performed by or on behalf of the licensee at Commission request. The information shall be appropriately located within the updated FSAR.
(c)(1) The update of the FSAR must be filed in accordance with § 72.4. If the update is filed on paper, it should be filed on a page-replacement basis; if filed electronically, it should be filed on a full replacement basis. See Guidance for Electronic Submissions to the Commission at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html.
(2) A paper update filed on a page-replacement basis must include a list that identifies the current pages of the FSAR following page replacement. If the update is filed electronically on a full replacement basis, it must include a list of changed pages.
(3) Each replacement page shall include both a change indicator for the area changed, e.g., a bold line vertically drawn in the margin adjacent to the portion actually changed, and a page change identification (date of change or change number or both);
(4) The update shall include:
(i) A certification by a duly authorized officer of the licensee that either the information accurately presents changes made since the previous submittal, or that no such changes were made; and
(ii) An identification of changes made under the provisions of § 72.48, but not previously submitted to the Commission;
(5) The update shall reflect all changes implemented up to a maximum of 6 months prior to the date of filing; and
(6) Updates shall be filed every 24 months from the date of issuance of the license.
(d) The updated FSAR shall be retained by the licensee until the Commission terminates the license.
[64 FR 53616, Oct. 4, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 72.72
Material balance, inventory, and records requirements for stored materials.
(a) Each licensee shall keep records showing the receipt, inventory (including location), disposal, acquisition, and transfer of all special nuclear material with quantities as specified in § 74.13(a) of this chapter and for source material as specified in § 40.64 of this chapter.
The records must include as a minimum the name of shipper of the material to the ISFSI or MRS, the estimated quantity of radioactive material per item (including special nuclear material in spent fuel and reactor-related GTCC waste), item identification and seal number, storage location, onsite movements of each fuel assembly or storage canister, and ultimate disposal. These records for spent fuel and reactor-related GTCC waste at an ISFSI or for spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and reactor-related GTCC waste at an MRS must be retained for as long as the material is stored and for a period of 5 years after the material is disposed of or transferred out of the ISFSI or MRS.
(b) Each licensee shall conduct a physical inventory of all spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and reactor-related GTCC waste containing special nuclear material meeting the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section at intervals not to exceed 12 months unless otherwise directed by the Commission. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current inventory as a record until the Commission terminates the license.
(c) Each licensee shall establish, maintain, and follow written material control and accounting procedures that are sufficient to enable the licensee to account for material in storage. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current material control and accounting procedures until the Commission terminates the license.
(d) Records of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and reactor-related GTCC waste containing special nuclear material meeting the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section must be kept in duplicate. The duplicate set of records must be kept at a separate location sufficiently remote from the original records that a single event would not destroy both sets of records. Records of spent fuel or reactor-related GTCC waste containing special nuclear material transferred out of an ISFSI or of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste containing special nuclear material transferred out of an MRS must be preserved for a period of five years after the date of transfer.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 51841, Oct. 11, 2001; 73 FR 32462, June 9, 2008]
§ 72.74
Reports of accidental criticality or loss of special nuclear material.
(a) Each licensee shall notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone at the numbers specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter within 1 hour of discovery of accidental criticality or any loss of special nuclear material.
(b) This notification must be made to the NRC Operations Center via the Emergency Notification System if the licensee is party to that system. If the Emergency Notification System is inoperative or unavailable, the licensee shall make the required notification via commercial telephonic service or any other dedicated telephonic system or any other method that will ensure that a report is received by the NRC Operations Center within one hour. The exemption of § 73.22(f)(3) of this chapter applies to all telephonic reports required by this section.
(c) Reports required under § 73.1200 of this chapter need not be duplicated under the requirements of this section.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 14087, Mar. 25, 1994, 81 FR 86910, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 15881, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 72.75
Reporting requirements for specific events and conditions.
(a)
Emergency notifications:
Each licensee shall notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center upon the declaration of an emergency as specified in the licensee's approved emergency plan addressed in § 72.32. The licensee shall notify the NRC immediately after notification of the appropriate State or local agencies, but not later than one hour after the time the licensee declares an emergency.
(b)
Non-emergency notifications:
Four-hour reports. Each licensee shall notify the NRC as soon as possible but not later than four hours after the discovery of any of the following events or conditions involving spent fuel, HLW, or reactor-related GTCC waste:
(1) An action taken in an emergency that departs from a condition or a technical specification contained in a license or certificate of compliance issued under this part when the action is immediately needed to protect the public health and safety, and no action consistent with license or certificate of compliance conditions or technical specifications that can provide adequate or equivalent protection is immediately apparent.
(2) Any event or situation related to the health and safety of the public or onsite personnel, or protection of the environment, for which a news release is planned or notification to other Government agencies has been or will be made. Such an event may include an onsite fatality or inadvertent release of radioactively contaminated materials.
(c)
Non-emergency notifications:
Eight-hour reports. Each licensee shall notify the NRC as soon as possible but not later than eight hours after the discovery of any of the following events or conditions involving spent fuel, HLW, or reactor-related GTCC waste:
(1) A defect in any spent fuel, HLW, or reactor-related GTCC waste storage structure, system, or component that is important to safety.
(2) A significant reduction in the effectiveness of any spent fuel, HLW, or reactor-related GTCC waste storage confinement system during use.
(3) Any event requiring the transport of a radioactively contaminated person to an offsite medical facility for treatment.
(d)
Non-emergency notifications:
24-hour reports. Each licensee shall notify the NRC within 24 hours after the discovery of any of the following events involving spent fuel, HLW, or reactor-related GTCC waste:
(1) An event in which important to safety equipment is disabled or fails to function as designed when:
(i) The equipment is required by regulation, license condition, or certificate of compliance to be available and operable to prevent releases that could exceed regulatory limits, to prevent exposures to radiation or radioactive materials that could exceed regulatory limits, or to mitigate the consequences of an accident; and
(ii) No redundant equipment was available and operable to perform the required safety function.
(2) For notifications made under this paragraph, the licensee may delay the notification to the NRC if the end of the 24-hour period occurs outside of the NRC's normal working day (
i.e.,
7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Eastern time), on a weekend, or a Federal holiday. In these cases, the licensee shall notify the NRC before 8:00 a.m. Eastern time on the next working day.
(e)
Initial notification:
Reports made by licensees in response to the requirements of this section must be made as follows:
(1) Licensees shall make reports required by paragraphs (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section by telephone to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the numbers specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
1
1
Those licensees with an available Emergency Notification System (ENS) shall use the ENS to notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center.
(2) When making a report under paragraphs (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section, the licensee shall identify:
(i) The Emergency Class declared; or
(ii) Paragraph (b), “four-hour reports,” paragraph (c), “eight-hour reports,” or paragraph (d), “24-hour reports,” as the paragraph of this section requiring notification of the non-emergency event.
(3) To the extent that the information is available at the time of notification, the information provided in these reports must include:
(i) The caller's name and call back telephone number;
(ii) A description of the event, including date and time;
(iii) The exact location of the event;
(iv) The quantities and chemical and physical forms of the spent fuel, HLW, or reactor-related GTCC waste involved in the event; and
(v) Any personnel radiation exposure data.
(f)
Follow-up notification:
With respect to the telephone notifications made under paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this section, in addition to making the required initial notification, each licensee shall during the course of the event:
(1) Immediately report any further degradation in the level of safety of the ISFSI or MRS or other worsening conditions, including those that require the declaration of any of the Emergency Classes, if such a declaration has not been previously made; or any change from one Emergency Class to another; or a termination of the Emergency Class.
(2) Immediately report the results of ensuing evaluations or assessments of ISFSI or MRS conditions; the effectiveness of response or protective measures taken; and information related to ISFSI or MRS behavior that is not understood.
(3) Maintain an open, continuous communication channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center upon request by the NRC.
(g)
Preparation and submission of written reports.
Each licensee who makes an initial notification required by paragraphs (b)(1), (c)(1), (c)(2), or (d)(1) of this section shall also submit a written follow-up report to the Commission within 60 days of the initial notification. Written reports prepared pursuant to other regulations may be submitted to fulfill this requirement if the reports contain all the necessary information and the appropriate distribution is made. These written reports must be of sufficient quality to permit legible reproduction and optical scanning and must be submitted to the NRC in accordance with § 72.4. These reports must include the following information:
(1) A brief abstract describing the major occurrences during the event, including all component or system failures that contributed to the event and significant corrective action taken or planned to prevent recurrence;
(2) A clear, specific, narrative description of the event that occurred so that knowledgeable readers conversant with the design of an ISFSI or MRS, but not familiar with the details of a particular facility, can understand the complete event. The narrative description must include the following specific information as appropriate for the particular event:
(i) The ISFSI or MRS operating conditions before the event;
(ii) The status of structures, components, or systems that were inoperable at the start of the event and that contributed to the event;
(iii) The dates and approximate times of occurrences;
(iv) The cause of each component or system failure or personnel error, if known;
(v) The failure mode, mechanism, and effect of each failed component, if known;
(vi) A list of systems or secondary functions that were also affected for failures of components with multiple functions;
(vii) For wet spent fuel storage systems only, after the failure that rendered a train of a safety system inoperable, an estimate of the elapsed time from the discovery of the failure until the train was returned to service;
(viii) The method of discovery of each component or system failure or procedural error;
(ix) For each human performance related root cause, the licensee shall discuss the cause(s) and circumstances;
(x) For wet spent fuel storage systems only, any automatically and manually initiated safety system responses;
(xi) The manufacturer and model number (or other identification) of each component that failed during the event; and
(xii) The quantities and chemical and physical forms of the spent fuel, HLW, or reactor-related GTCC waste involved in the event;
(3) An assessment of the safety consequences and implications of the event. This assessment must include the availability of other systems or components that could have performed the same function as the components and systems that failed during the event;
(4) A description of any corrective actions planned as a result of the event, including those to reduce the probability of similar events occurring in the future;
(5) Reference to any previous similar events at the same facility that are known to the licensee;
(6) The name and telephone number of a person within the licensee's organization who is knowledgeable about
the event and can provide additional information concerning the event and the facility's characteristics; and
(7) The extent of exposure of individuals to radiation or to radioactive materials without identification of individuals by name.
(h)
Supplemental information:
The Commission may require the licensee to submit specific additional information beyond that required by paragraph (g) of this section if the Commission finds that supplemental material is necessary for complete understanding of an unusually complex or significant event. These requests for supplemental information will be made in writing, and the licensee shall submit, as specified in § 72.4, the requested information as a supplement to the initial written report.
(i)
Applicability:
The requirements of this section apply to:
(1)(i) Licensees issued a specific license under § 72.40; and
(ii) Licensees issued a general license under § 72.210, after the licensee has placed spent fuel on the ISFSI storage pad (if the ISFSI is located inside the collocated protected area, for a reactor licensed under part 50 of this chapter) or after the licensee has transferred spent fuel waste outside the reactor licensee's protected area to the ISFSI storage pad (if the ISFSI is located outside the collocated protected area, for a reactor licensed under part 50 of this chapter).
(2) Those non-emergency events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section that occurred within 3 years of the date of discovery.
[68 FR 33615, June 5, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 72.76
Material status reports.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each licensee shall complete in computer-readable format and submit to the Commission a Material Balance Report and a Physical Inventory Listing Report as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0007 and NMMSS Report D-24 “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.” Copies of these instructions may be obtained either by writing to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail to
RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.
These reports, as specified by § 74.13 or 40.64 of this chapter, provide information concerning the special nuclear material and/or source material possessed, received, transferred, disposed of, or lost by the licensee. Each report must be submitted within 60 days of the beginning of the physical inventory required by § 72.72(b). The Commission may, when good cause is shown, permit a licensee to submit Material Balance Reports and Physical Inventory Listing Reports at other times. Each licensee required to report material balance and inventory information as described in this part, shall resolve any discrepancies identified during the report review and reconciliation process within 30 calendar days of notification of a discrepancy identified by NRC. The Commission's copy of this report must be submitted to the address specified in the instructions. These prescribed, computer-readable forms replace the DOE/NRC Forms 742 and 742C previously submitted in paper form.
(b) Any licensee who is required to submit routine material status reports pursuant to § 75.35 of this chapter (pertaining to implementation of the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement) shall prepare and submit such reports only as provided in that section instead of as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 35620, July 13, 1994; 66 FR 51841, Oct. 11, 2001; 67 FR 78143, Dec. 23, 2002; 68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003; 73 FR 32462, June 9, 2008; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 72.78
Nuclear material transaction reports.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, whenever the licensee transfers or receives or adjusts the inventory, in any manner, of special nuclear material as specified by § 74.15 and/or source material as specified by § 40.64 of this chapter, the licensee shall complete in computer-readable format a Nuclear Material Transaction Report as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24, “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.”
Copies of these instructions may be obtained either by writing to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail to
RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.
Each licensee who transfers the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format as specified in the instructions no later than the close of business the next working day. Each licensee who receives the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format in accordance with instructions within ten (10) days after the material is received. Each ISFSI licensee who receives spent fuel from a foreign source shall complete both the supplier's and the receiver's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report, verify the identity of the spent fuel, and indicate the results on the receiver's portion of the form. These prescribed computer-readable forms replace the DOE/NRC Form 741 which have been previously submitted in paper form.
(b) Any licensee who is required to submit Nuclear Material Transactions Reports pursuant to § 75.34 of this chapter (pertaining to implementation of the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement) shall prepare and submit the reports only as provided in that section instead of as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
[59 FR 35621, July 13, 1994, as amended at 66 FR 51841, Oct. 11, 2001; 68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003; 73 FR 32463, June 9, 2008; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 72.79
Facility information and verification.
(a) In response to a written request by the Commission, each applicant for a certificate of compliance or license and each recipient of a certificate of compliance or specific or general license shall submit facility information, as described in § 75.10 of this chapter, on IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms and site information on DOC/NRC Form AP-A and associated forms;
(b) Shall submit location information described in § 75.11 of this chapter on DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms; and
(c) Shall permit verification thereof by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and take other action as necessary to implement the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement, as described in part 75 of this chapter.
[73 FR 78607, Dec. 23, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 72.80
Other records and reports.
(a) Each licensee shall maintain any records and make any reports that may be required by the conditions of the license or by the rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission in effectuating the purposes of the Act.
(b) Each licensee shall furnish a copy of its annual financial report, including the certified financial statements, to the Commission. However, licensees who submit a Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission or a Form 1 with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, need not submit the annual financial report or a certified financial statement under this paragraph.
(c) Records that are required by the regulations in this part or by the license conditions must be maintained for the period specified by the appropriate regulation or license condition. If a retention period is not otherwise specified, the above records must be maintained until the Commission terminates the license.
(d) Any record that must be maintained pursuant to this part may be either the original or a reproduced copy by any state of the art method provided that any reproduced copy is duly authenticated by authorized personnel and is capable of producing a clear and legible copy after storage for the period specified by Commission regulations.
(e) Before license termination, the licensee shall forward records required by § 20.2103(b)(4), of this chapter, and § 72.30(f) to the appropriate NRC Regional Office.
(f) If licensed activities are transferred or assigned in accordance with § 72.44(b)(1), the licensee shall transfer the records required by § 20.2103(b)(4), of this chapter, and § 72.30(f) to the new licensee and the new licensee will be responsible for maintaining these records until the license is terminated.
(g) Each specific licensee shall notify the Commission, in accordance with § 72.4, of its readiness to begin operation at least 90 days prior to the first storage of spent fuel, high-level waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste in an ISFSI or an MRS.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 24675, May 16, 1996; 64 FR 53616, Oct. 4, 1999; 66 FR 51841, Oct. 11, 2001; 71 FR 29247, May 22, 2006; 76 FR 35574, June 17, 2011]
§ 72.82
Inspections and tests.
(a) Each licensee under this part shall permit duly authorized representatives of the Commission to inspect its records, premises, and activities and of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste in its possession related to the specific license as may be necessary to meet the objectives of the Act, including section 105 of the Act.
(b) Each licensee under this part shall make available to the Commission for inspection, upon reasonable notice, records kept by the licensee pertaining to its receipt, possession, packaging, or transfer of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste.
(c)(1) Each licensee under this part shall upon request by the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator provide rent-free office space for the exclusive use of the Commission inspection personnel. Heat, air conditioning, light, electrical outlets and janitorial services shall be furnished by each licensee. The office shall be convenient to and have full access to the installation and shall provide the inspector both visual and acoustic privacy.
(2) For a site with a single storage installation the space provided shall be adequate to accommodate a full-time inspector, a part-time secretary, and transient NRC personnel and will be generally commensurate with other office facilities at the site. A space of 250 sq. ft., either within the site's office complex or in an office trailer, or other onsite space, is suggested as a guide. For sites containing multiple facilities, additional space may be requested to accommodate additional full-time inspectors. The office space that is provided shall be subject to the approval of the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator. All furniture, supplies and Commission equipment will be furnished by the Commission.
(3) Each licensee under this part shall afford any NRC resident inspector assigned to that site, or other NRC inspectors identified by the Regional Administrator as likely to inspect the installation, immediate unfettered access, equivalent to access provided regular plant employees, following proper identification and compliance with applicable access control measures for security, radiological protection, and personal safety.
(d) Each licensee shall perform, or permit the Commission to perform, such tests as the Commission deems appropriate or necessary for the administrator of the regulations in this part.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 64 FR 17512, Apr. 12, 1999; 66 FR 51842, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.84
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under Section
186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
[57 FR 55078, Nov. 24, 1992]
§ 72.86
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in part 72 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in Part 72 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 72.1, 72.2, 72.3, 72.4, 72.5, 72.7, 72.8, 72.9, 72.13, 72.16, 72.18, 72.20, 72.22, 72.24, 72.26, 72.28, 72.32, 72.34, 72.40, 72.46, 72.56, 72.58, 72.60, 72.62, 72.84, 72.86, 72.90, 72.96, 72.108, 72.120, 72.122, 72.124, 72.126, 72.128, 72.130, 72.182, 72.194, 72.200, 72.202, 72.204, 72.206, 72.210, 72.214, 72.220, 72.230, 72.238, and 72.240.
[57 FR 55078, Nov. 24, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 36040, July 13, 1994; 64 FR 53616, Oct. 4, 1999; 64 FR 56122, Oct. 15, 1999; 65 FR 50617, Aug. 21, 2000]

# Subpart E—Siting Evaluation Factors
§ 72.90
General considerations.
(a) Site characteristics that may directly affect the safety or environmental impact of the ISFSI or MRS must be investigated and assessed.
(b) Proposed sites for the ISFSI or MRS must be examined with respect to the frequency and the severity of external natural and man-induced events that could affect the safe operation of the ISFSI or MRS.
(c) Design basis external events must be determined for each combination of proposed site and proposed ISFSI or MRS design.
(d) Proposed sites with design basis external events for which adequate protection cannot be provided through ISFSI or MRS design shall be deemed unsuitable for the location of the ISFSI or MRS.
(e) Pursuant to subpart A of part 51 of this chapter for each proposed site for an ISFSI and pursuant to sections 141 or 148 of NWPA, as appropriate (96 Stat. 2241, 101 Stat. 1330-235, 42 U.S.C. 10161, 10168) for each proposed site for an MRS, the potential for radiological and other environmental impacts on the region must be evaluated with due consideration of the characteristics of the population, including its distribution, and of the regional environs, including its historical and esthetic values.
(f) The facility must be sited so as to avoid to the extent possible the long-term and short-term adverse impacts associated with the occupancy and modification of floodplains.
§ 72.92
Design basis external natural events.
(a) Natural phenomena that may exist or that can occur in the region of a proposed site must be identified and assessed according to their potential effects on the safe operation of the ISFSI or MRS. The important natural phenomena that affect the ISFSI or MRS design must be identified.
(b) Records of the occurrence and severity of those important natural phenomena must be collected for the region and evaluated for reliability, accuracy, and completeness. The applicant shall retain these records until the license is issued.
(c) Appropriate methods must be adopted for evaluating the design basis external natural events based on the characteristics of the region and the current state of knowledge about such events.
§ 72.94
Design basis external man-induced events.
(a) The region must be examined for both past and present man-made facilities and activities that might endanger the proposed ISFSI or MRS. The important potential man-induced events that affect the ISFSI or MRS design must be identified.
(b) Information concerning the potential occurrence and severity of such events must be collected and evaluated for reliability, accuracy, and completeness.
(c) Appropriate methods must be adopted for evaluating the design basis external man-induced events, based on
the current state of knowledge about such events.
§ 72.96
Siting limitations.
(a) An ISFSI which is owned and operated by DOE must not be located at any site within which there is a candidate site for a HLW repository. This limitation shall apply until such time as DOE decides that such candidate site is no longer a candidate site under consideration for development as a HLW repository.
(b) An MRS must not be sited in any State in which there is located any site approved for site characterization for a HLW repository. This limitation shall apply until such time as DOE decides that the candidate site is no longer a candidate site under consideration for development as a repository. This limitation shall continue to apply to any site selected for construction as a repository.
(c) If an MRS is located, or is planned to be located, within 50 miles of the first HLW repository, any Commission decision approving the first HLW repository application must limit the quantity of spent fuel or high-level radioactive waste that may be stored. This limitation shall prohibit the storage of a quantity of spent fuel containing in excess of 70,000 metric tons of heavy metal, or a quantity of solidified high-level radioactive waste resulting from the reprocessing of such a quantity of spent fuel, in both the repository and the MRS until such time as a second repository is in operation.
(d) An MRS authorized by section 142(b) of NWPA (101 Stat. 1330-232, 42 U.S.C. 10162(b)) may not be constructed in the State of Nevada. The quantity of spent nuclear fuel or high-level radioactive waste that may be stored at an MRS authorized by section 142(b) of NWPA shall be subject to the limitations in § 72.44(g) of this part instead of the limitations in paragraph (c) of this section.
§ 72.98
Identifying regions around an ISFSI or MRS site.
(a) The regional extent of external phenomena, man-made or natural, that are used as a basis for the design of the ISFSI or MRS must be identified.
(b) The potential regional impact due to the construction, operation or decommissioning of the ISFSI or MRS must be identified. The extent of regional impacts must be determined on the basis of potential measurable effects on the population or the environment from ISFSI or MRS activities.
(c) Those regions identified pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be investigated as appropriate with respect to:
(1) The present and future character and the distribution of population,
(2) Consideration of present and projected future uses of land and water within the region, and
(3) Any special characteristics that may influence the potential consequences of a release of radioactive material during the operational lifetime of the ISFSI or MRS.
§ 72.100
Defining potential effects of the ISFSI or MRS on the region.
(a) The proposed site must be evaluated with respect to the effects on populations in the region resulting from the release of radioactive materials under normal and accident conditions during operation and decommissioning of the ISFSI or MRS; in this evaluation both usual and unusual regional and site characteristics shall be taken into account.
(b) Each site must be evaluated with respect to the effects on the regional environment resulting from construction, operation, and decommissioning for the ISFSI or MRS; in this evaluation both usual and unusual regional and site characteristics must be taken into account.
§ 72.102
Geological and seismological characteristics for applications before October 16, 2003 and applications for other than dry cask modes of storage.
(a)(1) East of the Rocky Mountain Front (east of approximately 104° west longitude), except in areas of known seismic activity including but not limited to the regions around New Madrid, MO, Charleston, SC, and Attica, NY, sites will be acceptable if the results from onsite foundation and geological investigation, literature review, and regional geological reconnaissance
show no unstable geological characteristics, soil stability problems, or potential for vibratory ground motion at the site in excess of an appropriate response spectrum anchored at 0.2 g.
(2) For those sites that have been evaluated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section that are east of the Rocky Mountain Front, and that are not in areas of known seismic activity, a standardized design earthquake (DE) described by an appropriate response spectrum anchored at 0.25 g may be used. Alternatively, a site-specific DE may be determined by using the criteria and level of investigations required by appendix A of part 100 of this chapter.
(b) West of the Rocky Mountain Front (west of approximately 104° west longitude), and in other areas of known potential seismic activity, seismicity will be evaluated by the techniques of appendix A of part 100 of this chapter. Sites that lie within the range of strong near-field ground motion from historical earthquakes on large capable faults should be avoided.
(c) Sites other than bedrock sites must be evaluated for their liquefaction potential or other soil instability due to vibratory ground motion.
(d) Site-specific investigations and laboratory analyses must show that soil conditions are adequate for the proposed foundation loading.
(e) In an evaluation of alternative sites, those which require a minimum of engineered provisions to correct site deficiencies are preferred. Sites with unstable geologic characteristics should be avoided.
(f) The design earthquake (DE) for use in the design of structures must be determined as follows:
(1) For sites that have been evaluated under the criteria of appendix A of 10 CFR part 100, the DE must be equivalent to the safe shutdown earthquake (SSE) for a nuclear power plant.
(2) Regardless of the results of the investigations anywhere in the continental U.S., the DE must have a value for the horizontal ground motion of no less than 0.10 g with the appropriate response spectrum.
§ 72.103
Geological and seismological characteristics for applications for dry cask modes of storage on or after October 16, 2003.
(a)(1) East of the Rocky Mountain Front (east of approximately 104° west longitude), except in areas of known seismic activity including but not limited to the regions around New Madrid, MO; Charleston, SC; and Attica, NY; sites will be acceptable if the results from onsite foundation and geological investigation, literature review, and regional geological reconnaissance show no unstable geological characteristics, soil stability problems, or potential for vibratory ground motion at the site in excess of an appropriate response spectrum anchored at 0.2 g.
(2) For those sites that have been evaluated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section that are east of the Rocky Mountain Front, and that are not in areas of known seismic activity, a standardized design earthquake ground motion (DE) described by an appropriate response spectrum anchored at 0.25 g may be used. Alternatively, a site-specific DE may be determined by using the criteria and level of investigations required by paragraph (f) of this section. For a site with a co-located nuclear power plant (NPP), the existing geological and seismological design criteria for the NPP may be used. If the existing design criteria for the NPP is used and the site has multiple NPPs, then the criteria for the most recent NPP must be used.
(b) West of the Rocky Mountain Front (west of approximately 104° west longitude), and in other areas of known potential seismic activity east of the Rocky Mountain Front, seismicity must be evaluated by the techniques presented in paragraph (f) of this section. If an ISFSI or MRS is located on an NPP site, the existing geological and seismological design criteria for the NPP may be used. If the existing design criteria for the NPP is used and the site has multiple NPPs, then the criteria for the most recent NPP must be used.
(c) Sites other than bedrock sites must be evaluated for their liquefaction potential or other soil instability due to vibratory ground motion.
(d) Site-specific investigations and laboratory analyses must show that soil conditions are adequate for the proposed foundation loading.
(e) In an evaluation of alternative sites, those which require a minimum of engineered provisions to correct site deficiencies are preferred. Sites with unstable geologic characteristics should be avoided.
(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b) of this section, the DE for use in the design of structures, systems, and components must be determined as follows:
(1)
Geological, seismological, and engineering characteristics.
The geological, seismological, and engineering characteristics of a site and its environs must be investigated in sufficient scope and detail to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed site, to provide sufficient information to support evaluations performed to arrive at estimates of the DE, and to permit adequate engineering solutions to actual or potential geologic and seismic effects at the proposed site. The size of the region to be investigated and the type of data pertinent to the investigations must be determined based on the nature of the region surrounding the proposed site. Data on the vibratory ground motion, tectonic surface deformation, nontectonic deformation, earthquake recurrence rates, fault geometry and slip rates, site foundation material, and seismically induced floods and water waves must be obtained by reviewing pertinent literature and carrying out field investigations. However, each applicant shall investigate all geologic and seismic factors (for example, volcanic activity) that may affect the design and operation of the proposed ISFSI or MRS facility irrespective of whether these factors are explicitly included in this section.
(2)
Geologic and seismic siting factors.
The geologic and seismic siting factors considered for design must include a determination of the DE for the site, the potential for surface tectonic and nontectonic deformations, the design bases for seismically induced floods and water waves, and other design conditions as stated in paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section.
(i) Determination of the Design Earthquake Ground Motion (DE). The DE for the site is characterized by both horizontal and vertical free-field ground motion response spectra at the free ground surface. In view of the limited data available on vibratory ground motions for strong earthquakes, it usually will be appropriate that the design response spectra be smoothed spectra. The DE for the site is determined considering the results of the investigations required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Uncertainties are inherent in these estimates and must be addressed through an appropriate analysis, such as a probabilistic seismic hazard analysis (PSHA) or suitable sensitivity analyses.
(ii) Determination of the potential for surface tectonic and nontectonic deformations. Sufficient geological, seismological, and geophysical data must be provided to clearly establish if there is a potential for surface deformation.
(iii) Determination of design bases for seismically induced floods and water waves. The size of seismically induced floods and water waves that could affect a site from either locally or distantly generated seismic activity must be determined.
(iv) Determination of siting factors for other design conditions. Siting factors for other design conditions that must be evaluated include soil and rock stability, liquefaction potential, and natural and artificial slope stability. Each applicant shall evaluate all siting factors and potential causes of failure, such as, the physical properties of the materials underlying the site, ground disruption, and the effects of vibratory ground motion that may affect the design and operation of the proposed ISFSI or MRS.
(3) Regardless of the results of the investigations anywhere in the continental U.S., the DE must have a value for the horizontal ground motion of no less than 0.10 g with the appropriate response spectrum.
[68 FR 54159, Sept. 16, 2003]
§ 72.104
Criteria for radioactive materials in effluents and direct radiation from an ISFSI or MRS.
(a) During normal operations and anticipated occurrences, the annual dose equivalent to any real individual who is located beyond the controlled area must not exceed 0.25 mSv (25 mrem) to the whole body, 0.75 mSv (75 mrem) to the thyroid and 0.25 mSv (25 mrem) to any other critical organ as a result of exposure to:
(1) Planned discharges of radioactive materials, radon and its decay products excepted, to the general environment,
(2) Direct radiation from ISFSI or MRS operations, and
(3) Any other radiation from uranium fuel cycle operations within the region.
(b) Operational restrictions must be established to meet as low as is reasonably achievable objectives for radioactive materials in effluents and direct radiation levels associated with ISFSI or MRS operations.
(c) Operational limits must be established for radioactive materials in effluents and direct radiation levels associated with ISFSI or MRS operations to meet the limits given in paragraph (a) of this section.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 63 FR 54562, Oct. 13, 1998]
§ 72.106
Controlled area of an ISFSI or MRS.
(a) For each ISFSI or MRS site, a controlled area must be established.
(b) Any individual located on or beyond the nearest boundary of the controlled area may not receive from any design basis accident the more limiting of a total effective dose equivalent of 0.05 Sv (5 rem), or the sum of the deep-dose equivalent and the committed dose equivalent to any individual organ or tissue (other than the lens of the eye) of 0.5 Sv (50 rem). The lens dose equivalent may not exceed 0.15 Sv (15 rem) and the shallow dose equivalent to skin or any extremity may not exceed 0.5 Sv (50 rem). The minimum distance from the spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste handling and storage facilities to the nearest boundary of the controlled area must be at least 100 meters.
(c) The controlled area may be traversed by a highway, railroad or waterway, so long as appropriate and effective arrangements are made to control traffic and to protect public health and safety.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 63 FR 54562, Oct. 13, 1998; 66 FR 51842, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.108
Spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related greater than Class C waste transportation.
The proposed ISFSI or MRS must be evaluated with respect to the potential impact on the environment of the transportation of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste within the region.
[66 FR 51842, Oct. 11, 2001]

# Subpart F—General Design Criteria
§ 72.120
General considerations.
(a) As required by § 72.24, an application to store spent fuel or reactor-related GTCC waste in an ISFSI or to store spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste in an MRS must include the design criteria for the proposed storage installation. These design criteria establish the design, fabrication, construction, testing, maintenance and performance requirements for structures, systems, and components important to safety as defined in § 72.3. The general design criteria identified in this subpart establish minimum requirements for the design criteria for an ISFSI or an MRS. Any omissions in these general design criteria do not relieve the applicant from the requirement of providing the necessary safety features in the design of the ISFSI or MRS.
(b) The ISFSI must be designed to store spent fuel and/or solid reactor-related GTCC waste.
(1) Reactor-related GTCC waste may not be stored in a cask that also contains spent fuel. This restriction does not include radioactive materials that are associated with fuel assemblies (e.g., control rod blades or assemblies, thimble plugs, burnable poison rod assemblies, or fuel channels);
(2) Liquid reactor-related GTCC wastes may not be received or stored in an ISFSI; and
(3) If the ISFSI is a water-pool type facility, the reactor-related GTCC waste must be in a durable solid form with demonstrable leach resistance.
(c) The MRS must be designed to store spent fuel, solid high-level radioactive waste, and/or solid reactor-related GTCC waste.
(1) Reactor-related GTCC waste may not be stored in a cask that also contains spent fuel. This restriction does not include radioactive materials associated with fuel assemblies (e.g., control rod blades or assemblies, thimble plugs, burnable poison rod assemblies, or fuel channels);
(2) Liquid high-level radioactive wastes or liquid reactor-related GTCC wastes may not be received or stored in an MRS; and
(3) If the MRS is a water-pool type facility, the high-level waste and reactor-related GTCC waste must be in a durable solid form with demonstrable leach resistance.
(d) The ISFSI or MRS must be designed, made of materials, and constructed to ensure that there will be no significant chemical, galvanic, or other reactions between or among the storage system components, spent fuel, reactor-related GTCC waste, and/or high level waste including possible reaction with water during wet loading and unloading operations or during storage in a water-pool type ISFSI or MRS. The behavior of materials under irradiation and thermal conditions must be taken into account.
(e) The NRC may authorize exceptions, on a case-by-case basis, to the restrictions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section regarding the commingling of spent fuel and reactor-related GTCC waste in the same cask.
[66 FR 51842, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.122
Overall requirements.
(a)
Quality Standards.
Structures, systems, and components important to safety must be designed, fabricated, erected, and tested to quality standards commensurate with the importance to safety of the function to be performed.
(b)
Protection against environmental conditions and natural phenomena.
(1) Structures, systems, and components important to safety must be designed to accommodate the effects of, and to be compatible with, site characteristics and environmental conditions associated with normal operation, maintenance, and testing of the ISFSI or MRS and to withstand postulated accidents.
(2)(i) Structures, systems, and components important to safety must be designed to withstand the effects of natural phenomena such as earthquakes, tornadoes, lightning, hurricanes, floods, tsunami, and seiches, without impairing their capability to perform their intended design functions. The design bases for these structures, systems, and components must reflect:
(A) Appropriate consideration of the most severe of the natural phenomena reported for the site and surrounding area, with appropriate margins to take into account the limitations of the data and the period of time in which the data have accumulated, and
(B) Appropriate combinations of the effects of normal and accident conditions and the effects of natural phenomena.
(ii) The ISFSI or MRS also should be designed to prevent massive collapse of building structures or the dropping of heavy objects as a result of building structural failure on the spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste or on to structures, systems, and components important to safety.
(3) Capability must be provided for determining the intensity of natural phenomena that may occur for comparison with design bases of structures, systems, and components important to safety.
(4) If the ISFSI or MRS is located over an aquifer which is a major water resource, measures must be taken to preclude the transport of radioactive materials to the environment through this potential pathway.
(c)
Protection against fires and explosions.
Structures, systems, and components important to safety must be designed and located so that they can
continue to perform their safety functions effectively under credible fire and explosion exposure conditions. Noncombustible and heat-resistant materials must be used wherever practical throughout the ISFSI or MRS, particularly in locations vital to the control of radioactive materials and to the maintenance of safety control functions. Explosion and fire detection, alarm, and suppression systems shall be designed and provided with sufficient capacity and capability to minimize the adverse effects of fires and explosions on structures, systems, and components important to safety. The design of the ISFSI or MRS must include provisions to protect against adverse effects that might result from either the operation or the failure of the fire suppression system.
(d)
Sharing of structures, systems, and components.
Structures, systems, and components important to safety must not be shared between an ISFSI or MRS and other facilities unless it is shown that such sharing will not impair the capability of either facility to perform its safety functions, including the ability to return to a safe condition in the event of an accident.
(e)
Proximity of sites.
An ISFSI or MRS located near other nuclear facilities must be designed and operated to ensure that the cumulative effects of their combined operations will not constitute an unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public.
(f)
Testing and maintenance of systems and components.
Systems and components that are important to safety must be designed to permit inspection, maintenance, and testing.
(g)
Emergency capability.
Structures, systems, and components important to safety must be designed for emergencies. The design must provide for accessibility to the equipment of onsite and available offsite emergency facilities and services such as hospitals, fire and police departments, ambulance service, and other emergency agencies.
(h)
Confinement barriers and systems.
(1) The spent fuel cladding must be protected during storage against degradation that leads to gross ruptures or the fuel must be otherwise confined such that degradation of the fuel during storage will not pose operational safety problems with respect to its removal from storage. This may be accomplished by canning of consolidated fuel rods or unconsolidated assemblies or other means as appropriate.
(2) For underwater storage of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste in which the pool water serves as a shield and a confinement medium for radioactive materials, systems for maintaining water purity and the pool water level must be designed so that any abnormal operations or failure in those systems from any cause will not cause the water level to fall below safe limits. The design must preclude installations of drains, permanently connected systems, and other features that could, by abnormal operations or failure, cause a significant loss of water. Pool water level equipment must be provided to alarm in a continuously manned location if the water level in the storage pools falls below a predetermined level.
(3) Ventilation systems and off-gas systems must be provided where necessary to ensure the confinement of airborne radioactive particulate materials during normal or off-normal conditions.
(4) Storage confinement systems must have the capability for continuous monitoring in a manner such that the licensee will be able to determine when corrective action needs to be taken to maintain safe storage conditions. For dry spent fuel storage, periodic monitoring is sufficient provided that periodic monitoring is consistent with the dry spent fuel storage cask design requirements. The monitoring period must be based upon the spent fuel storage cask design requirements.
(5) The high-level radioactive waste and reactor-related GTCC waste must be packaged in a manner that allows handling and retrievability without the release of radioactive materials to the environment or radiation exposures in excess of part 20 limits. The package must be designed to confine the high-level radioactive waste for the duration of the license.
(i)
Instrumentation and control systems.
Instrumentation and control systems for wet spent fuel and reactor-related GTCC waste storage must be provided to monitor systems that are important
to safety over anticipated ranges for normal operation and off-normal operation. Those instruments and control systems that must remain operational under accident conditions must be identified in the Safety Analysis Report. Instrumentation systems for dry storage casks must be provided in accordance with cask design requirements to monitor conditions that are important to safety over anticipated ranges for normal conditions and off-normal conditions. Systems that are required under accident conditions must be identified in the Safety Analysis Report.
(j)
Control room or control area.
A control room or control area, if appropriate for the ISFSI or MRS design, must be designed to permit occupancy and actions to be taken to monitor the ISFSI or MRS safely under normal conditions, and to provide safe control of the ISFSI or MRS under off-normal or accident conditions.
(k)
Utility or other services.
(1) Each utility service system must be designed to meet emergency conditions. The design of utility services and distribution systems that are important to safety must include redundant systems to the extent necessary to maintain, with adequate capacity, the ability to perform safety functions assuming a single failure.
(2) Emergency utility services must be designed to permit testing of the functional operability and capacity, including the full operational sequence, of each system for transfer between normal and emergency supply sources; and to permit the operation of associated safety systems.
(3) Provisions must be made so that, in the event of a loss of the primary electric power source or circuit, reliable and timely emergency power will be provided to instruments, utility service systems, the central security alarm station, and operating systems, in amounts sufficient to allow safe storage conditions to be maintained and to permit continued functioning of all systems essential to safe storage.
(4) An ISFSI or MRS which is located on the site of another facility may share common utilities and services with such a facility and be physically connected with the other facility; however, the sharing of utilities and services or the physical connection must not significantly:
(i) Increase the probability or consequences of an accident or malfunction of components, structures, or systems that are important to safety; or
(ii) Reduce the margin of safety as defined in the basis for any technical specifications of either facility.
(l)
Retrievability.
Storage systems must be designed to allow ready retrieval of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and reactor-related GTCC waste for further processing or disposal.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 64 FR 33184, June 22, 1999; 66 FR 51842, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.124
Criteria for nuclear criticality safety.
(a)
Design for criticality safety.
Spent fuel handling, packaging, transfer, and storage systems must be designed to be maintained subcritical and to ensure that, before a nuclear criticality accident is possible, at least two unlikely, independent, and concurrent or sequential changes have occurred in the conditions essential to nuclear criticality safety. The design of handling, packaging, transfer, and storage systems must include margins of safety for the nuclear criticality parameters that are commensurate with the uncertainties in the data and methods used in calculations and demonstrate safety for the handling, packaging, transfer and storage conditions and in the nature of the immediate environment under accident conditions.
(b)
Methods of criticality control.
When practicable, the design of an ISFSI or MRS must be based on favorable geometry, permanently fixed neutron absorbing materials (poisons), or both. Where solid neutron absorbing materials are used, the design must provide for positive means of verifying their continued efficacy. For dry spent fuel storage systems, the continued efficacy may be confirmed by a demonstration or analysis before use, showing that significant degradation of the neutron absorbing materials cannot occur over the life of the facility.
(c)
Criticality monitoring.
A criticality monitoring system shall be maintained
in each area where special nuclear material is handled, used, or stored which will energize clearly audible alarm signals if accidental criticality occurs. Underwater monitoring is not required when special nuclear material is handled or stored beneath water shielding. Monitoring of dry storage areas where special nuclear material is packaged in its stored configuration under a license issued under this subpart is not required.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 64 FR 33184, June 22, 1999]
§ 72.126
Criteria for radiological protection.
(a)
Exposure control.
Radiation protection systems must be provided for all areas and operations where onsite personnel may be exposed to radiation or airborne radioactive materials. Structures, systems, and components for which operation, maintenance, and required inspections may involve occupational exposure must be designed, fabricated, located, shielded, controlled, and tested so as to control external and internal radiation exposures to personnel. The design must include means to:
(1) Prevent the accumulation of radioactive material in those systems requiring access;
(2) Decontaminate those systems to which access is required;
(3) Control access to areas of potential contamination or high radiation within the ISFSI or MRS;
(4) Measure and control contamination of areas requiring access;
(5) Minimize the time required to perform work in the vicinity of radioactive components; for example, by providing sufficient space for ease of operation and designing equipment for ease of repair and replacement; and
(6) Shield personnel from radiation exposure.
(b)
Radiological alarm systems.
Radiological alarm systems must be provided in accessible work areas as appropriate to warn operating personnel of radiation and airborne radioactive material concentrations above a given setpoint and of concentrations of radioactive material in effluents above control limits. Radiation alarm systems must be designed with provisions for calibration and testing their operability.
(c)
Effluent and direct radiation monitoring.
(1) As appropriate for the handling and storage system, effluent systems must be provided. Means for measuring the amount of radionuclides in effluents during normal operations and under accident conditions must be provided for these systems. A means of measuring the flow of the diluting medium, either air or water, must also be provided.
(2) Areas containing radioactive materials must be provided with systems for measuring the direct radiation levels in and around these areas.
(d)
Effluent control.
The ISFSI or MRS must be designed to provide means to limit to levels as low as is reasonably achievable the release of radioactive materials in effluents during normal operations; and control the release of radioactive materials under accident conditions. Analyses must be made to show that releases to the general environment during normal operations and anticipated occurrences will be within the exposure limit given in § 72.104. Analyses of design basis accidents must be made to show that releases to the general environment will be within the exposure limits given in § 72.106. Systems designed to monitor the release of radioactive materials must have means for calibration and testing their operability.
§ 72.128
Criteria for spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, reactor-related greater than Class C waste, and other radioactive waste storage and handling.
(a)
Spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and reactor-related GTCC waste storage and handling systems.
Spent fuel storage, high-level radioactive waste storage, reactor-related GTCC waste storage and other systems that might contain or handle radioactive materials associated with spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste, must be designed to ensure adequate safety under normal and accident conditions. These systems must be designed with—
(1) A capability to test and monitor components important to safety,
(2) Suitable shielding for radioactive protection under normal and accident conditions,
(3) Confinement structures and systems,
(4) A heat-removal capability having testability and reliability consistent with its importance to safety, and
(5) means to minimize the quantity of radioactive wastes generated.
(b)
Waste treatment.
Radioactive waste treatment facilities must be provided. Provisions must be made for the packing of site-generated low-level wastes in a form suitable for storage onsite awaiting transfer to disposal sites.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 51843, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.130
Criteria for decommissioning.
The ISFSI or MRS must be designed for decommissioning. Provisions must be made to facilitate decontamination of structures and equipment, minimize the quantity of radioactive wastes and contaminated equipment, and facilitate the removal of radioactive wastes and contaminated materials at the time the ISFSI or MRS is permanently decommissioned.

# Subpart G—Quality Assurance

# Source:
64 FR 56122, Oct. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 72.140
Quality assurance requirements.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart describes quality assurance requirements that apply to design, purchase, fabrication, handling, shipping, storing, cleaning, assembly, inspection, testing, operation, maintenance, repair, modification of structures, systems, and components, and decommissioning that are important to safety. As used in this subpart, “quality assurance” comprises all those planned and systematic actions necessary to provide adequate confidence that a structure, system, or component will perform satisfactorily in service. Quality assurance includes quality control, which comprises those quality assurance actions related to control of the physical characteristics and quality of the material or component to predetermined requirements. The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC are responsible for the quality assurance requirements as they apply to the design, fabrication, and testing of a spent fuel storage cask until possession of the spent fuel storage cask is transferred to the licensee. The licensee and the certificate holder are also simultaneously responsible for these quality assurance requirements through the oversight of contractors and subcontractors.
(b)
Establishment of program.
Each licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, applicant for a CoC shall establish, maintain, and execute a quality assurance program satisfying each of the applicable criteria of this subpart, and satisfying any specific provisions which are applicable to the licensee's, applicant's for a license, certificate holder's, and applicant's for a CoC activities. The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall execute the applicable criteria in a graded approach to an extent that is commensurate with the quality assurance requirements' importance to safety. The quality assurance program must cover the activities identified in this subpart throughout the life of the activity. For licensees, this includes activities from the site selection through decommissioning prior to termination of the license. For certificate holders, this includes activities from development of the spent fuel storage cask design through termination of the CoC.
(c)
Approval of program.
(1) Each licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, or applicant for a CoC shall file a description of its quality assurance program, including a discussion of which requirements of this subpart are applicable and how they will be satisfied, in accordance with § 72.4.
(2) Each licensee shall obtain Commission approval of its quality assurance program prior to receipt of spent fuel and/or reactor-related GTCC waste at the ISFSI or spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, and/or reactor-related GTCC waste at the MRS. Each licensee or applicant for a specific license shall obtain Commission approval of its quality assurance program
before commencing fabrication or testing of a spent fuel storage cask.
(3) Each certificate holder or applicant for a CoC shall obtain Commission approval of its quality assurance program before commencing fabrication or testing of a spent fuel storage cask.
(d)
Previously-approved programs.
A quality assurance program previously approved by the Commission as satisfying the requirements of Appendix B to part 50 of this chapter, subpart H to part 71 of this chapter, or subpart G to this part will be accepted as satisfying the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, except that a licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC who is using an Appendix B or subpart H quality assurance program shall also meet the recordkeeping requirements of § 72.174. In filing the description of the quality assurance program required by paragraph (c) of this section, each licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall notify the NRC, in accordance with § 72.4, of its intent to apply its previously-approved quality assurance program to ISFSI activities or spent fuel storage cask activities. The notification shall identify the previously-approved quality assurance program by date of submittal to the Commission, docket number, and date of Commission approval.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 65 FR 50617, Aug. 21, 2000; 66 FR 51843, Oct. 11, 2001]
§ 72.142
Quality assurance organization.
(a) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall be responsible for the establishment and execution of the quality assurance program. The licensee and certificate holder may delegate to others, such as contractors, agents, or consultants, the work of establishing and executing the quality assurance program, but the licensee and the certificate holder shall retain responsibility for the program. The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall clearly establish and delineate in writing the authority and duties of persons and organizations performing activities affecting the functions of structures, systems, and components which are important to safety. These activities include performing the functions associated with attaining quality objectives and the quality assurance functions.
(b) The quality assurance functions are—
(1) Assuring that an appropriate quality assurance program is established and effectively executed; and
(2) Verifying, by procedures such as checking, auditing, and inspection, that activities affecting the functions that are important to safety have been correctly performed. The persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions shall have sufficient authority and organizational freedom to identify quality problems; to initiate, recommend, or provide solutions; and to verify implementation of solutions.
(c) The persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions shall report to a management level that ensures that the required authority and organizational freedom, including sufficient independence from cost and schedule considerations when these considerations are opposed to safety considerations, are provided. Because of the many variables involved, such as the number of personnel, the type of activity being performed, and the location or locations where activities are performed, the organizational structure for executing the quality assurance program may take various forms, provided that the persons and organizations assigned the quality assurance functions have the required authority and organizational freedom. Irrespective of the organizational structure, the individual(s) assigned the responsibility for assuring effective execution of any portion of the quality assurance program, at any location where activities subject to this section are being performed, must have direct access to the levels of management necessary to perform this function.
§ 72.144
Quality assurance program.
(a) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish, at the earliest practicable time consistent with
the schedule for accomplishing the activities, a quality assurance program which complies with the requirements of this subpart. The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall document the quality assurance program by written procedures or instructions and shall carry out the program in accordance with these procedures throughout the period during which the ISFSI or MRS is licensed or the spent fuel storage cask is certified. The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall identify the structures, systems, and components to be covered by the quality assurance program, the major organizations participating in the program, and the designated functions of these organizations.
(b) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC, through their quality assurance program(s), shall provide control over activities affecting the quality of the identified structures, systems, and components to an extent commensurate with the importance to safety and, as necessary, to ensure conformance with the approved design of each ISFSI, MRS, or spent fuel storage cask. The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall ensure that activities affecting quality are accomplished under suitably controlled conditions. Controlled conditions include the use of appropriate equipment; suitable environmental conditions for accomplishing the activity, such as adequate cleanliness; and assurance that all prerequisites for the given activity have been satisfied. The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall take into account the need for special controls, processes, test equipment, tools and skills to attain the required quality and the need for verification of quality by inspection and test.
(c) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall base the requirements and procedures of their quality assurance program(s) on the following considerations concerning the complexity and proposed use of the structures, systems, or components:
(1) The impact of malfunction or failure of the item on safety;
(2) The design and fabrication complexity or uniqueness of the item;
(3) The need for special controls and surveillance over processes and equipment;
(4) The degree to which functional compliance can be demonstrated by inspection or test; and
(5) The quality history and degree of standardization of the item.
(d) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall provide for indoctrination and training of personnel performing activities affecting quality as necessary to ensure that suitable proficiency is achieved and maintained.
(e) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall review the status and adequacy of the quality assurance program at established intervals. Management of other organizations participating in the quality assurance program must regularly review the status and adequacy of that part of the quality assurance program which they are executing.
§ 72.146
Design control.
(a) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to ensure that applicable regulatory requirements and the design basis, as specified in the license or CoC application for those structures, systems, and components to which this section applies, are correctly translated into specifications, drawings, procedures, and instructions. These measures must include provisions to ensure that appropriate quality standards are specified and included in design documents and that deviations from standards are controlled. Measures must be established for the selection and review for suitability of application of materials, parts, equipment, and processes that are essential to the functions of the structures, systems, and components which are important to safety.
(b) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures for the identification and control of design interfaces and for coordination among
participating design organizations. These measures must include the establishment of written procedures among participating design organizations for the review, approval, release, distribution, and revision of documents involving design interfaces. The design control measures must provide for verifying or checking the adequacy of design by methods such as design reviews, alternate or simplified calculational methods, or by a suitable testing program. For the verifying or checking process, the licensee and certificate holder shall designate individuals or groups other than those who were responsible for the original design, but who may be from the same organization. Where a test program is used to verify the adequacy of a specific design feature in lieu of other verifying or checking processes, the licensee and certificate holder shall include suitable qualification testing of a prototype or sample unit under the most adverse design conditions. The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall apply design control measures to items such as the following: criticality physics, radiation, shielding, stress, thermal, hydraulic, and accident analyses; compatibility of materials; accessibility for inservice inspection, maintenance, and repair; features to facilitate decontamination; and delineation of acceptance criteria for inspections and tests.
(c) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall subject design changes, including field changes, to design control measures commensurate with those applied to the original design. Changes in the conditions specified in the license or CoC require prior NRC approval.
§ 72.148
Procurement document control.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to assure that applicable regulatory requirements, design bases, and other requirements which are necessary to assure adequate quality are included or referenced in the documents for procurement of material, equipment, and services, whether purchased by the licensee, certificate holder, or by their contractors and subcontractors. To the extent necessary, the licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC, shall require contractors or subcontractors to provide a quality assurance program consistent with the applicable provisions of this subpart.
§ 72.150
Instructions, procedures, and drawings.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall prescribe activities affecting quality by documented instructions, procedures, or drawings of a type appropriate to the circumstances and shall require that these instructions, procedures, and drawings be followed. The instructions, procedures, and drawings must include appropriate quantitative or qualitative acceptance criteria for determining that important activities have been satisfactorily accomplished.
§ 72.152
Document control.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to control the issuance of documents such as instructions, procedures, and drawings, including changes, which prescribe all activities affecting quality. These measures must assure that documents, including changes, are reviewed for adequacy, approved for release by authorized personnel, and distributed and used at the location where the prescribed activity is performed. These measures must ensure that changes to documents are reviewed and approved.
§ 72.154
Control of purchased material, equipment, and services.
(a) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to ensure that purchased material, equipment, and services, whether purchased directly or through contractors and subcontractors, conform to the procurement documents. These measures
must include provisions, as appropriate, for source evaluation and selection, objective evidence of quality furnished by the contractor or subcontractor, inspection at the contractor or subcontractor source, and examination of products upon delivery.
(b) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall have available documentary evidence that material and equipment conform to the procurement specifications prior to installation or use of the material and equipment. The licensee and certificate holder shall retain or have available this documentary evidence for the life of the ISFSI, MRS, or spent fuel storage cask. The licensee and certificate holder shall ensure that the evidence is sufficient to identify the specific requirements met by the purchased material and equipment.
(c) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC, or a designee of either, shall assess the effectiveness of the control of quality by contractors and subcontractors at intervals consistent with the importance, complexity, and quantity of the product or services.
§ 72.156
Identification and control of materials, parts, and components.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures for the identification and control of materials, parts, and components. These measures must ensure that identification of the item is maintained by heat number, part number, serial number, or other appropriate means, either on the item or on records traceable to the item as required, throughout fabrication, installation, and use of the item. These identification and control measures must be designed to prevent the use of incorrect or defective materials, parts, and components.
§ 72.158
Control of special processes.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to ensure that special processes, including welding, heat treating, and nondestructive testing, are controlled and accomplished by qualified personnel using qualified procedures in accordance with applicable codes, standards, specifications, criteria, and other special requirements.
§ 72.160
Licensee and certificate holder inspection.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish and execute a program for inspection of activities affecting quality by or for the organization performing the activity to verify conformance with the documented instructions, procedures, and drawings for accomplishing the activity. The inspection must be performed by individuals other than those who performed the activity being inspected. Examinations, measurements, or tests of material or products processed must be performed for each work operation where necessary to assure quality. If direct inspection of processed material or products cannot be carried out, indirect control by monitoring processing methods, equipment, and personnel must be provided. Both inspection and process monitoring must be provided when quality control is inadequate without both. If mandatory inspection hold points that require witnessing or inspecting by the licensee's or certificate holder's designated representative, and beyond which work should not proceed without the consent of its designated representative, are required, the specific hold points must be indicated in appropriate documents.
§ 72.162
Test control.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish a test program to ensure that all testing, required to demonstrate that the structures, systems, and components will perform satisfactorily in service, is identified and performed in accordance with written test procedures that incorporate the requirements of this part and the requirements and acceptance limits contained in the ISFSI, MRS, or spent fuel storage cask license or CoC. The test procedures must include provisions to ensure that all prerequisites for the given test are met, that adequate test instrumentation is available and used, and that the test is performed under
suitable environmental conditions. The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall document and evaluate the test results to ensure that test requirements have been satisfied.
§ 72.164
Control of measuring and test equipment.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to ensure that tools, gauges, instruments, and other measuring and testing devices used in activities affecting quality are properly controlled, calibrated, and adjusted at specified periods to maintain accuracy within necessary limits.
§ 72.166
Handling, storage, and shipping control.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to control, in accordance with work and inspection instructions, the handling, storage, shipping, cleaning, and preservation of materials and equipment to prevent damage or deterioration. When necessary for particular products, special protective environments, such as inert gas atmosphere, and specific moisture content and temperature levels must be specified and provided.
§ 72.168
Inspection, test, and operating status.
(a) The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to indicate, by the use of markings such as stamps, tags, labels, routing cards, or other suitable means, the status of inspections and tests performed upon individual items of the ISFSI, MRS, or spent fuel storage cask. These measures must provide for the identification of items which have satisfactorily passed required inspections and tests where necessary to preclude inadvertent bypassing of the inspections and tests.
(b) The licensee shall establish measures to identify the operating status of structures, systems, and components of the ISFSI or MRS, such as tagging valves and switches, to prevent inadvertent operation.
§ 72.170
Nonconforming materials, parts, or components.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to control materials, parts, or components that do not conform to their requirements in order to prevent their inadvertent use or installation. These measures must include, as appropriate, procedures for identification, documentation, segregation, disposition, and notification to affected organizations. Nonconforming items must be reviewed and accepted, rejected, repaired, or reworked in accordance with documented procedures.
§ 72.172
Corrective action.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall establish measures to ensure that conditions adverse to quality, such as failures, malfunctions, deficiencies, deviations, defective material and equipment, and nonconformances, are promptly identified and corrected. In the case of a significant condition identified as adverse to quality, the measures must ensure that the cause of the condition is determined and corrective action is taken to preclude repetition. The identification of the significant condition adverse to quality, the cause of the condition, and the corrective action taken must be documented and reported to appropriate levels of management.
§ 72.174
Quality assurance records.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall maintain sufficient records to furnish evidence of activities affecting quality. The records must include the following: design records, records of use, and the results of reviews, inspections, tests, audits, monitoring of work performance, and materials analyses. The records must include closely related data such as qualifications of personnel, procedures, and equipment. Inspection and test records must, at a minimum, identify the inspector or data recorder, the type of observation, the results, the acceptability, and the action taken in connection with any noted deficiencies. Records must be identifiable and retrievable. Records
pertaining to the design, fabrication, erection, testing, maintenance, and use of structures, systems, and components important to safety must be maintained by or under the control of the licensee or certificate holder until the NRC terminates the license or CoC.
§ 72.176
Audits.
The licensee, applicant for a license, certificate holder, and applicant for a CoC shall carry out a comprehensive system of planned and periodic audits to verify compliance with all aspects of the quality assurance program and to determine the effectiveness of the program. The audits must be performed in accordance with written procedures or checklists by appropriately trained personnel not having direct responsibilities in the areas being audited. Audited results must be documented and reviewed by management having responsibility in the area audited. Follow-up action, including reaudit of deficient areas, must be taken where indicated.

# Subpart H—Physical Protection
§ 72.180
Physical protection plan.
The licensee shall establish, maintain, and follow a detailed plan for physical protection as described in § 73.51 of this chapter. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current plan as a record until the Commission terminates the license for which the procedures were developed and, if any portion of the plan is superseded, retain the superseded material for 3 years after each change or until termination of the license. The plan must describe how the applicant will meet the requirements of § 73.51 of this chapter and provide physical protection during on-site transportation to and from the proposed ISFSI or MRS and include within the plan the design for physical protection, the licensee's safeguards contingency plan, and the security organization personnel training and qualification plan. The plan must list tests, inspections, audits, and other means to be used to demonstrate compliance with such requirements.
[63 FR 26961, May 15, 1998]
§ 72.182
Design for physical protection.
The design for physical protection must show the site layout and the design features provided to protect the ISFSI or MRS from sabotage. It must include:
(a) The design criteria for the physical protection of the proposed ISFSI or MRS;
(b) The design bases and the relation of the design bases to the design criteria submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(c) Information relative to materials of construction, equipment, general arrangement, and proposed quality assurance program sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the final security system will conform to the design bases for the principal design criteria submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 72.184
Safeguards contingency plan.
(a) The requirements of the licensee's safeguards contingency plan for responding to threats and radiological sabotage must be as defined in appendix C to part 73 of this chapter. This plan must include Background, Generic Planning Base, Licensee Planning Base, and Responsibility Matrix, the first four categories of information relating to nuclear facilities licensed under part 50 of this chapter. (The fifth and last category of information, Procedures, does not have to be submitted for approval.)
(b) The licensee shall prepare and maintain safeguards contingency plan procedures in accordance with appendix C to 10 CFR part 73 for effecting the actions and decisions contained in the Responsibility Matrix of the licensee's safeguards contingency plan. The licensee shall retain a copy of the current procedures as a record until the Commission terminates the license for which the procedures were developed and, if any portion of the procedures is superseded, retain the superseded material for three years after each change.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 33429, July 29, 1992]
§ 72.186
Change to physical security and safeguards contingency plans.
(a) The licensee shall make no change that would decrease the safeguards effectiveness of the physical security plan, guard training plan or the first four categories of information (Background, Generic Planning Base, Licensee Planning Base, and Responsibility Matrix) contained in the licensee safeguards contingency plan without prior approval of the Commission. A licensee desiring to make a change must submit an application for a license amendment pursuant to § 72.56.
(b) The licensee may, without prior Commission approval, make changes to the physical security plan, guard training plan, or the safeguards contingency plan, if the changes do not decrease the safeguards effectiveness of these plans. The licensee shall maintain records of changes to any such plan made without prior approval for a period of three years from the date of the change, and shall, within two months after the change is made, submit a report addressed to Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, in accordance with § 72.4, containing a description of each change. A copy of the report must be sent to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate NRC Regional Office specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003; 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018]

# Subpart I—Training and Certification of Personnel
§ 72.190
Operator requirements.
Operation of equipment and controls that have been identified as important to safety in the Safety Analysis Report and in the license must be limited to trained and certified personnel or be under the direct visual supervision of an individual with training and certification in the operation. Supervisory personnel who personally direct the operation of equipment and controls that are important to safety must also be certified in such operations.
§ 72.192
Operator training and certification program.
The applicant for a license under this part shall establish a program for training, proficiency testing, and certification of ISFSI or MRS personnel. This program must be submitted to the Commission for approval with the license application.
§ 72.194
Physical requirements.
The physical condition and the general health of personnel certified for the operation of equipment and controls that are important to safety must not be such as might cause operational errors that could endanger other in-plant personnel or the public health and safety. Any condition that might cause impaired judgment or motor coordination must be considered in the selection of personnel for activities that are important to safety. These conditions need not categorically disqualify a person, if appropriate provisions are made to accommodate such defect.

# Subpart J—Provision of MRS Information to State Governments and Indian Tribes
§ 72.200
Provision of MRS information.
(a) The Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or the Director's designee shall provide to the Governor and legislature of any State in which an MRS authorized under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, is or may be located, to the Governors of any contiguous States, to each affected unit of local government and to the governing body of any affected Indian Tribe, timely and complete information regarding determinations or plans made by the Commission with respect to siting, development, design, licensing, construction, operation, regulation or decommissioning of such monitored retrievable storage facility.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Director or the Director's designee is not required to distribute any document to any entity if, with respect to such document, that entity or its counsel is included on a
service list prepared pursuant to part 2 of this chapter.
(c) Copies of all communications by the Director or the Director's designee under this section must be made available at the NRC Web site,
http://www.nrc.gov,
and/or at the NRC Public Document Room, and must be furnished to DOE.
[53 FR 31658, Aug. 19, 1988, as amended at 64 FR 48954, Sept. 9, 1999]
§ 72.202
Participation in license reviews.
States, local governmental bodies and affected, Federally-recognized Indian Tribes may participate in license reviews as provided in Subpart C of Part 2 of this chapter.
[69 FR 2280, Jan. 14, 2004]
§ 72.204
Notice to States.
If the Governor and legislature of a State have jointly designated on their behalf a single person or entity to receive notice and information from the Commission under this part, the Commission will provide such notice and information to the jointly designated person or entity instead of the Governor and the legislature separately.
§ 72.206
Representation.
Any person who acts under this subpart as a representative for a State (or for the Governor or legislature thereof) or for an affected Indian Tribe shall include in the request or other submission, or at the request of the Commission, a statement of the basis of his or her authority to act in such representative capacity.

# Subpart K—General License for Storage of Spent Fuel at Power Reactor Sites

# Source:
55 FR 29191, July 18, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 72.210
General license issued.
A general license is hereby issued for the storage of spent fuel in an independent spent fuel storage installation at power reactor sites to persons authorized to possess or operate nuclear power reactors under 10 CFR part 50 or 10 CFR part 52.
[72 FR 49561, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 72.212
Conditions of general license issued under § 72.210.
(a)(1) The general license is limited to that spent fuel which the general licensee is authorized to possess at the site under the specific license for the site.
(2) This general license is limited to storage of spent fuel in casks approved under the provisions of this part.
(3) The general license for the storage of spent fuel in each cask fabricated under a Certificate of Compliance shall commence upon the date that the particular cask is first used by the general licensee to store spent fuel, shall continue through any renewals of the Certificate of Compliance, unless otherwise specified in the Certificate of Compliance, and shall terminate when the cask's Certificate of Compliance expires. For any cask placed into service during the final renewal term of a Certificate of Compliance, or during the term of a Certificate of Compliance that was not renewed, the general license for that cask shall terminate after a storage period not to exceed the length of the term certified by the cask's Certificate of Compliance. Upon expiration of the general license, all casks subject to that general license must be removed from service.
(b) The general licensee must:
(1) Notify the Nuclear Regulatory Commission using instructions in § 72.4 at least 90 days before first storage of spent fuel under this general license. The notice may be in the form of a letter, but must contain the licensee's name, address, reactor license and docket numbers, and the name and means of contacting a person responsible for providing additional information concerning spent fuel under this general license. A copy of the submittal must be sent to the administrator of the appropriate Nuclear Regulatory Commission regional office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter.
(2) Register use of each cask with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission no later than 30 days after using that cask to store spent fuel. This registration
may be accomplished by submitting a letter using instructions in § 72.4 containing the following information: the licensee's name and address, the licensee's reactor license and docket numbers, the name and title of a person responsible for providing additional information concerning spent fuel storage under this general license, the cask certificate number, the CoC amendment number to which the cask conforms, unless loaded under the initial certificate, cask model number, and the cask identification number. A copy of each submittal must be sent to the administrator of the appropriate Nuclear Regulatory Commission regional office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter.
(3) Ensure that each cask used by the general licensee conforms to the terms, conditions, and specifications of a CoC or an amended CoC listed in § 72.214.
(4) In applying the changes authorized by an amended CoC to a cask loaded under the initial CoC or an earlier amended CoC, register each such cask with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission no later than 30 days after applying the changes authorized by the amended CoC. This registration may be accomplished by submitting a letter using instructions in § 72.4 containing the following information: the licensee's name and address, the licensee's reactor license and docket numbers, the name and title of a person responsible for providing additional information concerning spent fuel storage under this general license, the cask certificate number, the CoC amendment number to which the cask conforms, cask model number, and the cask identification number. A copy of each submittal must be sent to the administrator of the appropriate Nuclear Regulatory Commission regional office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter.
(5) Perform written evaluations, before use and before applying the changes authorized by an amended CoC to a cask loaded under the initial CoC or an earlier amended CoC, which establish that:
(i) The cask, once loaded with spent fuel or once the changes authorized by an amended CoC have been applied, will conform to the terms, conditions, and specifications of a CoC or an amended CoC listed in § 72.214;
(ii) Cask storage pads and areas have been designed to adequately support the static and dynamic loads of the stored casks, considering potential amplification of earthquakes through soil-structure interaction, and soil liquefaction potential or other soil instability due to vibratory ground motion; and
(iii) The requirements of § 72.104 have been met. A copy of this record shall be retained until spent fuel is no longer stored under the general license issued under § 72.210.
(6) Review the Safety Analysis Report referenced in the CoC or amended CoC and the related NRC Safety Evaluation Report, prior to use of the general license, to determine whether or not the reactor site parameters, including analyses of earthquake intensity and tornado missiles, are enveloped by the cask design bases considered in these reports. The results of this review must be documented in the evaluation made in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(7) Evaluate any changes to the written evaluations required by paragraphs (b)(5) and (b)(6) of this section using the requirements of § 72.48(c). A copy of this record shall be retained until spent fuel is no longer stored under the general license issued under § 72.210.
(8) Before use of the general license, determine whether activities related to storage of spent fuel under this general license involve a change in the facility Technical Specifications or require a license amendment for the facility pursuant to § 50.59(c) of this chapter. Results of this determination must be documented in the evaluations made in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(9) Protect the spent fuel against the design basis threat of radiological sabotage in accordance with the same provisions and requirements as are set forth in the licensee's physical security plan pursuant to § 73.55 of this chapter with the following additional conditions and exceptions:
(i) The physical security organization and program for the facility must be modified as necessary to assure that activities conducted under this general
license do not decrease the effectiveness of the protection of vital equipment in accordance with § 73.55 of this chapter;
(ii) Storage of spent fuel must be within a protected area, in accordance with § 73.55(e) of this chapter, but need not be within a separate vital area. Existing protected areas may be expanded or new protected areas added for the purpose of storage of spent fuel in accordance with this general license;
(iii) For the purpose of this general license, personnel searches required by § 73.55(h) of this chapter before admission to a new protected area may be performed by physical pat-down searches of persons in lieu of firearms and explosives detection equipment;
(iv) The observational capability required by § 73.55(i)(3) of this chapter as applied to a new protected area may be provided by a guard or watchman on patrol in lieu of video surveillance technology;
(v) For the purpose of this general license, the licensee is exempt from requirements to interdict and neutralize threats in § 73.55 of this chapter; and
(vi) Each general licensee that receives and possesses power reactor spent fuel and other radioactive materials associated with spent fuel storage shall protect Safeguards Information against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements of § 73.21 and the requirements of § 73.22 or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable.
(10) Review the reactor emergency plan, quality assurance program, training program, and radiation protection program to determine if their effectiveness is decreased and, if so, prepare the necessary changes and seek and obtain the necessary approvals.
(11) Maintain a copy of the CoC and, for those casks to which the licensee has applied the changes of an amended CoC, the amended CoC, and the documents referenced in such Certificates, for each cask model used for storage of spent fuel, until use of the cask model is discontinued. The licensee shall comply with the terms, conditions, and specifications of the CoC and, for those casks to which the licensee has applied the changes of an amended CoC, the terms, conditions, and specifications of the amended CoC, including but not limited to, the requirements of any AMP put into effect as a condition of the NRC approval of a CoC renewal application in accordance with § 72.240.
(12) Accurately maintain the record provided by the CoC holder for each cask that shows, in addition to the information provided by the CoC holder, the following:
(i) The name and address of the CoC holder or lessor;
(ii) The listing of spent fuel stored in the cask; and
(iii) Any maintenance performed on the cask.
(13) Conduct activities related to storage of spent fuel under this general license only in accordance with written procedures.
(14) Make records and casks available to the Commission for inspection.
(c) The record described in paragraph (b)(12) of this section must include sufficient information to furnish documentary evidence that any testing and maintenance of the cask has been conducted under an NRC-approved quality assurance program.
(d) In the event that a cask is sold, leased, loaned, or otherwise transferred to another registered user, the record described in paragraph (b)(12) of this section must also be transferred to and must be accurately maintained by the new registered user. This record must be maintained by the current cask user during the period that the cask is used for storage of spent fuel and retained by the last user until decommissioning of the cask is complete.
(e) Fees for inspections related to spent fuel storage under this general license are those shown in § 170.31 of this chapter.
[55 FR 29191, July 18, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 53616, Oct. 4, 1999; 68 FR 54160, Sept. 16, 2003; 73 FR 63573, Oct. 24, 2008; 74 FR 13970, Mar. 27, 2009; 76 FR 8890, Feb. 16, 2011]
§ 72.214
List of approved spent fuel storage casks.
The following casks are approved for storage of spent fuel under the conditions specified in their Certificates of Compliance.
Certificate Number: 1004.
Initial Certificate Effective Date: January 23, 1995, superseded by Initial Certificate, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Initial Certificate, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Initial Certificate, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date: April 27, 2000, superseded by Amendment Number 1, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 1, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 1, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date: September 5, 2000, superseded by Amendment Number 2, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 2, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 2, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date: September 12, 2001, superseded by Amendment Number 3, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 3, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 3, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 4 Effective Date: February 12, 2002, superseded by Amendment Number 4, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 4, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 4, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 5 Effective Date: January 7, 2004, superseded by Amendment Number 5, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 5, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 5, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 6 Effective Date: December 22, 2003, superseded by Amendment Number 6, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 6, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 6, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 7 Effective Date: March 2, 2004, superseded by Amendment Number 7, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 7, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 7, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 8 Effective Date: December 5, 2005, superseded by Amendment Number 8, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 8, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 8, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 9 Effective Date: April 17, 2007, superseded by Amendment Number 9, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 9, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 9, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 10 Effective Date: August 24, 2009, superseded by Amendment Number 10, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 10, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 10, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 11 Effective Date: January 7, 2014, superseded by Amendment Number 11, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 11, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 11, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017, as corrected (ADAMS Accession No. ML18018A043).
Amendment Number 12 Effective Date: Amendment not issued by the NRC.
Amendment Number 13 Effective Date: May 24, 2014, superseded by Amendment Number 13, Revision 1, on April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 13, Revision 1, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 13, Revision 1, Effective Date: December 11, 2017, as corrected (ADAMS Accession No. ML18018A100).
Amendment Number 14 Effective Date: April 25, 2017, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 14, on December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 14 Effective Date: December 11, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 15 Effective Date: January 22, 2019.
Renewed Amendment Number 16 Effective Date: September 14, 2020.
Renewed Amendment Number 17 Effective Date: June 7, 2021.
SAR Submitted by: TN Americas LLC.
SAR Title: Final Safety Analysis Report for the Standardized NUHOMS® Horizontal Modular Storage System for Irradiated Nuclear Fuel.
Docket Number: 72-1004.
Certificate Expiration Date: January 23, 2015.
Renewed Certificate Expiration Date: January 23, 2055.
Model Number: NUHOMS®-24P, -24PHB, -24PTH, -32PT, -32PTH1, -37PTH, -52B, -61BT, -61BTH, and -69BTH.
Certificate Number: 1007.
Initial Certificate Effective Date: May 7, 1993, superseded by Renewed Initial Certificate, on September 20, 2017.
Renewed Initial Certificate Effective Date: September 20, 2017.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date: May 30, 2000, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 1, on September 20, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 1 Effective Date: September 20, 2017.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date: September 5, 2000, superseded by Renewed
Amendment Number 2, on September 20, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 2 Effective Date: September 20, 2017.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date: May 21, 2001, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 3, on September 20, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 3 Effective Date: September 20, 2017.
Amendment Number 4 Effective Date: February 3, 2003, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 4, on September 20, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 4 Effective Date: September 20, 2017.
Amendment Number 5 Effective Date: September 13, 2005, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 5, on September 20, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 5 Effective Date: September 20, 2017.
Amendment Number 6 Effective Date: June 5, 2006, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 6, on September 20, 2017.
Renewed Amendment Number 6 Effective Date: September 20, 2017.
SAR Submitted by: EnergySolutions
TM
Corporation.
SAR Title: Final Safety Analysis Report for the VSC-24 Ventilated Storage Cask System.
Docket Number: 72-1007.
Renewed Certificate Expiration Date: May 7, 2053.
Model Number: VSC-24
.
Certificate Number: 1008.
Initial Certificate Effective Date: October 4, 1999, superseded by Renewed Initial Certificate, on December 15, 2021.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date: December 26, 2000, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 1, on December 15, 2021.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date: May 29, 2001, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 2, on December 15, 2021.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date: November 5, 2019, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 3, on December 15, 2021.
SAR Submitted by: Holtec International.
SAR Title: Final Safety Analysis Report for the HI-STAR 100 Cask System.
Docket Number: 72-1008.
Certificate Expiration Date: October 4, 2019.
Renewed Certificate Expiration Date: October 4, 2059.
Model Number: HI-STAR 100 (MPC-24, MPC-32, MPC-68, MPC-68F).
Certificate Number:
1014.
Initial Certificate Effective Date:
May 31, 2000, superseded by
Renewed Initial Certificate Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date:
July 15, 2002, superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 1 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date:
June 7, 2005, superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 2 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date:
May 29, 2007, superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 3 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 4 Effective Date:
January 8, 2008, superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 4 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 5 Effective Date:
July 14, 2008, superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 5 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 6 Effective Date:
August 17, 2009, superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 6 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 7 Effective Date:
December 28, 2009, superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 7 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 8 Effective Date:
May 2, 2012, as corrected on November 16, 2012 (ADAMS Accession No. ML12213A170); superseded by
Amendment Number 8, Revision 1, Effective Date:
February 16, 2016; superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 8, Revision 1 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 9 Effective Date:
March 11, 2014, superseded by
Amendment Number 9, Revision 1, Effective Date:
March 21, 2016, as corrected on August 25, 2017 (ADAMS Accession No. ML17236A451); superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 9, Revision 1 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 10 Effective Date:
May 31, 2016, as corrected on August 25, 2017 (ADAMS Accession No. ML17236A452); superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 10 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 11 Effective Date:
February 25, 2019, as corrected (ADAMS Accession No. ML19343B024); superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 11 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 12 Effective Date:
February 25, 2019, as corrected on May 30, 2019 (ADAMS Accession No. ML19109A111); further corrected December 23, 2019 (ADAMS Accession No. ML19343A908); superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 12 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 13 Effective Date:
May 13, 2019, as corrected on May 30, 2019 (ADAMS Accession No. ML19109A122); further corrected December 23, 2019 (ADAMS Accession No. ML19343B156); superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 13 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 14 Effective Date:
December 17, 2019, as corrected (ADAMS Accession No. ML19343B287); superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 14 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Amendment Number 15 Effective Date:
June 14, 2021, superseded by
Renewed Amendment Number 15 Effective Date:
August 2, 2023.
Renewed Amendment Number 16 [Reserved].
Renewed Amendment Number 17 Effective Date:
January 16, 2024.
Renewed Amendment Number 18 Effective Date:
November 19, 2024.
Safety Analysis Report (SAR) Submitted by:
Holtec International.
SAR Title:
Final Safety Analysis Report for the HI-STORM 100 Cask System.
Docket Number:
72-1014.
Certificate Expiration Date:
May 31, 2020.
Renewed Certificate Expiration Date:
May 31, 2060.
Model Number:
HI-STORM 100.
Certificate Number:
1015.
Initial Certificate Effective Date:
November 20, 2000, superseded by Renewed Initial Certificate on July 15, 2024.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date:
February 20, 2001, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 1 on July 15, 2024.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date:
December 31, 2001, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 2 on July 15, 2024.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date:
March 31, 2004, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 3 on July 15, 2024.
Amendment Number 4 Effective Date:
October 11, 2005, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 4 on July 15, 2024.
Amendment Number 5 Effective Date:
January 12, 2009, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 5 on July 15, 2024.
Amendment Number 6 Effective Date:
January 7, 2019, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 6 on July 15, 2024.
Amendment Number 7 Effective Date:
July 29, 2019, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 7 on July 15, 2024.
Amendment Number 8 Effective Date:
October 19, 2021, as corrected (ADAMS Accession No. ML21312A499); superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 8 on July 15, 2024.
Amendment Number 9 Effective Date:
August 29, 2022, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 9 on July 15, 2024.
SAR Submitted by:
NAC International, Inc.
SAR Title:
Final Safety Analysis Report for the NAC-UMS Universal Storage System.
Docket Number:
72-1015.
Renewed Certificate Expiration Date:
November 20, 2060.
Model Number:
NAC-UMS.
Certificate Number: 1021.
Initial Certificate Effective Date: April 19, 2000, superseded by Renewed Initial Certificate on January 19, 2022.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date: February 20, 2001, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 1 on January 19, 2022.
SAR Submitted by: Transnuclear, Inc., now TN Americas LLC.
Renewal SAR Submitted by: TN Americas LLC.
SAR Title: Final Safety Analysis Report for the TN-32 Dry Storage Cask.
Docket Number: 72-1021.
Certificate Expiration Date: April 19, 2020.
Renewed Certificate Expiration Date: April 19, 2060.
Model Number: TN-32, TN-32A, TN-32B.
Certificate Number:
1025.
Initial Certificate Effective Date:
April 10, 2000, superseded by Renewed Initial Certificate Effective Date: October 17, 2023.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date:
November 13, 2001, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 1 Effective Date: October 17, 2023.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date:
May 29, 2002, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 2 Effective Date: October 17, 2023.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date:
October 1, 2003, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 3 Effective Date: October 17, 2023.
Amendment Number 4 Effective Date:
October 27, 2004, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 4 Effective Date: October 17, 2023.
Amendment Number 5 Effective Date:
July 24, 2007, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 5 Effective Date: October 17, 2023.
Amendment Number 6 Effective Date:
October 4, 2010, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 6 Effective Date: October 17, 2023.
Amendment Number 7 Effective Date:
March 4, 2019, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 7 Effective Date: October 17, 2023.
Amendment Number 8 Effective Date:
March 4, 2019, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 8 Effective Date: October 17, 2023.
Safety Analysis Report (SAR) Submitted by:
NAC International, Inc.
SAR Title:
Final Safety Analysis Report for the NAC Multi-Purpose Canister System (NAC-MPC System).
Docket Number:
72-1025.
Certificate Expiration Date:
May 31, 2020.
Renewed Certificate Expiration Date:
April 10, 2060.
Model Number:
NAC-MPC System.
Certificate Number:
1026.
Initial Certificate Effective Date:
February 15, 2001, superseded by Renewed Initial Certificate on July 3, 2024.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date:
May 14, 2001, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 1 on July 3, 2024.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date:
January 28, 2002, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 2 on July 3, 2024.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date:
May 7, 2003, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 3 on July 3, 2024.
Amendment Number 4 Effective Date:
July 3, 2006, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 4 on July 3, 2024.
SAR Submitted by:
Westinghouse Electric Company LLC.
SAR Title:
Final Safety Analysis Report for the FuelSolutions
TM
Spent Fuel Management System.
Docket Number:
72-1026.
Renewed Certificate Expiration Date:
February 15, 2061.
Model Number:
WSNF-220, WSNF-221, and WSNF-223 systems; W150 storage cask; W100 transfer cask; and the W21 and W74 canisters.
Certificate Number:
1027.
Initial Certificate Effective Date:
May 30, 2000, superseded by Renewed Initial Certificate on February 22, 2022.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date:
October 30, 2007, superseded by RenewedAmendment Number 1 on February 22, 2022.
SAR Submitted by:
Transnuclear, Inc., now TN Americas LLC.
Renewal SAR Submitted by:
TN Americas LLC.
SAR Title:
Final Safety Analysis Report for the TN-68 Dry Storage Cask.
Docket Number:
72-1027.
Certificate Expiration Date:
May 28, 2020.
Renewed Certificate Expiration Date:
May 28, 2060.
Model Number:
TN-68.
Certificate Number: 1029.
Initial Certificate Effective Date: February 5, 2003, superseded by Renewed Initial Certificate on October 27, 2021.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date: May 16, 2005, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 1 on October 27, 2021.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date: Amendment not issued by the NRC.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date: February 23, 2015, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 3 on October 27, 2021.
Amendment Number 4 Effective Date: March 12, 2019, superseded by Renewed Amendment Number 4 on October 27, 2021.
SAR Submitted by: Transnuclear, Inc., now TN Americas, LLC.
Renewal SAR Submitted by: TN Americas, LLC.
SAR Title: Final Safety Analysis Report for the Standardized Advanced NUHOMS® Horizontal Modular Storage System for Irradiated Nuclear Fuel.
Docket Number: 72-1029.
Certificate Expiration Date: February 5, 2023.
Renewed Certificate Expiration Date: February 5, 2063.
Model Number: Standardized Advanced NUHOMS®-24PT1, -24PT4, and -32PTH2.
Certificate Number: 1030.
Initial Certificate Effective Date: January 10, 2007.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date: March 29, 2011.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date: October 14, 2014.
SAR Submitted by: Transnuclear, Inc.
SAR Title: Final Safety Analysis Report for the NUHOMS® HD Horizontal Modular Storage System for Irradiated Nuclear Fuel.
Docket Number: 72-1030.
Certificate Expiration Date: January 10, 2027.
Model Number: NUHOMS® HD-32PTH.
Certificate Number:
1031.
Initial Certificate Effective Date:
February 4, 2009, superseded by Initial Certificate, Revision 1, on February 1, 2016, superseded by Initial Certificate, Revision 2 on October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date:
August 30, 2010, superseded by Amendment Number 1, Revision 1, on February 1, 2016, superseded by Amendment Number 1, Revision 2, on October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date:
January 30, 2012, superseded by Amendment Number 2, Revision 1, on February 1, 2016, superseded by Amendment Number 2, Revision 2 on October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date:
July 25, 2013, superseded by Amendment Number 3, Revision 1, on February 1, 2016, superseded by Amendment Number 3, Revision 2 on October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 4 Effective Date:
April 14, 2015, superseded by Amendment Number 4, Revision 1, on October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 5 Effective Date:
June 29, 2015, superseded by Amendment Number 5, Revision 1, on October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 6 Effective Date:
December 21, 2016, superseded by Amendment Number 6, Revision 1, on October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 7 Effective Date:
August 21, 2017, as corrected (ADAMS Accession No. ML19045A346), superseded by Amendment Number 7, Revision 1, on October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 8, Effective Date:
March 24, 2020, superseded by Amendment Number 8, Revision 1, on October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 9, Effective Date:
December 7, 2020, superseded by Amendment Number 9, Revision 1, on October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 10, Effective Date:
January 18, 2023.
Amendment Number 11, Effective Date:
October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 12, Effective Date:
October 16, 2023.
Amendment Number 13 Effective Date:
November 19, 2024.
SAR Submitted by:
NAC International, Inc.
SAR Title:
Final Safety Analysis Report for the MAGNASTOR® System.
Docket Number:
72-1031.
Certificate Expiration Date:
February 4, 2029.
Model Number:
MAGNASTOR®.
Certificate Number:
1032.
Initial Certificate Effective Date:
June 13, 2011, superseded by Amendment Number 0, Revision 1, on April 25, 2016.
Amendment Number 0, Revision 1, Effective Date:
April 25, 2016.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date:
December 17, 2014, superseded by Amendment Number 1, Revision 1, on June 2, 2015.
Amendment Number 1, Revision 1, Effective Date:
June 2, 2015.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date:
November 7, 2016.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date:
September 11, 2017.
Amendment Number 4 Effective Date:
July 14, 2020.
Amendment Number 5 Effective Date:
July 27, 2020.
Amendment Number 6 Effective Date:
March 22, 2023.
Amendment Number 7 Effective Date:
September 25, 2024.
Amendment Number 8 Effective Date:
October 11, 2022.
SAR Submitted by:
Holtec International.
SAR Title:
Final Safety Analysis Report for the HI-STORM FW System.
Docket Number:
72-1032.
Certificate Expiration Date:
June 12, 2031.
Model Number:
HI-STORM FW MPC-32ML, MPC-37, MPC-37P, MPC-44, and MPC-89.
Certificate Number: 1040.
Initial Certificate Effective Date: April 6, 2015.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date: September 8, 2015.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date: January 9, 2017.
Amendment Number 3 [Reserved]
Amendment Number 4 Effective Date: January 25, 2021.
SAR Submitted by: Holtec International, Inc.
SAR Title: Final Safety Analysis Report for the Holtec International HI-STORM UMAX Canister Storage System.
Docket Number: 72-1040.
Certificate Expiration Date: April 6, 2035.
Model Number: MPC-37, MPC-89.
Certificate Number:
1042.
Initial Certificate Effective Date:
June 7, 2017.
Amendment Number 1 Effective Date:
June 17, 2020.
Amendment Number 2 Effective Date:
October 26, 2021.
Amendment Number 3 Effective Date:
July 17, 2023.
SAR Submitted by:
TN Americas LLC.
SAR Title:
Final Safety Analysis Report for the NUHOMS® EOS Dry Spent Fuel Storage System.
Docket Number:
72-1042.
Certificate Expiration Date:
June 7, 2037.
Model Number:
EOS-37PTH, EOS-89BTH, 61BTH Type 2.
[55 FR 29191, July 18, 1990]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 72.214, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 72.216
[Reserved]
§ 72.218
Termination of licenses.
(a) The notification regarding the program for the management of spent fuel at the reactor required by § 50.54(bb) of this chapter must include a plan for removal of the spent fuel stored under this general license from the reactor site. The plan must show how the spent fuel will be managed before starting to decommission systems and components needed for moving, unloading, and shipping this spent fuel.
(b) An application for termination of a reactor operating license issued under 10 CFR part 50 and submitted under § 50.82 of this chapter, or a combined license issued under 10 CFR part 52 and submitted under § 52.110 of this chapter, must contain a description of how the spent fuel stored under this general license will be removed from the reactor site.
(c) The reactor licensee shall send a copy of submittals under § 72.218(a) and (b) to the administrator of the appropriate Nuclear Regulatory Commission regional office shown in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter.
[55 FR 29191, July 18, 1990, as amended at 72 FR 49561, Aug. 28, 2007; 86 FR 43403, Aug. 9, 2021]
§ 72.220
Violations.
This general license is subject to the provisions of § 72.84 for violation of the regulations under this part.

# Subpart L—Approval of Spent Fuel Storage Casks

# Source:
55 FR 29193, July 18, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 72.230
Procedures for spent fuel storage cask submittals.
(a) An application for approval of a spent fuel storage cask design must be submitted in accordance with the instructions contained in § 72.4. A safety analysis report describing the proposed cask design and how the cask should be used to store spent fuel safely must be included with the application.
(b) Casks that have been certified for transportation of spent fuel under part 71 of this chapter may be approved for
storage of spent fuel under this subpart. An application must be submitted in accordance with the instructions contained in § 72.4, for a proposed term not to exceed 40 years. A copy of the CoC issued for the cask under part 71 of this chapter, and drawings and other documents referenced in the certificate, must be included with the application. A safety analysis report showing that the cask is suitable for storage of spent fuel, for the term proposed in the application, must also be included.
(c)
Public inspection.
An application for the approval of a cask for storage of spent fuel may be made available for public inspection under § 72.20.
(d)
Fees.
Fees for reviews and evaluations related to issuance of a spent fuel storage cask Certificate of Compliance and inspections related to storage cask fabrication are those shown in § 170.31 of this chapter.
[55 FR 29193, July 18, 1990, as amended at 76 FR 8891, Feb. 16, 2011]
§ 72.232
Inspection and tests.
(a) The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC shall permit, and make provisions for, the NRC to inspect the premises and facilities where a spent fuel storage cask is designed, fabricated, and tested.
(b) The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC shall make available to the NRC for inspection, upon reasonable notice, records kept by them pertaining to the design, fabrication, and testing of spent fuel storage casks.
(c) The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC shall perform, and make provisions that permit the NRC to perform, tests that the Commission deems necessary or appropriate for the administration of the regulations in this part.
(d) The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC shall submit a notification under § 72.4 at least 45 days prior to starting fabrication of the first spent fuel storage cask under a Certificate of Compliance.
[64 FR 56126, Oct. 15, 1999]
§ 72.234
Conditions of approval.
(a) The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC shall ensure that the design, fabrication, testing, and maintenance of a spent fuel storage cask comply with the requirements in § 72.236.
(b) The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC shall ensure that the design, fabrication, testing, and maintenance of spent fuel storage casks are conducted under a quality assurance program that meets the requirements of subpart G of this part.
(c) An applicant for a CoC may begin fabrication of spent fuel storage casks before the Commission issues a CoC for the cask; however, applicants who begin fabrication of casks without a CoC do so at their own risk. A cask fabricated before the CoC is issued shall be made to conform to the issued CoC before being placed in service or before spent fuel is loaded.
(d)(1) The certificate holder shall ensure that a record is established and maintained for each spent fuel storage cask fabricated under the CoC.
(2) This record must include:
(i) The NRC CoC number;
(ii) The spent fuel storage cask model number;
(iii) The spent fuel storage cask identification number;
(iv) Date fabrication was started;
(v) Date fabrication was completed;
(vi) Certification that the spent fuel storage cask was designed, fabricated, tested, and repaired in accordance with a quality assurance program accepted by NRC;
(vii) Certification that inspections required by § 72.236(j) were performed and found satisfactory; and
(viii) The name and address of the licensee using the spent fuel storage cask.
(3) The certificate holder shall supply the original of this record to the licensees using the spent fuel storage cask. A current copy of a composite record of all spent fuel storage casks manufactured under a CoC, showing the information in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, must be initiated and maintained by the certificate holder for each model spent fuel storage cask. If the certificate holder permanently ceases production of spent fuel storage casks under a CoC, the certificate holder shall send this composite record to the Commission using instructions in § 72.4.
(e) The certificate holder and the licensees using the spent fuel storage
cask shall ensure that the composite record required by paragraph (d) of this section is available to the Commission for inspection.
(f) The certificate holder shall ensure that written procedures and appropriate tests are established prior to use of the spent fuel storage casks. A copy of these procedures and tests must be provided to each licensee using the spent fuel storage cask.
[64 FR 56126, Oct. 15, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 50617, Aug. 21, 2000]
§ 72.236
Specific requirements for spent fuel storage cask approval and fabrication.
The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC shall ensure that the requirements of this section are met.
(a) Specifications must be provided for the spent fuel to be stored in the spent fuel storage cask, such as, but not limited to, type of spent fuel (
i.e.,
BWR, PWR, both), maximum allowable enrichment of the fuel prior to any irradiation, burn-up (
i.e.,
megawatt-days/MTU), minimum acceptable cooling time of the spent fuel prior to storage in the spent fuel storage cask, maximum heat designed to be dissipated, maximum spent fuel loading limit, condition of the spent fuel (
i.e.,
intact assembly or consolidated fuel rods), the inerting atmosphere requirements.
(b) Design bases and design criteria must be provided for structures, systems, and components important to safety.
(c) The spent fuel storage cask must be designed and fabricated so that the spent fuel is maintained in a subcritical condition under credible conditions.
(d) Radiation shielding and confinement features must be provided sufficient to meet the requirements in §§ 72.104 and 72.106.
(e) The spent fuel storage cask must be designed to provide redundant sealing of confinement systems.
(f) The spent fuel storage cask must be designed to provide adequate heat removal capacity without active cooling systems.
(g) The spent fuel storage cask must be designed to store the spent fuel safely for the term proposed in the application, and permit maintenance as required.
(h) The spent fuel storage cask must be compatible with wet or dry spent fuel loading and unloading facilities.
(i) The spent fuel storage cask must be designed to facilitate decontamination to the extent practicable.
(j) The spent fuel storage cask must be inspected to ascertain that there are no cracks, pinholes, uncontrolled voids, or other defects that could significantly reduce its confinement effectiveness.
(k) The spent fuel storage cask must be conspicuously and durably marked with—
(1) A model number;
(2) A unique identification number; and
(3) An empty weight.
(l) The spent fuel storage cask and its systems important to safety must be evaluated, by appropriate tests or by other means acceptable to the NRC, to demonstrate that they will reasonably maintain confinement of radioactive material under normal, off-normal, and credible accident conditions.
(m) To the extent practicable in the design of spent fuel storage casks, consideration should be given to compatibility with removal of the stored spent fuel from a reactor site, transportation, and ultimate disposition by the Department of Energy.
(n) Safeguards Information shall be protected against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements of § 73.21 and the requirements of § 73.22 or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable.
[64 FR 56126, Oct. 15, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 50617, Aug. 21, 2000; 73 FR 63573, Oct. 24, 2008; 76 FR 8891, Feb. 16, 2011]
§ 72.238
Issuance of an NRC Certificate of Compliance.
A Certificate of Compliance for a cask model will be issued by NRC for a term not to exceed 40 years on a finding that the requirements in § 72.236(a) through (i) are met.
[76 FR 8891, Feb. 16, 2011]
§ 72.240
Conditions for spent fuel storage cask renewal.
(a) The certificate holder may apply for renewal of the design of a spent fuel
storage cask for a term not to exceed 40 years. In the event that the certificate holder does not apply for a cask design renewal, any licensee using a spent fuel storage cask, a representative of such licensee, or another certificate holder may apply for a renewal of that cask design for a term not to exceed 40 years.
(b) The application for renewal of the design of a spent fuel storage cask must be submitted not less than 30 days before the expiration date of the CoC. When the applicant has submitted a timely application for renewal, the existing CoC will not expire until the application for renewal has been determined by the NRC.
(c) The application must be accompanied by a safety analysis report (SAR). The SAR must include the following:
(1) Design bases information as documented in the most recently updated final safety analysis report (FSAR) as required by § 72.248;
(2) Time-limited aging analyses that demonstrate that structures, systems, and components important to safety will continue to perform their intended function for the requested period of extended operation; and
(3) A description of the AMP for management of issues associated with aging that could adversely affect structures, systems, and components important to safety.
(d) The design of a spent fuel storage cask will be renewed if the conditions in subpart G of this part and § 72.238 are met, and the application includes a demonstration that the storage of spent fuel has not, in a significant manner, adversely affected structures, systems, and components important to safety.
(e) In approving the renewal of the design of a spent fuel storage cask, the NRC may revise the CoC to include terms, conditions, and specifications that will ensure the safe operation of the cask during the renewal term, including but not limited to, terms, conditions, and specifications that will require the implementation of an AMP.
[76 FR 8891, Feb. 16, 2011]
§ 72.242
Recordkeeping and reports.
(a) Each certificate holder or applicant shall maintain any records and produce any reports that may be required by the conditions of the CoC or by the rules, regulations, and orders of the NRC in effectuating the purposes of the Act.
(b) Records that are required by the regulations in this part or by conditions of the CoC must be maintained for the period specified by the appropriate regulation or the CoC conditions. If a retention period is not specified, the records must be maintained until the NRC terminates the CoC.
(c) Any record maintained under this part may be either the original or a reproduced copy by any state-of-the-art method provided that any reproduced copy is duly authenticated by authorized personnel and is capable of producing a clear and legible copy after storage for the period specified by NRC regulations.
(d) Each certificate holder shall submit a written report to the NRC within 30 days of discovery of a design or fabrication deficiency, for any spent fuel storage cask which has been delivered to a licensee, when the design or fabrication deficiency affects the ability of structures, systems, and components important to safety to perform their intended safety function. The written report shall be sent to the NRC in accordance with the requirements of § 72.4. The report shall include the following:
(1) A brief abstract describing the deficiency, including all component or system failures that contributed to the deficiency and corrective action taken or planned to prevent recurrence;
(2) A clear, specific, narrative description of what occurred so that knowledgeable readers familiar with the design of the spent fuel storage cask, but not familiar with the details of a particular cask, can understand the deficiency. The narrative description shall include the following specific information as appropriate for the particular event:
(i) Dates and approximate times of discovery;
(ii) The cause of each component or system failure, if known;
(iii) The failure mode, mechanism, and effect of each failed component, if known;
(iv) A list of systems or secondary functions that were also affected for failures of components with multiple functions;
(v) The method of discovery of each component or system failure;
(vi) The manufacturer and model number (or other identification) of each component that failed during the event;
(vii) The model and serial numbers of the affected spent fuel storage casks;
(viii) The licensees that have affected spent fuel storage casks;
(3) An assessment of the safety consequences and implications of the deficiency. This assessment shall include the availability of other systems or components that could have performed the same function as the components and systems that were affected;
(4) A description of any corrective actions planned as a result of the deficiency, including those to reduce the probability of similar occurrences in the future;
(5) Reference to any previous similar deficiencies at the same facility that are known to the certificate holder; and
(6) The name and telephone number of a person within the certificate holder's organization who is knowledgeable about the deficiency and can provide additional information.
[64 FR 56127, Oct. 15, 1999]
§ 72.244
Application for amendment of a certificate of compliance.
Whenever a certificate holder desires to amend the CoC (including a change to the terms, conditions or specifications of the CoC), an application for an amendment shall be filed with the Commission fully describing the changes desired and the reasons for such changes, and following as far as applicable the form prescribed for original applications.
[64 FR 53617, Oct. 4, 1999]
§ 72.246
Issuance of amendment to a certificate of compliance.
In determining whether an amendment to a CoC will be issued to the applicant, the Commission will be guided by the considerations that govern the issuance of an initial CoC.
[64 FR 53617, Oct. 4, 1999]
§ 72.248
Safety analysis report updating.
(a) Each certificate holder for a spent fuel storage cask design shall update periodically, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the final safety analysis report (FSAR) to assure that the information included in the report contains the latest information developed.
(1) Each certificate holder shall submit an original FSAR to the Commission, in accordance with § 72.4, within 90 days after the spent fuel storage cask design has been approved pursuant to § 72.238.
(2) The original FSAR shall be based on the safety analysis report submitted with the application and reflect any changes and applicant commitments developed during the cask design review process. The original FSAR shall be updated to reflect any changes to requirements contained in the issued Certificate of Compliance (CoC).
(b) Each update shall contain all the changes necessary to reflect information and analyses submitted to the Commission by the certificate holder or prepared by the certificate holder pursuant to Commission requirement since the submission of the original FSAR or, as appropriate, the last update to the FSAR under this section. The update shall include the effects
1
of:
1
Effects of changes includes appropriate revisions of descriptions in the FSAR such that the FSAR (as updated) is complete and accurate.
(1) All changes made in the spent fuel storage cask design or procedures as described in the FSAR;
(2) All safety analyses and evaluations performed by the certificate holder either in support of approved CoC amendments, or in support of conclusions that changes did not require a CoC amendment in accordance with § 72.48; and
(3) All analyses of new safety issues performed by or on behalf of the certificate holder at Commission request.
The information shall be appropriately located within the updated FSAR.
(c)(1) The update of the FSAR must be filed in accordance with § 72.4. If the update is filed on paper, then it should be filed on a page-replacement basis; if filed electronically, it should be filed on a full replacement basis. See Guidance for Electronic Submissions to the Commission at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html.
(2) A paper update filed on a page-replacement basis must include a list that identifies the current pages of the FSAR following page replacement. If the update is filed electronically on a full replacement basis, it must include a list of changed pages.
(3) Each replacement page shall include both a change indicator for the area changed, e.g., a bold line vertically drawn in the margin adjacent to the portion actually changed, and a page change identification (date of change or change number or both);
(4) The update shall include:
(i) A certification by a duly authorized officer of the certificate holder that either the information accurately presents changes made since the previous submittal, or that no such changes were made; and
(ii) An identification of changes made by the certificate holder under the provisions of § 72.48, but not previously submitted to the Commission;
(5) The update shall reflect all changes implemented up to a maximum of 6 months prior to the date of filing;
(6) Updates shall be filed every 24 months from the date of issuance of the CoC; and
(7) The certificate holder shall provide a copy of the updated FSAR to each general and specific licensee using its cask design.
(d) The updated FSAR shall be retained by the certificate holder until the Commission terminates the certificate.
(e) A certificate holder who permanently ceases operation, shall provide the updated FSAR to the new certificate holder or to the Commission, as appropriate, in accordance with § 72.234(d)(3).
[64 FR 53617, Oct. 4, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009]
Pt. 73

# PART 73—PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
73.1
Purpose and scope.
73.2
Definitions.
73.3
Interpretations.
73.4
Communications.
73.5
Specific exemptions.
73.6
Exemptions for certain quantities and kinds of special nuclear material.
73.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.

# Subpart B—Enhanced Weapons, Preemption, and Firearms Background Checks
73.15
Authorization for use of enhanced weapons and preemption of firearms laws.
73.17
Firearms background checks for armed security personnel.

# Subpart C—General Performance Objective for Protection of Strategic Special Nuclear Material
73.20
General performance objective and requirements.

# Subpart D—Protection of Safeguards Information
73.21
Protection of Safeguards Information: Performance requirements.
73.22
Protection of Safeguards Information: Specific requirements.
73.23
Protection of Safeguards Information—Modified Handling: Specific requirements.

# Subpart E—Physical Protection Requirements of Special Nuclear Material and Spent Nuclear Fuel in Transit
73.24
Prohibitions.
73.25
Performance capabilities for physical protection of strategic special nuclear material in transit.
73.26
Transportation physical protection systems, subsystems, components, and procedures.
73.27
Notification requirements.
73.28
Security background checks for secure transfer of nuclear materials.
73.35
Requirements for physical protection of irradiated reactor fuel (100 grams or less) in transit.
73.37
Requirements for physical protection of irradiated reactor fuel in transit.
73.38
Personnel access authorization requirements for irradiated reactor fuel in transit.

# Subpart F—Physical Protection Requirements at Fixed Sites
73.40
Physical protection: General requirements at fixed sites.
73.45
Performance capabilities for fixed site physical protection systems.
73.46
Fixed site physical protection systems, subsystems, components, and procedures.
73.50
Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities.
73.51
Requirements for the physical protection of stored spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste.
73.54
Protection of digital computer and communication systems and networks.
73.55
Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities in nuclear power reactors against radiological sabotage.

# Subpart G—Access Authorization and Access Control Requirements for the Physical Protection of Special Nuclear Material
73.56
Personnel access authorization requirements for nuclear power plants.
73.57
Requirements for criminal history records checks of individuals granted unescorted access to a nuclear power facility, a non-power reactor, or access to Safeguards Information.
73.58
Safety/security interface requirements for nuclear power reactors.
73.59
Relief from fingerprinting, identification and criminal history records checks and other elements of background checks for designated categories of individuals.
73.60
Additional requirements for physical protection at nonpower reactors.
73.61
Relief from fingerprinting and criminal history records check for designated categories of individuals permitted unescorted access to certain radioactive materials or other property.
73.67
Licensee fixed site and in-transit requirements for the physical protection of special nuclear material of moderate and low strategic significance.

# Subpart H—Records and Postings
73.70
Records.
73.71
[RESERVED]
73.72
Requirement for advance notice of shipment of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, or irradiated reactor fuel.
73.73
Requirement for advance notice and protection of export shipments of special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
73.74
Requirement for advance notice and protection of import shipments of nuclear material from countries that are not party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material.
73.75
Posting.
73.77
Cyber security event notifications.
73.80
Violations.
73.81
Criminal penalties.
Subparts J-S—[Reserved]

# Subpart T—Security Notifications, Reports, and Recordkeeping
73.1200
Notification of physical security events.
73.1205
Written follow-up reports of physical security events.
73.1210
Recordkeeping of physical security events.
73.1215
Suspicious activity reports.
Appendix A to Part 73—U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Offices and Classified Mailing Addresses
Appendix B to Part 73—General Criteria for Security Personnel
Appendix C to Part 73—Licensee Safeguards Contingency Plans
Appendix D to Part 73—Physical Protection of Irradiated Reactor Fuel in Transit, Training Program Subject Schedule
Appendix E to Part 73—Levels of Physical Protection To Be Applied in International Transport of Nuclear Material
Appendix F to Part 73—Countries and Organizations That Are Parties to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
Appendix G to Part 73 [Reserved]
Appendix H to Part 73—Weapons Qualification Criteria

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 53, 147, 149, 161, 161A, 170D, 170E, 170H, 170I, 223, 229, 234, 1701 (42 U.S.C. 2073, 2167, 2169, 2201, 2201a, 2210d, 2210e, 2210h, 2210i, 2273, 2278a, 2282, 2297f); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 202 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5842); Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, secs. 135, 141 (42 U.S.C. 10155, 10161); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.
Section 73.37(b)(2) also issued under Sec. 301, Public Law 96-295, 94 Stat. 789 (42 U.S.C. 5841 note).

# Source:
38 FR 35430, Dec. 28, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 73.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This part prescribes requirements for the establishment and maintenance of a physical protection system which will have capabilities for the protection of special nuclear material at fixed sites and in transit and of
plants in which special nuclear material is used. The following design basis threats, where referenced in ensuing sections of this part, shall be used to design safeguards systems to protect against acts of radiological sabotage and to prevent the theft or diversion of special nuclear material. Licensees subject to the provisions of § 73.20 (except for fuel cycle licensees authorized under Part 70 of this chapter to receive, acquire, possess, transfer, use, or deliver for transportation formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material), §§ 73.50, and 73.60 are exempt from §§ 73.1(a)(1)(i)(E), 73.1(a)(1)(iii), 73.1(a)(1)(iv), 73.1(a)(2)(iii), and 73.1(a)(2)(iv). Licensees subject to the provisions of § 72.212 are exempt from § 73.1(a)(1)(iv).
(1)
Radiological sabotage.
(i) A determined violent external assault, attack by stealth, or deceptive actions, including diversionary actions, by an adversary force capable of operating in each of the following modes: A single group attacking through one entry point, multiple groups attacking through multiple entry points, a combination of one or more groups and one or more individuals attacking through multiple entry points, or individuals attacking through separate entry points, with the following attributes, assistance and equipment:
(A) Well-trained (including military training and skills) and dedicated individuals, willing to kill or be killed, with sufficient knowledge to identify specific equipment or locations necessary for a successful attack;
(B) Active (e.g., facilitate entrance and exit, disable alarms and communications, participate in violent attack) or passive (e.g., provide information), or both, knowledgeable inside assistance;
(C) Suitable weapons, including hand-held automatic weapons, equipped with silencers and having effective long range accuracy;
(D) Hand-carried equipment, including incapacitating agents and explosives for use as tools of entry or for otherwise destroying reactor, facility, transporter, or container integrity or features of the safeguards system; and
(E) Land and water vehicles, which could be used for transporting personnel and their hand-carried equipment to the proximity of vital areas; and
(ii) An internal threat; and
(iii) A land vehicle bomb assault, which may be coordinated with an external assault; and
(iv) A waterborne vehicle bomb assault, which may be coordinated with an external assault; and
(v) A cyber attack.
(2)
Theft or diversion of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material.
(i) A determined violent external assault, attack by stealth, or deceptive actions, including diversionary actions, by an adversary force capable of operating in each of the following modes: a single group attacking through one entry point, multiple groups attacking through multiple entry points, a combination of one or more groups and one or individuals attacking through multiple entry points, or individuals attacking through separate entry points, with the following attributes, assistance and equipment:
(A) Well-trained (including military training and skills) and dedicated individuals, willing to kill or be killed, with sufficient knowledge to identify specific equipment or locations necessary for a successful attack;
(B) Active (e.g., facilitate entrance and exit, disable alarms and communications, participate in violent attack) or passive (e.g., provide information), or both, knowledgeable inside assistance;
(C) Suitable weapons, including hand-held automatic weapons, equipped with silencers and having effective long-range accuracy;
(D) Hand-carried equipment, including incapacitating agents and explosives for use as tools of entry or for otherwise destroying reactor, facility, transporter, or container integrity or features of the safe-guards system;
(E) Land and water vehicles, which could be used for transporting personnel and their hand-carried equipment; and
(ii) An internal threat; and
(iii) A land vehicle bomb assault, which may be coordinated with an external assault; and
(iv) A waterborne vehicle bomb assault, which may be coordinated with an external assault; and
(v) A cyber attack.
(b)
Scope.
(1) This part prescribes requirements for:
(i) The physical protection of production and utilization facilities licensed under parts 50 or 52 of this chapter,
(ii) The physical protection of plants in which activities licensed pursuant to part 70 of this chapter are conducted, and
(iii) The physical protection of special nuclear material by any person who, pursuant to the regulations in part 61 or 70 of this chapter, possesses or uses at any site or contiguous sites subject to the control by the licensee, formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material or special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance or special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
(2) This part prescribes requirements for the physical protection of special nuclear material in transportation by any person who is licensed pursuant to the regulations in parts 70 and 110 of this chapter who imports, exports, transports, delivers to a carrier for transport in a single shipment, or takes delivery of a single shipment free on board (F.O.B.) where it is delivered to a carrier, formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance or special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
(3) This part also applies to shipments by air of special nuclear material in quantities exceeding: (i) 20 grams or 20 curies, whichever is less, of plutonium or uranium-233, or (ii) 350 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U-235 isotope).
(4) Special nuclear material subject to this part may also be protected pursuant to security procedures prescribed by the Commission or another Government agency for the protection of classified materials. The provisions and requirements of this part are in addition to, and not in substitution for, any such security procedures. Compliance with the requirements of this part does not relieve any licensee from any requirement or obligation to protect special nuclear material pursuant to security procedures prescribed by the Commission or other Government agency for the protection of classified materials.
(5) This part also applies to the shipment of irradiated reactor fuel in quantities that in a single shipment both exceed 100 grams in net weight of irradiated fuel, exclusive of cladding or other structural or packaging material, and have a total external radiation level in excess of 1 gray (100 rad) per hour at a distance of 1 meter (3.3 feet) from any accessible surface without intervening shielding.
(6) This part prescribes requirements for the physical protection of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste stored in either an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) or a monitored retrievable storage (MRS) installation licensed under part 72 of this chapter, or stored at the geologic repository operations area licensed under part 60 or part 63 of this chapter.
(7) This part prescribes requirements for the protection of Safeguards Information (including Safeguards Information with the designation or marking: Safeguards Information—Modified Handling) in the hands of any person, whether or not a licensee of the Commission, who produces, receives, or acquires that information.
(8) This part prescribes requirements for advance notice of export and import shipments of special nuclear material, including irradiated reactor fuel.
(9) As provided in part 76 of this chapter, the regulations of this part establish procedures and criteria for physical security for the issuance of a certificate of compliance or the approval of a compliance plan.
[44 FR 68186, Nov. 28, 1979]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 73.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 73.2
Definitions.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 106253, Dec. 30, 2024.
As used in this part:
(a) Terms defined in parts 50, 52, 70, and 95 of this chapter have the same meaning when used in this part.
Adverse firearms background check
means a firearms background check that has resulted in a “denied” or “delayed” NICS response from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).
Appropriate Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Office listed in appendix A
means:
(1) For domestic shipments—the Regional Office within whose region the licensee who is responsible for the physical protection arrangements of the shipment is located.
(2) For export shipments—the Regional Office within whose region the licensee who is responsible for the physical protection arrangements of the shipment is located, and the Regional Office for the region in which the last point of exit of the shipment from the U.S. is located.
(3) For import shipments—the Regional Office within whose region the licensee who is responsible for the physical protection arrangements of the shipment is located, and the Regional Office for the region in which the first point of entry of the shipment into the U.S. is located.
Armed escort
means an armed person, not necessarily uniformed, whose primary duty is to accompany shipments of special nuclear material for the protection of such shipments against theft or radiological sabotage.
Armed response personnel
means persons, not necessarily uniformed, whose primary duty in the event of attempted theft of special nuclear material or radiological sabotage shall be to respond, armed and equipped, to prevent or delay such actions.
Authorized individual
means any individual, including an employee, a student, a consultant, or an agent of a licensee who has been designated in writing by a licensee to have responsibility for surveillance of or control over special nuclear material or to have unescorted access to areas where special nuclear material is used or stored.
Background check
includes, at a minimum, a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) criminal history records check (including verification of identity based on fingerprinting), employment history, education, and personal references. Individuals engaged in activities subject to regulation by the Commission, applicants for licenses to engage in Commission-regulated activities, and individuals who have notified the Commission in writing of an intent to file an application for licensing, certification, permitting, or approval of a product or activity subject to regulation by the Commission are required under § 73.57 to conduct fingerprinting and criminal history records checks before granting access to Safeguards Information. A background check must be sufficient to support the trustworthiness and reliability determination so that the person performing the check and the Commission have assurance that granting individuals access to Safeguards Information does not constitute an unreasonable risk to the public health and safety or the common defense and security.
Bullet/resisting
means protection against complete penetration, passage of fragments of projectiles, and spalling (fragmentation) of the protective material that could cause injury to a person standing directly behind the bullet-resisting barrier.
Combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority
means the authority granted to the Commission, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2201a, to authorize licensees or the designated security personnel of a licensee to transfer, receive, possess, transport, import, and use one or more categories of enhanced weapons, notwithstanding any State, local, or certain Federal firearms laws, including regulations, that prohibit or restrict such conduct.
Contiguous sites
means licensee controlled locations, deemed by the Commission to be in close enough proximity to each other, that the special nuclear material must be considered in the aggregate for the purpose of physical protection.
Continuous visual surveillance
means unobstructed view at all times of a shipment of special nuclear material, and of all access to a temporary storage area or cargo compartment containing the shipment.
Controlled access area
means any temporarily or permanently established area which is clearly demarcated, access to which is controlled and which
affords isolation of the material or persons within it.
Contraband
means unauthorized firearms, explosives, incendiaries, or other dangerous materials (e.g., disease causing agents), which are capable of causing acts of sabotage against a licensed facility or licensed radioactive material, as specified under 42 U.S.C. 2284. For licensees that possess or conduct activities involving classified national security information or classified Restricted Data (RD) as defined in § 95.5 of this chapter, contraband also means unauthorized electronic devices or unauthorized electronic media that are capable of facilitating acts of espionage; unauthorized communication, transmission, disclosure, or receipt of RD; or tampering with RD, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 793 or 42 U.S.C. 2274-2276, respectively. Contraband items are banned from a licensee's protected area, vital area, materials access area, or controlled access area.
Covered weapon
means any handgun, rifle, shotgun, short-barreled shotgun, short-barreled rifle, semiautomatic assault weapon, machine gun, ammunition for any such weapons, or large capacity ammunition feeding device otherwise prohibited by State, local, or certain Federal firearms laws, including regulations, as specified under 42 U.S.C. 2201a(b).
Deceit
means methods used to attempt to gain unauthorized access, introduce unauthorized materials, or remove strategic special nuclear materials, where the attempt involves falsification to present the appearance of authorized access.
DOE
and
Department of Energy
means the Department of Energy established by the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 565, 42 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.
), to the extent that the Department, or its duly authorized representatives, exercises functions formerly vested in the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, its Chairman, members, officers and components and transfered to the U.S. Energy Research and Development Administration and to the Administrator thereof pursuant to sections 104(b), (c) and (d) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-438, 88 Stat. 1233 at 1237, 42 U.S.C. 5814) and retransferred to the Secretary of Energy pursuant to section 301(a) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 565 at 577-578, 42 U.S.C. 7151).
Enhanced weapon
means any short-barreled shotgun, short-barreled rifle, or machine gun. Enhanced weapons do not include destructive devices as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a).
Enhanced weapon
means any short-barreled shotgun, short-barreled rifle, or machine gun. Enhanced weapons do not include destructive devices as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a).
Firearms background check
means a background check by the U.S. Attorney General pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2201a that includes a check against the Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI's) fingerprint system and the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.
Force
means violent methods used by an adversary to attempt to steal strategic special nuclear material or to sabotage a nuclear facility or violent methods used by response personnel to protect against such adversary actions.
Formula quantity
means strategic special nuclear material in any combination in a quantity of 5,000 grams or more computed by the formula, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2.5 (grams U-233 + grams plutonium). This class of material is sometimes referred to as a Category I quantity of material.
Greater than Class C waste
or
GTCC waste
has the same meaning as defined in § 72.3 of this chapter.
Guard
means a uniformed individual armed with a firearm whose primary duty is the protection of special nuclear material against theft, the protection of a plant against radiological sabotage, or both.
Incendiary device
means any self-contained device intended to create an intense fire that can damage normally flame-resistant or retardant materials.
High-level radioactive waste or HLW
has the same meaning as defined in § 72.3 of this chapter.
Independent spent fuel storage installation or ISFSI
has the same meaning as defined in § 72.3 of this chapter.
Indian Tribe
means an Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to
exist as an Indian Tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 5130.
Individual authorized access to Safeguards Information
is an individual authorized to have access to and handle such information pursuant to the requirements of §§ 73.21 and 73.22 of this part.
Individual authorized access to Safeguards Information—Modified Handling
is an individual authorized to have access to and handle Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information—Modified Handling information pursuant to the requirements of §§ 73.21 and 73.23 of this part.
Intrusion alarm
means a tamper indicating electrical, electromechanical, electrooptical, electronic or similar device which will detect intrusion by an individual into a building, protected area, vital area, or material access area, and alert guards or watchmen by means of actuated visible and audible signals.
Isolation zone
means any area adjacent to a physical barrier, clear of all objects which could conceal or shield an individual.
Lock
in the case of vaults or vault type rooms means a three-position, manipulation resistant, dial type, built-in combination lock or combination padlock and in the case of fences, walls, and buildings means an integral door lock or padlock which provides protection equivalent to a six-tumbler cylinder lock.
Lock
in the case of a vault or vault type room also means any manipulation resistant, electromechanical device which provides the same function as a built-in combination lock or combination padlock, which can be operated remotely or by the
reading
or insertion of information, which can be uniquely characterized, and which allows operation of the device.
Locked
means protected by an operable lock.
Material access area
means any location which contains special nuclear material, within a vault or a building, the roof, walls, and floor of which each constitute a physical barrier.
Movement control center
means an operations center which is remote from the transport activity and which maintains position information on the movement of special nuclear material or radioactive material; receives reports of actual or attempted attacks, thefts, or sabotage; provides a means for notifying these and other problems to the NRC and appropriate agencies; and can request and coordinate appropriate aid.
Need to know
means a determination by a person having responsibility for protecting Safeguards Information (including Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information—Modified Handling) that a proposed recipient's access to Safeguards Information is necessary in the performance of official, contractual, licensee, applicant, or certificate holder employment. In an adjudication, “need to know” means a determination by the originator of the information that the information is necessary to enable the proposed recipient to proffer and/or adjudicate a specific contention in that proceeding, and the proposed recipient of the specific Safeguards Information possesses demonstrable knowledge, skill, training, or education to effectively utilize the specific Safeguards Information in the proceeding. Where the information is in the possession of the originator and the NRC staff (dual possession), whether in its original form or incorporated into another document or other matter by the recipient, the NRC staff makes the determination. In the event of a dispute regarding the “need to know” determination, the presiding officer of the proceeding shall make the “need to know” determination.
NICS
means the National Instant Criminal Background Check System established by Section 103(b) of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, Public Law 103-159 (107 Stat. 1536), that is operated by the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services Division.
NICS response
means a response provided by the FBI, as the result of a firearms background check against the NICS. A NICS response provided by the FBI may be “proceed,” “delayed,” or “denied.”
NICS transaction number
or
NTN
means the identification number created by the FBI to track firearms background checks upon entry of the information into the FBI's system. The
NICS response and the NTN are the information returned by the FBI, following a firearms background check.
Person
means (1) any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, government agency other than the Commission or the Department of Energy (DOE), (except that the DOE shall be considered a person to the extent that its facilities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and sections 104, 105, and 202 of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978), any state or political subdivision of a state, or any political subdivision of any government or nation, or other entity; and (2) any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
Physical barrier
means:
(1) Fences constructed of No. 11 American wire gauge, or heavier wire fabric, topped by three strands or more of barbed wire or similar material on brackets angled inward or outward between 30° and 45° from the vertical, with an overall height of not less than eight feet, including the barbed topping;
(2) Building walls, ceilings and floors constructed of stone, brick, cinder block, concrete, steel or comparable materials (openings in which are secured by grates, doors, or covers of construction and fastening of sufficient strength such that the integrity of the wall is not lessened by any opening), or walls of similar construction, not part of a building, provided with a barbed topping described in paragraph (1) of this definition of a height of not less than 8 feet; or
(3) Any other physical obstruction constructed in a manner and of materials suitable for the purpose for which the obstruction is intended.
Protected area
means an area encompassed by physical barriers and to which access is controlled.
Radiological sabotage
means any deliberate act directed against a plant or transport in which an activity licensed pursuant to the regulations in this chapter is conducted, or against a component of such a plant or transport which could directly or indirectly endanger the public health and safety by exposure to radiation.
Restricted Data or RD
has the same meaning as defined in § 95.5 of this chapter.
Safeguards Information
means information not classified as National Security Information or Restricted Data which specifically identifies a licensee's or applicant's detailed control and accounting procedures for the physical protection of special nuclear material in quantities determined by the Commission through order or regulation to be significant to the public health and safety or the common defense and security; detailed security measures (including security plans, procedures, and equipment) for the physical protection of source, byproduct, or special nuclear material in quantities determined by the Commission through order or regulation to be significant to the public health and safety or the common defense and security; security measures for the physical protection of and location of certain plant equipment vital to the safety of production or utilization facilities; and any other information within the scope of Section 147 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the unauthorized disclosure of which, as determined by the Commission through order or regulation, could reasonably be expected to have a significant adverse effect on the health and safety of the public or the common defense and security by significantly increasing the likelihood of sabotage or theft or diversion of source, byproduct, or special nuclear material.
Safeguards Information—Modified Handling
is the designation or marking applied to Safeguards Information which the Commission has determined requires handling requirements modified from the specific Safeguards Information handling requirements that are applicable to Safeguards Information needing a higher level of protection.
Satisfactory firearms background check
means a firearms background check that has resulted in a “proceed” NICS response.
Security management
means persons responsible for security at the policy and general management level.
Security Storage Container
includes any of the following repositories: (1) For storage in a building located within a protected or controlled access area, a steel filing cabinet equipped with a steel locking bar and a three position, changeable combination, GSA approved padlock; (2) A security filing cabinet that bears a Test Certification Label on the side of the locking drawer, or interior plate, and is marked,
General Services Administration Approved Security Container
on the exterior of the top drawer or door; (3) A bank safe-deposit box; and (4) Other repositories which in the judgement of the NRC, would provide comparable physical protection.
Security supervision
means persons, not necessarily uniformed or armed, whose primary duties are supervision and direction of security at the day-to-day operating level.
Special nuclear material (SNM)
has the same meaning as defined in § 70.4 of this chapter.
Special nuclear material of low strategic significance
means:
(1) Less than an amount of special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition of strategic nuclear material of moderate strategic significance in this section, but more than 15 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in U-235 isotope) or 15 grams of uranium-233 or 15 grams of plutonium or the combination of 15 grams when computed by the equation, grams = (grams contained U-235) + (grams plutonium) + (grams U-233); or
(2) Less than 10,000 grams but more than 1,000 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 10 percent or more but less than 20 percent in the U-235 isotope); or
(3) 10,000 grams or more of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched above natural but less than 10 percent in the U-235 isotope).
This class of material is sometimes referred to as a Category III quantity of material.
Special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance
means:
(1) Less than a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material but more than 1,000 grams of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U-235 isotope) or more than 500 grams of uranium-233 or plutonium, or in a combined quantity of more than 1,000 grams when computed by the equation, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2 (grams U-233 + grams plutonium); or
(2) 10,000 grams or more of uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 10 percent or more but less than 20 percent in the U-235 isotope).
This class of material is sometimes referred to as a Category II quantity of material.
Spent nuclear fuel (SNF) or spent fuel
means the fuel that has been withdrawn from a nuclear reactor following irradiation and has not been chemically separated into its constituent elements by reprocessing. Spent nuclear fuel includes the special nuclear material, byproduct material, source material, and other radioactive materials associated with a fuel assembly.
Stand-alone preemption authority
means the authority granted to the Commission, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2201a, to authorize licensees or the designated security personnel of a licensee to transfer, receive, possess, transport, import, and use one or more categories of covered weapons, notwithstanding any State, local, or certain Federal firearms laws, including regulations, that prohibit or restrict such conduct. Such covered weapons do not include enhanced weapons as defined in this part.
Stealth
means methods used to attempt to gain unauthorized access, introduce unauthorized materials, or remove strategic special nuclear material, where the fact of such attempt is concealed or an attempt is made to conceal it.
Strategic special nuclear material
means uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U-235 isotope), uranium-233, or plutonium.
Tactical Response Team
means the primary response force for each shift which can be identified by a distinctive item of uniform, armed with specified weapons, and whose other duties permit immediate response.
Time of discovery
means the time at which a cognizant individual observes,
identifies, or is notified of a security-significant event or condition. A cognizant individual is considered anyone who, by position, experience, and/or training, is expected to understand that a particular condition or event adversely impacts security.
Transport
means any land, sea, or air conveyance or modules for these conveyances such as rail cars or standardized cargo containers.
Tribal official
means the highest ranking individual that represents Tribal leadership, such as the Chief, President, or Tribal Council leadership.
Trustworthiness and reliability
are characteristics of an individual considered dependable in judgment, character, and performance, such that disclosure of Safeguards Information (including Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information—Modified Handling) to that individual does not constitute an unreasonable risk to the public health and safety or common defense and security. A determination of trustworthiness and reliability for this purpose is based upon a background check.
Undergoing processing
means performing active operations on material such as chemical transformation, physical transformation, or transit between such operations, to be differentiated from storage or packaging for shipment.
Vault
means a windowless enclosure with walls, floor, roof and door(s) designed and constructed to delay penetration from forced entry.
Vault-type room
means a room with one or more doors, all capable of being locked, protected by an intrusion alarm which creates an alarm upon the entry of a person anywhere into the room and upon exit from the room or upon movement of an individual within the room.
Vital area
means any area which contains vital equipment.
Vital equipment
means any equipment, system, device, or material, the failure, destruction, or release of which could directly or indirectly endanger the public health and safety by exposure to radiation. Equipment or systems which would be required to function to protect public health and safety following such failure, destruction, or release are also considered to be vital.
Watchman
means an individual, not necessarily uniformed or armed with a firearm, who provides protection for a plant and the special nuclear material therein in the course of performing other duties.
(b) The terms “ammunition,” “handgun,” “rifle,” “machine gun,” “large capacity ammunition feeding device,” “semiautomatic assault weapon,” “short-barreled shotgun,” “short-barreled rifle,” and “shotgun” specified in §§ 73.15 and 73.17 have the same meaning as provided for these terms in the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives' regulations at 27 CFR 478.11.
(c) The terms “delayed,” “denied,” and “proceed” that are used in NICS responses specified in this section have the same meaning provided these terms in the FBI's regulations at 28 CFR 25.2.
[38 FR 35430, Dec. 28, 1973]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 73.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106253, Dec. 30, 2024, § 73.2 was amended by adding in alphabetical order the definition for
Non-power reactor
, effective Jan. 29, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth below.
§ 73.2
Definitions.
Non-power reactor
is defined at 10 CFR 50.2.
§ 73.3
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretations of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized as binding upon the Commission.
§ 73.4
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part and
applications filed under them should be sent as follows:
(a) By mail addressed to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, as appropriate, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001;
(b) By hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852-2783;
(c) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
(d) Classified communications shall be transmitted to the NRC Headquarters' classified mailing address as specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter or delivered by hand in accordance with this paragraph.
[68 FR 58819, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 5725, Jan. 31, 2008; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019; 88 FR 57879, Aug. 24, 2023]
§ 73.5
Specific exemptions.
The Commission may, upon application of any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant such exemptions from the requirements of the regulations in this part as it determines are authorized by law and will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security, and are otherwise in the public interest.
§ 73.6
Exemptions for certain quantities and kinds of special nuclear material.
A licensee is exempt from the requirements of 10 CFR part 26 and §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26, 73.27, 73.45, 73.46, 73.70 and 73.72 with respect to the following special nuclear material:
(a) Uranium-235 contained in uranium enriched to less than 20 percent in the U-235 isotope.
(b) Special nuclear material which is not readily separable from other radioactive material and which has a total external radiation level in excess of 1 gray (100 rad) per hour at a distance of 1 meter (3.3 feet) from any accessible surface without intervening shielding.
(c) Special nuclear material in a quantity not exceeding 350 grams of uranium-235, uranium-233, plutonium, or a combination thereof, possessed in any analytical, research, quality control, metallurgical or electronic laboratory.
(d) Special nuclear material that is being transported by the United States Department of Energy transport system.
(e) Special nuclear material at non-power reactors.
Licensees subject to § 73.60 are not exempted from §§ 73.70 and 73.72, and licensees subject to § 73.67(e) are not exempted from § 73.72 of this part.
[40 FR 52841, Nov. 13, 1975, as amended at 44 FR 68187, Nov. 28, 1979; 58 FR 31471, June 3, 1993; 78 FR 34250, June 7, 2013; 86 FR 43402, Aug. 9, 2021]
§ 73.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information is it does not display a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0002.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this
part appear in §§ 73.5, 73.15, 73.17, 73.20, 73.21, 73.24, 73.25, 73.26, 73.27, 73.37, 73.40, 73.45, 73.46, 73.50, 73.54, 73.55, 73.56, 73.57, 73.58, 73.60, 73.67, 73.70, 73.72, 73.73, 73.74, 73.1200, 73.1205, 73.1210, 73.1215, and appendices B and C to this part.
(c) This part contains information collection requirements in addition to those approved under the control number specified in paragraph (a) of this section. These information collection requirements and control numbers under which they are approved are as follows:
(1) In § 73.17, NRC Form 754 is approved under control number 3150-0204;
(2) In §§ 73.17 and 73.57, Federal Bureau of Investigation Form FD-258 is approved under control number 1110-0046; and
(3) In § 73.1205, NRC Form 366 is approved under control number 3150-0104.
[62 FR 52189, Oct. 6, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 67101, Nov. 4, 2002; 73 FR 63574, Oct. 24, 2008; 74 FR 13970, Mar. 27, 2009; 77 FR 39909, July 6, 2012; 78 FR 29550, May 20, 2013; 80 FR 67275, Nov. 2, 2015; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015; 88 FR 15882, Mar. 14, 2023]

# Subpart B—Enhanced Weapons, Preemption, and Firearms Background Checks

# Source:
88 FR 15882, Mar. 14, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.15
Authorization for use of enhanced weapons and preemption of firearms laws.
(a)
Purpose.
This section presents the requirements for licensees to obtain approval to use the authority provided to the Commission under Section 161A of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (AEA), in protecting Commission-designated classes of facilities, radioactive material, or other property. This authority includes “stand-alone preemption authority” and “combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority.”
(b)
General Requirements.
(1) Licensees of facilities, activities, and other property listed in paragraph (c) of this section may apply to the NRC, in accordance with the provisions of this section, to receive stand-alone preemption authority or combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority.
(2) With respect to the possession and use of firearms by all other NRC licensees, the Commission's requirements in effect before April 13, 2023 remain applicable, except to the extent that those requirements are modified by an NRC order or regulations applicable to these licensees.
(c)
Applicability.
(1) Stand-alone preemption authority. The license holders for the following classes of facilities, radioactive material, or other property are designated by the Commission as eligible to apply for stand-alone preemption authority pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2201a—
(i) Nuclear power reactor facilities;
(ii) Facilities authorized to possess or use a formula quantity or greater of strategic special nuclear material, where the material has a radiation level less than or equal to 1 gray (Gy) (100 Rad) per hour at a distance of 1 meter (m) (3.3 feet (ft)), without regard to any intervening shielding;
(iii) Independent spent fuel storage installations; and
(iv) Spent nuclear fuel transportation.
(2) Combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority. The license holders for the following classes of facilities, radioactive material, or other property are designated by the Commission as eligible to apply for combined enhanced weapons authority and preemption authority pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2201a—
(i) Nuclear power reactor facilities;
(ii) Facilities authorized to possess or use a formula quantity or greater of strategic special nuclear material, where the material has a radiation level less than or equal to 1 Gy (100 Rad) per hour at a distance of 1 m (3.3 ft), without regard to any intervening shielding;
(iii) Independent spent fuel storage installations; and
(iv) Spent nuclear fuel transportation.
(d)
Application process for stand-alone preemption authority.
(1) Only licensees included within the classes of facilities, radioactive material, and other property listed in paragraph (c)(1) of
this section may apply to the NRC for stand-alone preemption authority.
(2) Licensees applying for stand-alone preemption authority must submit an application to the NRC using the procedures specified in this section.
(3) The contents of the application must include the following information:
(i) A statement indicating that the licensee is applying for stand-alone preemption authority;
(ii) The Commission-designated facility, radioactive material, or other property to be protected by the licensee's security personnel using the covered weapons;
(iii) A description of the licensee's purposes and objectives in requesting stand-alone preemption authority. This description must include whether these covered weapons are currently employed as part of the licensee's existing protective strategy or whether these covered weapons will be used in a revised protective strategy; and
(iv) A description of the licensee's Firearms Background Check Plan, as required by § 73.17 of this part.
(4) Once a licensee has been notified that its application for stand-alone preemption authority has been accepted for review by the NRC, the licensee must provide the following supplemental information once it becomes available:
(i) A confirmation that a sufficient number of security personnel have completed a satisfactory firearms background check to meet the licensee's security personnel minimum staffing requirements, as specified in its physical security plan and any applicable fatigue requirements under part 26 of this chapter;
(ii) A confirmation that the necessary training modules and notification procedures have been developed under its Firearms Background Check Plan; and
(iii) A confirmation that all security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons have been trained on these modules and notification procedures.
(5) The licensee must submit both the application and the supplementary information to the NRC in writing, under oath or affirmation, and in accordance with § 73.4 of this part.
(6) Upon the effective date of the NRC's approval of its application for stand-alone preemption authority, the licensee must only assign security personnel who have completed a satisfactory firearms background check to duties requiring access to any covered weapons.
(e)
Application process for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority.
(1) Only licensees included within the classes of facilities, radioactive material, and other property listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section may apply to the NRC for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority.
(2) Licensees applying for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority must submit an application to the NRC using the procedures specified in this section.
(3) The contents of the application must include the following information:
(i) A statement indicating that the licensee is applying for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority;
(ii) The Commission-designated facility, radioactive material, or other property to be protected by the licensee's security personnel using the covered weapons, including enhanced weapons;
(iii) A description of the licensee's purposes and objectives in requesting combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority. This must include whether these enhanced weapons are currently employed as part of the licensee's existing protective strategy or whether these enhanced weapons will be used in a revised protective strategy;
(iv) The total quantities of enhanced weapons, including the types and calibers or gauges, requested; and
(v) A description of the licensee's Firearms Background Check Plan, required by § 73.17 of this part.
(vi) If the NRC has previously approved the licensee's application for stand-alone preemption authority
under either paragraph (d) of this section or under an NRC Order issued before April 13, 2023, then the licensee must include the effective date of the NRC's approval for stand-alone preemption authority in its application for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons.
(4) The licensee must include with its application the additional technical information required by paragraph (f) of this section.
(5) Once a licensee has been notified that its application for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority has been accepted for review by the NRC, the licensee must provide the following supplemental information once it becomes available:
(i) A confirmation that a sufficient number of security personnel have completed a satisfactory firearms background check to meet the licensee's security personnel minimum staffing requirements, as specified in its physical security plan, and any applicable fatigue requirements under part 26 of this chapter;
(ii) A confirmation that the necessary training modules and notification procedures have been developed under its Firearms Background Check Plan; and
(iii) A confirmation that security personnel, whose official duties require access to enhanced weapons, have been trained on these modules and notification procedures.
(iv) Exceptions: Licensees that were previously approved by the NRC for stand-alone preemption authority do not have to submit the supplemental information required by paragraph (e)(5) since it has been previously submitted under paragraph (d)(4) of this section or in response to an NRC Order.
(6) The licensee must submit its application in accordance with the applicable license amendment provisions specified in § 50.90, § 70.34, or § 72.56 of this chapter. The licensee must submit both the application and the supplementary information to the NRC in writing, under oath or affirmation, and in accordance with § 73.4 of this part.
(7) If a licensee wishes to use a different type or caliber or gauge of an enhanced weapon or obtain a different quantity of enhanced weapons from that previously approved by the Commission under this section, then the licensee must submit a new application to the NRC in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section (to address these different weapons or different quantities of weapons).
(8) Upon the effective date of the NRC's approval of its application for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority, the licensee must only assign security personnel who have completed a satisfactory firearms background check to duties requiring access to any covered weapons.
(f)
Application for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority additional technical information.
(1) A licensee must also submit to the NRC for prior review and approval the following plans and assessments. These plans and assessments must be specific to the facility, radioactive material, or other property being protected.
(i) A new or revised physical security plan, security personnel training and qualification plan, and safeguards contingency plan; and
(ii) A new weapons safety assessment.
(2) In addition to other requirements presented in this part, these plans and assessments must—
(i) For the physical security plan, identify the quantities, types, and calibers or gauges of enhanced weapons that will be deployed;
(ii) For the training and qualification plan, address the training and qualification requirements to use these specific enhanced weapons;
(iii) For the safeguards contingency plan—
(A) The licensee must address how these enhanced weapons will be employed by the security personnel in implementing the protective strategy, including tactical approaches and maneuvers;
(B) In such instances where the addition of the enhanced weapons would not affect the content of the safeguards contingency plan, the required information on how the weapons will be employed may instead be incorporated into the licensee's physical security plan or an addendum thereto;
(C) Furthermore, in such instances, the licensee's application shall indicate that the proposed enhanced weapons do not affect the content of the NRC-approved safeguards contingency plan and it remains unchanged; and
(iv) For the weapons safety assessment, assess any potential safety impact by the use of enhanced weapons—
(A) At the facility, radioactive material, or other property being protected;
(B) On public or private facilities, public or private property, or on members of the public in areas outside of the site boundary; and
(C) On public or private facilities, public or private property, or on members of the public from the use of these enhanced weapons at training facilities; and
(D) Such assessments must consider both accidental and deliberate discharge of the enhanced weapons. However, licensees are not required to assess malevolent discharges of these enhanced weapons by trained and qualified security personnel, who have been screened and evaluated by the licensee's insider mitigation or human reliability programs.
(3) The licensee's training and qualification plan for enhanced weapons must be based upon applicable firearms standards developed by nationally-recognized firearms organizations or standard setting bodies or from standards developed by—
(i) Federal agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, the U.S. Department of Energy's National Training Center, and the U.S. Department of Defense;
(ii) State law-enforcement training centers; or
(iii) State Division (or Department) of Criminal Justice Services Training Academies.
(g)
Conditions of approval.
(1) Licensees that have been approved by the NRC for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority must provide a copy of the NRC's authorization to the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives' (ATF) Federal firearms license (FFL) holder (
i.e.,
the transferor) for inclusion with the application to request ATF's pre-approval of the transfer and registration of the enhanced weapons to the NRC licensee (
i.e.,
the transferee).
(2) Licensees receiving enhanced weapons must comply with applicable ATF regulations in 27 CFR part 479.
(3) All enhanced weapons possessed by the licensee must be registered under the name of the licensee. Enhanced weapons may not be registered under the name of a licensee's security contractor.
(4) Licensees obtaining enhanced weapons may, at their discretion, also apply to ATF to obtain an FFL or a special occupational tax stamp, in conjunction with obtaining these enhanced weapons.
(h)
Completion of training and qualification before deployment of enhanced weapons.
(1) Licensees that have received combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority must ensure that their security personnel with access to enhanced weapons have completed the required firearms training and qualification, in accordance with the licensee's training and qualification plan.
(2) Initial training and qualification on enhanced weapons must be completed before the security personnel's deployment of enhanced weapons to implement the licensee's protective strategy.
(3) Recurring training and qualification on enhanced weapons by security personnel must be completed in accordance with the licensee's training and qualification plan.
(4) All training must be documented in accordance with the requirements of the licensee's training and qualification plan.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Use of enhanced weapons.
The requirements regarding the use of force by the licensee's security personnel, in the performance of their official duties, are contained in §§ 73.46, 73.51, and 73.55 and in appendices B, C, and H of this part, as applicable.
(k)
Notification of adverse ATF findings.
Requirements on notification of adverse ATF inspection or enforcement findings can be found under § 73.1200 of this part.
(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Transfer of enhanced weapons.
(1)(i) A licensee's issuance of enhanced weapons to its security personnel is not considered a transfer of those weapons as specified under ATF's regulations in 27 CFR part 479, provided the enhanced weapons remain within the site of a facility.
(ii) Remaining within the site of a facility means within the site boundary, as defined by the licensee's safety analysis report submitted to the NRC.
(2) A licensee's issuance of enhanced weapons to its security personnel for the permissible reasons specified in paragraph (m)(3) of this section, for activities that are outside of the facility's site boundary, are not considered a transfer under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. chapter 53, as specified under ATF's regulations in 27 CFR part 479, provided—
(i) The security personnel possessing the enhanced weapons are employees of the licensee; or
(ii) The security personnel possessing the enhanced weapons are employees of a contractor providing security services to the licensee and these contractor security personnel are under the direction of, and accompanied by, an authorized licensee employee.
(3) Permissible reasons for removal of enhanced weapons from the licensee's facility include—
(i) Removal of enhanced weapons for use at a firing range or training facility that is used by the licensee in accordance with its NRC-approved training and qualification plan for enhanced weapons;
(ii) Removal of enhanced weapons for use in escorting shipments of radioactive material or other property designated under paragraph (c) of this section that are being transported to or from the licensee's facility; or
(iii) Removal of an enhanced weapon from a licensee's facility to a gunsmith for the purposes of repair or maintenance and the subsequent return of the enhanced weapon to the licensee's facility.
(4) A licensee that has authorized the removal of enhanced weapons from its facility for any of the permissible reasons listed under paragraph (m)(3) of this section must verify that these weapons are returned to the facility upon the completion of the authorized activity.
(5) Removal of enhanced weapons from and/or return of these weapons to the licensee's facility must be documented in accordance with the records requirements of paragraph (q) of this section.
(6) Removal of enhanced weapons from a licensee's facility for reasons other than those set forth in paragraph (m)(3) of this section are considered a transfer as specified under ATF's regulations in 27 CFR part 479.
(7) The licensee may only transfer enhanced weapons pursuant to an ATF application to transfer and register the weapons that is approved by ATF in advance of the transfer, as required by ATF's regulations under 27 CFR part 479. Examples of transfers include, but are not limited to:
(i) Sale or disposal of an enhanced weapon to another authorized NRC licensee;
(ii) Sale or disposal of an enhanced weapon to an authorized Federal firearms license holder, government agency, or official police organization; or
(iii) Abandonment of an enhanced weapon to ATF.
(8) Following the completion of their official duties, security personnel must either—
(i) Return issued enhanced weapons to a licensee's authorized enhanced weapons storage location, as specified in the licensee's physical security plan, or
(ii) Turn over responsibility for the issued enhanced weapon to another on-shift security personnel authorized to use enhanced weapons as part of their official duties.
(9) Enhanced weapons that are not returned to the licensee's facility, following permissible removal, must be considered a transfer of a weapon under this paragraph, or a stolen or lost weapon under paragraph (p) of this section, as applicable. Information on the transfer, theft, or loss of an enhanced weapon must be documented, as required under paragraph (q) of this section.
(n)
Transport of weapons.
(1) Security personnel transporting enhanced weapons to or from a firing range or training facility used by the licensee must
ensure that these weapons are unloaded and locked in a secure container during transport. Unloaded weapons and ammunition may be transported in the same locked secure container.
(2) Security personnel transporting enhanced weapons to or from a licensee's facility following the completion of, or in preparation for, escorting shipments of radioactive material or other property must ensure that these weapons are unloaded and locked in a secure container during transport. Security personnel may transport unloaded weapons and ammunition in the same locked secure container.
(3) Security personnel using enhanced weapons to protect shipments of radioactive material or other property that are being transported to or from the licensee's facility must ensure that these weapons are maintained in a state of loaded readiness and available for immediate use, except when otherwise prohibited by 18 U.S.C. 922(q).
(4) Security personnel transporting enhanced weapons to or from the licensee's facility must also comply with the requirements of § 73.17 of this part.
(5) Situations where security personnel transport enhanced weapons to or from the licensee's facility are not considered transfers of these weapons under ATF's regulations in 27 CFR part 479, provided—
(i) The security personnel transporting the enhanced weapons are employees of the licensee; or
(ii) The security personnel transporting the enhanced weapons are employees of a contractor providing security services to the licensee; and these contractor security personnel are under the direction of, and accompanied by, an authorized licensee employee.
(6) For the interstate transportation of enhanced weapons, pursuant to this section, the licensee must obtain prior written approval from ATF, as required by 27 CFR part 478.
(o)
Periodic inventories of enhanced weapons.
(1) Licensees possessing enhanced weapons under this section must conduct the following periodic accountability inventories of the enhanced weapons in their possession to verify the continued presence of each enhanced weapon that the licensee is authorized to possess.
(2)(i) Licensees must conduct a monthly inventory to verify that the authorized quantity of enhanced weapons are present at the licensee's facility.
(ii) Licensees must verify the presence of each individual enhanced weapon.
(iii) Licensees that store enhanced weapons in a locked secure weapons container (e.g., a ready-service arms locker) located within a protected area, vital area, or material access area may verify the presence of an intact tamper-indicating device (TID) on the locked secure weapons container, instead of verifying the presence of each individual weapon.
(iv) Verification of the presence of enhanced weapons via the presence of an intact TID must be documented in the inventory records and include the serial number of the TID.
(v) Licensees may use electronic technology (e.g., bar-codes on the weapons) in conducting such inventories.
(vi) The time interval from the previous monthly inventory must not exceed 30 + 7 days.
(3)(i) Licensees must conduct an annual inventory to verify that each authorized enhanced weapon is present at the licensee's facility through the verification of the serial number of each enhanced weapon.
(ii) Licensees must verify the presence of each enhanced weapon located in a locked secure weapons container (e.g., a ready-service arms locker) through the verification of the serial number of each enhanced weapon located within the container.
(iii) The time interval from the previous annual inventory must not exceed 365 + 7 days.
(iv) Licensees conducting an annual inventory may substitute this annual inventory in lieu of conducting the normal monthly inventory for that particular month, as required under paragraph (o) of this section.
(4) Licensees must conduct periodic inventories of enhanced weapons using either a two-person team or a single individual, provided the individual is
subject to the licensee's behavioral observation or human reliability programs.
(5) The results of any periodic inventories of enhanced weapons must be retained in accordance with the records requirements of paragraph (q) of this section.
(6) Licensees must inventory any locked secure weapons container that was sealed with a TID and has subsequently been opened and must verify the serial number for each of the enhanced weapons stored in the weapons container. The inventoried weapons container must be relocked and resealed with a new TID and the new TID's serial number must be recorded in the periodic inventory records. The inventory must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (o)(4) of this section.
(i) Licensees must use TIDs with unique serial numbers on locked secure weapons containers containing enhanced weapons.
(ii) Licensees must store unused TIDs in a manner similar to other security access control devices (e.g., keys, lock cores, etc.) and must maintain a log of issued TID serial numbers.
(7) Licensees must resolve any discrepancies identified during periodic inventories within 24 hours of their identification; otherwise, the discrepancy must be treated as a stolen or lost enhanced weapon and notifications must be made in accordance with paragraph (p) of this section.
(8) As an exception, enhanced weapons that are offsite for authorized purposes, in accordance with paragraphs (m) and (n) of this section, are required to be included in a periodic inventory but are not considered lost or stolen solely because they are offsite. The licensee must document the absence of these weapon(s) from the licensee's facility in the report of the results of a completed periodic enhanced weapons inventory, as required under paragraph (q) of this section.
(p)
Stolen or lost enhanced weapons.
(1) Licensees that discover that any enhanced weapons they are authorized to possess under this section are stolen or lost, must notify the NRC and local law enforcement officials in accordance with § 73.1200 of this part.
(2) Licensees that discover that any enhanced weapons they are authorized to possess under this section are stolen or lost are also required to notify ATF in accordance with ATF's regulations in 27 CFR part 479.
(q)
Records requirements.
(1) Licensees possessing enhanced weapons under this section must maintain records relating to the receipt, transfer, transportation, and inventory of such enhanced weapons.
(2) Licensees must maintain the following minimum records regarding the receipt of each enhanced weapon, including—
(i) Date of receipt of the weapon;
(ii) Name and address of the transferor who transferred the weapon to the licensee;
(iii) Name of the manufacturer of the weapon, or the name of the importer (for weapons manufactured outside the U.S.); and
(iv) Serial number, type, and caliber or gauge of the weapon.
(3) Licensees must maintain the following minimum records regarding the transfer of each enhanced weapon—
(i) Date of shipment of the weapon;
(ii) Name and address of the transferee who received the weapon; and
(iii) Serial number, type, and caliber or gauge of the weapon.
(4) Licensees must maintain the following minimum records regarding the transportation of each enhanced weapon away from the licensee's facility—
(i) Date of departure of the weapon;
(ii) Date of return of the weapon;
(iii) Purpose of the weapon's removal from the facility;
(iv) Name(s) of the security personnel transporting the weapon;
(v) Name(s) of the licensee employee accompanying and directing the transportation, where the security personnel transporting the weapons are employees of a security contractor providing security services to the licensee;
(vi) Name of the person/facility to whom the weapon is being transported; and
(vii) Serial number, type, and caliber or gauge of the weapon.
(5) Licensees possessing enhanced weapons pursuant to this section must
document in these records the discovery that any of these enhanced weapons are stolen or lost.
(6) Licensees possessing enhanced weapons pursuant to this section must maintain records relating to the inventories of enhanced weapons for a period of up to one year after the licensee's authority to possess enhanced weapons is terminated, suspended, or revoked under paragraph (r) of this section and all enhanced weapons have been transferred from the licensee's facility.
(7) Licensees may integrate any records required by this section with records maintained by the licensee pursuant to ATF's regulations.
(8) Licensees must make any records required by this section available to NRC staff and ATF staff upon request.
(r)
Termination, modification, suspension, or revocation of Section 161A authority.
(1)(i) Licensees seeking to terminate their stand-alone preemption authority must apply to the NRC in writing, under oath or affirmation, and in accordance with § 73.4.
(ii) Licensees seeking to terminate their combined enhanced weapons authority and preemption authority must apply to the NRC in writing, under oath or affirmation, and in accordance with § 73.4, and the license amendment provisions of § 50.90, § 70.34, or § 72.56 of this chapter, as applicable. These licensees must have transferred or disposed of any enhanced weapons, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (m) of this section, prior to the NRC approval of a request for termination of their authority.
(2) Licensees seeking to modify their combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority, issued under this section, must apply to the NRC in writing, under oath or affirmation, and in accordance with § 73.4, and the license amendment provisions of § 50.90, § 70.34, or § 72.56 of this chapter, as applicable. Licensees' applications to modify their enhanced weapons authority must provide the information required under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.
(i) Licensees seeking to replace their enhanced weapons with different types of enhanced weapons must amend their original application to include the different quantities, types, and calibers or gauges of the new enhanced weapons. This amended application must include a plan to transfer or dispose of their existing enhanced weapons once the new weapons are deployed.
(ii) Licensees adding additional quantities or types of enhanced weapons do not require a transfer or disposal plan.
(3) The Commission may revoke, suspend, or modify, in whole or in part, any approval issued under this section for any material false statement in the application or other statement of fact required of the licensee; or because of conditions revealed by the application or statement of fact or any report, record, inspection, or other means that would warrant the Commission refusing to grant approval of an original application; or for violation of, or for failure to observe, any of the terms and provisions of the act, regulations, license, permit, approval, or order of the Commission, or for any other reason that the Commission determines is appropriate.
(4) Licensees that have their stand-alone preemption authority or combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority terminated, suspended, or revoked may reapply for such authority by filing a new application under the provisions of this section.
(5) The NRC will notify ATF within 3 business days after taking action to terminate, modify, suspend, or revoke a licensee's stand-alone preemption authority or combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority issued under this section.
(s)
Withdrawal of orders.
For licensees that received an order issued under Section 161A (42 U.S.C. 2201a) prior to April 13, 2023, the following provisions apply.
(1) Licensees are not required to reapply for this authority.
(2) The requirements of such orders are superseded in their entirety by the requirements of this section and § 73.17 of this part.
(3) Licensees must complete their transition from the confirmatory orders to the requirements of this rule by January 8, 2024.
(4) On January 8, 2024 the following orders are withdrawn:
(i) Order EA-13-092, “Order Designating an Interim Class of NRC-Licensed Facilities that are Eligible to Apply to the Commission for Authorization to Use the Authority Granted Under the Provisions of Section 161a of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as Amended” (78 FR 35984; June 14, 2013);
(ii) Confirmatory Order EA-15-006, “In the Matter of BWXT Nuclear Operations Group, Inc.” (80 FR 53588; September 4, 2015);
(iii) Confirmatory Orders EA-14-135 and EA-14-136, “In the Matter of Entergy Nuclear Operations Inc.; Entergy Nuclear Indian Point 2, LLC; and Entergy Nuclear Indian Point 3, LLC (Indian Point Nuclear Generating Unit (Nos. 1, 2, and 3)” (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016);
(iv) Confirmatory Order EA-14-137, “In the Matter of Entergy Nuclear Fitzpatrick, LLC and Entergy Nuclear Operations Inc. (James A. Fitzpatrick Nuclear Power Plant)” (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016);
(v) Confirmatory Order EA-14-138, “In the Matter of Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station Units 1 and 2)” (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016);
(vi) Confirmatory Order EA-14-139, “In the Matter of Exelon Generation Company, LLC (R.E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant)” (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016);
(vii) Confirmatory Order EA-14-134, “In the Matter of Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant, Units 1 and 2, and DCPP Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation)” (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016); and
(viii) Confirmatory Order EA-14-140, “In the Mater of Southern California Edison Company (San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, Units 2 and 3, and Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation)” (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016).
§ 73.17
Firearms background checks for armed security personnel.
(a)
Purpose.
This section presents the requirements for completion of firearms background checks pursuant to Section 161A of the Atomic Energy Act, as amended (AEA) (42 U.S.C. 2201a), for security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons at Commission-designated classes of facilities, radioactive material, or other property specified in § 73.15(c). Firearms background checks are intended to verify that such armed security personnel are not prohibited from receiving, possessing, transporting, importing, or using covered weapons under applicable Federal, State, or local law.
(b)
General Requirements.
(1) Licensees that have applied to the NRC under § 73.15 of this part for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority must comply with the provisions of this section. Such licensees must establish a Firearms Background Check Plan. Licensees must establish this plan as part of their overall NRC-approved Training and Qualification plan for security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons.
(2) For the purposes of § 73.15 and this section only, the term security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons includes, but is not limited to, the following groups of individuals:
(i) Security officers using covered weapons to protect a Commission-designated facility, radioactive material, or other property;
(ii) Security officers undergoing firearms training on covered weapons;
(iii) Firearms-training instructors conducting training on covered weapons;
(iv) Armorers conducting maintenance, repair, and testing of covered weapons;
(v) Individuals with access to armories and weapons storage lockers containing covered weapons;
(vi) Individuals conducting inventories of enhanced weapons;
(vii) Individuals removing enhanced weapons from the site for repair, training, and escort-duty purposes; and
(viii) Individuals whose duties require access to covered weapons, whether the individuals are employed directly by the licensee or employed by a security contractor who provides security services to the licensee.
(3) The Firearms Background Check Plan must describe how the licensee
will accomplish the following objectives:
(i) Completing firearms background checks for all security personnel whose duties require, or will require, access to covered weapons;
(ii) Establishing a process for completing initial, periodic, and break-in-service firearms background checks;
(iii) Defining the training objectives and modules for security personnel who are subject to firearms background checks;
(iv) Completing the initial and periodic training for security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons;
(v) Maintaining records of completed firearms background checks, required training, and any supporting documents;
(vi) Maintaining records of a decision to remove security personnel from duties requiring access to covered weapons, due to the identification or occurrence of any Federal or State disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event; and
(vii) Developing and implementing procedures for notifying the NRC of the removal of security personnel from access to covered weapons, due to the identification or occurrence of any Federal or State disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event.
(4)(i) Licensees that have applied to the NRC for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority under § 73.15 must ensure that a satisfactory firearms background check has been completed for all security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons.
(ii) Security personal may continue to have access to covered weapons pending the results of the initial firearms background check.
(5) Only licensees that have applied for Section 161A authority under § 73.15 may conduct the firearms background checks required by this section.
(6) The licensee must commence firearms background checks only after receiving notification from the NRC that the agency has accepted for review its application for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority.
(7)(i) Applicants for a license who have also submitted an application for Section 161A authority must only commence firearms background checks after:
(A) The NRC has issued its license; and
(B) The NRC has accepted its application for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority for review.
(ii) Subsequent to April 13, 2023, applicants for a license who have also applied for Section 161A authority and been issued their license must ensure that a satisfactory firearms background check (as defined in § 73.2) has been completed for all security personnel who require access to covered weapons, before the licensee's initial receipt of any source material, special nuclear material, or radioactive material specified under the license.
(8) In response to an adverse firearms background check (as defined in § 73.2),
(i) The licensee must remove, without delay, from duties requiring access to covered weapons, any security personnel who receive a “denied” or “delayed” NICS response.
(ii) If the security personnel to be removed is on duty at the time of removal, then the licensee must fill the vacated position within the timeframe specified in its physical security plan.
(9)(i) The licensee must complete a new satisfactory firearms background check for any of its security personnel that has had a break-in-service greater than 1 week.
(ii) The licensee must complete a new satisfactory firearms background check if the security personnel has transferred from a different licensee.
(iii) A break-in-service means the security personnel's cessation of employment with the licensee or its security contractor, notwithstanding that the previous licensee completed a satisfactory firearms background check on the individual within the last 5 years.
(iv) Exceptions: (A) For the purposes of this section, a break-in-service does not include a security personnel's temporary active duty with the U.S. military reserves or National Guard.
(B) The licensee, in lieu of completing a new satisfactory firearms background check, may instead verify, via an industry-wide information-sharing database, that the security personnel has completed a satisfactory firearms background check within the previous 12 months, provided that this previous firearms background check included a duty station location in the State or Territory where the licensee (who would otherwise be accomplishing the firearms background check) is located or the activity is solely occurring.
(10) Changes in the licensee's ownership or its security contractor services are not considered a break-in-service for current security personnel whose duties require access to covered weapons. Licensees are not required to conduct a new firearms background check for these security personnel.
(11) With regard to accomplishing the requirements for other background (e.g., criminal history records) checks or personnel security investigations under the NRC's access authorization or personal security clearance program requirements of this chapter, the licensee may not substitute a satisfactory firearms background check in lieu of completing these other required background checks or security investigations.
(12) If a licensee has completed initial satisfactory firearms background checks pursuant to an NRC order issued before April 13, 2023, then the licensee is not required to conduct a new initial firearms background check for its current security personnel. However, the licensee must conduct initial firearms background checks on new security personnel and periodic and break-in-service firearms background checks on current security personnel in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(13) A licensee who withdraws its application for Section 161A authority or who has its application disapproved by the NRC, must discontinue conducting firearms background checks.
(14) A licensee whose authority under Section 161A has been rescinded or whose authority has been revoked by the NRC must discontinue conducting firearms background checks.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Firearms background check requirements.
A firearms background check for security personnel must include—
(1) A check of the individual's fingerprints against the Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI's) fingerprint system; and
(2) A check of the individual's identifying information against the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS).
(e)
Firearms background check submittals.
(1) Licensees must submit to the NRC, in accordance with § 73.4, for all security personnel requiring a firearms background check under this section—
(i) A set of fingerprint impressions, in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section; and
(ii) A completed NRC Form 754.
(2) In lieu of submitting a copy of each individual completed NRC Form 754 to the NRC, licensees may submit a single document consolidating the NRC Forms 754 data for multiple security personnel.
(3) Licensees submitting to the NRC via an electronic method an individual NRC Form 754 or consolidated data from multiple NRC Forms 754 must ensure that any personally identifiable information contained within these documents is protected in accordance with § 2.390 of this chapter.
(4) Licensees must retain a copy of all NRC Forms 754 submitted to the NRC for one year subsequent to the termination or denial of an individual's access to covered weapons.
(5) Licensees that are Federal agencies with authority to submit fingerprints directly to the FBI may do so provided that they also include the requested information from NRC Form 754. However, such licensees are still required to comply with the other provisions of this section.
(f)
Periodic firearms background checks.
(1) Licensees must complete a satisfactory periodic firearms background check at least once every 5 calendar years for security personnel whose continuing duties require access to covered weapons.
(2) Licensees must complete a periodic firearms background check within the same calendar month as the initial, or most recent, firearms background
check with an allowance period to midnight (local time) of the last day of the calendar month of expiration.
(3) The licensee may conduct periodic firearms background checks at an interval of less than once every 5 calendar years, at its discretion.
(4)(i) Licensees may assign security personnel to duties requiring access to covered weapons while the results of the periodic firearms background check are pending.
(ii) Licensees must remove security personnel from duties requiring access to covered weapons if the satisfactory completion of a periodic firearms background check does not occur before the expiration of the allowance period.
(5) Licensees must remove, without delay, from duties requiring access to covered weapons, any security personnel who receive either a “denied” or “delayed” NICS response during a periodic firearms background check.
(g)
Notification of removal.
(1) Licensees must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone within 72 hours after removing security personnel from duties requiring access to covered weapons due to the identification or occurrence of any Federal or State disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event that would prohibit them from possessing, receiving, or using firearms or ammunition. Licensees must contact the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the phone numbers specified in Table 1 of appendix A of this part.
(2) The NRC will subsequently inform the FBI of any notifications received under this paragraph.
(h)
Security personnel responsibilities.
Security personnel assigned to duties requiring access to covered weapons must notify the licensee's security management within 72 hours of the identification or occurrence of any Federal or State disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event that would prohibit the individual from possessing, receiving, or using firearms or ammunition. This requirement is applicable to security personnel directly employed by the licensee or employed by a contractor providing security services to the licensee.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Training for security personnel subject to firearms background checks on disqualifying status conditions and disqualifying events.
(1) Licensees must include, within their Firearms Background Check Plan, training modules for security personnel assigned to official duties requiring access to covered weapons that provide training on the following topics:
(i) Federal disqualifying status conditions or disqualifying events specified in 27 CFR 478.32;
(ii) Applicable State disqualifying status conditions or disqualifying events;
(iii) The responsibility of security personnel subject to a firearms background check and assigned to official duties that require access to covered weapons to promptly notify their employing licensee of the occurrence of any disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event; and
(iv) Information for appealing an adverse firearms background check (
i.e.,
a “denied” or “delayed” NICS response) to the FBI.
(2) Licensees must conduct periodic refresher training on these modules at an annual frequency for security personnel assigned official duties requiring access to covered weapons.
(k)
Procedures for processing fingerprint checks.
(1) Licensees, using an appropriate method listed in § 73.4, must manually or electronically submit to the NRC one completed, legible standard fingerprint card (FBI Form FD-258, ORIMDNRCOOOZ) or, where practicable, other electronic fingerprint records for each individual requiring a firearms background check. Information on how to obtain FBI Form FD-258 and the process for manual or electronic submission of fingerprint records to the NRC is on the NRC's public website at:
https://www.nrc.gov/security/chp.html.
(2) Licensees must indicate on the fingerprint card (or other electronic fingerprint records) that the submittal is part of a firearms background check for personnel whose duties require, or will require, access to covered weapons. Licensees must add the following information to the FBI Form FD-258 fingerprint card or the electronic fingerprint records submitted to the NRC:
(i) For fingerprints submitted to the NRC for the completion of a firearms background check only, the licensee must enter the terms “MDNRCNICZ” in the “ORI” field and “Firearms” in the “Reasons Fingerprinted” field of the FBI Form FD-258 or the electronic fingerprint records submitted to the NRC.
(ii) For fingerprints submitted to the NRC for the completion of both an access authorization check or personnel security clearance check and a firearms background check, the licensee must enter the terms “MDNRC000Z” in the “ORI” field and “Employment and Firearms” in the “Reasons Fingerprinted” field of the FBI Form FD-258 or the electronic fingerprint records submitted to the NRC.
(3) Licensees must establish procedures that produce high-quality fingerprint images, cards, and records with a minimal rejection rate.
(4) The NRC will review fingerprints for firearms background checks for completeness. Any FBI Form FD-258 or other electronic fingerprint records containing omissions or evident errors will be returned to the licensee for correction. The fee for processing fingerprint checks includes one free resubmission if the initial submission is returned by the FBI because the fingerprint impressions cannot be classified. The one free resubmission must have the FBI Transaction Control Number reflected on the resubmission. If additional submissions are necessary, they will be treated as an initial submittal and require a second payment of the processing fee. The payment of a new processing fee entitles the submitter to an additional free resubmittal, if necessary. Previously rejected submissions may not be included with the third submission because the submittal will be rejected automatically.
(5) The NRC will forward to the submitting licensee all data received from the FBI as a result of the licensee's application(s) for a firearms background check. This will include the FBI's “proceed,” “delayed,” or “denied” NICS response and the NICS transaction number.
(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Fees.
(1) Fees for the processing of firearms background checks are due upon application. The fee for the processing of a firearms background check consists of a fingerprint fee and a NICS check fee. Licensees must submit payment with the application for the processing of fingerprints, and payment must be made payable to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The payments are to be made in U.S. funds using the electronic payment methods accepted at
www.Pay.gov.
Licensees can find fee information for firearms background checks on the NRC's public website at
https://www.nrc.gov/security/chp.html.
(2) The application fee for the processing of fingerprint checks is the sum of the user fee charged by the FBI for each fingerprint card or other fingerprint records submitted by the NRC on behalf of a licensee, and an administrative processing fee assessed by the NRC. The NRC processing fee covers administrative costs associated with NRC handling of licensee fingerprint submissions.
(3) The application fee for the processing of NICS checks is an administrative processing fee assessed by the NRC.
(4) Licensees that are also Federal agencies and submit fingerprints and information contained in the NRC Form 754 directly to the FBI are not assessed an application fee by the NRC.
(n)
Processing of the NICS portion of a firearms background check.
(1) The NRC will forward the information contained in the submitted NRC Form 754 to the FBI for evaluation against the NICS databases. Upon completion of the NICS portion of the firearms background check, the FBI will inform the NRC of the results with one of three responses under 28 CFR part 25; “proceed,” “delayed,” or “denied,” and the associated NICS transaction number (NTN). The NRC will forward these results and the associated NTN to the submitting licensee.
(2) Licensees that are Federal agencies and submit fingerprints and information contained in the NRC Form 754 directly to the FBI for evaluation against the NICS databases will receive one of three responses under 28 CFR part 25; “proceed,” “delayed,” or “denied,” and the associated NTN.
(3) The submitting licensee must provide these results to the individual who completed the NRC Form 754.
(o) [Reserved]
(p)
Appeals and resolution of adverse firearms background checks.
(1) Licensees may not assign security personnel who have received a “denied” or a “delayed” NICS response to any official duties requiring access to covered weapons—
(i) During the pendency of an appeal to the FBI of a “denied” NICS response; or
(ii) During the pendency of providing to the FBI any necessary additional information to resolve a “delayed” NICS response.
(2) Licensees must provide the NICS Transaction Number (NTN) or NTNs associated with the adverse firearms background check to the affected individual. It is the affected individual's responsibility to initiate an appeal or resolution of a “delayed” or “denied” NICS response.
(3) Licensees may assign security personnel to official duties requiring access to covered weapons subsequent to the individual's satisfactorily resolving a “denied” or “delayed” NICS response.
(q)
Protection of information.
(1) Each licensee that obtains a firearms background check and NRC Form 754 information on individuals under this section shall establish and maintain a system of files and procedures to protect these records and any enclosed personally identifiable information (PII) from unauthorized disclosure.
(2) The licensee may not disclose these records or PII to persons other than the subject individual, his/her representative, or to those with a need to have access to the information in performing assigned duties in the process of granting access to covered weapons. No individual authorized to have access to this information may disseminate the information to any other individual who does not have a need to know.
(3) The record or PII may be disclosed to an appropriate Federal or State agency in the performance of its official duties, in the course of an administrative or judicial proceeding, or in response to a Congressional inquiry.
(4) The licensee must make firearms background check records and NRC Forms 754 obtained under this section available for examination by an authorized representative of the NRC to determine compliance with applicable regulations and laws.
(5) The record obtained on an individual from a firearms background check may be transferred to another licensee—
(i) Upon an individual's written request to transfer the individual's record to the licensee identified in the written request; and
(ii) Upon verification from the gaining licensee of the individual's name, date of birth, social security number, and sex.
(r)
Withdrawal of orders.
In accordance with the provisions of § 73.15(s), orders issued under Section 161A (42 U.S.C. 2201a) prior to April 13, 2023 are withdrawn. Accordingly, the requirements of those orders are superseded in their entirety by the requirements of §§ 73.15 and 73.17.
[88 FR 15882, Mar. 14, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 51810, June 20, 2024]

# Subpart C—General Performance Objective for Protection of Strategic Special Nuclear Material
§ 73.20
General performance objective and requirements.
(a) In addition to any other requirements of this part, each licensee who is authorized to operate a fuel reprocessing plant pursuant to part 50 of this chapter; possesses or uses formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material at any site or contiguous sites subject to control by the licensee; is authorized to transport or deliver to a carrier for transportation pursuant to part 70 of this chapter formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material; takes delivery of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material free on board (f.o.b.) the point at which it is delivered to a carrier for transportation; or imports or exports formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material, shall establish and maintain or make arrangements for a physical protection system which will
have as its objective to provide high assurance that activities involving special nuclear material are not inimical to the common defense and security, and do not constitute an unreasonable risk to the public health and safety. The physical protection system shall be designed to protect against the design basis threats of theft or diversion of strategic special nuclear material and radiological sabotage as stated in § 73.1(a).
(b) To achieve the general performance objective of paragraph (a) of this section a licensee shall establish and maintain, or arrange for, a physical protection system that:
(1) Provides the performance capabilities described in § 73.25 for in-transit protection or in § 73.45 for fixed site protection unless otherwise authorized by the Commission;
(2) Is designed with sufficient redundancy and diversity to ensure maintenance of the capabilities described in §§ 73.25 and 73.45;
(3) Includes a safeguards contingency capability that can meet the criteria in appendix C to this part “Licensee Safeguards Contingency Plans;” and
(4) Includes a testing and maintenance program to assure control over all activities and devices affecting the effectiveness, reliability, and availability of the physical protection system, including a demonstration that any defects of such activities and devices will be promptly detected and corrected for the total period of time they are required as a part of the physical protection system.
(c) Each licensee subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall establish, maintain, and follow NRC-approved safeguards physical protection and safeguards contingency plans that describe how the licensee will comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[44 FR 68188, Nov. 28, 1979, as amended at 57 FR 33430, July 29, 1992]

# Subpart D—Protection of Safeguards Information

# Source:
88 FR 15890, Mar. 14, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.21
Protection of Safeguards Information: Performance requirements.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 106253, Dec. 30, 2024.
(a)
General performance requirement.
(1) Each licensee, certificate holder, applicant, or other person who produces, receives, or acquires Safeguards Information (including Safeguards Information with the designation or marking: Safeguards Information—Modified Handling) shall ensure that it is protected against unauthorized disclosure. To meet this general performance requirement, such licensees, certificate holders, applicants, or other persons subject to this section shall:
(i) Establish, implement, and maintain an information protection system that includes the applicable measures for Safeguards Information specified in § 73.22 related to: Power reactors; a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material; transportation of or delivery to a carrier for transportation of a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material or more than 100 grams of irradiated reactor fuel; uranium hexafluoride production or conversion facilities; fuel fabrication facilities; uranium enrichment facilities; independent spent fuel storage installations; and geologic repository operations areas.
(ii) Establish, implement, and maintain an information protection system that includes the applicable measures for Safeguards Information specified in § 73.23 related to: Research and test reactors that possess special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance or special nuclear material of low strategic significance.
(iii) Protect the information in accordance with the requirements of § 73.22 if the Safeguards Information is not described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) Information protection procedures employed by Federal, State, Tribal, and local law enforcement agencies are presumed to meet the general performance requirement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Commission authority.
(1) Pursuant to Section 147 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the Commission may impose, by order or regulation, Safeguards Information protection requirements different from or in addition to those specified in this Part
on any person who produces, receives, or acquires Safeguards Information.
(2) The Commission may require, by regulation or order, that information within the scope of Section 147 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, related to facilities or materials not specifically described in §§ 73.21, 73.22 or 73.23 be protected under this part.
[73 FR 63574, Oct. 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 34205, June 11, 2012; 79 FR 58671, Sept. 30, 2014]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106253, Dec. 30, 2024, in § 73.21, paragraph (a)(1)(ii) was amended by removing the phrase “Research and test reactors” and adding in its place the phrase “non-power reactors”, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 73.22
Protection of Safeguards Information: Specific requirements.
This section contains specific requirements for the protection of Safeguards Information in the hands of any person subject to the requirements of § 73.21(a)(1)(i) and related to power reactors; a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material; transportation of or delivery to a carrier for transportation of a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material or more than 100 grams of irradiated reactor fuel; uranium hexafluoride production or conversion facilities, fuel fabrication facilities, and uranium enrichment facilities; independent spent fuel storage installations; geologic repository operations areas and Safeguards Information in the hands of any person subject to the requirements of § 73.21(a)(1)(iii).
(a)
Information to be protected.
The types of information and documents that must be protected as Safeguards Information include non-public security-related requirements such as:
(1)
Physical protection.
Information not classified as Restricted Data or National Security Information related to physical protection, including:
(i) The composite physical security plan for the facility or site;
(ii) Site-specific drawings, diagrams, sketches, or maps that substantially represent the final design features of the physical security system not easily discernible by members of the public;
(iii) Alarm system layouts showing the location of intrusion detection devices, alarm assessment equipment, alarm system wiring, emergency power sources for security equipment, and duress alarms not easily discernible by members of the public;
(iv) Physical security orders and procedures issued by the licensee for members of the security organization detailing duress codes, patrol routes and schedules, or responses to security contingency events;
(v) Site-specific design features of plant security communications systems;
(vi) Lock combinations, mechanical key design, or passwords integral to the physical security system;
(vii) Documents and other matter that contain lists or locations of certain safety-related equipment explicitly identified in the documents or other matter as vital for purposes of physical protection, as contained in security plans, contingency measures, or plant specific safeguards analyses;
(viii) The composite safeguards contingency plan/measures for the facility or site;
(ix) The composite facility guard qualification and training plan/measures disclosing features of the physical security system or response procedures;
(x) Information relating to on-site or off-site response forces, including size, armament of response forces, and arrival times of such forces committed to respond to security contingency events;
(xi) The adversary characteristics document and related information, including implementing guidance associated with the Design Basis Threat in § 73.1(a)(1) or (a)(2); and
(xii) Engineering and safety analyses, security-related procedures or scenarios, and other information revealing site-specific details of the facility or materials if the unauthorized disclosure of such analyses, procedures, scenarios, or other information could reasonably be expected to have a significant adverse effect on the health and
safety of the public or the common defense and security by significantly increasing the likelihood of theft, diversion, or sabotage of source, byproduct, or special nuclear material.
(2)
Physical protection in transit.
Information not classified as Restricted Data or National Security Information related to the transportation of, or delivery to a carrier for transportation of a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material or more than 100 grams of irradiated reactor fuel, including:
(i) The composite physical security plan for transportation;
(ii) Schedules and itineraries for specific shipments of source material, byproduct material, high-level nuclear waste, or irradiated reactor fuel. Schedules for shipments of source material, byproduct material, high-level nuclear waste, or irradiated reactor fuel are no longer controlled as Safeguards Information 10 days after the last shipment of a current series;
(iii) Vehicle immobilization features, intrusion alarm devices, and communications systems;
(iv) Arrangements with and capabilities of local police response forces, and locations of safe havens identified along the transportation route;
(v) Limitations of communications during transport;
(vi) Procedures for response to security contingency events;
(vii) Information concerning the tactics and capabilities required to defend against attempted sabotage, or theft and diversion of formula quantities of special nuclear material, irradiated reactor fuel, or related information; and
(viii) Engineering or safety analyses, security-related procedures or scenarios and other information related to the protection of the transported material if the unauthorized disclosure of such analyses, procedures, scenarios, or other information could reasonably be expected to have a significant adverse effect on the health and safety of the public or the common defense and security by significantly increasing the likelihood of theft, diversion, or sabotage of source, byproduct, or special nuclear material.
(3)
Inspections, audits and evaluations.
Information not classified as National Security Information or Restricted Data pertaining to safeguards and security inspections and reports, including:
(i) Portions of inspection reports, evaluations, audits, or investigations that contain details of a licensee's or applicant's physical security system or that disclose uncorrected defects, weaknesses, or vulnerabilities in the system. Disclosure of corrected defects, weaknesses, or vulnerabilities is subject to an assessment taking into account such factors as trending analyses and the impacts of disclosure on licensees having similar physical security systems; and
(ii) Reports of investigations containing general information may be released after corrective actions have been completed, unless withheld pursuant to other authorities, e.g., the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).
(4)
Correspondence.
Portions of correspondence insofar as they contain Safeguards Information as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.
(5) Other information within the scope of Section 147 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, that the Commission determines by order or regulation could reasonably be expected to have a significant adverse effect on the health and safety of the public or the common defense and security by significantly increasing the likelihood of theft, diversion, or sabotage of source, byproduct, or special nuclear material or a facility.
(b)
Conditions for access.
(1) Except as the Commission may otherwise authorize, no person may have access to Safeguards Information unless the person has an established “need to know” for the information and has undergone a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) criminal history records check using the procedures set forth in § 73.57.
(2) In addition, a person to be granted access to Safeguards Information must be trustworthy and reliable, based on a background check or other means approved by the Commission.
(3) The categories of individuals specified in 10 CFR 73.59 are exempt from the criminal history records check and background check requirements in
paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section by virtue of their occupational status.
(4) For persons participating in an NRC adjudicatory proceeding, the “need to know” determination shall be made by the originator of the Safeguards Information upon receipt of a request for access to the Safeguards Information. Where the information is in the possession of the originator and the NRC staff, whether in its original form or incorporated into another document or other matter by the recipient, the NRC staff shall make the determination. In the event of a dispute regarding the “need to know” determination, the presiding officer of the proceeding shall determine whether the “need to know” findings in § 73.2 can be made.
(5) Except as the Commission may otherwise authorize, no person may disclose Safeguards Information to any other person except as set forth in this section.
(c)
Protection while in use or storage.
(1) While in use, matter containing Safeguards Information must be under the control of an individual authorized access to Safeguards Information. This requirement is satisfied if the Safeguards Information is attended by such an individual even though the information is in fact not constantly being used. Safeguards Information within alarm stations, or rooms continuously occupied by authorized individuals need not be stored in a locked security storage container.
(2) While unattended, Safeguards Information must be stored in a locked security storage container. The container shall not identify the contents of the matter contained and must preclude access by individuals not authorized access in accordance with the provisions of this section. Knowledge of lock combinations protecting Safeguards Information must be limited to a minimum number of personnel for operating purposes who have a “need to know” and are otherwise authorized access to Safeguards Information in accordance with the provisions of this Part. Access to lock combinations must be strictly controlled so as to prevent disclosure to an individual not authorized access to Safeguards Information.
(d)
Preparation and marking of documents or other matter.
(1) Each document or other matter that contains Safeguards Information as described in § 73.21(a)(1)(i) and this section must be marked to indicate the presence of such information in a conspicuous manner on the top and bottom of each page. The first page of the document or other matter must also contain:
(i) The name, title, and organization of the individual authorized to make a Safeguards Information determination, and who has determined that the document or other matter contains Safeguards Information;
(ii) The date the determination was made; and
(iii) An indication that unauthorized disclosure will be subject to civil and criminal sanctions.
(2) In addition to the markings at the top and bottom of each page, any transmittal letters or memoranda to or from the NRC which do not in themselves contain Safeguards Information shall be marked to indicate that attachments or enclosures contain Safeguards Information but that the transmittal document or other matter does not (
i.e.
, “When separated from Safeguards Information enclosure(s), this document is decontrolled provided the transmittal document does not otherwise warrant protection from unauthorized disclosure”).
(3) Any transmittal document or other matter forwarding Safeguards Information must alert the recipient that protected information is enclosed. Certification that a document or other matter contains Safeguards Information must include the name and title of the certifying official and date designated. Portion marking is required only for correspondence to and from the NRC (
i.e.
, cover letters, but not attachments) that contains Safeguards Information. The portion marking must be sufficient to allow the recipient to identify and distinguish those sections of the transmittal document or other information containing the Safeguards Information from non-Safeguards Information.
(4) Marking of documents or other matter containing or transmitting Safeguards Information shall, at a minimum include the words “Safeguards
Information” to ensure identification of protected information for the protection of facilities and material covered by § 73.22.
(e)
Reproduction of matter containing Safeguards Information.
Safeguards Information may be reproduced to the minimum extent necessary consistent with need without permission of the originator. Equipment used to reproduce Safeguards Information must be evaluated to ensure that unauthorized individuals cannot access Safeguards Information (e.g., unauthorized individuals cannot access Safeguards Information by gaining access to retained memory or network connectivity).
(f)
External transmission of documents and material.
(1) Documents or other matter containing Safeguards Information, when transmitted outside an authorized place of use or storage, must be packaged in two sealed envelopes or wrappers to preclude disclosure of the presence of protected information. The inner envelope or wrapper must contain the name and address of the intended recipient and be marked on both sides, top and bottom, with the words “Safeguards Information.” The outer envelope or wrapper must be opaque, addressed to the intended recipient, must contain the address of the sender, and may not bear any markings or indication that the document or other matter contains Safeguards Information.
(2) Safeguards Information may be transported by any commercial delivery company that provides service with computer tracking features, U.S. first class, registered, express, or certified mail, or by any individual authorized access pursuant to these requirements.
(3) Except under emergency or extraordinary conditions, Safeguards Information shall be transmitted outside an authorized place of use or storage only by NRC approved secure electronic devices, such as facsimiles or telephone devices, provided that transmitters and receivers implement processes that will provide high assurance that Safeguards Information is protected before and after the transmission or electronic mail through the internet, provided that the information is encrypted by a method (Federal Information Processing Standard [FIPS] 140-2 or later) approved by the appropriate NRC Office; the information is produced by a self contained secure automatic data process system; and transmitters and receivers implement the information handling processes that will provide high assurance that Safeguards Information is protected before and after transmission. Physical security events required to be reported pursuant to § 73.1200 are considered to be extraordinary conditions. Cyber security event notifications required to be reported pursuant to § 73.77 are considered to be extraordinary conditions.
(g)
Processing of Safeguards Information on electronic systems.
(1) Safeguards Information may be stored, processed or produced on a stand-alone computer (or computer system) for processing of Safeguards Information. “Stand-alone” means a computer or computer system to which access is limited to individuals authorized access to Safeguards Information. A stand-alone computer or computer system shall not be physically or in any other way connected to a network accessible by users who are not authorized access to Safeguards Information.
