(ii) Exchange Visitor Program training and internship programs must not be used as substitutes for ordinary employment or work purposes; nor may they be used under any circumstances
to displace American workers. The requirements in these regulations for trainees are designed to distinguish between
bona fide
training, which is permitted, and merely gaining additional work experience, which is not permitted. The requirements in these regulations for interns are designed to distinguish between a period of work-based learning in the intern's academic field, which is permitted (and which requires a substantial academic framework in the participant's field), and unskilled labor, which is not.
(2) In addition, a specific objective of the new internship program is to provide foreign nationals who are currently enrolled full-time and pursuing studies at a degree- or certificate-granting post-secondary academic institution or graduated from such an institution no more than 12 months prior to their exchange visitor program begin date a period of work-based learning to allow them to develop practical skills that will enhance their future careers. Bridging the gap between formal education and practical work experience and gaining substantive cross-cultural experience are major goals in educational institutions around the world. By providing training opportunities for current foreign students and recent foreign graduates at formative stages of their development, the U.S. Government will build partnerships, promote mutual understanding, and develop networks for relationships that will last through generations as these foreign nationals move into leadership roles in a broad range of occupational fields in their own societies. These results are closely tied to the goals, themes, and spirit of the Fulbright-Hays Act.
(c)
Designation.
(1) The Department may, in its sole discretion, designate as sponsors those entities it deems to meet the eligibility requirements set forth in Subpart A of 22 CFR part 62 and to have the organizational capacity successfully to administer and facilitate training and internship programs.
(2) Sponsors must provide training and internship programs only in the occupational category or categories for which the Department has designated them as sponsors. The Department may designate training and internship programs in any of the following occupational categories:
(i) Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
(ii) Arts and Culture;
(iii) Construction and Building Trades;
(iv) Education, Social Sciences, Library Science, Counseling and Social Services;
(v) Health Related Occupations;
(vi) Hospitality and Tourism;
(vii) Information Media and Communications;
(viii) Management, Business, Commerce and Finance;
(ix) Public Administration and Law; and
(x) The Sciences, Engineering, Architecture, Mathematics, and Industrial Occupations.
(d)
Selection criteria.
(1) In addition to satisfying the general requirements set forth in § 62.10(a), sponsors must ensure that trainees and interns have verifiable English language skills sufficient to function on a day-to-day basis in their training environment. Sponsors must verify an applicant's English language proficiency through a recognized English language test, by signed documentation from an academic institution or English language school, or through a documented interview conducted by the sponsor either in-person or by videoconferencing, or by telephone if videoconferencing is not a viable option.
(2) Sponsors of training programs must verify that all potential trainees are foreign nationals who have either a degree or professional certificate from a foreign post-secondary academic institution and at least one year of prior related work experience in their occupational field acquired outside the United States or five years of work experience in their occupational field acquired outside the United States.
(3) Sponsors of internship programs must verify that all potential interns are foreign nationals who are currently enrolled full-time and pursuing studies in their advanced chosen career field at a degree- or certificate-granting post-secondary academic institution outside the United States or graduated from such an institution no more than 12
months prior to their exchange visitor program begin date.
(e)
Issuance of Forms DS-2019.
In addition to the requirements set forth in Subpart A, sponsors must ensure that:
(1) They do not issue Forms DS-2019 to potential participants in training and internship programs until they secure placements for trainees or interns and complete and secure requisite signatures on Form DS-7002, Training/Internship Placement Plan (T/IPP);
(2) Trainees and interns have sufficient finances to support themselves for their entire stay in the United States, including housing and living expenses; and
(3) The training and internship programs expose participants to American techniques, methodologies, and technology and expand upon the participants' existing knowledge and skills. Programs must not duplicate the participants' prior work experience or training received elsewhere.
(f)
Obligations of training and internship program sponsors.
(1) Sponsors designated by the Department to administer training and internship programs must:
(i) Ensure that trainees and interns are appropriately selected, placed, oriented, supervised, and evaluated;
(ii) Be available to trainees and interns (and host organizations, as appropriate) to assist as facilitators, counselors, and information resources;
(iii) Ensure that training and internship programs provide a balance between the trainees' and interns' learning opportunities and their contributions to the organizations in which they are placed;
(iv) Ensure that the training and internship programs are full-time (minimum of 32 hours a week); and
(v) Ensure that any host organizations and third parties involved in the recruitment, selection, screening, placement, orientation, evaluation for, or the provision of training and internship programs are sufficiently educated on the goals, objectives, and regulations of the Exchange Visitor Program and adhere to all regulations set forth in this part as well as all additional terms and conditions governing Exchange Visitor Program administration that the Department may from time to time impose.
(2) Sponsors must certify that they or any host organization acting on the sponsor's behalf:
(i) Have sufficient resources, plant, equipment, and trained personnel available to provide the specified training and internship program;
(ii) Provide continuous on-site supervision and mentoring of trainees and interns by experienced and knowledgeable staff;
(iii) Ensure that trainees and interns obtain skills, knowledge, and competencies through structured and guided activities such as classroom training, seminars, rotation through several departments, on-the-job training, attendance at conferences, and similar learning activities, as appropriate in specific circumstances;
(iv) Conduct periodic evaluations of trainees and interns, as set forth in § 62.22(l);
(v) Do not displace full- or part-time or temporary or permanent American workers or serve to fill a labor need and ensure that the positions that trainees and interns fill exist primarily to assist trainees and interns in achieving the objectives of their participation in training and internship programs; and
(vi) Certify that training and internship programs in the field of agriculture meet all the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended (29 U.S.C. 201
et seq.
) and the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act, as amended (29 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.
).
(3) Sponsors or any third parties acting on their behalf must complete thorough screening of potential trainees or interns, including a documented interview conducted by the sponsor either in-person or by videoconferencing, or by telephone if videoconferencing is not a viable option.
(4) Sponsors must retain all documents referred to in § 62.22(f) for at least three years following the completion of all training and internship programs. Documents and any requisite signatures may be retained in either hard copy or electronic format.
(g)
Use of third parties
—(1)
Sponsors use of third parties.
Sponsors may engage third parties (including, but not limited to host organizations, partners, local businesses, governmental entities, academic institutions, and other foreign or domestic agents) to assist them in the conduct of their designated training and internship programs. Such third parties must have an executed written agreement with the sponsor to act on behalf of the sponsor in the conduct of the sponsor's program. This agreement must outline the obligations and full relationship between the sponsor and third party on all matters involving the administration of their exchange visitor program. A sponsor's use of a third party does not relieve the sponsor of its obligations to comply with and to ensure third party compliance with Exchange Visitor Program regulations. Any failure by any third party to comply with the regulations set forth in this part or with any additional terms and conditions governing Exchange Visitor Program administration that the Department may from time to time impose will be imputed to the sponsors engaging such third party.
(2)
Screening and vetting third parties operating outside the United States.
Sponsors must ascertain that third parties operating outside the United States are legitimate entities within the context of their home country environment. For third parties that operate as businesses, sponsors must obtain relevant home country documentation, such as a business registration or certification. Such home country documentation must include an English Language translation for any business registration or certification documents submitted in a foreign language. Written agreements between sponsors and third parties operating outside the United States must include annually updated price lists for training and internship programs offered by each third party, and must indicate that such overseas third parties are sufficiently trained in all aspects of the programs they represent, including the regulations set forth in this part.
(3)
Screening and vetting host organizations.
Sponsors must adequately screen all potential host organizations at which a trainee or intern will be placed by obtaining the following information:
(i) Employer Identification Number (EIN) used for tax purposes;
(ii) Third party verification of telephone number, address, and professional activities, e.g., via advertising, brochures, Web site, and/or feedback from prior participants; and
(iii) Verification of Worker's Compensation Insurance Policy or equivalent in each state or, if applicable, evidence of state exemption from requirement of coverage.
(4)
Site visits of host organizations.
Sponsors must conduct site visits of host organizations that have not previously participated successfully in the sponsor's training and internship programs and that have fewer than 25 employees or less than three million dollars in annual revenue. Placements at academic institutions or at federal, state, or local government offices are specifically excluded from this requirement. The purpose of the site visits is for the sponsors to ensure that host organizations possess and maintain the ability and resources to provide structured and guided work-based learning experiences according to individualized T/IPPs and that host organizations understand and meet their obligations set forth in this part.
(h)
Host organization obligations.
Sponsors must ensure that:
(1) Host organizations sign a completed Form DS-7002 to verify that all placements are appropriate and consistent with the objectives of the trainees or interns as outlined in their program applications and as set forth in their T/IPPs. All parties involved in internship programs should recognize that interns are seeking entry-level training and experience. Accordingly, all placements must be tailored to the skills and experience level of the individual intern;
(2) Host organizations notify sponsors promptly of any concerns about, changes in, or deviations from T/IPPs during training and internship programs and contact sponsors immediately in the event of any emergency involving trainees or interns;
(3) Host organizations abide by all federal, state, and local occupational health and safety laws; and
(4) Host organizations abide by all program rules and regulations set forth by the sponsors, including the completion of all mandatory program evaluations.
(i)
Training/internship placement plan (Form DS-7002).
(1) Sponsors must fully complete and obtain all requisite signatures on a Form DS-7002 for each trainee or intern before issuing a Form DS-2019. Sponsors must provide each signatory an executed copy of the Form DS-7002. Upon request, trainees and interns must present their fully executed Form DS-7002 to Consular Officials during their visa interview.
(2) To further distinguish between
bona fide
training for trainees or work-based learning for interns, which are permitted, and unskilled or casual labor positions which are not, all T/IPPs must:
(i) State the specific goals and objectives of the training and internship program (for each phase or component, if applicable);
(ii) Detail the knowledge, skills, or techniques to be imparted to the trainee or intern (for each phase or component, if applicable); and
(iii) Describe the methods of performance evaluation and the supervision for each phase or component, if applicable.
(3) A T/IPP for trainees must be divided into specific and various phases or components, and for each phase or component must:
(i) Describe the methodology of training and
(ii) Provide a chronology or syllabus.
(4) A T/IPP for interns must:
(i) Describe the role of the intern in the organization and, if applicable, identify various departments or functional areas in which the intern will work; and
(ii) Identify the specific tasks and activities the intern will complete.
(j)
Program exclusions.
Sponsors designated by the Department to administer training and internship programs must not:
(1) Place trainees or interns in unskilled or casual labor positions, in positions that require or involve child care or elder care; or in clinical or any other kind of work that involves patient care or patient contact, including any work that would require trainees or interns to provide therapy, medication, or other clinical or medical care (e.g., sports or physical therapy, psychological counseling, nursing, dentistry, veterinary medicine, social work, speech therapy, early childhood education);
(2) Place trainees or interns in positions, occupations, or businesses that could bring the Exchange Visitor Program or the Department into notoriety or disrepute; or
(3) Engage or otherwise cooperate or contract with a Staffing/Employment Agency to recruit, screen, orient, place, evaluate, or train trainees or interns, or in any other way involve such agencies in an Exchange Visitor Program training and internship program.
(4) Issue a T/IPP for any trainee or intern for which the duties involve more than 20 per cent clerical work.
(5) Have less than three departmental or functional rotations for “Hospitality and Tourism” training and internship programs of six months or longer.
(k)
Duration.
The duration of participation in a training and internship program must be established before a sponsor issues a Form DS-2019 and must not exceed the sponsor's authorized designation as set forth in the sponsor's letter of designation or most recent letter of redesignation. Except as noted below, the maximum duration of a training program is 18 months, and the maximum duration of an internship program is 12 months. For training programs in the field of agriculture and in the occupational category of Hospitality and Tourism, the maximum duration of program participation is 12 months. If an original T/IPP specifies that at least six months of a program includes related classroom participation and studies, training programs in the field of agriculture may be designated for a total duration of 18 months. Program extensions are permitted within the maximum duration as set forth in the letter of designation/redesignation provided that the need for an extended training or internship program is documented by the full completion and execution of a new Form DS-7002. 12-month training programs in the field of agriculture may not be extended to 18 months by adding
six months of classroom participation and studies at the end of the original 12-month program duration. Per above, the six months of related classroom participation and studies must have been part of the trainee's original T/IPP.
(l)
Evaluations.
In order to ensure the quality of training and internship programs, sponsors must develop procedures for evaluating all trainees and interns. All required evaluations must be completed prior to the conclusion of a training and internship program, and both the trainees and interns and their immediate supervisors must sign the evaluation forms. For programs exceeding six months' duration, at a minimum, midpoint and concluding evaluations are required. For programs of six months or less, at a minimum, concluding evaluations are required. Sponsors must retain trainee and intern evaluations (electronic or hard copy) for a period of at least three years following the completion of each training and internship program.
(m)
Issuance of certificate of eligibility for exchange visitor (J-1) status.
Sponsors must not deliver or cause to be delivered any Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor (J-1) Status (Form DS-2019) to potential trainees or interns unless the individualized Form DS-7002 required by § 62.22(i) has been completed and signed by all requisite parties.
(n)
Additional training and internship program participation.
Foreign nationals who enter the United States under the Exchange Visitor Program to participate in training and internship programs are eligible to participate in additional training and internship programs under certain conditions. For both trainees and interns, additional training and internship programs must address the development of more advanced skills or a different field of expertise. Interns may apply for additional internship programs if they:
(1) Are currently enrolled full-time and pursuing studies at degree- or certificate-granting post-secondary academic institutions outside the United States; or,
(2) Have graduated from such institutions no more than 12 months prior to the start of their proposed exchange visitor program. A new internship is also permissible when a student has successfully completed a recognized course of study (
i.e.,
associate, bachelors, masters, Ph.D., or their recognized equivalents) and has enrolled and is pursuing studies at the next higher level of academic study. Trainees are eligible for additional training programs after a period of at least two years residency outside the United States following completion of their training program. Participants who have successfully completed internship programs and no longer meet the selection criteria for an internship program may participate in a training program if they have resided outside the United States or its territories for at least two years. If participants meet these selection criteria and fulfill these conditions, there will be no limit to the number of times they may participate in a training and internship program.
[75 FR 48559, Aug. 11, 2010]
§ 62.23
College and university students.
(a)
Purpose.
A program under this section provides foreign students the opportunity to participate in a designated exchange visitor program while studying at a degree-granting post-secondary accredited academic institution or participating in a student internship program which fulfills the student's academic study. A student sponsored in this category may participate in a degree, non-degree, or student internship program. Such an exchange is intended to promote mutual understanding by fostering the exchange of ideas between foreign students and their American counterparts.
(b)
Designation.
The Department of State may, in its sole discretion, designate
bona fide
programs which offer foreign students the opportunity to study in the United States at a post-secondary accredited academic institution or to participate in a student internship program.
(c)
Selection criteria.
A sponsor selects the college and university students who participate in its exchange visitor program. A sponsor must secure sufficient background information on the students to ensure that they have the academic credentials required for its
program. A student is eligible for participation in the Exchange Visitor Program if at any time during his or her educational program in the United States:
(1) The student or his or her program is financed directly or indirectly by:
(i) The United States Government;
(ii) The government of the student's home country; or
(iii) An international organization of which the United States is a member by treaty or statute;
(2) The program is carried out pursuant to an agreement between the United States Government and a foreign government;
(3) The program is carried out pursuant to written agreement between:
(i) American and foreign academic institutions;
(ii) An American academic institution and a foreign government; or
(iii) A state or local government in the United States and a foreign government;
(4) The student is supported substantially by funding from any source other than personal or family funds; or
(5) The student is participating in a student internship program as described in paragraph (i) of this section.
(d)
Admissions requirement.
In addition to satisfying the requirements of § 62.10(a), a sponsor must ensure that the student has been admitted to, or accepted for a student internship program offered by, the post-secondary accredited academic institution listed on the Form DS-2019 before issuing the Form.
(e)
Full course of study requirement.
A student, other than a student intern described in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section, must pursue a full course of study at a post-secondary accredited academic institution in the United States as defined in § 62.2, except under the following circumstances:
(1)
Vacation.
During official school breaks and summer vacations if the student is eligible and intends to register for the next term. A student attending a school on a quarter or trimester calendar may be permitted to take the annual vacation during any one of the quarters or trimesters instead of during the summer.
(2)
Medical illness.
If the student is compelled to reduce or interrupt a full course of study due to an illness or medical condition and the student presents to the responsible officer a written statement from a physician requiring or recommending an interruption or reduction in studies.
(3)
Bona fide academic reason.
If the student is compelled to pursue less than a full course of study for a term and the student presents to the responsible officer a written statement from the academic dean or advisor recommending the student to reduce his or her academic load to less than a full course of study due to an academic reason.
(4)
Non-degree program.
If the student is engaged full time in a prescribed course of study in a non-degree program of up to 24 months duration conducted by a post-secondary accredited academic institution.
(5)
Academic training.
If the student is participating in authorized academic training in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(6)
Final term.
If the student needs less than a full course of study to complete the academic requirements in his or her final term.
(f)
Academic training
—(1)
Purpose.
The primary purpose of academic training is to permit a student, other than a student intern described in paragraph (i) of this section, to participate in an academic training program during his or her studies, without wages or other remuneration, with the approval of the academic dean or advisor and the responsible officer.
(2)
Conditions.
A student, other than a student intern described in paragraph (i) of this section, may be authorized to participate in an academic training program for wages or other remuneration:
(i) During his or her studies; or
(ii) Commencing not later than 30 days after completion of his or her studies, if the criteria, time limitations, procedures, and evaluations listed below in paragraphs (f)(3) through (f)(6) are satisfied:
(3)
Criteria.
(i) The student is primarily in the United States to study rather than engage in academic training;
(ii) The student is participating in academic training that is directly related to his or her major field of study at the post-secondary accredited academic institution listed on his or her Form DS-2019;
(iii) The student is in good academic standing with the post-secondary accredited academic institution; and
(iv) The student receives written approval in advance from the responsible officer for the duration and type of academic training.
(4)
Time limitations.
The student is authorized to participate in academic training for the length of time necessary to complete the goals and objectives of the training, provided that the amount of time for academic training:
(i) Is approved by the academic dean or advisor and approved by the responsible officer;
(ii) For undergraduate and pre-doctoral training, does not exceed 18 months, inclusive of any prior academic training in the United States, or the period of full course of study in the United States, whichever is less; except that additional time for academic training is allowed to the extent necessary for the exchange visitor to satisfy the mandatory requirements of his or her degree program in the United States;
(iii) For post-doctoral training, does not exceed a total of 36 months, inclusive of any prior academic training in the United States as an exchange visitor, or the period of the full course of study in the United States, whichever is less.
(5)
Procedures.
To obtain authorization to engage in academic training:
(i) The student must present to the responsible officer a letter of recommendation from the student's academic dean or advisor setting forth:
(A) The goals and objectives of the specific academic training program;
(B) A description of the academic training program, including its location, the name and address of the training supervisor, number of hours per week, and dates of the training;
(C) How the academic training relates to the student's major field of study; and
(D) Why it is an integral or critical part of the academic program of the student.
(ii) The responsible officer must:
(A) Determine if and to what extent the student has previously participated in academic training as a student, in order to ensure the student does not exceed the period permitted in paragraph (f) of this section;
(B) Review the letter of recommendation required in paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section; and
(C) Make a written determination of whether the academic training currently being requested is warranted and the criteria and time limitations set forth in paragraph (f)(3) and (4) of this section are satisfied.
(6)
Evaluation requirements.
The sponsor must evaluate the effectiveness and appropriateness of the academic training in achieving the stated goals and objectives in order to ensure the quality of the academic training program.
(g)
Student employment.
A student, other than a student intern described in paragraph (i) of this section, may engage in part-time employment when the following criteria and conditions are satisfied.
(1) The student employment:
(i) Is pursuant to the terms of a scholarship, fellowship, or assistantship;
(ii) Occurs on the premises of the post-secondary accredited academic institution the visitor is authorized to attend; or
(iii) Occurs off-campus when necessary because of serious, urgent, and unforeseen economic circumstances which have arisen since acquiring exchange visitor status.
(2) A student may engage in employment as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section if the:
(i) Student is in good academic standing at the post-secondary accredited academic institution;
(ii) Student continues to engage in a full course of study, except for official school breaks and the student's annual vacation;
(iii) Employment totals no more than 20 hours per week, except during official school breaks and the student's annual vacation; and
(iv) The responsible officer has approved the specific employment in advance and in writing. Such approval may be valid for up to 12 months, but is automatically withdrawn if the student's program is transferred or terminated.
(h)
Duration of participation
—(1)
Degree student.
A student who is in a degree program may be authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program as long as he or she is either:
(i) Studying at the post-secondary accredited academic institution listed on his or her Form DS-2019 and:
(A) Pursuing a full course of study as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, and
(B) Maintaining satisfactory advancement towards the completion of the student's academic program; or
(ii) Participating in an authorized academic training program as permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.
(2)
Non-degree student.
A student who is in a non-degree program may be authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program for up to 24 months. Such a student must be:
(i) Studying at the post-secondary accredited academic institution listed on his or her Form DS-2019 and:
(A) Participating full-time in a prescribed course of study; and
(B) Maintaining satisfactory advancement towards the completion of his or her academic program; or
(ii) Participating in an authorized academic training program as permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.
(3)
Student intern.
A student intern participating in a student internship program may be authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program for up to 12 months for each degree/major as permitted in paragraph (i) of this section as long as the student intern is:
(i) Engaged full-time in a student internship program sponsored by the post-secondary accredited academic institution that issued Form DS-2019; and
(ii) Maintaining satisfactory advancement towards the completion of his or her student internship program.
(i)
Student intern.
The student intern is a foreign national enrolled in and pursuing a degree at an accredited post-secondary academic institution outside the United States and is participating in a student internship program in the United States that will fulfill the educational objectives for his or her current degree program at his or her home institution. The student intern must meet the following requirements:
(1)
Criteria.
(i) In addition to satisfying the general requirements set forth in § 62.10(a), a sponsor must ensure that the student intern has verifiable English language skills sufficient to function on a day-to-day basis in the internship environment. English language proficiency must be verified through a sponsor-conducted interview, by a recognized English language test, or by signed documentation from an academic institution or English language school.
(ii) The student intern is primarily in the United States to engage in a student internship program rather than to engage in employment or provide services to an employer;
(iii) The student intern has been accepted into a student internship program at the post-secondary accredited academic institution listed on his or her Form DS-2019;
(iv) The student intern is in good academic standing with the post-secondary academic institution outside the United States from which he or she is enrolled in and pursuing a degree; and
(v) The student intern will return to the academic program and fulfill and obtain a degree from such academic institution after completion of the student internship program.
(2)
Program requirements.
In addition to the requirements set forth in Subpart A, a sponsor must ensure that:
(i) It does not issue Form DS-2019 to a potential participant in a student internship program until it has secured a placement for the student intern and it completes and secures the requisite signatures on Form DS-7002 (T/IPP);
(ii) A student intern has sufficient finances to support himself or herself and dependants for their entire stay in the United States, including housing and living expenses; and
(iii) The student internship program exposes participants to American techniques, methodologies, and technology and expands upon the participants' existing knowledge and skills. A program must not duplicate the student intern's prior experience.
(3)
Obligations of student internship program sponsors.
(i) A sponsor designated by the Department to administer a student internship program must:
(A) Ensure that the student internship program is full-time (minimum of 32 hours a week); and
(B) Ensure that any host organization or other third party involved in the recruitment, selection, screening, placement, orientation, evaluation, or provision of a student internship program is sufficiently educated on the goals, objectives, and regulations of the Exchange Visitor Program and adheres to all regulations set forth in this part as well as all additional terms and conditions governing Exchange Visitor Program administration that the Department may from time to time impose.
(ii) A sponsor must ensure that it or any host organization acting on the sponsor's behalf:
(A) Has sufficient resources, plant, equipment, and trained personnel available to provide the specified student internship program;
(B) Does not displace full- or part-time or temporary or permanent American workers or serve to fill a labor need and ensures that the position that the student interns fills exists solely to assist the student intern in achieving the objectives of his or her participation in a student internship program; and
(C) Certifies that student internship programs in the field of agriculture meet all the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended (29 U.S.C. 201
et seq.
) and the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act, as amended (29 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.
).
(iii)
Screening and vetting host organizations.
A sponsor must adequately screen all potential host organizations at which a student intern will be placed by obtaining the following information:
(A) The Dun
Bradstreet identification number (unless the host organization is an academic institution, government entity, or family farm);
(B) Employer Identification Number (EIN) used for tax purposes;
(C) Verification of telephone number, address, and professional activities via advertising, brochures, Web site, and/or feedback from prior participants; and
(D) Verification of Workman's Compensation Insurance Policy.
(iv)
Site visits.
A sponsor must conduct a site visit of any host organization that has not previously participated successfully in the sponsor's student internship program, has fewer than 25 employees, or has less than three million dollars in annual revenue. Any placement at an academic institution or at a Federal, State, or local government office is specifically excluded from this requirement. The purpose of the site visit is for the sponsor to ensure that each host organization possesses and maintains the ability and resources to provide structured and guided work-based learning experiences according to individualized T/IPPs, and that each host organization understands and meets its obligations set forth in this part.
(4)
Use of third parties.
A sponsor may engage a third party (including, but not limited to a host organization, partner, local business, governmental entity, academic institution, or any other foreign or domestic agent) to assist it in the conduct of its designated student internship program. Such a third party must have an executed written agreement with the sponsor to act on behalf of the sponsor in the conduct of the sponsor's program. This agreement must outline the full relationship between the sponsor and third party on all matters involving the administration of its exchange visitor program. A sponsor's use of a third party does not relieve the sponsor of its obligations to comply with and to ensure third party compliance with Exchange Visitor Program regulations. Any failure by any third party to comply with the regulations set forth in this part or with any additional terms and conditions governing Exchange Visitor Program administration that
the Department may from time to time impose will be imputed to the sponsor.
(5)
Evaluation requirements.
In order to ensure the quality of a student internship program, a sponsor must develop procedures for evaluating all student interns. All required evaluations must be completed prior to the conclusion of a student internship program, and the student intern and his or her immediate supervisor must sign the evaluation forms. At a minimum, all programs require a concluding evaluation, and programs lasting longer than six months also require a midpoint evaluation. For programs exceeding six months' duration, at a minimum, midpoint and concluding evaluations are required. A sponsor must retain student intern evaluations (electronic or hard copy) for a period of at least three years following the completion of each student internship program.
(6)
Employment, wages, or remuneration.
A student intern is permitted to engage in full-time employment during the student internship program as outlined on his or her T/IPP, with or without wages or other compensation. Employment is not required for participation in the program. A student intern may be employed, however, only with the approval of the responsible officer and the student's home institution's dean or academic advisor.
(7)
Training/Internship Placement Plan (Form DS-7002).
(i) A sponsor must fully complete and obtain requisite signatures for a Form DS-7002 for each student intern before issuing a Form DS-2019. A sponsor must provide to each signatory an executed copy of the Form DS-7002. Upon request, a student intern must present his or her fully executed Form DS-7002 to a Consular Official during the visa interview.
(ii) To further distinguish between work-based learning for student interns, which is permitted, and ordinary employment or unskilled labor which is not, a T/IPP must:
(A) State the specific goals and objectives of the student internship program (for each phase or component, if applicable);
(B) Detail the knowledge, skills, or techniques to be imparted to the student intern (for each phase or component, if applicable); and
(C) Describe the methods of performance evaluation and the frequency of supervision (for each phase or component, if applicable).
(8)
Program exclusions.
A sponsor designated by the Department to administer a student internship program must:
(i) Not place a student intern in an unskilled or casual labor position, in a position that requires or involves child care or elder care, a position in the field of aviation, or, in clinical positions or engaging in any other kind of work that involves patient care or contact, including any work that would require student interns to provide therapy, medication, or other clinical or medical care (e.g., sports or physical therapy, psychological counseling, nursing, dentistry, veterinary medicine, social work, speech therapy, or early childhood education);
(ii) Not place a student intern in a position, occupation, or business that could bring the Exchange Visitor Program or the Department into notoriety or disrepute;
(iii) Not engage or otherwise cooperate or contract with a staffing/employment agency to recruit, screen, orient, place, evaluate, or train student interns, or in any other way involve such agencies in an Exchange Visitor Program student internship program;
(iv) Ensure that the duties of a student intern as outlined in the T/IPP will not involve more than 20 per cent clerical work, and that all tasks assigned to a student intern are necessary for the completion of the student internship program; and
(v) Ensure that all “Hospitality and Tourism” student internship programs of six months or longer contain at least three departmental or functional rotations.
[73 FR 35068, June 20, 2008]
§ 62.24
Teachers.
(a)
Purpose.
The regulations in this section govern exchange visitors who teach full-time in accredited public and private U.S. primary and secondary schools (K-12), including pre-kindergarten language immersion programs offered as regular courses of study by accredited primary schools. Programs
in this category promote the interchange of U.S. and foreign teachers and enhance mutual understanding between the people of the United States and other countries. Exchange teachers sharpen their professional skills and participate in cross-cultural activities in schools and communities, and they return home after the exchange to share their experiences and increased knowledge of the United States and the U.S. educational system. Such exchanges enable foreign teachers to understand better U.S. culture, society and teaching practices at the primary and secondary levels, and enhance U.S. students' knowledge of foreign cultures, customs and teaching approaches.
(b)
Designation.
The Department may, in its discretion, designate
bona fide
programs satisfying the objectives in paragraph (a) of this section as exchange visitor programs in the Teacher category.
(c)
Definitions.
In addition to those definitions set forth in § 62.2, the following definitions apply to the Teacher category of the Exchange Visitor Program:
(1)
Accredited primary or accredited secondary school:
Any publicly or privately operated primary or secondary institution for educating children in the United States that offers mainly academic programs and is duly accredited by the appropriate academic accrediting authority of the jurisdiction in which such institution is located.
(2)
Full-time teaching:
A minimum of 32 hours per week of teaching or teaching-related administrative activities.
(3)
Home country school:
An exchange teacher's school in his or her country of nationality or last legal country of residence.
(4)
Host school:
The U.S.-accredited primary or secondary school in which a sponsor places an exchange teacher pursuant to the exchange teacher's written acceptance of the placement.
(5)
International school:
A school that is so designated by its school district, state, or other applicable governing authority, or one whose curriculum focuses predominantly on international aspects of the subject matter taught and/or language immersion, or one that predominantly follows a national curriculum of a foreign country.
(6)
Language immersion program:
A program that is a regular course of study offered by an accredited school having sustained and enriched instruction, in a language not native to the majority of the student population, that occurs for at least fifty percent of the school day.
(7)
Virtual exchange:
A technology-enabled, sustained, people-to-people cross-cultural educational program that may supplement the goals of an in-person exchange and integrates global knowledge, cultural awareness, and/or foreign language into the classroom or other setting.
(d)
Teacher eligibility.
Foreign nationals are eligible to participate in exchange visitor programs as full-time teachers if, at the time of initial application to the sponsor, an individual making such application demonstrates to the satisfaction of the sponsor that he or she:
(1) Either:
(i) Meets the qualifications for teaching at the primary, including pre-kindergarten, or secondary levels in schools in his or her home country; is working as a teacher in his or her home country at the time of application; and has at least two years of full-time teaching experience; or
(ii) Is not working as a teacher in his or her home country at the time of application, but otherwise meets the qualifications for teaching at the primary (including pre-kindergarten) or secondary levels in schools in the home country; has had at least two years of full-time teaching experience within the past eight years; and, within 12 months of his or her application submission date for the program, has or will have completed an advanced degree (beyond a degree equivalent to a U.S. bachelor's degree) in education or in an academic subject matter that he or she intends to teach or that is directly related to his or her teaching subject field;
(2) Possesses, at a minimum, a degree equivalent to a U.S. bachelor's degree in either education or the academic subject field in which he or she intends to teach;
(3) Satisfies the teaching eligibility standards of the U.S. state in which he or she will teach (e.g., meets minimum educational requirements, has passed teacher training coursework at a sufficiently proficient level, has provided an evaluation of foreign teaching preparation coursework, has demonstrated the requisite prior teaching experience), to include any required criminal background or other checks;
(4) Is of good reputation and character; and
(5) Agrees to come to the United States temporarily as a full-time teacher of record in an accredited primary or secondary school. Exchange teachers may teach a variety of subjects and levels at their host school or schools, if qualified, but at the pre-kindergarten level, may teach only in language immersion programs.
(e)
Teacher selection.
Sponsors must screen foreign teachers carefully before accepting them for the program. In addition to the requirements set forth in § 62.10 and all security checks required by U.S. state departments of education and host schools, sponsors also must:
(1) Verify the qualifications of each foreign teacher to determine whether he or she satisfies the criteria set forth in paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) Secure references from one colleague and one current or former supervisor of each foreign teacher, attesting to that teacher's good reputation, character and teaching skills;
(3) Verify that each selected foreign teacher applicant possesses sufficient proficiency in the English language to function in U.S. classrooms and to function on a day-to-day basis, in accordance with the provision for selection of exchange visitors set forth at § 62.10(a)(2); and
(4) Verify that each foreign teacher who is eligible for the program under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section has a letter from the head of a school in another country, preferably that teacher's home country, which states that school's willingness to work with the exchange teacher on the cross-cultural activity component set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(ii). The foreign school with which the exchange teacher plans to work must be at the same academic level as the foreign teacher's proposed host school. The letter submitted as part of the foreign teacher's application package must be signed by the head of the school or another individual in an appropriate position of authority to speak for the school within the foreign country's school system; the official signing the letter must list both email and telephone contact information. The letter may be submitted in English or in the original language of the home country with an English translation; the name, title/organization and contact information of the translator must be noted on the translation.
(f)
Teaching position.
Sponsors must ensure that:
(1) Forms DS-2019 are not issued until foreign teacher applicants have received and accepted written offers of full-time teaching positions from the accredited primary (including pre-kindergarten level) or secondary schools in which they will teach;
(2) Program dates coincide with the U.S. academic year cycle to ensure a smooth transition as exchange teachers arrive and depart, unless the sponsor notifies, and receives approval from, the Department for other exchange dates before the sponsor issues any Form DS-2019; sponsors should ensure that these dates are included in the exchange teacher's contract;
(3) Exchange teachers comply with any applicable collective bargaining agreement;
(4) Exchange teacher appointments to positions within accredited primary or secondary schools are temporary, even if the teaching positions are permanent, and do not lead to tenure; exchange teachers must be employees of either the host or home school during their exchange.
(5) Teaching positions, including duties, responsibilities, hours of employment, and compensation, are commensurate with those of similarly-situated U.S. teachers in the school district or host school where that exchange teacher is assigned to teach; an exchange teacher, unless he or she is on a program where the Department is the sponsor, must be employed by and under the direct supervision and guidance of his or her host school and,
where applicable, host school district; and
(6) A pre-kindergarten level exchange teacher is assigned to teach full-time in an accredited host school (or in several schools within the same host school district, including at several academic levels, with prior permission from the Department). If an exchange teacher is placed in a private school where there is no host school district, then he or she must teach a full-time schedule of at least 32 hours in a school or schools located no more than 25 miles from the main host school; in such a situation, sponsors must ensure that reasonable and effective modes of transportation exist to such additional sites of activity. An exchange teacher may teach at the pre-kindergarten level only in a language immersion program offered as regular course of study by an accredited primary school.
(g)
Program disclosure.
(1) As part of recruitment, in addition to the information required by § 62.10(b)-(c), sponsors must provide on their main Web sites and in their recruiting materials a general summary of fees and other costs for the program. This summary should include, but not be limited to, the sponsor fee; foreign or domestic third party or partner fees; visa fee; the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) fee; insurance costs; estimates for food, housing and local transportation costs; expected work-related deductions; and estimates or ranges for all other fees charged for and significant general costs related to participation in the teacher exchange program.
(2) At the time a foreign teacher is selected for the program, and before the exchange visitor signs any contracts with the host school, sponsors and/or the host school must provide each individual exchange teacher the following information, either within the teacher's contract or in a separate document: The name, location, and brief description of the host school; the terms and conditions of compensation (with deductions from gross salary); any provisions affecting the ability of the exchange teacher to be accompanied abroad by a spouse or dependents (including any related assistance and allowances); a summary of the significant components of the program (including a statement of the teaching requirements and related professional obligations, as well as the required cross-cultural activity component as set forth in paragraph (h) of this section); specific information on the fees and costs for which the exchange teacher will be responsible while on exchange in that school district in accordance with paragraph (g)(1); anticipated housing options and cost implications; specific local transportation options between the exchange teacher's residence and the host school and transportation cost estimates; insurance costs for accident or illness coverage, repatriation of remains and medical evacuation as required by § 62.14; estimated personal expense money for initial costs the exchange teacher may incur upon arrival in the United States prior to receiving his or her first paycheck; certification or licensure procedures and costs at the host school; administrative fees; and any placement fees. Exchange teacher compensation, unless provided directly to the exchange teacher through government funding, through continued support from the exchange teacher's home school, or from both the teacher's home and host school in a shared cost arrangement, must be paid directly by the host school or host school district in which the exchange teacher is placed.
(h)
Cross-cultural activity component.
In addition to the requirements of § 62.10:
(1) Sponsors must require each exchange teacher to complete, within the United States, and during each academic year of program participation, at least one cross-cultural activity from each of the following two categories:
(i) An activity for the teacher's classroom, larger host school or host school district population, or the community at large designed to give an overview of the history, traditions, heritage, culture, economy, educational system and/or other attributes of his or her home country. Sponsors of exchange teachers placed at international schools must require their exchange teachers to conduct at least one cross-cultural activity per academic year
outside the host school in nearby schools or communities where international opportunities may be more limited than those found in their host school; and
(ii) An activity that involves U.S. student dialogue with schools or students in another country, preferably in the exchange teacher's home school, through virtual exchange or other means, in order to supplement the goals of the in-person exchange.
(2) Sponsors must collect annual reports from their exchange teachers detailing the cross-cultural activity component of their exchange program. The annual report does not have to be in a specific format, but must include the exchange teacher's full name and the program sponsor's name. The report section about the cross-cultural activity component must contain the following information:
(i) The date(s) of each activity;
(ii) The location of each activity;
(iii) The audience for and participants in each activity;
(iv) A general overview of each activity, including the topic; and
(v) The estimated impact of each activity.
(i)
Location of the exchange.
Exchange teachers must participate in exchange visitor programs at the accredited primary or secondary schools listed on their Forms DS-2019 or at location(s) where the institutions are involved in official school activities (e.g., school field trips, teacher development programs);
(j)
Duration of participation.
Exchange teachers may be authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program for the length of time necessary to complete the program, which may not exceed three years unless a specific extension of one or two years is authorized by the Department as set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(k)
Program extensions.
(1) Sponsors may request from the Department an extension of an exchange teacher's exchange by either one or two years, but not by a semester or by other fractions of academic years.
(2) The sponsor's request for extension must include:
(i) A letter of reference on official letterhead written by the host school or host school district administrator responsible for overseeing the exchange teacher that describes the exchange teacher's performance during the previous three years of the exchange and how the host school has benefited from the exchange teacher's presence; and
(ii) a document describing how the exchange teacher over the previous three years has engaged his or her classroom, the wider host school or host school district, or community through the cross-cultural activity component, if these activities are not already detailed in the exchange teacher's annual reports.
(3) Sponsors must submit their extension request and supporting documentation for the extension to the Department no later than three months prior to the beginning of the desired extension period for the exchange teacher.
(4) Sponsor requests for extension must include proof of payment of the required non-refundable extension fee as set forth in § 62.17.
(5) The Department, at its discretion, may authorize a sponsor to extend an exchange teacher's participation for either one or two additional years beyond the initial three-year exchange period. Sponsors must comply with all Department guidance on creating an extension record for the teacher within SEVIS.
(6) Sponsors that applied for a two-year extension on behalf of a host school and its exchange teacher and received permission from the Department only for a one-year extension may apply again to extend the program of that host school's exchange teacher for one additional year by following the procedures set forth in paragraphs (k)(2)-(4) of this section. The sponsor should include with such additional extension request a copy of the prior extension request submitted to enable the initial one-year extension.
(l)
Repeat participation.
Foreign nationals who have successfully completed teacher exchange programs are eligible to participate in additional teacher exchange programs, provided that they have resided outside the United States for at least two years following the successful completion of their most recent teacher exchange
program and continue to meet the eligibility requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
[81 FR 4955, Jan. 29, 2016]
§ 62.25
Secondary school students.
(a)
Purpose.
This section governs Department of State designated exchange visitor programs under which foreign secondary school students are afforded the opportunity to study in the United States at accredited public or private secondary schools for an academic semester or an academic year, while living with American host families or residing at accredited U.S. boarding schools.
(b)
Program sponsor eligibility.
Eligibility for designation as a secondary school student exchange visitor program sponsor is limited to organizations:
(1) With tax-exempt status as conferred by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code; and
(2) Which are United States citizens as such term is defined in § 62.2.
(c)
Program eligibility.
Secondary school student exchange visitor programs designated by the Department of State must:
(1) Require all exchange students to be enrolled and participating in a full course of study at an accredited academic institution;
(2) Allow entry of exchange students for not less than one academic semester (or quarter equivalency) and not more than two academic semesters (or quarter equivalency) duration; and
(3) Ensure that the program is conducted on a U.S. academic calendar year basis, except for students from countries whose academic year is opposite that of the United States. Exchange students may begin an exchange program in the second semester of a U.S. academic year only if specifically permitted to do so, in writing, by the school in which the exchange student is enrolled. In all cases, sponsors must notify both the host family and school prior to the exchange student's arrival in the United States whether the placement is for an academic semester, an academic year, or a calendar year.
(d)
Program administration.
Sponsors must ensure that all organizational officers, employees, representatives, agents, and volunteers acting on their behalf:
(1) Are adequately trained. Sponsors must administer training for local coordinators that specifically includes, at a minimum, instruction in: Conflict resolution; procedures for handling and reporting emergency situations; awareness or knowledge of child safety standards; information on sexual conduct codes; procedures for handling and reporting allegations of sexual misconduct or any other allegations of abuse or neglect; and the criteria to be used to screen potential host families and exercise good judgment when identifying what constitutes suitable host family placements. In addition to their own training, sponsors must ensure that all local coordinators complete the Department of State mandated training module prior to their appointment as a local coordinator or assumption of duties. The Department of State training module will include instruction designed to provide a comprehensive understanding of the Exchange Visitor Program; its public diplomacy objectives; and the Secondary School Student category rules and regulations. Sponsors must demonstrate the individual's successful completion of all initial training requirements and that annual refresher training is also successfully completed.
(2) Are adequately supervised. Sponsors must create and implement organization-specific standard operating procedures for the supervision of local coordinators designed to prevent or deter fraud, abuse, or misconduct in the performance of the duties of these employees/agents/volunteers. They must also have sufficient internal controls to ensure that such employees/agents/volunteers comply with such standard operating procedures.
(3) Have been vetted annually through a criminal background check (which must include a search of the Department of Justice's National Sex Offender Public Registry);
(4) Place no exchange student with his or her relatives;
(5) Make no exchange student placement beyond 120 miles of the home of
the local coordinator authorized to act on the sponsor's behalf in both routine and emergency matters arising from that exchange student's participation in the Exchange Visitor Program;
(6) Make no monetary payments or other incentives to host families;
(7) Provide exchange students with reasonable access to their natural parents and family by telephone and e-mail;
(8) Make certain that the exchange student's government issued documents (
i.e.
, passports, Forms DS-2019) are not removed from his/her possession;
(9) Conduct the host family orientation after the host family has been fully vetted and accepted;
(10) Refrain, without exception, from acting as:
(i) Both a host family and a local coordinator or area supervisor for an exchange student;
(ii) A host family for one sponsor and a local coordinator for another sponsor; or
(iii) A local coordinator for any exchange student over whom he/she has a position of trust or authority such as the student's teacher or principal. This requirement is not applicable to a boarding school placement.
(11) Maintain, at minimum, a monthly schedule of personal contact with the exchange student. The first monthly contact between the local coordinator and the exchange student must be in person. All other contacts may take place in-person, on the phone, or via electronic mail and must be properly documented. The sponsor is responsible for ensuring that issues raised through such contacts are promptly and appropriately addressed.
(12) That a sponsor representative other than the local coordinator who recruited, screened and selected the host family visit the exchange student/host family home within the first or second month following the student's placement in the home.
(13) Maintain, at a minimum, a monthly schedule of personal contact with the host family. At least once during the fall semester and at least once during the spring semester, (
i.e.
, twice during the academic year) the contact by the local coordinator with the host family must be in person. All other contacts may take place in person, on the phone, or via electronic mail and must be properly documented. The sponsor is responsible for ensuring the issues raised through such contacts are promptly and appropriately addressed.
(14) That host schools are provided contact information for the local organizational representative (including name, direct phone number, and e-mail address), the program sponsor, and the Department's Office of Designation; and
(15) Adhere to all regulatory provisions set forth in this part and all additional terms and conditions governing program administration that the Department may impose.
(e)
Student selection.
In addition to satisfying the requirements of § 62.10(a), sponsors must ensure that all participants in a designated secondary school student exchange visitor program:
(1) Are secondary school students in their home countries who have not completed more than 11 years of primary and secondary study, exclusive of kindergarten; or are at least 15 years of age, but not more than 18 years and six months of age as of the program start date;
(2) Demonstrate maturity, good character, and scholastic aptitude; and
(3) Have not previously participated in an academic year or semester secondary school student exchange program in the United States or attended school in the United States in either F-1 or J-1 visa status.
(f)
Student enrollment.
(1) Sponsors must secure prior written acceptance for the enrollment of any exchange student in a United States public or private secondary school. Such prior acceptance must:
(i) Be secured from the school principal or other authorized school administrator of the school or school system that the exchange student will attend; and
(ii) Include written arrangements concerning the payment of tuition or waiver thereof if applicable.
(2) Under no circumstance may a sponsor facilitate the entry into the United States of an exchange student
for whom a written school placement has not been secured.
(3) Under no circumstance may a sponsor charge a student private school tuition if such arrangements are not finalized in writing prior to the issuance of Form DS-2019.
(4) Sponsors must maintain copies of all written acceptances for a minimum of three years and make such documents available for Department of State inspection upon request.
(5) Sponsors must provide the school with a translated “written English language summary” of the exchange student's complete academic course work prior to commencement of school, in addition to any additional documents the school may require. Sponsors must inform the prospective host school of any student who has completed secondary school in his/her home country.
(6) Sponsors may not facilitate the enrollment of more than five exchange students in one school unless the school itself has requested, in writing, the placement of more than five students from the sponsor.
(7) Upon issuance of a Form DS-2019 to a prospective participant, the sponsor accepts full responsibility for securing a school and host family placement for the student, except in cases of voluntary student withdrawal or visa denial.
(g)
Student orientation.
In addition to the orientation requirements set forth at § 62.10, all sponsors must provide exchange students, prior to their departure from their home countries, with the following information:
(1) A summary of all operating procedures, rules, and regulations governing student participation in the exchange visitor program along with a detailed summary of travel arrangements;
(2) A copy of the Department's welcome letter to exchange students;
(3) Age and language appropriate information on how to identify and report sexual abuse or exploitation;
(4) A detailed profile of the host family with whom the exchange student will be placed. The profile must state whether the host family is either a permanent placement or a temporary-arrival family;
(5) A detailed profile of the school and community in which the exchange student will be placed. The profile must state whether the student will pay tuition; and
(6) An identification card, that lists the exchange student's name, United States host family placement address and telephone numbers (landline and cellular), sponsor name and main office and emergency telephone numbers, name and telephone numbers (landline and cellular) of the local coordinator and area representative, the telephone number of Department's Office of Designation, and the Secondary School Student program toll free emergency telephone number. The identification card must also contain the name of the health insurance provider and policy number. Such cards must be corrected, reprinted, and reissued to the student if changes in contact information occur due to a change in the student's placement.
(h)
Student extra-curricular activities.
Exchange students may participate in school sanctioned and sponsored extra-curricular activities, including athletics, if such participation is:
(1) Authorized by the local school district in which the student is enrolled; and
(2) Authorized by the state authority responsible for determination of athletic eligibility, if applicable. Sponsors shall not knowingly be party to a placement (inclusive of direct placements) based on athletic abilities, whether initiated by a student, a natural or host family, a school, or any other interested party.
(3) Any placement in which either the student or the sending organization in the foreign country is party to an arrangement with any other party, including receiving school personnel, whereby the student will attend a particular school or live with a particular host family must be reported to the particular school and the National Federation of State High School Associations prior to the first day of classes.
(i)
Student employment.
Exchange students may not be employed on either a full or part-time basis but may accept sporadic or intermittent employment such as babysitting or yard work.
(j)
Host family application and selection.
Sponsors must adequately screen
and select all potential host families and at a minimum must:
(1) Provide potential host families with a detailed summary of the Exchange Visitor Program and of their requirements, obligations and commitment to host;
(2) Utilize a standard application form developed by the sponsor that includes, at a minimum, all data fields provided in Appendix F, “Information to be Collected on Secondary School Student Host Family Applications”. The form must include a statement stating that: “The income data collected will be used solely for the purposes of determining that the basic needs of the exchange student can be met, including three quality meals and transportation to and from school activities.” Such application form must be signed and dated at the time of application by all potential host family applicants. The host family application must be designed to provide a detailed summary and profile of the host family, the physical home environment (to include photographs of the host family home's exterior and grounds, kitchen, student's bedroom, bathroom, and family or living room), family composition, and community environment. Exchange students are not permitted to reside with their relatives.
(3) Conduct an in-person interview with all family members residing in the home where the student will be living;
(4) Ensure that the host family is capable of providing a comfortable and nurturing home environment and that the home is clean and sanitary; that the exchange student's bedroom contains a separate bed for the student that is neither convertible nor inflatable in nature; and that the student has adequate storage space for clothes and personal belongings, reasonable access to bathroom facilities, study space if not otherwise available in the house and reasonable, unimpeded access to the outside of the house in the event of a fire or similar emergency. An exchange student may share a bedroom, but with no more than one other individual of the same sex.
(5) Ensure that the host family has a good reputation and character by securing two personal references from within the community from individuals who are not relatives of the potential host family or representatives of the sponsor (
i.e.
, field staff or volunteers), attesting to the host family's good reputation and character;
(6) Ensure that the host family has adequate financial resources to undertake hosting obligations and is not receiving needs-based government subsidies for food or housing;
(7) Verify that each member of the host family household 18 years of age and older, as well as any new adult member added to the household, or any member of the host family household who will turn eighteen years of age during the exchange student's stay in that household, has undergone a criminal background check (which must include a search of the Department of Justice's National Sex Offender Public Registry);
(8) Maintain a record of all documentation on a student's exchange program, including but not limited to application forms, background checks, evaluations, and interviews, for all selected host families for a period of three years following program completion; and
(9) Ensure that a potential single adult host parent without a child in the home undergoes a secondary level review by an organizational representative other than the individual who recruited and selected the applicant. Such secondary review should include demonstrated evidence of the individual's friends or family who can provide an additional support network for the exchange student and evidence of the individual's ties to his/her community. Both the exchange student and his or her natural parents must agree in writing in advance of the student's placement with a single adult host parent without a child in the home.
(k)
Host family orientation.
In addition to the orientation requirements set forth in § 62.10, sponsors must:
(1) Inform all host families of the philosophy, rules, and regulations governing the sponsor's exchange visitor program, including examples of “best practices” developed by the exchange community;
(2) Provide all selected host families with a copy of the Department's letter of appreciation to host families;
(3) Provide all selected host families with a copy of Department of State-promulgated Exchange Visitor Program regulations;
(4) Advise all selected host families of strategies for cross-cultural interaction and conduct workshops to familiarize host families with cultural differences and practices; and
(5) Advise host families of their responsibility to inform the sponsor of any and all material changes in the status of the host family or student, including, but not limited to, changes in address, finances, employment and criminal arrests.
(l)
Host family placement.
(1) Sponsors must secure, prior to the student's departure from his or her home country, a permanent or arrival host family placement for each exchange student participant. Sponsors may not:
(i) Facilitate the entry into the United States of an exchange student for whom a host family placement has not been secured;
(ii) Place more than one exchange student with a host family without the express prior written consent of the host family, the natural parents, and the students being placed. Under no circumstance may more than two exchange students be placed with a host family, or in the home of a local coordinator, regional coordinator, or volunteer. Sponsors may not place students from the same countries or with the same native languages in a single home.
(2) Prior to the student's departure from his or her home country, sponsors must advise both the exchange student and host family, in writing, of the respective family compositions and backgrounds of each, whether the host family placement is a permanent or arrival placement, and facilitate and encourage the exchange of correspondence between the two.
(3) In the event of unforeseen circumstances that necessitate a change of host family placement, the sponsor must document the reason(s) necessitating such change and provide the Department of State with an annual statistical summary reflecting the number and reason(s) for such change in host family placement in the program's annual report.
(m)
Advertising and marketing for the recruitment of host families.
In addition to the requirements set forth in § 62.9 in advertising and promoting for host family recruiting, sponsors must:
(1) Utilize only promotional materials that professionally, ethically, and accurately reflect the sponsor's purposes, activities, and sponsorship;
(2) Not publicize the need for host families via any public media with announcements, notices, advertisements, etc. that are not sufficiently in advance of the exchange student's arrival, appeal to public pity or guilt, imply in any way that an exchange student will be denied participation if a host family is not found immediately, or identify photos of individual exchange students and include an appeal for an immediate family;
(3) Not promote or recruit for their programs in any way that compromises the privacy, safety or security of participants, families, or schools. Specifically, sponsors shall not include personal student data or contact information (including addresses, phone numbers or email addresses) or photographs of the student on Web sites or in other promotional materials; and
(4) Ensure that access to exchange student photographs and personally identifying information, either online or in print form, is only made available to potential host families who have been fully vetted and selected for program participation. Such information, if available online, must also be password protected.
(n)
Reporting requirements.
Along with the annual report required by regulations set forth at § 62.15, sponsors must file with the Department of State the following information:
(1) Sponsors must immediately report to the Department any incident or allegation involving the actual or alleged sexual exploitation or any other allegations of abuse or neglect of an exchange student. Sponsors must also report such allegations as required by local or state statute or regulation. Failure to report such incidents to the Department and, as required by state
law or regulation, to local law enforcement authorities shall be grounds for the suspension and revocation of the sponsor's Exchange Visitor Program designation;
(2) A report of all final academic year and semester program participant placements by August 31 for the upcoming academic year or January 15 for the Spring semester and calendar year. The report must be in the format directed by the Department and must include at a minimum, the exchange student's full name, Form DS-2019 number (SEVIS ID #), host family placement (current U.S. address), school (site of activity) address, the local coordinator's name and zip code, and other information the Department may request; and
(3) A report of all situations which resulted in the placement of an exchange student with more than one host family or in more than one school. The report must be in a format directed by the Department and include, at a minimum, the exchange student's full name, Form DS-019 number (SEVIS ID #), host family placements (current U.S. address), schools (site of activity address), the reason for the change in placement, and the date of the move. This report is due by July 31 for the previous academic school year.
[75 FR 65981, Oct. 27, 2010]
§ 62.26
Specialists.
(a)
Introduction.
These regulations govern experts in a field of specialized knowledge or skill coming to the United States for observing, consulting, or demonstrating special skills, except:
(1) Research scholars and professors, who are governed by regulations set forth at § 62.20;
(2) Short-term scholars, who are governed by regulations set forth at § 62.21; and
(3) Alien physicians in graduate medical education or training, who are governed by regulations set forth in § 62.27.
(b)
Purpose.
The Exchange Visitor Program promotes the interchange of knowledge and skills among foreign and American specialists, who are defined as experts in a field of specialized knowledge or skills, and who visit the United States for the purpose of observing, consulting, or demonstrating their special skills. It does so by providing foreign specialists the opportunity to observe American institutions and methods of practice in their professional fields, and to share their specialized knowledge with their American colleagues. The exchange of specialists promotes mutual enrichment, and furthers linkages among scientific institutions, government agencies, museums, corporations, libraries, and similar types of institutions. Such exchanges also enable visitors to better understand American culture and society and enhance American knowledge of foreign cultures and skills. This category is intended for exchanges with experts in such areas, for example, as mass media communication, environmental science, youth leadership, international educational exchange, museum exhibitions, labor law, public administration, and library science. This category is not intended for experts covered by the exchange visitor categories listed in paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section.
(c)
Designation.
The Department of State may, in its discretion, designate
bona fide
programs satisfying the objectives in section (b) above as an exchange visitor program in the specialist category.
(d)
Visitor eligibility.
A foreign national shall be eligible to participate in an exchange visitor program as a specialist if the individual:
(1) Is an expert in a field of specialized knowledge or skill;
(2) Seeks to travel to the United States for the purpose of observing, consulting, or demonstrating his or her special knowledge or skills; and
(3) Does not fill a permanent or long-term position of employment while in the United States.
(e)
Visitor selection.
Sponsors shall adequately screen and select specialists prior to accepting them for the program, providing a formal selection process, including at a minimum:
(1) Evaluation of the qualifications of foreign nationals to determine whether they meet the definition of specialist as set forth in § 62.4(g); and
(2) Screening foreign nationals to ensure that the requirements of § 62.10(a) are satisfied.
(f)
Program disclosure.
Before the program begins, the sponsor shall provide the specialist, in addition to what is required in § 62.10(b), with:
(1) Information on the length and location(s) of his or her exchange visitor program;
(2) A summary of the significant components of the program; and
(3) A written statement which clearly states the stipend, if any, to be paid to the specialist.
(g)
Issuance of Form IAP-66.
The Form DS-2019 shall be issued only after the specialist has been accepted by the organization(s) with which he or she will participate in an exchange visitor program.
(h)
Location of the exchange.
The specialist shall participate in an exchange visitor program at the location(s) listed on his or her Form DS-2019.
(i)
Duration of participation.
The specialist shall be authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program for the length of time necessary to complete the program, which shall not exceed one year.
§ 62.27
Alien physicians.
(a)
Purpose.
Pursuant to the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act, as amended by the Health Care Professions Act, Public Law 94-484, the Department of State facilitates exchanges for foreign medical graduates seeking to pursue graduate medical education or training at accredited schools of medicine or scientific institutions. The Department of State also facilitates exchanges of foreign medical graduates seeking to pursue programs involving observation, consultation, teaching, or research activities.
(b)
Clinical exchange programs.
The Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates must sponsor alien physicians who wish to pursue programs of graduate medical education or training conducted by accredited U.S. schools of medicine or scientific institutions. Such Foreign Medical Graduates shall:
(1) Have adequate prior education and training to participate satisfactorily in the program for which they are coming to the United States;
(2) Be able to adapt to the educational and cultural environment in which they will be receiving their education or training;
(3) Have the background, needs, and experiences suitable to the program as required in § 62.10(a)(1);
(4) Have competency in oral and written English;
(5) Have passed either Parts I and II of the National Board of Medical Examiners Examination, the Foreign Medical Graduate Examination in the Medical Sciences, the United States Medical Licensing Examination, Step I and Step II, or the Visa Qualifying Examination (VQE) prepared by the National Board of Medical Examiners, administered by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates. [NB—Graduates of a school of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education are exempted by law from the requirement of passing either Parts I and II of the National Board of Medical Examiners Examination or the Visa Qualifying Examination (VQE)]; and
(6) Provide a statement of need from the government of the country of their nationality or last legal permanent residence. Such statement must provide written assurance, satisfactory to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, that there is a need in that country for persons with the skills the alien physician seeks to acquire and shall be submitted to the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates by the participant's government. The statement of need must bear the seal of the concerned government and be signed by a duly designated official of the government. The text of such statement of need shall read as follows:
Name of applicant for Visa: ______. There currently exists in (Country) a need for qualified medical practitioners in the speciality of ______. (Name of applicant for Visa) has filed a written assurance with the government of this country that he/she will return to this country upon completion of training in the United States and intends to enter the practice of medicine in the specialty for which training is being sought. Stamp (or Seal and signature) of issuing official of named country.
Dated:
Official of Named Country.
(7) Submit an agreement or contract from a U.S. accredited medical school,
an affiliated hospital, or a scientific institution to provide the accredited graduate medical education. The agreement or contract must be signed by both the alien physician and the official responsible for the training.
(c)
Non-clinical exchange programs.
(1) A United States university or academic medical center which has been designated an exchange visitor program by the Secretary of State of the Department of State is authorized to issue From DS-2019 to alien physicians to enable them to come to the United States for the purposes of observation, consultation, teaching, or research if:
(i) The responsible officer or duly designated alternate of the exchange visitor program involved signs and appends to the Form DS-2019 a certification which states “this certifies that the program in which (name of physician) is to be engaged is solely for the purpose of observation, consultation, teaching, or research and that no element of patient care is involved” or
(ii) The dean of the involved accredited United States medical school or his or her designee certifies to the following five points and such certification is appended to the Form DS-2019 issued to the perspective exchange visitor alien physician:
(A) The program in which (name of physician) will participate is predominantly involved with observation, consultation, teaching, or research.
(B) Any incidental patient contact involving the alien physician will be under the direct supervision of a physician who is a U.S. citizen or resident alien and who is licensed to practice medicine in the State of ______.
(C) The alien physician will not be given final responsibility for the diagnosis and treatment of patients.
(D) Any activities of the alien physician will conform fully with the State licensing requirements and regulations for medical and health care professionals in the State in which the alien physician is pursuing the program.
(E) Any experience gained in this program will not be creditable towards any clinical requirements for medical specialty board certification.
(2) The Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates may also issue Form DS-2019 to alien physicians who are coming to the United States to participate in a program of observation, consultation, teaching, or research provided the required letter of certification as outlined in this paragraph is appended to the Form DS-2019.
(d)
Public health and preventive medicine programs.
A United States university, academic medical center, school of public health, or other public health institution which has been designated as an exchange visitor program sponsor by the Secretary of State of the Department of State is authorized to issue Forms DS-2019 to alien physicians to enable them to come to the United States for the purpose of entering into those programs which do not include any clinical activities involving direct patient care. Under these circumstances, the special eligibility requirements listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section need not be met. The responsible officer or alternate responsible officer of the exchange visitor program involved shall append a certification to the Form DS-2019 which states.
This certifies that the program in which (name of physician) is to be engaged does not include any clinical activities involving direct patient care.
(e)
Duration of participation.
(1) The duration of an alien physician's participation in a program of graduate medical education or training as described in paragraph (b) of this section is limited to the time typically required to complete such program. Duration shall be determined by the Secretary of State at the time of the alien physician's entry into the United States. Such determination shall be based on criteria established in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and which take into consideration the requirements of the various medical specialty boards as set forth by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
(2) Duration of participation is limited to seven years unless the alien physician has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that the country to which the alien physician will return at the end of additional specialty education or training
has an exceptional need for an individual with such additional qualification.
(3) Subject to the limitations set forth above, duration of participation may, for good cause shown, be extended beyond the period of actual training or education to include the time necessary to take an examination required for certification by a specialty board.
(4) The Secretary of State may include within the duration of participation a period of supervised medical practice in the United States if such practice is an eligibility requirement for certification by a specialty board.
(i) Alien physicians shall be permitted to undertake graduate medical education or training in a specialty or subspecialty program whose board and/or accreditation requirements are not published if the program requirements are certified to the Secretary of State by the ACGME in accordance with criteria established by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) and ACGME.
(ii) The Secretary of State may, for good cause shown, grant an extension of the program to permit an alien physician to repeat one year of clinical medical training.
(5) The alien physician must furnish the Attorney General each year with an affidavit (Form I-644) that attests the alien physician:
(i) Is in good standing in the program of graduate medical education or training in which the alien physician is participating; and
(ii) Will return to the country of his nationality or last legal permanent resident upon completion of the education or training for which he came to the United States.
(f)
Change of program.
The alien physician may, once and not later than two years after the date the alien physician enters the United States as an exchange visitor or acquires exchange visitor status, change his designated program of graduate medical education or training if the Secretary of State approves the change and if the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section are met for the newly designated specialty.
(g)
Applicability of section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
(1) Any exchange visitor physician coming to the United States on or after January 10, 1977 for the purpose of receiving graduate medical education or training is automatically subject to the two-year home-country physical presence requirement of section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended. Such physicians are not eligible to be considered for section 212(e) waivers on the basis of “No Objection” statements issued by their governments.
(2) Alien physicians coming to the United States for the purpose of observation, consultation, teaching, or research are not automatically subject to the two-year home-country physical presence requirement of section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, but may be subject to this requirement if they are governmentally financed or pursuing a field of study set forth on their countries' Exchange Visitor Skills List. Such alien physicians are eligible for consideration of waivers under section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, on the basis of “No Objection” statements submitted by their governments in their behalf through diplomatic channels to the Secretary of State of the Department of State.
[58 FR 15196, Mar. 19, 1993; 58 FR 48448, Sept. 16, 1993. Redesignated at 64 FR 54539, Oct. 7, 1999, as amended at 86 FR 20287, Apr. 19, 2021]
§ 62.28
International visitors.
(a)
Purpose.
The international visitor category is for the exclusive use of the Department of State. Programs under this section are for foreign nationals who are recognized or potential leaders and are selected by the Department of State to participate in observation tours, discussions, consultation, professional meetings, conferences, workshops, and travel. These programs are designed to enable the international visitors to better understand American culture and society and contribute to enhanced American knowledge of foreign cultures. The category is for people-to-people programs which seek to develop and strengthen professional and personal ties between key foreign nationals and Americans and American institutions.
(b)
Selection.
The Department of State and third parties assisting the Department of State shall adequately screen and select prospective international visitors to determine compliance with § 62.10(a) and the visitor eligibility requirements set forth below.
(c)
Visitor eligibility.
An individual participating in an exchange visitor program as an international visitor shall be:
(1) Selected by the Department of State;
(2) Engaged in consultation, observation, research, training, or demonstration of special skills; and
(3) A recognized or potential leader in a field of specialized knowledge or skill.
(d)
Program disclosure.
At the beginning of the program, the sponsor shall provide the international visitor with:
(1) Information on the length and location(s) of his or her exchange visitor program; and
(2) A summary of the significant components of the program.
(e)
Issuance of Form DS-2019.
The Form DS-2019 shall be issued only after the international visitor has been selected by the Department of State.
(f)
Location of the exchange.
The international visitor shall participate in an exchange visitor program at locations approved by the Department of State.
(g)
Duration of participation.
The international visitor shall be authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program for the length of time necessary to complete the program, which shall not exceed one year.
§ 62.29
Government visitors.
(a)
Purpose.
The government visitor category is for the exclusive use of the U.S. federal, state, or local government agencies. Programs under this section are for foreign nationals who are recognized as influential or distinguished persons, and are selected by U.S. federal, state, or local government agencies to participate in observation tours, discussions, consultation, professional meetings, conferences, workshops, and travel. These are people-to-people programs designed to enable government visitors to better understand American culture and society, and to contribute to enhanced American knowledge of foreign cultures. The objective is to develop and strengthen professional and personal ties between key foreign nationals and Americans and American institutions. The government visitor programs are for such persons as editors, business and professional persons, government officials, and labor leaders.
(b)
Designation.
The Department of State may, in its sole discretion, designate as sponsors U.S. federal, state, and local government agencies which offer foreign nationals the opportunity to participate in people-to-people programs which promote the purpose as set forth in (a) above.
(c)
Selection.
Sponsors shall adequately screen and select prospective government visitors to determine compliance with § 62.10(a) and the visitor eligibility requirements set forth below.
(d)
Visitor eligibility.
An individual participating in an exchange visitor program as a government visitor shall be:
(1) Selected by a U.S. federal, state, and local government agency;
(2) Engaged in consultation, observation, training, or demonstration of special skills; and
(3) An influential or distinguished person.
(e)
Program disclosure.
Before the beginning of the program, the sponsor shall provide the government visitor with:
(1) Information on the length and location(s) of his or her exchange visitor program;
(2) A summary of the significant components of the program; and
(3) A written statement which clearly states the stipend, if any, to be paid to the government visitor.
(f)
Issuance of Form DS-2019.
The Form DS-2019 shall be issued only after the government visitor has been selected by a U.S. federal, state, or local government agency and accepted by the private and/or public organization(s) with whom he or she will participate in the exchange visitor program.
(g)
Location of the exchange.
The government visitor shall participate in an exchange visitor program at the locations listed on his or her Form DS-2019.
(h)
Duration of participation.
The government visitor shall be authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program for the length of time necessary to complete the program, which shall not exceed eighteen months.
§ 62.30
Camp counselors.
(a)
Introduction.
In order to promote diverse opportunities for participation in educational and cultural exchange programs, the Department of State designates exchange sponsors to facilitate the entry of foreign nationals to serve as counselors in U.S. summer camps. These programs promote international understanding by improving American knowledge of foreign cultures while enabling foreign participants to increase their knowledge of American culture. The foreign participants are best able to carry out this objective by serving as counselors per se, that is, having direct responsibility for supervision of groups of American youth and of activities that bring them into interaction with their charges. While it is recognized that some non-counseling chores are an essential part of camp life for all counselors, this program is not intended to assist American camps in bringing in foreign nationals to serve as administrative personnel, cooks, or menial laborers, such as dishwashers or janitors.
(b)
Participant eligibility.
Participation in camp counselor exchange programs is limited to foreign nationals who:
(1) Are at least 18 years of age;
(2) Are
bona fide
youth workers, students, teachers, or individuals with specialized skills; and
(c)
Participant selection.
In addition to satisfying the requirements in § 62.10(a), sponsors shall adequately screen all international candidates for camp counselor programs and at a minimum:
(1) Conduct an in-person interview; and
(2) Secure references from a participant's employer or teacher regarding his or her suitability for participation in a camp counselor exchange.
(d)
Participant orientation.
Sponsors shall provide participants, prior to their departure from the home country, detailed information regarding:
(1) Duties and responsibilities relating to their service as a camp counselor;
(2) Contractual obligations relating to their acceptance of a camp counselor position; and
(3) Financial compensation for their service as a camp counselor.
(e)
Participant placements.
Sponsors shall place eligible participants at camping facilities which are:
(1) Accredited;
(2) A member in good standing of the American Camping Association;
(3) Officially affiliated with a nationally recognized non-profit organization; or
(4) Have been inspected, evaluated, and approved by the sponsor.
(f)
Participant compensation.
Sponsors shall ensure that international participants receive pay and benefits commensurate with those offered to their American counterparts.
(g)
Participant supervision.
Sponsors shall provide all participants with a phone number which allows 24 hour immediate contact with the sponsor.
(h)
Program administration.
Sponsors shall:
(1) Comply with all provisions set forth in subpart A of this part;
(2) Not facilitate the entry of any participant for a program of more than four months duration; and
(3) Under no circumstance facilitate the entry into the United States of a participant for whom a camp placement has not been pre-arranged.
(i)
Placement report.
In lieu of listing the name and address of the camp facility at which the participant is placed on Form DS-2019, sponsors shall submit to the Department of State, no later than July 1st of each year, a report of all participant placements. Such report shall reflect the participant's name, camp placement, and the number of times the participant has previously participated in a camp counselor exchange.
(j) In order to ensure that as many different individuals as possible are recruited for participation in camp counselor programs, sponsors shall limit the number of participants who have previously participated more than once in any camp counselor exchange to not more than ten percent of the total
number of participants that the sponsor placed in the immediately preceding year.
[58 FR 15196, Mar. 19, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 16984, Apr. 11, 1994. Redesignated at 64 FR 54539, Oct. 7, 1999]
§ 62.31
Au pairs.
(a)
Introduction.
This section governs Department of State-designated exchange visitor programs under which foreign nationals are afforded the opportunity to live with an American host family and participate directly in the home life of the host family. All au pair participants provide child care services to the host family and attend a U.S. post-secondary educational institution. Au pair participants provide up to forty-five hours of child care services per week and pursue not less than six semester hours of academic credit or its equivalent during their year of program participation. Au pairs participating in the EduCare program provide up to thirty hours of child care services per week and pursue not less than twelve semester hours of academic credit or its equivalent during their year of program participation.
(b)
Program designation.
The Department of State may, in its sole discretion, designate bona fide programs satisfying the objectives set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. Such designation shall be for a period of two years and may be revoked by the Department of State for good cause.
(c)
Program eligibility.
Sponsors designated by the Department of State to conduct an au pair exchange program shall;
(1) Limit the participation of foreign nationals in such programs to not more than one year;
(2) Limit the number of hours an EduCare au pair participant is obligated to provide child care services to not more than 10 hours per day or more than 30 hours per week and limit the number of hours all other au pair participants are obligated to provide child care services to not more than 10 hours per day or more than 45 hours per week;
(3) Require that EduCare au pair participants register and attend classes offered by an accredited U.S. post-secondary institution for not less than twelve semester hours of academic credit or its equivalent and that all other au pair participants register and attend classes offered by an accredited U.S. post-secondary institution for not less than six semester hours of academic credit or its equivalent;
(4) Require that all officers, employees, agents, and volunteers acting on their behalf are adequately trained and supervised;
(5) Require that the au pair participant is placed with a host family within one hour's driving time of the home of the local organizational representative authorized to act on the sponsor's behalf in both routine and emergency matters arising from the au pair's participation in their exchange program;
(6) Require that each local organizational representative maintain a record of all personal monthly contacts (or more frequently as required) with each au pair and host family for which he or she is responsible and issues or problems discussed;
(7) Require that all local organizational representatives contact au pair participants and host families twice monthly for the first two months following a placement other than the initial placement for which the au pair entered the United States.
(8) Require that local organizational representatives not devoting their full time and attention to their program obligations are responsible for no more than fifteen au pairs and host families; and
(9) Require that each local organizational representative is provided adequate support services by a regional organizational representative.
(d)
Au pair selection.
In addition to satisfying the requirements of § 62.10(a), sponsors shall ensure that all participants in a designated au pair exchange program:
(1) Are between the ages of 18 and 26;
(2) Are a secondary school graduate, or equivalent;
(3) Are proficient in spoken English;
(4) Are capable of fully participating in the program as evidenced by the satisfactory completion of a physical;
(5) Have been personally interviewed, in English, by an organizational representative who shall prepare a report
of the interview which shall be provided to the host family; and
(6) Have successfully passed a background investigation that includes verification of school, three, non-family related personal and employment references, a criminal background check or its recognized equivalent and a personality profile. Such personality profile will be based upon a psychometric test designed to measure differences in characteristics among applicants against those characteristics considered most important to successfully participate in the au pair program.
(e)
Au pair placement.
Sponsors shall secure, prior to the au pair's departure from the home country, a host family placement for each participant. Sponsors shall not:
(1) Place an au pair with a family unless the family has specifically agreed that a parent or other responsible adult will remain in the home for the first three days following the au pair's arrival;
(2) Place an au pair with a family having a child aged less than three months unless a parent or other responsible adult is present in the home;
(3) Place an au pair with a host family having children under the age of two, unless the au pair has at least 200 hours of documented infant child care experience. An au pair participating in the EduCare program shall not be placed with a family having pre-school children in the home unless alternative full-time arrangements for the supervision of such pre-school children are in place;
(4) Place an au pair with a host family having a special needs child, as so identified by the host family, unless the au pair has specifically identified his or her prior experience, skills, or training in the care of special needs children and the host family has reviewed and acknowledged in writing the au pair's prior experience, skills, or training so identified;
(5) Place an au pair with a host family unless a written agreement between the au pair and the host family detailing the au pair's obligation to provide child care has been signed by both the au pair and the host family prior to the au pair's departure from his or her home country. Such agreement shall clearly state whether the au pair is an EduCare program participant or not. Such agreement shall limit the obligation to provide child care services to not more than 10 hours per day or more than 45 hours per week unless the au pair is an EduCare participant. Such agreement shall limit the obligation of an EduCare participant to provide child care service to not more than 10 hours per day or more than 30 hours per week.
(6) Place the au pair with a family who cannot provide the au pair with a suitable private bedroom; and
(7) Place an au pair with a host family unless the host family has interviewed the au pair by telephone prior to the au pair's departure from his or her home country.
(f)
Au pair orientation.
In addition to the orientation requirements set forth at § 62.10, all sponsors shall provide au pairs, prior to their departure from the home country, with the following information:
(1) A copy of all operating procedures, rules, and regulations, including a grievance process, which govern the au pair's participation in the exchange program;
(2) A detailed profile of the family and community in which the au pair will be placed;
(3) A detailed profile of the educational institutions in the community where the au pair will be placed, including the financial cost of attendance at these institutions;
(4) A detailed summary of travel arrangements; and
(5) A copy of the Department of State's written statement and brochure regarding the au pair program.
(g)
Au pair training.
Sponsors shall provide the au pair participant with child development and child safety instruction, as follows:
(1) Prior to placement with the host family, the au pair participant shall receive not less than eight hours of child safety instruction no less than 4 of which shall be infant-related; and
(2) Prior to placement with the American host family, the au pair participant shall receive not less than twenty-four hours of child development instruction of which no less than 4
shall be devoted to specific training for children under the age of two.
(h)
Host family selection.
Sponsors shall adequately screen all potential host families and at a minimum shall:
(1) Require that the host parents are U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents;
(2) Require that host parents are fluent in spoken English;
(3) Require that all adult family members resident in the home have been personally interviewed by an organizational representative;
(4) Require that host parents and other adults living full-time in the household have successfully passed a background investigation including employment and personal character references;
(5) Require that the host family have adequate financial resources to undertake all hosting obligations;
(6) Provide a written detailed summary of the exchange program and the parameters of their and the au pair's duties, participation, and obligations; and
(7) Provide the host family with the prospective au pair participant's complete application, including all references.
(i)
Host family orientation.
In addition to the requirements set forth at § 62.10 sponsors shall:
(1) Inform all host families of the philosophy, rules, and regulations governing the sponsor's exchange program and provide all families with a copy of the Department of State's written statement and brochure regarding the au pair program;
(2) Provide all selected host families with a complete copy of Department of State-promulgated Exchange Visitor Program regulations, including the supplemental information thereto;
(3) Advise all selected host families of their obligation to attend at least one family day conference to be sponsored by the au pair organization during the course of the placement year. Host family attendance at such a gathering is a condition of program participation and failure to attend will be grounds for possible termination of their continued or future program participation; and
(4) Require that the organization's local counselor responsible for the au pair placement contacts the host family and au pair within forth-eight hours of the au pair's arrival and meets, in person, with the host family and au pair within two weeks of the au pair's arrival at the host family home.
(j)
Wages and hours.
Sponsors shall require that au pair participants:
(1) Are compensated at a weekly rate based upon 45 hours of child care services per week and paid in conformance with the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act as interpreted and implemented by the United States Department of Labor. EduCare participants shall be compensated at a weekly rate that is 75% of the weekly rate paid to non-EduCare participants;
(2) Do not provide more than 10 hours of child care per day, or more than 45 hours of child care in any one week. EduCare participants may not provide more than 10 hours of child care per day or more than 30 hours of child care in any one week;
(3) Receive a minimum of one and one half days off per week in addition to one complete weekend off each month; and
(4) Receive two weeks of paid vacation.
(k)
Educational component.
Sponsors must:
(1) Require that during their initial period of program participation, all EduCare au pair participants complete not less than 12 semester hours (or their equivalent) of academic credit in formal educational settings at accredited U.S. post-secondary institutions and that all other au pair participants complete not less than six semester hours (or their equivalent) of academic credit in formal educational settings at accredited U.S. post-secondary institutions. As a condition of program participation, host family participants must agree to facilitate the enrollment and attendance of au pairs in accredited U.S. post secondary institutions and to pay the cost of such academic course work in an amount not to exceed $1,000 for EduCare au pair participants and in an amount not to exceed $500 for all other au pair participants.
(2) Require that during any extension of program participation, all participants (
i.e.
, Au Pair or EduCare) satisfy an additional educational requirement, as follows:
(i) For a nine or 12-month extension, all au pair participants and host families shall have the same obligation for coursework and payment therefore as is required during the initial period of program participation.
(ii) For a six-month extension, EduCare au pair participants must complete not less than six semester hours (or their equivalent) of academic credit in formal educational settings at accredited U.S. post-secondary institutions. As a condition of participation, host family participants must agree to facilitate the enrollment and attendance of au pairs at accredited U.S. post secondary institutions and to pay the cost of such academic coursework in an amount not to exceed $500. All other au pair participants must complete not less than three semester hours (or their equivalent) of academic credit in formal educational settings at accredited U.S. post-secondary institutions. As a condition of program participation, host family participants must agree to facilitate the enrollment and attendance of au pairs at accredited U.S. post secondary institutions and to pay the cost of such academic coursework in an amount not to exceed $250.
(l)
Monitoring.
Sponsors shall fully monitor all au pair exchanges, and at a minimum shall:
(1) Require monthly personal contact by the local counselor with each au pair and host family for which the counselor is responsible. Counselors shall maintain a record of this contact;
(2) Require quarterly contact by the regional counselor with each au pair and host family for which the counselor is responsible. Counselors shall maintain a record of this contact;
(3) Require that all local and regional counselors are appraised of their obligation to report unusual or serious situations or incidents involving either the au pair or host family; and
(4) Promptly report to the Department of State any incidents involving or alleging a crime of moral turpitude or violence.
(m)
Reporting requirements.
Along with the annual report required by regulations set forth at § 62.17, sponsors shall file with the Department of State the following information:
(1) A summation of the results of an annual survey of all host family and au pair participants regarding satisfaction with the program, its strengths and weaknesses;
(2) A summation of all complaints regarding host family or au pair participation in the program, specifying the nature of the complaint, its resolution, and whether any unresolved complaints are outstanding;
(3) A summation of all situations which resulted in the placement of au pair participant with more than one host family;
(4) A report by a certified public accountant, conducted pursuant to a format designated by the Department of State, attesting to the sponsor's compliance with the procedures and reporting requirements set forth in this subpart;
(5) A report detailing the name of the au pair, his or her host family placement, location, and the names of the local and regional organizational representatives; and
(6) A complete set of all promotional materials, brochures, or pamphlets distributed to either host family or au pair participants.
(n)
Sanctions.
In addition to the sanctions provisions set forth at § 62.50, the Department of State may undertake immediate program revocation procedures upon documented evidence that a sponsor has failed to:
(1) Comply with the au pair placement requirements set forth in paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) Satisfy the selection requirements for each individual au pair as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(3) Enforce and monitor host family's compliance with the stipend and hours requirements set forth in paragraph (j) of this section.
(o)
Extension of program.
The Department, in its sole discretion, may approve extensions for au pair participants beyond the initial 12-month program. Applications to the Department for extensions of six, nine, or 12
months, must be received by the Department not less than 30 calendar days prior to the expiration of the exchange visitor's initial authorized stay in either the Au Pair or EduCare program (
i.e.
, 30-calendar days prior to the program end date listed on the exchange visitor's Form DS-2019). The request for an extension beyond the maximum duration of the initial 12-month program must be submitted electronically in the Department of Homeland Security's Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS). Supporting documentation must be submitted to the Department on the sponsor's organizational letterhead and contain the following information:
(1) Au pair's name, SEVIS identification number, date of birth, the length of the extension period being requested;
(2) Verification that the au pair completed the educational requirements of the initial program; and
(3) Payment of the required non-refundable fee (see 22 CFR 62.90) via Pay.gov.
(p)
Repeat participation.
A foreign national who enters the United States as an au pair Exchange Visitor Program participant and who has successfully completed his or her program is eligible to participate again as an au pair participant, provided that he or she has resided outside the United States for at least two years following completion of his or her initial au pair program.
[60 FR 8552, Feb. 15, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 34633, June 27, 1997; 64 FR 53930, Oct. 5, 1999. Redesignated at 64 FR 54539, Oct. 7, 1999; 66 FR 43087, Aug. 17, 2001; 71 FR 33238, June 8, 2006; 73 FR 34862, June 19, 2008]
§ 62.32
Summer work travel.
(a)
Introduction.
The regulations in this section (in combination with any other provisions of 22 CFR part 62, as applicable) govern participation in Summer Work Travel programs conducted by Department of State-designated sponsors pursuant to the authority granted the Department of State under Public Law 105-277.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this program is to provide foreign college and university students with opportunities to interact with U.S. citizens, experience U.S. culture while sharing their own cultures with Americans they meet, travel in the United States, and work in jobs that require minimal training and are seasonal or temporary in order to earn funds to help defray a portion of their expenses. Employment is of a seasonal nature when the required service is tied to a certain time of the year by an event or pattern and requires labor levels above and beyond existing worker levels. Employment is of a temporary nature when an employer's need for the duties to be performed is a one-time occurrence, a peak load need, or an intermittent need. It is the nature of employers' needs, not the nature of the duties that is controlling.
(c)
Duration of participation.
Summer Work Travel participants are authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program for up to four months during the long break between academic years as determined by the Department of State. Extensions of program participation are not permitted.
(d)
Participant screening and selection.
In addition to satisfying the requirements set forth at § 62.10(a), sponsors are solely responsible for adequately screening and making the final selection. The screening process requires that sponsors (or vetted foreign entities acting on their behalf) at a minimum must:
(1) Conduct and document interviews with potential participants either in-person or by video-conference;
(2) Verify proficiency in conversational English and reading comprehension through either recognized language tests administered by academic institutions or English language schools or through the required documented interviews;
(3) Select applicants who demonstrate their intention to participate in the cultural aspects of the Summer Work Travel Program.
(4) Confirm that at the time of application, applicants (including final year students) are enrolled full-time and pursuing studies at accredited post-secondary, classroom-based, academic institutions physically located outside of the United States and have successfully completed at least one semester, or equivalent, of post-secondary academic study.
(e)
Participant orientation.
In addition to satisfying the requirements set forth at § 62.10(b) and (c), sponsors must provide program participants, prior to participants' departures from their home countries, the following information and/or documentation:
(1) A copy of the Department of State's Summer Work Travel Participant Letter;
(2) A copy of the Department of State's Summer Work Travel Program Brochure;
(3) The Department of State's toll-free help line telephone number;
(4) The sponsor's 24/7 immediate contact telephone number;
(5) Information advising participants of their obligations to notify their sponsors within ten days after they arrive in the United States and within ten days after they initially secure or change residences;
(6) Information advising participants that they may not begin working at initial, replacement, or additional jobs until their sponsors have verified the terms and conditions of such employment and fully vetted their host employers as set forth at paragraph (n) of this section;
(7) For participants with jobs secured prior to departing from selected home countries, documentation explaining the terms and conditions of such jobs and providing information about available housing and transportation to and from work;
(8) Information explaining the cultural component of the Summer Work Travel Program, including guidance on how to best experience U.S. culture and/or descriptions of cultural opportunities arranged by the sponsor; and
(9) Information explaining that sponsors will terminate the programs of participants who fail to comply with enumerated program regulations (
i.e.
, reporting their arrivals, reporting changes of residence, not starting work at unverified jobs, responding to sponsor monthly outreach/monitoring efforts).
(f)
Cultural exchange.
(1) Sponsors must ensure that all participants have opportunities to work alongside U.S. citizens and interact regularly with U.S. citizens to experience U.S. culture during the workday portion of their Summer Work Travel programs; and
(2) Sponsors must ensure that all participants have opportunities to engage in cultural activities or events outside of work by planning, initializing, and carrying out events or other activities that provide participants' exposure to U.S. culture.
(g)
Participant placement.
(1) Sponsors and third parties acting on their behalf may not pay or otherwise provide any incentive to employers to accept program participants for job placements with such employers.
(2) Sponsors must confirm initial, replacement, and additional jobs placements of all Summer Work Travel Program participants before participants may start work by verifying, at a minimum, the terms and conditions of such employment and fully vetting their host employers as set forth at paragraph (n) of this section. Once participants have arrived in the United States and identified initial, replacement, or additional jobs, sponsors must vet such jobs within 72 hours.
(3) Sponsors must not pose obstacles to job changes, but must offer reasonable assistance to participants wishing to change jobs regardless of whether their jobs were secured by the sponsors (direct-placed) or by the participants (self-placed).
(4) Sponsors may place participants only in jobs that:
(i) Are seasonal or temporary as defined in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(ii) Provide opportunities for regular communication and interaction with U.S. citizens and allow participants to experience U.S. culture.
(5) Sponsors may not place participants in jobs:
(i) That require licensing;
(ii) That are on the program exclusion list set forth at paragraph (h) of this section; or
(iii) For which there is another specific J visa category (e.g., Camp Counselor, Trainee, Intern).
(6) Sponsors may not place participants with staffing agencies unless the placements meet the following three criteria:
(i) Participants must be employees of and paid by the staffing agencies;
(ii) Staffing agencies must provide full-time, primary, on-site supervision of the participants;
(iii) Staffing agencies must effectively control the work sites, e.g., have hands-on management responsibility for the participants.
(7) Sponsors may not place participants with employers that fill non-seasonal or non-temporary job openings with exchange visitors with staggered vacation schedules.
(8) Sponsors must use extra caution when placing students in positions at employers in lines of business that are frequently associated with trafficking persons (e.g., modeling agencies, housekeeping, janitorial services).
(9) Sponsors must consider the availability of suitable, affordable housing (e.g., that meets local codes and ordinances) and reliable, affordable, and convenient transportation to and from work when making job placements.
(i) If employers do not provide or arrange housing and/or transportation, or if participants decline employer-provided housing or transportation, sponsors must actively and immediately assist participants with arranging appropriate housing and transportation.
(ii) If employers provide housing and/or transportation to and from work, job offers must include details of all such arrangements, including the cost to participants; whether such arrangements deduct such costs from participants' wages; and the market value of housing and/or transportation in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act regulations set forth at 29 CFR part 531, if they are considered part of the compensation packages.
(10) For participants who are nationals of non-Visa Waiver Program countries and participants who are nationals of Visa Waiver Program countries with job placements screened in advance by the sponsors (direct placement) or jobs found by the participants (self-placement), prior to issuing Form DS-2019, sponsors must vet the potential employers as set forth at paragraph (n) of this section, confirm the terms and conditions of the job offers, and input complete and correct data into the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) pursuant to the requirements set forth in § 62.70(f).
(11) Sponsors of applicants who are nationals of Visa Waiver Program countries and who have not secured jobs prior to departing from their home countries must:
(i) Ensure that such participants receive pre-departure information that explains how to seek employment and secure lodging in the United States, and clearly identifies the criteria for appropriate jobs set forth at paragraph (g) of this section and the categories of employment and positions that are on the program exclusion list set forth at paragraph (h) of this section;
(ii) Ensure that such participants have sufficient financial resources to support themselves during their searches for employment;
(iii) Assist participants who have not found suitable employment within one week of commencing their job searches;
(iv) Instruct participants of their obligation to notify their sponsors when they obtain job offers (and that they cannot start such jobs until the sponsors vet them); and
(v) Promptly (
i.e.
, within 72 hours) confirm the initial jobs of such participants, at a minimum, by verifying the terms and conditions of such employment and fully vetting their host employers as set forth at paragraph (n) of this section.
(h)
Program exclusions.
Sponsors must not place participants:
(1) In positions that could bring notoriety or disrepute to the Exchange Visitor Program;
(2) In sales positions that require participants to purchase inventory that they must sell in order to support themselves;
(3) In domestic help positions in private homes (e.g., child care, elder care, gardener, chauffeur);
(4) As pedicab or rolling chair drivers or operators;
(5) As operators or drivers of vehicles or vessels for which drivers' licenses are required regardless of whether they carry passengers or not;
(6) In positions related to clinical care that involves patient contact;
(7) In any position in the adult entertainment industry (including, but not
limited to jobs with escort services, adult book/video stores, and strip clubs);
(8) In positions requiring work hours that fall predominantly between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
(9) In positions declared hazardous to youth by the Secretary of Labor at Subpart E of 29 CFR part 570;
(10) In positions that require sustained physical contact with other people and/or adherence to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Universal Blood and Body Fluid Precautions guidelines (e.g., body piercing, tattooing, massage, manicure);
(11) In positions that are substantially commission-based and thus do not guarantee that participants will be paid minimum wage in accordance with federal and state standards;
(12) In positions involved in gaming and gambling that include direct participation in wagering and/or betting;
(13) In positions in chemical pest control, warehousing, catalogue/online order distribution centers;
(14) In positions with travelling fairs or itinerant concessionaires;
(15) In positions for which there is another specific J category (e.g., camp counselor, intern, trainee); or
(16) After November 1, 2012, in positions in the North American Industry Classification System's (NAICS) Goods-Producing Industries occupational categories industry sectors 11, 21, 23, 31-33 numbers (set forth at
http://www.bls.gov/iag/tgs/iag_index_naics.htm).
(i)
Participant compensation.
(1) Sponsors must inform program participants of Federal, State, and Local Minimum Wage requirements, and ensure that at a minimum, participants are compensated at the higher of:
(i) The applicable Federal, State, or Local Minimum Wage (including overtime); or
(ii) Pay and benefits commensurate with those offered to their similarly situated U.S. counterparts.
(2) Sponsors must demonstrate that participants are also compensated according to the above standards in the following (and similar) situations:
(i) The host employers provide housing and/or transportation as part of participants' compensation, but the compensation package does not explain that the lower hourly wage reflects such benefits; or
(ii) The employers compensate participants on a “piece” basis (e.g., number of rooms cleaned). If at the end of each pay period, the participant's earnings under the piece rate do not equal at least the amount the participant would have earned had the participant been paid the predominant local wage as provided in subparagraph (1), the participant's pay must be supplemented at that time so that the participant's earnings are at least as much as the required local wage as provided in subparagraph (1).
(3) Sponsors must ensure that appropriate assistance is provided to participants on an as-needed basis and that sponsors are available to participants (and host employers) to assist as facilitators, counselors, and information resources.
(j)
Monitoring.
Sponsors must:
(1) Maintain, at a minimum, monthly personal contacts with program participants. Such contact may be in-person, by telephone, or via exchanges of electronic mail (including a response from the participant) and must be properly documented. Sponsors must promptly and appropriately address issues affecting the participants' health, safety, and welfare identified through such contacts; and
(2) Provide appropriate assistance to participants on an as-needed basis and be available to participants (and host employers) to assist as facilitators, counselors, and information resources.
(k)
Internal controls.
Sponsors must utilize organization-specific standard operating procedures for training and supervising all organization employees. In addition, sponsors must establish internal controls to ensure that employers and/or foreign entities comply with the terms of agreements with such third parties involved in the administration of the sponsors' exchange visitor programs (
i.e.
, affect the core programmatic functions).
(l)
Sponsors' use of third parties.
(1) If sponsors utilize foreign third party entities to assist in fulfilling the core programmatic functions of screening and orientation that may be conducted outside the United States, they must first obtain written and executed
agreements with such third parties. For the purpose of this section, U.S. entities operating outside the United States (or its possessions or territories) are considered foreign entities. At a minimum, these written agreements must:
(i) Outline the obligations and full relationship between the sponsors and such third parties on all matters involving the administration of the sponsors' exchange visitor programs;
(ii) Delineate the parties' respective responsibilities;
(iii) Include annually updated price lists for Summer Work Travel Programs marketed by the foreign entities including itemizations of all costs charged to participants;
(iv) Contain representations that such foreign entities will not engage in, permit the use of, or otherwise cooperate or contract with other third parties (including staffing or employment agencies or subcontractors) for the purpose of outsourcing any core programmatic functions of screening and orientation covered by the agreement; and
(v) Confirm that the foreign entities agree not to pay or provide incentives to employers in the United States to accept program participants for job placements.
(2) If sponsors utilize domestic third party entities to assist in fulfilling the core programmatic functions of orientation and promoting mutual understanding, they must first obtain written and executed agreements with such third parties. Domestic third parties engaged by sponsors may not engage or subcontract any other parties to assist in fulfilling these core programmatic functions. Only host employers may assist in providing orientation to program participants. At a minimum, these written agreements must:
(i) Outline the obligations and full relationship between the sponsors and such third parties on all matters involving the administration of the sponsors' exchange visitor programs; and
(ii) Delineate the parties' respective responsibilities.
(m)
Vetting third party foreign entities.
Sponsors must undertake appropriate due diligence in the review of potential overseas agents or partners (
i.e.
, foreign entities) who assist in fulfilling the sponsors' core programmatic functions that may be conducted outside the United States (
i.e.
, screening and orientation) and must, at a minimum, annually review and maintain the following documentation for potential or existing foreign entities:
(1) Proof of business licensing and/or registration to enable them to conduct business in the venue(s) where they operate;
(2) Disclosure of any previous bankruptcy and of any pending legal actions or complaints against such an entity on file with local authorities;
(3) Written references from three current business associates or partner organizations;
(4) Summary of previous experience conducting J-1 Exchange Visitor Program activities;
(5) Criminal background check reports (including original and English translations) for all owners and officers of the organizations;
(6) A copy of the sponsor-approved advertising materials the foreign entities intend to use to market the sponsors' programs (including original and English translations); and
(7) A copy of the foreign entity's notarized recent financial statements.
(n)
Vetting domestic third party entities.
Annually, sponsors must undertake appropriate due diligence in the vetting of domestic third parties who assist in the promotion of mutual understanding and potential host employers.
(1) Sponsors must ensure that third parties assisting in promoting mutual understanding (
i.e.
, providing opportunities for participants to engage in cultural activities) are reputable individuals or organizations that are qualified to perform the activities agreed to and that they have sufficient liability insurance, if appropriate. All third parties that are registered business entities must be vetted according to the host employer procedures set forth in paragraphs (n)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(2) Sponsors must ensure that potential host employers are legitimate and reputable businesses by, at a minimum:
(i) Making direct contact in person or by telephone with potential employers to verify the business owners' and/or
managers' names, telephone numbers, email addresses, street addresses, and professional activities;
(ii) Utilizing publicly available information, for example, but not limited to, state registries, advertisements, brochures, Web sites, and/or feedback from prior participants to confirm that all job offers have been made by viable business entities;
(iii) Obtaining potential host employers' Employer Identification Numbers and copies of their current business licenses; and
(iv) Verifying the potential host employers' Worker's Compensation Insurance Policy or equivalent in each state where a participant will be placed or, if applicable, evidence of that state's exemption from requirement of such coverage.
(3) At the beginning of each placement season, sponsors must confirm:
(i) The number of job placements available with host employers;
(ii) That host employers will not displace domestic U.S. workers at worksites where they will place program participants; and
(iii) That host employers have not experienced layoffs in the past 120 days and do not have workers on lockout or on strike.
(o)
Host employer cooperation.
Sponsors may place participants only with host employers that agree to:
(1) Make good faith efforts to provide participants the number of hours of paid employment per week as identified on their job offers and agreed to when the sponsors vetted the jobs;
(2) Pay eligible participants for overtime worked in accordance with applicable State or Federal law;
(3) Notify sponsors promptly when participants arrive at the work sites to begin their programs; when there are any changes or deviations in the job placements during the participants' programs; when participants are not meeting the requirements of their job placements; or when participants leave their positions ahead of their planned departures;
(4) Contact sponsors immediately in the event of any emergency involving participants or any situations that impact their health, safety, or welfare; and
(5) In those instances when the employer provides housing or transportation, agree to provide suitable and acceptable accommodations and/or reliable, affordable, and convenient transportation.
(p)
Reporting requirements.
Sponsors must electronically comply with the following reporting requirements utilizing Department-provided templates:
(1) Submit placement reports on January 31 and July 31 of each year, identifying all Summer Work Travel Program participants who began exchange programs during the preceding six-month period. The reports must include the exchange visitors' names, SEVIS Identification Numbers, countries of citizenship or legal permanent residence, names of host employers, and the length of time it took non-pre-placed participants to secure job placements. For participants who change jobs or have multiple jobs during their programs, the report must include all such placements;
(2) Maintain listings of all active foreign agents or partners on the Foreign Entity Report by promptly informing the Department of any additions, deletions, or changes to foreign entity information by submitting new versions of their reports that reflect all current information. Reports must include the names, addresses, and contact information, including physical and mailing addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of all foreign entities that assist the sponsors in fulfilling the provision of core programmatic services. Sponsors must utilize only vetted foreign entities identified in the Foreign Entity Report to assist in fulfilling the sponsors' core programmatic functions outside the United States, and they must inform the Department promptly when and why they have cancelled contractual arrangements with foreign entities; and
(3) Submit annual participant price lists to the Department on January 31 of each year in a format approved by the Department to provide itemized breakdowns of the costs that exchange visitors must pay to both foreign agents and sponsors to participate in the Summer Work Travel Program on
a country-specific (and, if appropriate, foreign agent-specific) basis.
[77 FR 27609, May 11, 2012]

# Subpart C—Status of Exchange Visitors
§ 62.40
Termination of program participation.
(a) A sponsor shall terminate an exchange visitor's participation in its program when the exchange visitor:
(1) Fails to pursue the activities for which he or she was admitted to the United States;
(2) Is unable to continue, unless otherwise exempted pursuant to these regulations;
(3) Violates the Exchange Visitor Program regulations and/or the sponsor's rules governing the program, if, in the sponsor's opinion, termination is warranted;
(4) Willfully fails to maintain the insurance coverage required under § 62.14 of these regulations; or
(b) An exchange visitor's participation in the Exchange Visitor Program is subject to termination when he or she engages in unauthorized employment. Upon establishing such violation, the Department of State shall terminate the exchange visitor's participation in the Exchange Visitor Program.
§ 62.41
Change of category.
(a) The Department of State may, in its discretion, permit an exchange visitor to change his or her category of exchange participation. Any change in category must be clearly consistent with and closely related to the participant's original exchange objective and necessary due to unusual or exceptional circumstances.
(b) A request for change of category along with supporting justification must be submitted to the Department of State by the participant's sponsor. Upon Department of State approval the sponsor shall issue to the exchange visitor a duly executed Form DS-2019 reflecting such change of category and provide a notification copy of such form to the Department of State.
(c) Requests for change of category from research scholar to student will be evaluated recognizing the fact that, in some cases, research skills can be substantially enhanced by doctoral study.
(d) An exchange visitor who applies for a change of category pursuant to these regulations is considered to be maintaining lawful status during the pendency of the application.
(e) An exchange visitor who applies for a change of category and who subsequently receives notice from the Department of State that the request has been denied is considered to be maintaining lawful status for an additional period of thirty days from the day of such notice, during which time the exchange visitor is expected to depart the country, or for a period of thirty days from expiration of the exchange visitors' Form DS-2019, whichever is later.
§ 62.42
Transfer of program.
(a) Program sponsors may, pursuant to the provisions set forth in this section, permit an exchange visitor to transfer from one designated program to another designated program.
(b) The responsible officer of the program to which the exchange visitor is transferring:
(1) Shall verify the exchange visitor's visa status and program eligibility;
(2) Execute the Form DS-2019; and
(3) Secure the written release of the current sponsor.
(c) Upon return of the completed Form DS-2019, the responsible officer of the program to which the exchange visitor has transferred shall provide:
(1) The exchange visitor his or her copy of the Form DS-2019; and
(2) A notification copy of such form to the Department of State.
§ 62.43
Extension of Program.
(a) Responsible officers may extend an exchange visitor's participation in the Exchange Visitor Program up to the limit of the permissible period of participation authorized for his or her specific program category.
(b) A responsible officer extending the program of an exchange visitor shall issue to the exchange visitor a duly executed Form DS-2019 reflecting such extension and provide a notification copy of such form to the Department of State.
(c) The responsible officer seeking a program extension on behalf of an exchange visitor in excess of that authorized for his or her specific category of participation shall:
(1) Adequately document the reasons which justify such extension; and
(2) Secure the prior written approval of the Department of State for such extension.
(d) In addition to individual requests, the Department of State shall entertain requests for groups of similarly situated exchange visitors.
§ 62.45
Reinstatement to valid program status.
(a)
Definitions.
For purpose of this section—
You
means the Responsible Officer or Alternate Responsible Officer;
Exchange visitor
means the person who enters the United States on a J visa in order to participate in an exchange program designated by the Secretary of State of the Department of State.
Fails or failed maintain valid program status
means the status of an exchange visitor who has completed, concluded, ceased, interrupted, graduated from, or otherwise terminated the exchange visitor's participation in the exchange program, or who remains in the United States beyond the end date on the exchange visitor's current Form DS-2019.
Unauthorized employment
means any employment not properly authorized by you or by the Attorney General,
i.e.
, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, prior to commencement of employment. Unauthorized employment does not include activities that are normally approvable, as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
We, our, or us
means the office of Exchange Visitor Program Services of the Department of State.
(b)
Who is authorized to correct minor or technical infractions of the Exchange Visitor Program regulations?
(1) If the exchange visitor committed a technical or minor infraction of the regulations, you are authorized to correct the exchange visitor's records with respect to such technical or minor infractions of the regulations in this part. Your correction of such an infraction(s) returns the exchange visitor to the status quo ante,
i.e.,
it is as if the infraction never occurred.
(2) You may only correct the exchange visitor's record with respect to a technical or minor infraction of the regulations in this part if the exchange visitor is pursuing or intending to pursue the exchange visitor's original program objective.
(3) You may not correct the exchange visitor's records with respect to a technical or minor infraction of the regulations in this part if the exchange visitor has willfully failed to maintain insurance coverage during the period for which the record is being corrected; if the exchange visitor has engaged in unauthorized employment during that period, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, of if the exchange visitor was involuntarily suspended or terminated from his or her program during the period.
(4) If the exchange visitor has failed to maintain valid program status because of a substantive violation of the regulations in this part, you must apply to us for reinstatement.
(c)
What violations or infractions of the regulations in this part do we consider to be technical or minor ones, and how do you correct the record?
We consider the following to be examples of technical or minor infractions which you are authorized to correct:
(1) Failure to extend the Form DS-2019 in a timely manner (
i.e.
, prior to the end date on the current Form DS-2019) due to inadvertence or neglect on your part or on the part of the exchange visitor.
(2) Failure on the part of the exchange visitor to conclude a transfer of program prior to the end date on the current Form DS-2019 due to administrative delay or oversight, inadvertence or neglect on your part or on the part of the exchange visitor;
(3) Failure to receive your prior approval and/or an amended Form DS-2019 before accepting an honorarium or other type of payment for engaging in a normally approvable and appropriate activity. Example, a lecture, consultation, or other activity appropriate to the category which is provided by a professor, research scholar, short-term scholar or specialist without prior approval or an amended Form DS-2019
issued prior to the occurrence of the activity.
(4) You correct the record
status quo ante
by issuing a Form DS-2019 or by writing an authorization letter to reflect the continuity in the program or the permission to engage in the activity that a timely issued document would have reflected.
(i) Forms DS-2019 should be:
(A) Issued to show continued authorized stay without interruption;
(B) Marked in the “purpose” box with the appropriate purpose (
i.e.,
extension, transfer, etc.) and with the additional notation of “correct the record” typed in;
(C) Dated as of the date the Form was actually executed; and,
(D) Submitted to the Department of State in the same way as any other notification.
(ii) Letters or other authorization documents should be:
(A) Issued according to the regulations in this part appropriate to the category and the activity;
(B) Marked or annotated to show “correct the record,”
(C) Dated as of the date the letter or document was actually executed; and,
(D) Attached to the exchange visitor's Form DS-2019 and/or retained in the sponsor's file as required by the regulations in this part for that particular type of letter or document.
(d)
How do you determine if an infraction, other than those examples listed above is a technical or minor infraction?
It is impossible to list every example of a technical or minor infraction. To guide you in making a determination, you are to examine the following criteria:
(1) Regardless of the reason, has the exchange visitor failed to maintain valid program status for more than 120 calendar days after the end date on the current Form DS-2019?
(2) Has the exchange visitor, by his or her actions, failed to maintain, at all relevant times, his or her original program objective?
(3) Has the exchange visitor willfully failed to comply with our insurance coverage requirements (§ 62.14)?
(4) Has the exchange visitor engaged in unauthorized employment, as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section?
(5) Has the exchange visitor category been involuntarily suspended or terminated from his or her program?
(6) Has an exchange visitor in the student category failed to maintain a full course of study (as defined in § 62.2) without prior consultation with you and the exchange visitor's academic advisor?
(7) Has the exchange visitor failed to pay the fee mandated by Public Law 104-208 (the “CIPRIS” fee)?
(8) If the answer to any of the above questions is “yes,” then the infraction is not a technical or minor one and you are not authorized to reinstate the exchange visitor to valid program status.
(e)
Which violations or infractions do we consider to be substantive ones requiring you to apply to us for reinstatement?
The following are substantive violations or infractions of the regulations in this part by the exchange visitor which require you to apply to us for reinstatement to valid program status:
(1) Failure to maintain valid program status for more than 120 days after the end date on the current Form DS-2019;
(2) If a student, failure to maintain a full course of study (as defined in § 62.2) without prior consultation with you and the exchange visitor's academic advisor.
(f)
Which, if any, violations of the regulations in this part or other conditions preclude reinstatement and will result in a denial if application is made?
We will not consider requests for reinstatement (nor should you) when an exchange visitor has:
(1) Knowingly or willfully failed to obtain or maintain the required health insurance (§ 62.14) at all times while in the United States;
(2) Engaged in unauthorized employment, as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section;
(3) Been suspended or terminated from the most recent exchange visitor program;
(4) Failed to maintain valid program status for more than 270 calendar days;
(5) Received a favorable recommendation from the Department of State on an application for waiver of section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1182(e)]; or,
(6) Failed to pay the fee mandated by Public Law 104-208 (the “CIPRIS” fee.)
(g)
What if you cannot determine which category (technical, substantive, or non-reinstatable) the violation or infraction falls within?
If you cannot determine which category the violation or condition falls within, then you must, on behalf of the exchange visitor, apply to us for reinstatement.
(h)
If you determine that the exchange visitor's violation of the regulations in this part is a substantive one, how do you apply for a reinstatement to valid program status?
(1) If you determine that the violation of the regulations in this part is a substantive one, and that the exchange visitor has failed to maintain valid program status for 120 days or less, you must apply to us for reinstatement of the exchange visitor to valid program status. Your application must include:
(i) All copies of the exchange visitor's Forms DS-2019 issued to date;
(ii) A new, completed Form DS-2019, showing in Block 3 the date of the period for which reinstatement is sought,
i.e.
, the new program end date;
(iii) A copy of the receipt showing that the Public Law 104-208 fee has been paid; and,
(iv) A written statement (and documentary information supporting such statement):
(A) Declaring that the exchange visitor is pursuing or was at all times intending to pursue the original exchange visitor program activity for which the exchange visitor was admitted to the United States; and,
(B) Showing that the exchange visitor failed to maintain valid program status due to circumstances beyond the control of the exchange visitor, or from administrative delay or oversight, inadvertence, or excusable neglect on your part or the exchange visitor's part; or,
(C) Showing that it would be an unusual hardship to the exchange visitor if we do not grant the reinstatement to valid program status.
(2) If you determine that the violation of the regulations is a substantive one, and that the exchange visitor has failed to maintain valid program status for more than 120 days, then you must apply to us for reinstatement of the exchange visitor to valid program status. Your application must include:
(i) Copies of all the exchange visitor's Forms DS-2019 issued to date;
(ii) A new, completed Form DS-2019, showing in Block 3 the date for which reinstatement is sought,
i.e.
, the new program end date;
(iii) A copy of the receipt showing that the Pub. L. 104-208 fee has been paid; and,
(iv) A written statement (together with documentary evidence supporting such statement):
(A) Declaring that the exchange visitor is pursuing or was at all times intending to pursue the exchange visitor program activity for which the exchange visitor was admitted to the United States; and,
(B) Showing that the exchange visitor failed to maintain valid program status due to circumstances beyond the control of the exchange visitor, or from administrative delay or oversight, inadvertence, or excusable neglect on your part or the exchange visitor's part; and,
(C) Showing that it would be an unusual hardship to the exchange visitor if we do not grant the reinstatement to valid program status.
(i)
How will we notify you of our decision on your request for reinstatement?
(1) If we deny your request for reinstatement, we will notify you by letter.
(2) If we approve your request for reinstatement, we will notify you:
(i) By stamping Box 6 on the new Form DS-2019 to show that reinstatement was granted, effective as of the date on which the application for reinstatement was received by the Exchange Visitor Program Services office; and
(ii) By returning the new Form DS-2019 for the exchange visitor.
(j)
How long will it take us to act on your request for reinstatement?
We will act on your request for reinstatement within forty-five days from the date on which we receive the request
and
supporting documentation.
(k)
Are you required to notify us each time that you correct a record?
No special notification is necessary. Submission of the notification copy of Form DS-2019 to the Department of State serves
as notice that a record has been corrected. Following the regulations in this part in issuing a letter or document serves as correction in the sponsor's file for those items not normally sent to the Department of State under existing notification procedures.
[64 FR 44126, Aug. 13, 1999. Redesignated at 64 FR 54539, Oct. 7, 1999]

# Subpart D—Sanctions
§ 62.50
Sanctions.
(a)
Reasons for sanctions.
The Department of State (Department) may impose sanctions against a sponsor upon a finding by its Office of Exchange Coordination and Designation (Office) that the sponsor has:
(1) Violated one or more provisions of this Part;
(2) Evidenced a pattern of failure to comply with one or more provisions of this Part;
(3) Committed an act of omission or commission, which has or could have the effect of endangering the health, safety, or welfare of an exchange visitor; or
(4) Otherwise conducted its program in such a way as to undermine the foreign policy objectives of the United States, compromise the national security interests of the United States, or bring the Department or the Exchange Visitor Program into notoriety or disrepute.
(b)
Lesser sanctions.
(1) In order to ensure full compliance with the regulations in this Part, the Department, in its discretion and depending on the nature and seriousness of the violation, may impose any or all of the following sanctions (“lesser sanctions”) on a sponsor upon a finding that the sponsor engaged in any of the acts or omissions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section:
(i) A written reprimand to the sponsor, with a warning that repeated or persistent violations of the regulations in this part may result in suspension or revocation of the sponsor's Exchange Visitor Program designation, or other sanctions as set forth herein;
(ii) A declaration placing the exchange visitor sponsor's program on probation, for a period of time determined by the Department in its discretion, signifying a pattern of violation of regulations such that further violations could lead to suspension or revocation of the sponsor's Exchange Visitor Program designation, or other sanctions as set forth herein;
(iii) A corrective action plan designed to cure the sponsor's violations; or
(iv) Up to a 15 percent (15%) reduction in the authorized number of exchange visitors in the sponsor's program or in the geographic area of its recruitment or activity. If the sponsor continues to violate the regulations in this Part, the Department may impose subsequent additional reductions, in ten-percent (10%) increments, in the authorized number of exchange visitors in the sponsor's program or in the geographic area of its recruitment or activity.
(2) Within ten (10) days after service of the written notice to the sponsor imposing any of the sanctions set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the sponsor may submit to the Office a statement in opposition to or mitigation of the sanction. Such statement may not exceed 20 pages in length, double-spaced and, if appropriate, may include additional documentary material. Sponsors shall include with all documentary material an index of the documents and a summary of the relevance of each document presented. Upon review and consideration of such submission, the Office may, in its discretion, modify, withdraw, or confirm such sanction. All materials the sponsor submits will become a part of the sponsor's file with the Office.
(3) The decision of the Office is the final Department decision with regard to lesser sanctions in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(c)
Suspension.
(1) Upon a finding that a sponsor has committed a serious act of omission or commission which has or could have the effect of endangering the health, safety, or welfare of an exchange visitor, or of damaging the national security interests of the United States, the Office may serve the sponsor with written notice of its decision to suspend the designation of the sponsor's program for a period not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) days. Such notice must specify the grounds
for the sanction and the effective date thereof, advise the sponsor of its right to oppose the suspension, and identify the procedures for submitting a statement of opposition thereto. Suspension under this paragraph need not be preceded by the imposition of any other sanction or notice.
(2)(i) Within five (5) days after service of such notice, the sponsor may submit to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Educational and Cultural Affairs (Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, or PDAS) a statement in opposition to the Office's decision. Such statement may not exceed 20 pages in length, double-spaced and, if appropriate, may include additional documentary material. A sponsor shall include with all documentary material an index of the documents and a summary of the relevance of each document presented. The submission of a statement in opposition to the Office's decision will not serve to stay the effective date of the suspension.
(ii) Within five (5) days after receipt of, and upon consideration of, such opposition, the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary shall confirm, modify, or withdraw the suspension by serving the sponsor with a written decision. Such decision must specify the grounds therefore, and advise the sponsor of the procedures for requesting review of the decision.
(iii) All materials the sponsor submits will become a part of the sponsor's file with the Office.
(3) The procedures for review of the decision of the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary are set forth in paragraphs (d)(3) and (4), (g), and (h) of this section, except that the submission of a request for review will not serve to stay the suspension.
(d)
Revocation of designation.
(1) Upon a finding of any act or omission set forth at paragraph (a) of this section, the Office may serve a sponsor with not less than thirty (30) days' written notice of its intent to revoke the sponsor's Exchange Visitor Program designation. Such notice must specify the grounds for the proposed sanction and its effective date, advise the sponsor of its right to oppose the proposed sanction, and identify the procedures for submitting a statement of opposition thereto. Revocation of designation under this paragraph need not be preceded by the imposition of any other sanction or notice.
(2)(i) Within ten (10) days after service of such written notice of intent to revoke designation, the sponsor may submit to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary a statement in opposition to or mitigation of the proposed sanction, which may include a request for a meeting.
(ii) The submission of such statement will serve to stay the effective date of the proposed sanction pending the decision of the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary.
(iii) The Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary shall provide a copy of the statement in opposition to or mitigation of the proposed sanction to the Office. The Office shall submit a statement in response, and shall provide the sponsor with a copy thereof.
(iv) A statement in opposition to or mitigation of the proposed sanction, or statement in response thereto, may not exceed 25 pages in length, double-spaced and, if appropriate, may include additional documentary material. Any additional documentary material may include an index of the documents and a summary of the relevance of each document presented.
(v) Upon consideration of such statements, the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary shall modify, withdraw, or confirm the proposed sanction by serving the sponsor with a written decision. Such decision shall specify the grounds therefor, identify its effective date, advise the sponsor of its right to request a review, and identify the procedures for requesting such review.
(vi) All materials the sponsor submits will become a part of the sponsor's file with the Office.
(3) Within ten (10) days after service of such written notice of the decision of the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, the sponsor may submit a request for review with the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary. The submission of such request for review will serve to stay the effective date of the decision pending the outcome of the review.
(4) Within ten (10) days after receipt of such request for review, the Department shall designate a panel of three Review Officers pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, and the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary shall forward to each panel member all notices, statements, and decisions submitted or provided pursuant to the preceding paragraphs of paragraph (d) of this section. Thereafter, the review will be conducted pursuant to paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.
(e)
Denial of application for redesignation.
Upon a finding of any act or omission set forth at paragraph (a) of this section, the Office may serve a sponsor with not less than thirty (30) days' written notice of its intent to deny the sponsor's application for redesignation. Such notice must specify the grounds for the proposed sanction and its effective date, advise the sponsor of its right to oppose the proposed sanction, and identify the procedures for submitting a statement of opposition thereto. Denial of redesignation under this section need not be preceded by the imposition of any other sanction or notice. The procedures for opposing a proposed denial of redesignation are set forth in paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), (g), and (h) of this section.
(f)
Responsible officers.
The Office may direct a sponsor to suspend or revoke the appointment of a responsible officer or alternate responsible officer for any of the reasons set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The procedures for suspending or revoking a responsible officer or alternate responsible officer are set forth at paragraphs (d), (g), and (h) of this section.
(g)
Review officers.
A panel of three Review Officers shall hear a sponsor's request for review pursuant to paragraphs (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section. The Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs shall designate one senior official from an office reporting to him/her, other than from the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, as a member of the Panel. The Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs and the Legal Adviser shall each designate one senior official from their bureaus as members of the Panel.
(h)
Review.
The Review Officers may affirm, modify, or reverse the sanction imposed by the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary. The following procedures shall apply to the review:
(1) Upon its designation, the panel of Review Officers shall promptly notify the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary and the sponsor in writing of the identity of the Review Officers and the address to which all communications with the Review Officers shall be directed.
(2) Within fifteen (15) days after service of such notice, the sponsor may submit to the Review Officers four (4) copies of a statement identifying the grounds on which the sponsor asserts that the decision of the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary should be reversed or modified. Any such statement may not exceed 25 pages in length, double-spaced; and any attachments thereto shall not exceed 50 pages. A sponsor shall include with all attachments an index of the documents and a summary of the relevance of each document presented. The Review Officers shall transmit one (1) copy of any such statement to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, who shall, within fifteen (15) days after receipt of such statement, submit four (4) copies of a statement in response. Any such statement may not exceed 25 pages in length, double-spaced; and any attachments thereto shall not exceed 50 pages. The Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary shall include with all attachments an index of the documents and a summary of the relevance of each document presented. The Review Officers shall transmit one (1) copy of any such statement to the sponsor. No other submissions may be made unless specifically authorized by the Review Officers.
(3) If the Review Officers determine, in their sole discretion, that a meeting for the purpose of clarification of the written submissions should be held, they shall schedule a meeting to be held within twenty (20) days after the receipt of the last written submission. The meeting will be limited to no more than two (2) hours. The purpose of the meeting will be limited to the clarification of the written submissions. No
transcript may be taken and no evidence, either through documents or by witnesses, will be received. The sponsor and the representative of the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary may attend the meeting on their own behalf and may be accompanied by counsel.
(4) Following the conclusion of the meeting, or the submission of the last written submission if no meeting is held, the Review Officers shall promptly review the submissions of the sponsor and the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, and shall issue a signed written decision within thirty (30) days, stating the basis for their decision. A copy of the decision will be delivered to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary and the sponsor.
(5) If the Review Officers decide to affirm or modify the sanction, a copy of their decision shall also be delivered to the Department of Homeland Security and to the Bureau of Consular Affairs of the Department of State. The Office, at its discretion, may further distribute the decision.
(6) Unless otherwise indicated, the sanction, if affirmed or modified, is effective as of the date of the Review Officers' written decision, except in the case of suspension of program designation, which is effective as of the date specified pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(i)
Effect of suspension, revocation, or denial of redesignation.
A sponsor against which an order of suspension, revocation, or denial of redesignation has become effective may not thereafter issue any Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor (J-1) Status (Form DS-2019) or advertise, recruit for, or otherwise promote its program. Under no circumstances shall the sponsor facilitate the entry of an exchange visitor into the United States. An order of suspension, revocation, or denial of redesignation will not in any way diminish or restrict the sponsor's legal or financial responsibilities to existing program applicants or participants.
(j)
Miscellaneous
—(1)
Computation of time.
In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by these regulations, the day of the act or event from which the designated period of time begins to run is not included. The last day of the period so computed is included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of the aforementioned days. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is fewer than eleven (11) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, or Federal legal holidays are excluded in the computation.
(2)
Service of notice to sponsor.
Service of notice to a sponsor pursuant to this section may be accomplished through written notice by mail, delivery, electronic mail, or facsimile, upon the president, chief executive officer, managing director, General Counsel, Responsible Officer, or Alternate Responsible Officer of the sponsor.
[72 FR 72247, Dec. 20, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 50994, Sept. 14, 2021]

# Subpart E—Termination and Revocation of Programs

# Source:
72 FR 72249, Dec. 20, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 62.60
Termination of designation
Designation will be terminated upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances set forth in this section.
(a)
Voluntary termination.
A sponsor notifies the Department of its intent to terminate its designation voluntarily and withdraws its program in SEVIS via submission of a “cancel program” request. The sponsor's designation shall terminate upon submission of such notification. Such sponsor may apply for a new program designation.
(b)
Inactivity.
A sponsor fails to comply with the minimum program size or duration requirements, as specified in § 62.8 (a) and (b), in any 12-month period. Such sponsor may apply for a new program designation.
(c)
Failure to file annual reports.
A sponsor fails to file annual reports for two (2) consecutive years. Such sponsor is eligible to apply for a new program designation.
(d)
Failure to file an annual management audit.
A sponsor fails to file an annual management audit, if such audits are required in the relevant program category. Such sponsor is eligible to
apply for a new program designation upon the filing of the past due management audit.
(e)
Change in ownership or control.
An exchange visitor program designation is not assignable or transferable. A major change in ownership or control automatically terminates the designation. However, the successor sponsor may apply for designation of the new entity, and it may continue to administer the exchange visitor activities of the previously-designated program while the application for designation is pending before the Department of State:
(1) With respect to a for-profit corporation, a major change in ownership or control is deemed to have occurred when one third (33.33%) or more of its stock is sold or otherwise transferred within a 12-month period;
(2) With respect to a not-for-profit corporation, a major change of control is deemed to have occurred when 51 percent (51%) or more of the board of trustees or other like body, vested with its management, is replaced within a 12-month period.
(f)
Non-compliance with other requirements.
A sponsor fails to remain in compliance with Federal, State, local, or professional requirements necessary to carry out the activity for which it is designated, including loss of accreditation, or licensure.
(g)
Failure to apply for redesignation.
A sponsor fails to apply for redesignation, pursuant to the terms and conditions of § 62.7, prior to the conclusion of its current designation period. If so terminated, the former sponsor may apply for a new program designation, but the program activity will be suspended during the pendency of the application.
§ 62.61
Revocation.
The Department may terminate a sponsor's program designation by revocation for cause as specified in § 62.50. Such sponsor may not apply for a new designation for five (5) years following the effective date of the revocation.
§ 62.62
Termination of, or denial of redesignation for, a class of designated programs.
The Department may, in its sole discretion, determine that a class of designated programs compromises the national security of the United States or no longer furthers the public diplomacy mission of the Department of State. Upon such a determination, the Office shall:
(a) Give all sponsors of such class of designated programs not less than thirty (30) days' written notice of the revocation of Exchange Visitor Program designations for such programs, specifying therein the grounds and effective date for such revocations; or
(b) Give any sponsor of such class of designated programs not less than thirty (30) days' written notice of its denial of the sponsor's application for redesignation, specifying therein the grounds for such denial and effective date of such denial. Revocation of designation or denial of redesignation on the above-specified grounds for a class of designated programs is the final decision of the Department.
§ 62.63
Responsibilities of the sponsor upon termination or revocation.
Upon termination or revocation of its program designation, a sponsor must:
(a) Fulfill its responsibilities to all exchange visitors who are in the United States at the time of the termination or revocation; and
(b) Notify exchange visitors who have not entered the United States that the program has been terminated or revoked, unless a transfer to another designated program can be obtained.
Subparts F-G [Reserved]
Appendixes A-D to Part 62 [Reserved]
Pt. 62, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 62—Unskilled Occupations
For purposes of 22 CFR 514.22(c)(1), the following are considered to be “unskilled occupations”:
(1) Assemblers
(2) Attendants, Parking Lot
(3) Attendants (Service Workers such as Personal Services Attendants, Amusement and Recreation Service Attendants)
(4) Automobile Service Station Attendants
(5) Bartenders
(6) Bookkeepers
(7) Caretakers
(8) Cashiers
(9) Charworkers and Cleaners
(10) Chauffeurs and Taxicab Drivers
(11) Cleaners, Hotel and Motel
(12) Clerks, General
(13) Clerks, Hotel
(14) Clerks and Checkers, Grocery Stores
(15) Clerk Typist
(16) Cooks, Short Order
(17) Counter and Fountain Workers
(18) Dining Room Attendants
(19) Electric Truck Operators
(20) Elevator Operators
(21) Floorworkers
(22) Groundskeepers
(23) Guards
(24) Helpers, any industry
(25) Hotel Cleaners
(26) Household Domestic Service Workers
(27) Housekeepers
(28) Janitors
(29) Key Punch Operators
(30) Kitchen Workers
(31) Laborers, Common
(32) Laborers, Farm
(33) Laborers, Mine
(34) Loopers and Toppers
(35) Material Handlers
(36) Nurses' Aides and Orderlies
(37) Packers, Markers, Bottlers and Related
(38) Porters
(39) Receptionists
(40) Sailors and Deck Hands
(41) Sales Clerks, General
(42) Sewing Machine Operators and Handstitchers
(43) Stock Room and Warehouse Workers
(44) Streetcar and Bus Conductors
(45) Telephone Operators
(46) Truck Drivers and Tractor Drivers
(47) Typist, Lesser Skilled
(48) Ushers, Recreation and Amusement
(49) Yard Workers
Pt. 62, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 62—Information To Be Collected on Secondary School Student Host Family Applications
Basic Family Information:
a. Host Family Member—Full name and relationship (children and adults) either living full-time or part-time in the home or who frequently stay at the home)
b. Date of Birth (DOB) of all family members
c. Street Address
d. Contact information (telephone; e-mail address) of host parents
e. Employment—employer name, job title, and point of contact for each working resident of the home
f. Is the residence the site of a functioning business? (e.g., daycare, farm)
g. Description of each household member (e.g., level of education, profession, interests, community involvement, and relevant behavioral or other characteristics of such household members that could affect the successful integration of the exchange visitor into the household)
h. Has any member of your household ever been charged with any crime?
Household Pets:
a. Number of Pets
b. Type of Pets
Financial Resources:
a. Average Annual Income Range: Less than $25,000; $25,000-$35,000; $35,000-$45,000; $45,000-$55,000; $55,000-$65,000; $65,000-$75,000; and $75,000 and above. Note: The form must include a statement stating that: “The income data collected will be used solely for the purposes of ensuring that the basic needs of the exchange students can be met, including three quality meals and transportation to and from school activities”
b. Describe if anyone residing in the home receives any kind of public assistance (financial needs-based government subsidies for food or housing)
c. Identify those personal expenses expected to be covered by the student
Diet:
a. Does anyone in the family follow any dietary restrictions? (Y/N)
If yes, describe:
b. Do you expect the student to follow any dietary restrictions? (Y/N)
If yes, describe:
c. Would you feel comfortable hosting a student who follows a particular dietary restriction (ex. Vegetarian, Vegan, etc.)? (Y/N)
d. Would the family provide three (3) square meals daily?
High School Information:
a. Name and address of school (private or public school)
b. Name, address, e-mail and telephone number of school official
c. Approximate size of the school student body
d. Approximate distance between the school and your home
e. Approximate start date of the school year
f. How will the exchange student get to the school (e.g. bus, carpool, walk)?
g. Would the family provide special transportation for extracurricular activities after school or in the evenings, if required?
h. Which, if any, of your family's children, presently attend the school in which the exchange visitor is enrolled?
If applicable list sports/clubs/activities, if any, your child(ren) participate(s) in at the school
i. Does any member of your household work for the high school in a coaching/teaching/or administrative capacity?
j. Has any member of your household had contact with a coach regarding the hosting of an exchange student with particular athletic ability?
If yes, please describe the contact and sport.
Community Information:
a. In what type of community do you live (e.g.: Urban, Suburban, Rural, Farm)
b. Population of community
c. Nearest Major City (Distance and population)
d. Nearest Airport (Distance)
e. City or town website
f. Briefly describe your neighborhood and community
g. What points of interest are near your area (parks, museums, historical sites)?
h. Areas in or near neighborhood to be avoided?
Home Description:
a. Describe your type of home (e.g., single family home, condominium, duplex, apartment, mobile home) and include photographs of the host family home's exterior and grounds, kitchen, student's bedroom, student's bathroom, and family and living areas.
b. Describe Primary Rooms and Bedrooms
c. Number of Bathrooms
d. Will the exchange student share a bedroom? (Y/N)
If yes, with which household resident?
e. Describe the student's bedroom
f. Describe amenities to which the student has access
g. Utilities
Family Activities:
a. Language spoken in home
b. Please describe activities and/or sports each family member participates in: (e.g., camping, hiking, dance, crafts, debate, drama, art, music, reading, soccer, baseball, horseback riding)
c. Describe your expectations regarding the responsibilities and behavior of the student while in your home (e.g., homework, household chores, curfew (school night and weekend), access to refrigerator and food, drinking of alcoholic beverages, driving, smoking, computer/Internet/E-Mail)
Would you be willing voluntarily to inform the exchange visitor in advance of any religious affiliations of household members? (Y/N)
Would any member of the household have difficulty hosting a student whose religious beliefs were different from their own? (Y/N) Note: A host family may want the exchange visitor to attend one or more religious services or programs with the family. The exchange visitor cannot be required to do so, but may decide to experience this facet of U.S. culture at his or her discretion.
How did you learn about being a host family?
References:
[75 FR 65984, Oct. 27, 2010]
Pt. 63

# PART 63—PAYMENTS TO AND ON BEHALF OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAM
Sec.
63.1
Definitions.
63.2
Applicability of this part under special circumstances.
63.3
Grants to foreign participants to observe, consult, demonstrate special skills, or engage in specialized programs.
63.4
Grants to foreign participants to lecture, teach, and engage in research.
63.5
Grants to foreign participants to study.
63.6
Assignment of United States Government employees to consult, lecture, teach, engage in research, or demonstrate special skills.
63.7
Grants to United States participants to consult, lecture, teach, engage in research, demonstrate special skills, or engage in specialized programs.
63.8
Grants to United States participants to study.
63.9
General provisions.

# Authority:
Sec. 4, 63 Stat. 111, as amended, 75 Stat. 527-538; 22 U.S.C. 2658, 2451 note; Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977; Executive Order 12048 of March 27, 1978.

# Source:
44 FR 18019, Mar. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 63 appear at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999.
§ 63.1
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part the following terms shall have the meaning here given:
(a)
International educational and cultural exchange program of the Department of State.
A program to promote mutual understanding between the people of the United States and those of other countries and to strengthen cooperative international relations in connection with which payments are made direct by the Department of State, as well as similar programs carried out by other Government departments and agencies and by private organizations with funds appropriated or allocated to the Department of State
when the regulations in this part apply under the provisions of § 515.2 (a) and (b).
(b)
Program and Agency.
For convenience, the international educational and cultural exchange program of the Department of State will hereinafter be referred to as the “program,” and the Department of State will hereinafter be referred to as the “Agency.”
(c)
Participant.
Any person taking part in the program for purposes listed in § 515.3 through § 515.8 including both citizens of the United States and citizens and nationals of the other countries with which the program is conducted.
(d)
Transportation.
All necessary travel on railways, airplanes, steamships, buses, streetcars, taxicabs, and other usual means of conveyance.
(e)
Excess baggage.
Baggage in excess of the weight or size carried free by public carriers on first class service.
(f)
Per diem allowance.
Per diem in lieu of subsistence includes all charges for meals and lodging; fees and tips; telegrams and telephone calls reserving hotel accommodations; laundry, cleaning and pressing of clothing; transportation between places of lodging or business and places where meals are taken.
§ 63.2
Applicability of this part under special circumstances.
(a)
Funds administered by another department or agency.
The regulations in this part shall apply to payments made to or on behalf of participants from funds appropriated or allocated to the Agency and transferred by the Agency to some other department, agency or independent establishment of the Government unless the terms of the transfer provide that such regulations shall not apply in whole or in part or with such modification as may be prescribed in each case to meet the exigencies of the particular situation.
(b)
Funds administered by private organizations.
The regulations in this part shall apply to payments made to or on behalf of participants from funds appropriated or allocated to the Agency and administered by an institution, facility, or organization in accordance with the terms or a contract or grant made by the Agency with or to such private organizations, unless the terms of such contract or grant provide that the regulations in this part are not to be considered applicable or that they are to be applied with such modifications as may be prescribed in each case to meet the exigencies of the particular situation.
(c)
Appropriations or allocations.
The regulations in this part shall apply to payments made by the Agency with respect to appropriations or allocations which are or may hereafter be made available to the Agency for the program so far as the regulations in this part are not inconsistent therewith.
§ 63.3
Grants to foreign participants to observe, consult, demonstrate special skills, or engage in specialized programs.
A citizen or national of a foreign country who has been awarded a grant to observe, consult with colleagues, demonstrate special skills, or engage in specialized programs, may be entitled to any or all of the following benefits when authorized by the Agency.
(a)
Transportation.
Accommodations, as authorized, on steamship, airplane, railway, or other means of conveyance. For travel in a privately owned vehicle, reimbursement will be in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Travel Regulations.
(b)
Excess baggage.
Excess baggage as deemed necessary by the Agency.
(c)
Per diem allowance.
Per diem allowances in lieu of subsistence expenses while participating in the program in the United States, its territories or possessions and while traveling within or between the United States, its territories or possessions shall be established by the Secretary of State from time to time, within limitations prescribed by law. The participant shall be considered as remaining in a travel status during the entire period covered by his or her grant unless otherwise designated.
(d)
Allowance.
A special allowance in lieu of per diem while traveling to and from the United States may be established by the Secretary of State, within limitations prescribed by law.
(e)
Tuition and related expenses.
Tuition and related expenses in connection
with attendance at seminars and workshops, professional meetings, or other events in keeping with the purpose of the grant.
(f)
Books and educational materials allowance.
A reasonable allowance for books and educational materials.
(g)
Advance of funds.
Advance of funds including per diem.
[44 FR 18019, Mar. 26, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 12214, Mar. 29, 1984. Redesignated at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999]
§ 63.4
Grants to foreign participants to lecture, teach, and engage in research.
A citizen or national of a foreign country who has been awarded a grant to lecture, teach, and engage in research may be entitled to any or all of the following benefits when authorized by the Agency:
(a)
Transportation.
Accommodations, as authorized on steamship, airplane, railway, or other means of conveyance. For travel in a privately owned vehicle, reimbursement will be in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Travel Regulations.
(b)
Excess baggage.
Excess baggage as deemed necessary by the Agency.
(c)
Per diem allowance.
Per diem allowance in lieu of subsistence expenses while participating in the program in the United States, its territories or possessions and while traveling within or between the United States, its territories or possessions shall be established by the Secretary of State from time to time, within limitations prescribed by law.
(d)
Allowance.
A special allowance in lieu of per diem while traveling to and from the United States may be established by the Secretary of State, within limitations prescribed by law.
(e)
Tuition and related expenses.
Tuition and related expenses in connection with attendance at educational institutions, seminars and workshops, professional meetings or other events in keeping with the purpose of the grant.
(f)
Books and educational materials allowance.
A reasonable allowance for books and educational materials.
(g)
Advance of funds.
Advance of funds including per diem.
§ 63.5
Grants to foreign participants to study.
A citizen or national of a foreign country who has been awarded a grant to study may be entitled to any or all of the following benefits when authorized by the Agency:
(a)
Transportation.
Accommodations, as authorized, on steamship, airplane, railway, or other means of conveyance. For travel in a privately owned vehicle, reimbursement will be accordance with the provisions of the Federal Travel Regulations.
(b)
Excess baggage.
Excess baggage as deemed necessary by the Agency.
(c)
Per diem allowance.
Per diem allowance in lieu of subsistence expenses while traveling (1) from point of entry in the United States, its territories or possessions to orientation centers and while in attendance at such centers for purposes of orientation, not to exceed 30 days, (2) to educational institutions of affiliation, and (3) to point of departure and while participating in authorized field trips or conferences, shall be established by the Secretary of State from time to time, within limitations prescribed by law.
(d)
Allowances.
(1) A maintenance allowance while present and in attendance at an educational institution, facility or organization, and
(2) A travel allowance in lieu of per diem while traveling to and from the United States may be established by the Secretary of State, within limitations prescribed by law.
(e)
Tuition.
Tuition and related fees for approved courses of study.
(f)
Books and educational materials allowance.
A reasonable allowance for books and educational materials.
(g)
Tutoring assistance.
Special tutoring assistance in connection with approved courses of study.
(h)
Advance of funds.
Advance of funds including per diem.
§ 63.6
Assignment of United States Government employees to consult, lecture, teach, engage in research, or demonstrate special skills.
An employee of the United States Government who has been assigned for service abroad to consult, lecture, teach, engage in research, or demonstrate special skills, may be entitled
to any or all of the following benefits when authorized by the Agency.
(a)
Transportation.
Transportation and miscellaneous expenses in the United States and abroad, including baggage charges, and per diem in lieu of subsistence at the maximum rates allowable while in a travel status in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Travel Regulations. The participant shall be considered as remaining in a travel status during the entire period covered by his or her assignment unless otherwise designated.
(b)
Advance of funds.
Advances of per diem as provided by law.
(c)
Compensation.
Compensation in accordance with Civil Service rules; or in accordance with the grade in which the position occupied may be administratively classified; or Foreign Service Act, as amended.
(d)
Allowances for cost of living and living quarters.
Allowances for living quarters, heat, fuel, light, and to compensate for the increased cost of living in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), when not in a travel status as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Books and educational materials allowance.
A reasonable allowance for books and educational materials. Such books and materials, unless otherwise specified, shall be selected by the employee and purchased and shipped by the Agency or its agent. At the conclusion of the assignment, the books and educational materials shall be transferred to and become the property of an appropriate local institution or be otherwise disposed of as directed by the Agency.
(f)
Families and effects.
Cost of transportation of immediate family and household goods and effects when going to and returning from posts of assignment in foreign countries in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Service Regulations of the United States of America.
§ 63.7
Grants to United States participants to consult, lecture, teach, engage in research, demonstrate special skills, or engage in specialized programs.
A citizen or resident of the United States who has been awarded a grant to consult, lecture, teach, engage in research, demonstrate special skills, or engage in specialized programs may be entitled to any or all of the following benefits when authorized by the Agency.
(a)
Transportation.
Transportation in the United States and abroad, including baggage charges.
(b)
Subsistence and miscellaneous travel expenses.
Per diem, in lieu of subsistence while in a travel status, at the maximum rates allowable in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Travel Regulations, unless otherwise specified, and miscellaneous travel expenses, in the United States and abroad. Alternatively, a travel allowance may be authorized to cover subsistence and miscellaneous travel expenses. The participant shall be considered as remaining in a travel status during the entire period covered by his or her grant unless otherwise designated.
(c)
Orientation and debriefing within the United States.
For the purpose of orientation and debriefing within the United States, compensation, travel, and per diem at the maximum rates allowable in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Travel Regulations, unless otherwise specified. Alternatively, a travel allowance may be authorized to cover subsistence and miscellaneous travel expenses.
(d)
Advance of funds.
Advance of funds, including allowance for books and educational materials and per diem, or alternatively, the allowance to cover subsistence and miscellaneous travel expenses.
(e)
Compensation.
Compensation at a rate to be specified in each grant.
(f)
Allowances.
Appropriate allowance as determined by the Agency.
(g)
Books and educational materials allowance.
Where appropriate, an allowance for books and educational materials. Such books and materials, unless otherwise specified, shall be selected by the grantee and purchased and shipped either by the grantee, or the Agency or its agent. At the conclusion of the grant, the books and materials shall be transferred to and become the property of an appropriate local institution or be otherwise disposed of as directed by the Agency.
§ 63.8
Grants to United States participants to study.
A citizen of the United States who has been awarded a grant to study may be entitled to any or all of the following benefits when authorized by the Agency.
(a)
Transportation.
Transportation and miscellaneous expenses in the United States and abroad, including baggage charges, and per diem in lieu of subsistence while in a travel status. Per diem at the maximum rates allowable in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Travel Regulations, unless otherwise specified. Travel status shall terminate upon arrival at the place of study designated in the grant and shall recommence upon departure from the place to return home.
(b)
Orientation and debriefing within the United States.
For the purpose of orientation and debriefing within the United States travel and per diem at the maximum rates allowable in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Travel Regulations, unless othewise specified.
(c)
Advance of funds.
Advance of funds including per diem.
(d)
Maintenance allowance.
A maintenance allowance at a rate to be specified in each grant.
(e)
Tuition.
Tuition and related fees for approved courses of study.
(f)
Books and educational materials allowance.
A reasonable allowance for books and educational materials.
(g)
Tutoring assistance.
Special tutoring assistance in connection with approved courses of study.
§ 63.9
General provisions.
The following provisions shall apply to the foregoing regulations:
(a)
Health and accident insurance.
Payment for the costs of health and accident insurance for United States and foreign participants while such participants are enroute or absent from their homes for purposes of participation in the program when authorized by the Agency.
(b)
Transportation of remains.
Payments for the actual expenses of preparing and transporting to their former homes the remains of persons not United States Government employees, who may die away from their homes while participating in the program are authorized.
(c)
Maxima not controlling.
Payments and allowances may be made at the rate or in the amount provided in the regulations in this part unless an individual grant or travel order specifies that less than the maximum will be allowed under any part of the regulation in this part. In such case, the grant or travel order will control.
(d)
Individual authorization.
Where the regulations in this part provide for compensation, allowance, or other payment, no payment shall be made therefor unless a definite amount or basis of payment is authorized in the individual case, or is approved as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(e)
Computation of per diem and allowance.
In computing per diem and allowance payable while on a duty assignment, except for travel performed under the Federal Travel Regulations, fractional days shall be counted as full days, the status at the end of the calendar day determining the status for the entire day.
(f)
Subsequent approval.
Whenever without prior authority expense has been incurred by a participant, or an individual has commenced his or her participation in the program as contemplated by the regulations in this part, the voucher for payments in connection therewith may be approved by an official designated for this purpose, such approval constituting the authority for such participation or the incurring of such expense.
(g)
Additional authorization.
Any emergency, unusual or additional payment deemed necessary under the program if allowable under existing authority, may be authorized whether or not specifically provided for by this part.
(h)
Biweekly payment.
Unless otherwise specified in the grant, all compensation and allowance for United States participants shall be payable biweekly and shall be computed as follows: An annual rate shall be derived by multiplying a monthly rate by 12; a biweekly rate shall be derived by dividing an annual rate by 26; and a calendar day rate shall be derived by dividing an annual rate by 364. If any maximum compensation or allowance
authorized by these regulations or by the terms of any grant is exceeded by this method of computation and payment, such excess payment is hereby authorized. This paragraph may apply to payments made to participants from funds administrered as provided in § 515.2(a) and (b) in the discretion of the department, agency, independent establishment, institution, facility, or organization concerned.
(i)
Payments.
Payments of benefits authorized under any part of the regulations in this part may be made either by the Department of State or by such department, agency, institution, or facility as may be designated by the Agency.
(j)
Duration.
The duration of the grant shall be specified in each case.
(k)
Cancellation.
If a recipient of a grant under this program fails to maintain a satisfactory record or demonstrates unsuitability for furthering the purposes of the program as stated in § 515.1(a), his or her grant shall, in the discretion of the Secretary of State of the Department of State or such officer as he or she may designate, be subject to cancellation.
(l)
Outstanding grant authorization.
Grants and other authorizations which are outstanding and in effect on the date the present regulations become effective, and which do not conform to this part, shall nevertheless remain in effect and be governed by the regulations under which they were originally issued, unless such grants or other authorizations are specifically amended and made subject to the present regulations in which case the individual concerned will be notified.
Pt. 64

# PART 64—PARTICIPATION BY FEDERAL EMPLOYEES IN CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAMS OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES
Sec.
64.1
Purpose.
64.2
Definitions.
64.3
Submission of application.
64.4
Contents of application.
64.5
Criteria for approval of program.
64.6
Request for further information.
64.7
Approval of application.
64.8
Obligation of employee to advise agency.
64.9
Termination of approval.
64.10
Grant not to constitute a gift.

# Authority:
Sec. 108A (Pub. L. 94-350, 90 Stat. 823) added to the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act, as amended, 75 Stat. 527-28, 22 U.S.C. 2451
et seq.;
and under Executive Orders 11034 and 12048, as amended; Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681
et seq.;
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977 and the Continuity Order (Continuity of Operations) of April 1, 1978 (43 FR 15371).

# Source:
44 FR 42247, Sept. 20, 1978, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 64 appear at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999.
§ 64.1
Purpose.
This part sets forth the procedures for the application for approval of a cultural exchange program of a foreign government, so that Federal employees may participate in such program; the grant and termination of such approval; and related procedures.
§ 64.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
(a)
Federal employee
means: (1) An employee as defined by section 2105 of title 5, United States Code; (2) an individual employed by, or occupying an office or position in, the government of a territory or possession of the United States or the District of Columbia; (3) a member of a uniformed service; (4) the President and Vice President; and (5) a Member of the Senate or the House of Representatives, a Delegate from the District of Columbia in Congress, and the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico in Congress.
(b) A
foreign government
means a foreign government and an official agent or representative thereof; a group of governments and an official agent or representative thereof; an international organization composed of governments, and an official agent or representative thereof.
(c) A program of the
type described in section 102(a)(2)(i) of the Act
means a cultural exchange program involving “visits and interchanges between the United States and other countries of leaders, experts in fields of specialized knowledge or skill, and other influential or distinguished persons.”
(d) The “purpose stated in section 101 of the Act” is “to enable the Government of the United States to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of the other countries by means of educational and cultural exchange; to strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations, and the contributions being made toward a peaceful and more fruitful life for people throughout the world; to promote international cooperation for educational and cultural advancement; and thus to assist in the development of friendly, sympathetic, and peaceful relations between the United States and the other countries of the world.”
(e)
Secretary of State
means the Secretary of State of the Department of State.
(f)
Department of State
means the Department of State.
(g)
Act
means the Mutual Educational Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2451
et seq.
).
(h)
Member of the family or household
of a Federal employee means a relative of the employee by blood, marriage, or adoption or any person who is a resident of the household of the employee.
[44 FR 42247, Sept. 20, 1978, as amended at 51 FR 11016, Apr. 1, 1986. Redesignated at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999]
§ 64.3
Submission of application.
A foreign government intending to provide grants or other assistance to facilitate the participation of Federal employees in a program of cultural exchange shall submit to the Department of State an application for approval of the program through its embassy, mission, or office at Washington, D.C. If there is no embassy, mission, or office at Washington, D.C., of the foreign government the application may be submitted by the home office or headquarters of the foreign government. The application shall be addressed to the Secretary of State.
§ 64.4
Contents of application.
The foreign government shall provide information in the application showing that its program meets the criteria set forth in § 516.5, and shall include in such application the following:
(a) Name and description of the program and the provisions of legislation or regulation authorizing the program;
(b) Number of annual U.S. citizen participants expected, including the number of U.S. Federal employees;
(c) Average duration of stay abroad;
(d) Department of State of the foreign government responsible for the program;
(e) Name and address of contact in the United States with whom communication may be made with respect to the program; in the absence of such a contact in the United States, the name and address of a contact in the home office or headquarters of the foreign government.
§ 64.5
Criteria for approval of program.
To obtain approval of its program of cultural exchanges, a foreign government is required to show that:
(a) The cultural exchange program is of the type described in section 102(a)(2)(i) of the Act;
(b) The cultural exchange program is conducted for a purpose comparable to the purpose stated in section 101 of the Act; and
(c) A grant under such program will not provide assistance with respect to any expenses incurred by or for any member of the family or household of such Federal employee.
§ 64.6
Request for further information.
The Department of State may request the foreign government to supply additional information.
§ 64.7
Approval of application.
The Secretary of State shall review the application and if satisfied that the criteria of § 516.5 are met shall inform the foreign government of the approval of its program.
§ 64.8
Obligation of employee to advise agency.
Any Federal employee receiving any offer of a grant or other assistance under a cultural exchange program approved by the Secretary of State shall advise the employee's agency of such
offer and shall not accept such offer unless the employee's agency states that it has no objection to such acceptance. In the case of the Department, an employee shall advise the DAEO who may, after consultation with appropriate officials of the Department, furnish a “no objection” statement.
[44 FR 42247, Sept. 20, 1978. Redesignated and amended at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999]
§ 64.9
Termination of approval.
If at any time it appears to the Secretary of State that the purpose of a program which has been approved has been changed so that it no longer meets the criteria of § 516.5 or that the program is being misused, the Secretary of State may terminate such approval, or suspend such approval pending the supplying of additional information. However, a termination or suspension shall not affect a grant which has been made under a previously approved program.
§ 64.10
Grant not to constitute a gift.
A grant made under an approved program shall not constitute a gift for purposes of 22 CFR 10.735-203 and section 7342 of title 5, United States Code.
Pt. 65

# PART 65—FOREIGN STUDENTS
Sec.
65.1
Regulations to be drafted.
65.2
Applications.
65.3
Reference of applications.
65.4
Copies of regulations to Department of State.
65.5
Granting of application.

# Authority:
52 Stat. 1034, as amended; 20 U.S.C. 221, E.O. 7964, 3 FR 2105; 3 CFR, 1943-1958, Comp.; Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977.

# Source:
44 FR 18021, Mar. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 65 appear at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999.
§ 65.1
Regulations to be drafted.
Subject to the provisions and requirements of this part, appropriate administrative regulations shall be drafted by each executive department or agency of the Government which maintains and administers educational institutions and schools coming within the scope of the legislation. Such regulations shall carefully observe the limitations imposed by the Act of June 24, 1938, and shall in each case include:
(a) A list of the institutions and courses in the department or agency concerned in which instruction is available under the terms of the legislation.
(b) A statement of the maximum number of students of the other American republics who may be accommodated in each such institution or course at any one time.
(c) A statement of the qualifications to be required of students of the other American republics for admission, including examinations, if any, to be passed.
(d) Provisions to safeguard information that may be vital to the national defense or other interests of the United States.
§ 65.2
Applications.
Applications for citizens of the other American republics to receive the instruction contemplated by the Act of June 24, 1938, shall be made formally through diplomatic channels to the Secretary of State of the Department of State by the foreign governments concerned.
§ 65.3
Reference of applications.
The Secretary of State of the Department of State shall refer the applications to the proper department or agency of the Government for advice as to what reply should be made to the application.
§ 65.4
Copies of regulations to Department of State.
In order to enable the Secretary of State of the Department of State to reply to inquiries received from the governments of the other American republics, the Department of State shall be promptly supplied with copies of the regulations drafted by the other departments and agencies of the Government and of subsequent amendments thereto.
§ 65.5
Granting of application.
Upon receipt of a reply from another department or agency of the Government, as contemplated by § 517.3, in
which it is recommended that an application be granted, the Secretary of State of the Department of State shall notify the government of the American republic concerned, through diplomatic channels, that permission to receive the instruction requested in the application is granted, provided the applicant complies with the terms of this part and with the terms of the administrative regulations of the department or agency concerned.
Pt. 66

# PART 66—AVAILABILITY OF THE RECORDS OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
Sec.
66.1
Introduction.
66.2
Location of description of organization and substantive rules of general applicability adopted as authorized by law, and statements of general applicability formulated and adopted by NED.
66.3
Places at which forms and instructions for use by the public may be obtained.
66.4
Availability of final opinions, orders, policies, interpretations, manuals and instructions.
66.5
Availability of NED records.
66.6
Exemptions.
66.7
Limitation of exemptions.
66.8
Reports.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4411
et seq.;
Pub. L. 99-570, Secs. 1801-1804, 100 Stat. 3207-48 (1986); Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681
et seq.

# Source:
51 FR 40162, Nov. 5, 1986, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 66 appear at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999.
§ 66.1
Introduction.
These regulations amend the Code of Federal Regulations to conform with Pub. L. 99-93. Pub. L. 99-93 amended the National Endowment for Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4411, et. seq.) to require the National Endowment for Democracy (hereinafter “NED”) to comply fully with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) (hereinafter “FOIA”), notwithstanding that NED is not an agency or establishment of the United States Government. NED will make information about its operation, organization, procedures and records available to the public in accordance with the provisions of FOIA.
§ 66.2
Location of description of organization and substantive rules of general applicability adopted as authorized by law, and statements of general applicability formulated and adopted by NED.
See 22 CFR part 527 for a description of the organization of NED and substantive rules of general applicability formulated and adopted by NED.
§ 66.3
Places at which forms and instructions for use by the public may be obtained.
(a) All forms and instructions pertaining to procedures under FOIA may be obtained from the FOIA officer of the National Endowment for Democracy, 1101 15th St., NW; Suite 700, Washington, D.C. 20005-5000.
(b) Grant guidelines may be obtained from the Program Office of NED to the address shown in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) General information may be obtained from the Public Affairs Office of NED at the address shown in paragraph (a) of this section.
[51 FR 40162, Nov. 5, 1986. Redesignated and amended at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999]
§ 66.4
Availability of final opinions, orders, policies, interpretations, manuals and instructions.
NED is not an adjudicatory organization and therefore does not issue final opinions and orders made in the adjudication of cases. NED will, however, in accordance with the rules in this section and § 526.7, make available for public inspection and copying those statements of policy and interpretation that have been adopted by NED and are not published in the
Federal Register,
and administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect any member of the public.
(a)
Deletion to protect privacy.
To the extent required to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, NED may delete identifying details when it makes available or publishes a statement of policy, interpretation, or staff manual or instruction. Whenever NED finds any such deletion necessary, the responsible officer or employee must fully explain the justification therefor in writing.
(b)
Current index.
NED will maintain and make available on its premises for public inspection and copying a current index providing identifying information for the public as to any matter issued, adopted or promulgated after July 4, 1967, and required by this section to be made available or published. NED will provide copies on request at a cost of $0.15 per page.
§ 66.5
Availability of NED records.
Except with respect to the records made available under § 526.4, NED will, upon request that reasonably describes records in accordance with the requirements of this section, and subject to the exemptions listed in 5 U.S.C. 552(b), make such records promptly available to any person.
(a) Requests for records—How made and addressed. (1) Requesters seeking access to NED records under FOIA should direct all requests in writing to: Freedom of Information Act Officer, National Endowment for Democracy, 1101 15th St., NW; Suite 700, Washington, D.C. 20005-5000.
Although requesters are encouraged to make their requests for access to NED records directly to NED, requests for access to NED records also may be submitted to Department of State's Office of General Counsel and Congressional Liaison at the following address: Freedom of Information/Privacy Acts Coordinator, U.S. Information Agency, Room M-04, 301 Fourth Street SW., Washington, DC 20547.
(2) Appeals of denials of initial requests must be addressed to NED in the same manner or to the Department of State pursuant to the procedures set forth at part 171 of this Title, with the addition of the word “APPEAL” preceding the address on the envelope. Appeals addressed directly to the Department of State will not be deemed to have been received by NED for purposes of the time period set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(A)(1) until actually received by NED. The Department of State shall forward any appeal received by it to NED within 2 working days from the actual day of receipt by the Department of State.
(3) The request letter should contain all available data concerning the desired records, including a description of the material, dates, titles, authors, and other information that may help identify the records. The first paragraph of a request letter should state whether it is an initial request or an appeal.
(b)
Administrative time limits.
(1) Within 10 working days after NED's receipt of any request for access to NED records in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, NED shall make an initial determination whether to provide the requested information and NED shall notify the requester in writing of its initial determination. In the event of an adverse determination, notification shall include the reasons for the adverse determination, the officials responsible for such determination, the right of the requester to appeal within NED, and that the final determination by NED to deny a request for records in whole or in part shall be submitted to the Secretary of State of Department of State for review. NED shall also provide Department of State a copy of its response as soon as practicable after it responds to the requester.
(2) When a request for records has been denied in whole or in part, the requester may, within 30 days of the date of receipt by the requester of the adverse determination from NED, appeal the denial to the President of NED or his designee, who will make a determination whether to grant or deny such appeal within 20 working days of receipt thereof. All appeals should be addressed in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section. If on appeal, the denial of the request for records is upheld, in whole or in part, NED shall notify the requester in writing of such determination, the reasons therefor, the officials responsible for such determination, the right of the requester to judicial review, and that the final determination by NED whether to deny a request for records in whole or in part shall be submitted to the Secretary of State of Department of State for review.
(3) If the requester elects not to appeal to the President of NED or his designee within the appeal period specified above, NED's initial determination will become the final NED determination upon expiration of said appeal period or
receipt by NED of notice from the requester that he does not elect to appeal, whichever is earlier. If the requester chooses to appeal NED's initial determination within NED, the decision on appeal will become NED's final determination.
(4)(i) Once NED's determination to deny a request in whole or in part becomes final, NED shall submit a report to the Secretary of State of Department of State explaining the reasons for such denial no later than 5 working days thereafter.
(ii) The Secretary of State of Department of State shall review NED's final determination within 20 working days. If the Secretary of State of Department of State or his designee approves NED's denial in whole or in part, Department of State shall inform the requester and NED in writing of such determination, the reasons therefor, the officials responsible for such determination, and the right of the requester to judicial review of NED's determination. In the event of such a determination, Department of State shall assume full responsibility, including financial responsibility, for defending NED in any litigation relating to such request.
(iii) If the Secretary of State of Department of State or his designee disapproves NED's denial in whole or in part, Department of State shall promptly notify NED and thereafter NED shall promptly comply with the request for the pertinent records.
(iv) Because review by the Secretary of State of Department of State may resolve any dispute over access to NED records in the requester's favor, the requester is encouraged (but not required) to wait for the determination on review by the Secretary of State of Department of State before seeking judicial review of NED's final determination.
(5) In unusual circumstances as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), the time limit provisions noted in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section may be extended by written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which a determination can be expected. Such extensions of the time limits may not exceed 10 working days in the aggregate.
(6) Any person making a request for records pursuant to § 526.5 may consider administrative remedies exhausted if NED fails to comply within the applicable time limit provisions of this section. When no determination can be dispatched within the applicable time limits set forth in this section, NED shall nevertheless continue to process the request. On the expiration of the time limit, NED shall inform the requester of the reason for the delay, of the date on which a determination may be expected to be dispatched, and of the requester's right to treat the delay as a denial and of the requester's right to appeal. NED may ask the requester to forego appeal until a determination is made. A copy of any such notice of delay will be sent to the Secretary of State of Department of State or to his designee no later than 2 working days after it has been sent to the requester. A court may retain jurisdiction and allow NED additional time to complete its review of the records, if it can be determined that exceptional circumstances exist and that NED is exercising due diligence in responding to the request.
(c)
Definitions governing schedule of standard fees and fee waivers.
For purposes of these regulations governing fees and fee waivers:
(1) All of the terms defined in FOIA apply;
(2) A
statute specifically providing for setting the level of fees for particular types of records
means any statute that specifically requires the NED to set the level of fees for particular types of records;
(3) The term
direct costs
means those expenditures that NED actually incurs in searching for and duplicating (and in the case of commercial requesters, reviewing) documents, photographs, drawings or any other material to respond to a FOIA request. [Direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work (the basic rate of pay for the employee plus 16% of that rate
to cover benefits) and the cost of operating duplicating machinery. Not included in direct costs are overhead expenses such as costs of space, any heating or lighting, the facility in which the records are stored];
(4) The term
search
includes all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page by page or line by line identification of material within documents. Searches shall be conducted to ensure that they are undertaken in the most efficient and least expensive manner so as to minimize costs for both NED and the requester. “Search” is distinguished from “review” of material in order to determine whether the material is exempt from disclosure (
see
subparagraph (c)(6) below);
(5) The term
duplication
refers to the process of making a copy of a document, drawing, photograph, or any other material necessary to respond to a FOIA request. The copy provided by NED will be in a form that is reasonably usable by requesters;
(6) The term
review
refers to the process of examining documents that are located in response to a request that is for a commercial use (
see
subparagraph (c)(7) below) to determine whether any portion of any document located is permitted to be withheld. It also includes processing any documents for disclosure,
e.q.,
doing all that is necessary to excise them and otherwise prepare them for release. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions;
(7) The term
‘commercial use’ requests
refers to a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made. In determining whether a requester properly belongs in this category, NED will determine the use to which a requester will put the documents requested. Where NED has reasonable cause to doubt the use to which a requester will put the records sought, or where that use is not clear from the request itself, NED will seek additional clarification before assigning the request to a specific category;
(8) The term
educational institution
refers to a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education, that operates a program or programs of scholarly study and/or research;
(9) The term
non-commercial scientific institution
refers to an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis as that term is referenced in paragraph (c)(7) of this section and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry;
(10) The term
representative of the news media
refers to any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals (but only in those instances when they can qualify as disseminators of “news”) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. In the case of “free-lance” journalists, such journalists may be regarded as working for a news organization if they can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization even though they are not actually employed by a news organization. A publication contract would be the clearest proof, but NED will also look to the past publication record of a requester in making this determination.
(d)
Fees to be charged—general.
NED shall charge fees that recoup the full allowable direct costs it incurs. NED shall use the most efficient and least costly methods to comply with requests for documents, drawings, photographs, and any other materials made under the FOIA.
(e)
Specific fees.
The specific fees for which NED shall charge the requester
when so required by the FOIA are as follows:
(1) Manual searches for records—$8.00 per hour for clerical personnel; $15.00 per hour for supervisory personnel;
(2) Computer searches for records—In any case where a computer search is possible and the most efficient means by which to conduct a search, NED will charge the cost of operating the central processing unit for that portion of operating time that is directly attributable to searching for records responsive to a FOIA request and the operator-programmer salary apportionable to the search. The charge for the cost of the operator-programmer time shall be based on the salary of the operator-programmer plus 16 percent;
(3) Review of records—Requesters who seek documents for commercial use shall be charged for the time NED spends reviewing records to determine whether such records are exempt from mandatory disclosure. These charges shall be assessed only for the initial review;
i.e.,
the review undertaken the first time NED analyzes the applicability of a specific exemption to a particular record or portion of a record. Neither NED nor the Department of State will charge for review at the administrative appeal level for an exemption already applied. However, NED will charge for review of records or portions of records withheld in full under an exemption that is subsequently determined not to apply. The fee for review as that term is used in these regulations shall be $15.00 per hour;
(4) Duplication of records—(i) making photocopies—15¢ per page; (ii) for copies prepared by computer, such as tapes or printouts, NED shall charge the actual cost, including operator time, of production of the tape or printout; (iii) for other methods of reproduction or duplication, NED shall charge the actual direct costs of producing the document(s);
(5) Other charges—(i) there shall be no fee for a signed statement of non-availability of a record; (ii) NED will not incur expenses arising out of sending records by special methods such as express mail;
(6) Restrictions on assessing fees—With the exception of requesters seeking documents for a commercial use, section (a)(4)(A)(iv) of the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, requires NED to provide the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time without charge. NED shall not charge fees to any requester, including commercial use requesters, if the cost of collecting a fee would be equal to or greater than the fee itself. NED will not begin to assess fees until it has first provided the above-referenced free search and reproduction. The elements to be considered in determining the “cost of collecting a fee” are the administrative costs to NED of receiving and recording a requester's remittance and processing the fee for deposit in NED's account. For purposes of these restrictions on assessment of fees, the word “pages” refers to paper copies of a standard size, which will normally be 8
1/2
× 11 or 11 × 14. Thus, for example, requesters shall not be entitled to 100 microfiche or 100 computer disks without charge.
(f)
Fees to be charged—categories of requesters.
There are four categories of FOIA requesters: commercial use requesters; educational and non-commercial scientific institutions; representatives of the news media; and all other requesters. The fees to be charged each of these categories of requesters are as follows:
(1) Commercial use requesters—when NED receives a request for documents for commercial use, it shall assess charges that recover the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing for release, and duplicating the records sought. Commercial use requesters are entitled to neither two hours of free search time nor 100 free pages of reproduction of documents. NED shall recover the cost of searching for and reviewing records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought;
(2) Educational and non-commercial scientific institution requesters—NED shall provide documents to educational and non-commercial scientific institution requesters for the cost of reproduction alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages of duplication. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, requesters must show that the request is being made as authorized by and
under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of scholarly (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific (if the request is from a non-commercial scientific institution) research. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought;
(3) Requesters who are representatives of the news media—NED shall provide documents to requesters who are representatives of the news media for the cost of reproduction alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, a requester must meet the criteria in subsection (c)(10) above, and the request must not be made for a commercial use. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be a request that is for a commercial use. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought;
(4) All other requesters—NED shall charge requesters who do not fit into any of the above categories those fees that recover the full reasonable direct costs of searching for and reproducing records that are responsive to the request, except that the first 100 pages of reproduction and the first two hours of search time shall be furnished without charge. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought.
(g)
Assessment and collection of fees.
(1) NED shall assess interest charges on an unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the day on which the billing was sent. The fact that the fee has been received by NED, even if not processed, will suffice to stay the accrual of interest. Interest will be at the rate prescribed in section 3717 of title 31 of the United States Code and will accrue from the date of the billing.
(2) Charges for unsuccessful searches—If NED estimates that search charges are likely to exceed $25.00, it shall notify the requester of the estimated amount of fees unless the requester has indicated in advance a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. Such notice shall offer the requester the opportunity to confer with agency personnel with the object of reformulating the request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost. Dispatch of such a notice of request shall suspend the running of the period for response by NED until a reply is received from the requester.
(3) Aggregating requests—Except for requests that are for a commercial use, NED shall not charge for the first two hours of search time or for the first 100 pages of reproduction. However, a requester may not file multiple requests at the same time, each seeking portions of a document or documents, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. When NED reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert are attempting to divide a request into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, NED shall aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly. One element to be considered in determining whether a belief would be reasonable is the time period in which the requests have been made. Before aggregating requests from more than one requester, NED must have a concrete basis on which to conclude that the requesters are acting in concert and are acting specifically to avoid payment of fees. In no case shall NED aggregate multiple requests on unrelated subjects from one requester.
(4) Advance payments—NED shall not require payment for fees before work has commenced or continued on a request unless:
(i) NED estimates or determines that allowable charges that a requester may be required to pay are likely to exceed $250.00. In this event, NED shall notify the requester of the likely cost and may require an advance payment of an amount up to the full amount of estimated charges; or
(ii) A requester has previously failed to pay a fee charged within 30 days of the date of billing.
In this event, NED shall require the requester to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest as provided above or demonstrate that he or she has, in fact, paid the fee, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before NED begins to process a new request or a pending request from that requester.
(iii) When NED acts under paragraphs (g)(4)(i) or (ii) above, the administrative time limits prescribed in subsection (a)(6) of the FOIA will begin only after NED has received fee payments described above.
(5) Form of payment—Remittances shall be in the form of a personal check or bank draft drawn on any bank in the United States, a postal money order, or cash. Remittances shall be made payable to the order of: National Endowment for Democracy. NED will assume no responsibility for cash lost in the mail.
(h)
Fee waiver or reduction.
NED shall furnish documents without charge or at a charge reduced below the fees established by these regulations if disclosure of the information is in the public interest because the disclosure of the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. In making a determination under this subsection, NED shall consider these factors in the following order:
(1) Whether the subject of the request for documents concerns the operations or activities of the government. For purposes of determining whether this factor is met:
(i) Records generated by a non-government entity are less likely to respond to a request for documents concerning the operations or activities of the government;
(ii) Records that are sought for their intrinsic informational content apart from their informative value with respect to specific activities or operations of government are less likely to meet this factor.
(2) Whether the information requested is likely to contribute to an understanding of government operations or activities. For purposes of determining whether the request meets this factor:
(i) NED will consider the extent to which the information requested already exists in the public domain;
(ii) NED will consider the extent to which the value of the information relates to an understanding of government operations or activities as opposed to the extent to which the information relates to other subjects.
(3) Whether the information requested will contribute to public understanding of government operations or activities. For purposes of determining whether the request meets this factor:
(i) NED will consider whether the disclosure will contribute to a public understanding as opposed to a primarily personal understanding of the requester;
(ii) NED will consider the identity of the requester to determine whether such requester is in a position to contribute to public understanding through disclosure of the information. Requesters shall describe their qualifications to satisfy this consideration;
(iii) NED will consider the expertise of the requester and the extent to which the expertise will enable the requester to extract, synthesize and convey the information to the public. Requesters shall describe their qualifications to satisfy this consideration;
(4) Whether the contribution to public understanding will be significant. In determining whether this factor has been met:
(i) NED will consider whether the public's understanding of the subject matter in question is likely to be enhanced by the disclosure of information by a significant extent;
(ii) NED will compare the likely level of public understanding of the subject matter of the request before and after disclosure.
(5) After NED is satisfied that factors (h)(1) through (4) have been met, it will consider whether the requested disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(i) For purposes of this subsection,
commercial interest
is one that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest as those terms are commonly understood. Under this subsection, a “commercial interest” shall not be an interest served by a request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester. All requesters who seek a fee waiver under section (h) of these regulations must disclose any and all commercial interests that would be furthered by the requested
disclosure. NED shall use this information, information in its possession, reasonable inferences drawn from the requester's identity, and the circumstances surrounding the request to determine whether the requester has any commercial interest that would be furthered by the disclosure. If information that NED obtains from a source other than the requester or reasonable inferences or other circumstances are used in making a determination under this paragraph (h)(5), NED shall inform the requester of the information, inferences or circumstances that were used in its initial determination. The requester may, prior to filing an appeal of the initial determination with the President of NED or his designee under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, provide further information to rebut such reasonable inferences, or to clarify the circumstances of the request to the person responsible for the initial determination. Such action by the requester must occur within 20 days of the initial determination by NED. Within 10 days of receipt of such further information, clarification, or rebuttal, NED shall respond to the additional information, reverse or affirm its original position and state the reasons for the reversal or affirmation. Receipt of an affirmation by the requester shall constitute an initial denial of a request for purposes of the appeal process described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(ii) NED shall consider the magnitude of the requester's commercial interest. In making a determination under this factor, NED shall consider the role that the disclosed information plays with respect to the requester's commercial interests and the extent to which the disclosed information serves the range of commercial interests of the requester.
(iii) NED shall weigh the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the requester against the public interest in disclosure in order to determine whether the disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. If the magnitude of the public interest in disclosure is greater than the magnitude of the requester's commercial interest, NED shall grant a full or partial fee waiver.
(6) In determining whether to grant a full or partial fee waiver, NED shall, to the extent possible, identify the portion of the information sought by the requester that satisfies the standard governing fee waivers set forth in FOIA, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(A)(iii), and in paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section, and grant a fee waiver with respect to those documents. Fees for reproduction of documents that do not satisfy these standards shall be assessed as provided in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(5)(i) of this section, a requester may appeal a determination of the fees to be charged or waived under these regulations as he or she would appeal an initial determination of documents to be disclosed under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[51 FR 40162, Nov. 5, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 37766, Oct. 9, 1987. Redesignated and amended at 64 FR 54540, Oct. 7, 1999]
§ 66.6
Exemptions.
NED reserves the right to withhold records and information that are exempt from disclosure under FOIA.
See
5 U.S.C. 552(b).
§ 66.7
Limitation of exemptions.
FOIA does not authorize withholding of information or limit the availability of NED records to the public except as specifically stated in this part. Nor is authority granted to withhold information from Congress.
§ 66.8
Reports.
On or before March 1 of each calendar year, NED shall submit a reporting covering the preceding calendar year to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate for referral to the appropriate committees of the Congress. The report shall include those items specified at 5 U.S.C. 552(d).
Pt. 67

# PART 67—ORGANIZATION OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
Sec.
67.1
Introduction.
67.2
Board of Directors.
67.3
Management.
67.4
Description of functions and procedures.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4411
et seq.;
Title II, Sec. 210, Pub. L. 99-93, 99 Stat. 431 (22 U.S.C. 4415); Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681
et seq.

# Source:
51 FR 40164, Nov. 5, 1986, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 64 FR 54541, Oct. 7, 1999.
§ 67.1
Introduction.
(a) The National Endowment for Democracy (hereinafter “NED”) was created in 1983 to stregthen democratic values and institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. Incorporated in the District of Columbia and governed by a bipartisan Board of Directors, NED is tax-exempt, nonprofit, private corporation as defined in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Through its worldwide grant program, NED seeks to enlist the energies and talents of private citizens and groups to work with partners abroad who wish to build for themselves a democratic future.
(b) Since its establishment in 1983, NED has received an annual appropriation approved by the United States Congress as part of the United States Information Agency budget. Appropriations for NED are authorized in the National Endowment for Democracy Act (the “Act”), 22 U.S.C. 4411
et seq.
(c) The activities supported by NED are guided by the six purposes set forth in NED's Articles of Incorporation and the National Endowment for Democracy Act. These six purposes are:
(1) To encourage free and democratic institutions throughout the world through private-sector initiatives, including activities which promote the individual rights and freedoms (including internationally recognized human rights) which are essential to the functioning of democratic institutions;
(2) To facilitate exchanges between U.S. private sector groups (especially the two major American political parties, labor and business) and democratic groups abroad;
(3) To promote U.S. nongovernmental participation (especially through the two major American political parties, labor, and business) in democratic training programs and democratic institution-building abroad;
(4) To strengthen democratic electoral processes abroad through timely measures in cooperation with indigenous democratic forces;
(5) To support the participation of the two major American political parties, labor, business, and other U.S. private-sector groups in fostering cooperation with those abroad dedicated to the cultural values, institutions, and organizations of democratic pluralism; and
(6) To encourage the establishment and growth of democratic development in a manner consistent both with the broad concerns of United States national interests and with the specific requirements of the democratic groups in other countries which are aided by NED-supported programs.
§ 67.2
Board of Directors.
(a) NED is governed by a bipartisan board of Directors of not fewer than thirteen and not more than twenty-five members reflecting the diversity of American society. The officers of the corporation are Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board, who shall be members of the Board, a President, Secretary and Treasurer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint. Meetings of the Board of Directors are held at times determined by the Board, but in no event fewer than four times each year. A current list of members of the Board of Directors and a schedule of upcoming meetings is available from NED's office at 1101 15th Street, NW; Suite 700, Washington, DC 20005-5000.
(b) All major policy and funding decisions are made by the Board of Directors. The primary statement of NED's operating philosophy, general principles and priorities is contained in the National Endowment for Democracy's
Statement of Principles and Objectives,
adopted by the Board of Directors in December 1984. Copies of this statement as well as other general information concerning the organization are available from NED on request.
(c) As a grantmaking organization, NED does not carry out programs directly. All grants made by the corporation shall be by a two-thirds vote of
those voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may from time to time adopt, upon a two-thirds vote of those voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present, procedures to address emergency funding requests between meetings of the Board. In addition, “[a]ny Board member who is an officer or director of an organization seeking to receive grants from the Corporation must abstain from consideration of and any vote on such grant” (Article VI, Section 6). Copies of the bylaws are available from NED's offices.
[51 FR 40164, Nov. 5, 1986. Redesignated and amended at 64 FR 54541, Oct. 7, 1999]
§ 67.3
Management.
(a) NED's operations and staff are managed by a President selected by the Board of Directors. The President is the chief executive officer of the corporation and manages the business of the corporation under the policy direction of the Board of Directors. The President directs a staff whose functions are divided among the Office of the President, a Program Section and a Finance Office.
(b) The Office of the President provides policy direction and is responsible for day-to-day management of the organization, including personnel management, liaison with the Board of Directors and preparation of meetings of the Board and Board committees. The President's office also provides information concerning NED's activities to the press and public. The Program Section, under the direction of the Director of Program, is responsible for the review and preparation of proposals submitted to the Endowment and for the monitoring and evaluation of all programs funded by NED.
(c) The Finance Office, under the direction of the Comptroller, is responsible, with the President and the Board of Directors, for financial management of NED's affairs, including both administrative financial management and grant management. The Director of Program and the Comptroller report to the NED President.
§ 67.4
Description of functions and procedures.
(a) In accordance with the
Statement of Principles and Objectives,
NED is currently developing and funding programs in five substantive areas:
(1)
Pluralism.
NED encourages the development of strong, independent private-sector organizations, especially trade unions and business associations. It also supports cooperatives, civic and women's organizations, and youth groups, among other organizations. Programs in the areas of labor and business are carried out, respectively, through the Free Trade Union Institute and the Center for International Private Enterprise.
(2)
Democratic governance and political processes.
NED seeks to promote strong, stable political parties committed to the democratic process. It also supports programs in election administration and law, as well as programs that promote dialogue among different sectors of society and advance democratic solutions to national problems.
(3)
Education, culture and communications.
NED funds programs that nourish a strong democratic civic culture, including support for publications and other communications media and training programs for journalists; the production and dissemination of books and other materials to strengthen popular understanding and intellectual advocacy of democracy; and programs of democratic education.
(4)
Research.
A modest portion of NED's resources is reserved for research, including studies of particular regions or countries where NED has a special interest, and evaluations of previous or existing efforts to promote democracy.
(5)
International cooperation.
NED seeks to encourage regional and international cooperation in promoting democracy, including programs that strengthen cohesion among democracies and enhance coordination among democratic forces.
(b) As a grantmaking organization, NED has certain responsibilities that govern its relationship with all potential and actual grantees. Briefly, these are:
(1)
Setting program priorities
within the framework of the purposes outlined in NED's articles of incorporation and contained in the legislation, and guided by the general policy Statement of the Board of Directors;
(2)
Reviewing and vetting proposals,
guided by the general guidelines and selection criteria adopted by the NED Board;
(3)
Coordinating among all grantees
to avoid duplication and to assure maximum program effectiveness;
(4)
Negotiating a grant agreement
which ensures a high standard of accountability on the part of each grantee;
(5)
Financial and programmatic monitoring
following the approval and negotiation of a grant, and ongoing and/or follow-up evaluation of programs prior to any subsequent funding of either a particular grantee or a specific program. Grantees will also be expected to monitor projects, to provide regular reports to NED on the progress of programs, and to inform NED promptly of any significant problems that could affect the successful implementation of the project. NED grantees will also conduct their own evaluations of programs.
(6) As a recipient of congressionally appropriated funds, NED has a special responsibility to:
(i) Operate openly,
(ii) Provide relevant information on programs and operations to the public, and
(iii) Ensure that funds are spent wisely, efficiently, and in accordance with all relevant regulations.
(c) Institutes representing business, labor, and the major political parties carry out programs which are central to NED's purposes. As a result of their unique relationship to NED, institute programs are an integral part of NED's priorities and the institutes themselves are “core” grantees. As such, the institutes, while subject to all the normal procedures governing NED's relationships with grantees, will be treated differently in the following respects:
(1) The institutes will have the mandate to carry out programs funded by NED in their respective sectors of business, labor and political parties.
(2) As an integral part of the process of budgeting and setting program priorities, the NED Board will target a certain amount of its annual resources for institute programs in their respective fields of activity.
(3) Unlike its practice for the majority of its grantees, NED will fund significant administrative costs for each of the core grantees.
(4) Institute staff will assume responsibility for program development and preparation of proposals for the Board in each field of activity for which it has a special mandate.
(5) NED will expect its core grantees to perform their monitoring/evaluation function described in programmatic monitoring under
Financial and programmatic monitoring
above in a manner that will minimize the need to devote NED resources for these purposes. (Individual copies of the Grants Policy are available from the NED office.)
(6) As stated above, in awarding grants the Board is guided by established grant selection criteria. In addition to evaluating how a program fits within NED's overall priorities, the Board considers factors such as the urgency of a program, its relevance to specific needs and conditions in a particular country, and the democratic commitment and experience of the applicant. NED is especially interested in proposals that originate with indigenous democratic groups. It is also interested in nonpartisan programs seeking to strengthen democratic values among all sectors of the democratic political spectrum.
(d)
Selection criteria.
In determining the relative merit of a particular proposal NED considers whether the grant application:
(1) Proposes a program that will make a concrete contribution to assisting foreign individuals or groups who are working for democratic ends and who need NED's assistance.
(2) Proposes a program, project or activity which is consistent with current NED program priorities and contributes to overall program balance and effectiveness.
(3) Proposes an activity that meets an especially urgent need.
(4) Does not overlap with what others are doing well.
(5) Proposes a program that will encourage an intellectual climate which is favorable to the growth of democratic institutions.
(6) Proposes a program that is not only culturally or intellectually appealing, but will affect the education and the awareness of minorities and/or the less privileged members of a society.
(7) Originates from an organization within a particular country representing the group whose needs are to be addressed.
(8) Appears to be well thought out, avoiding imprudent activities and possibilities for negative repercussions.
(9) Takes into consideration not only what objectively could be significant to a certain society, but how the cultural traditions and values of that society will react to the project.
(10) Incorporates an analysis of the problem of democracy in the area in question and the method by which the proposed program will have a constructive impact on the problem.
(11) Proposes a program that will enhance our understanding of what really helps in aiding democracy.
(12) Creatively enlists supports for foreign democratic organizations.
(13) Encourages democratic solutions and peaceful resolution of conflict in situations otherwise fraught with violence.
(14) Proposes a program, project or activity that is clearly relevant to NED program objectives and not better funded by other government or private organizations. (Proposing organizations will be be referred to other funding organizations where substantial overlap exists.)
(15) Proposes a program or strategy that is appropriate to the circumstances in the country concerned.
(16) Proposes a program that can be expected to have a multiplier effect, hence having an impact broader than that of the specific project itself; or establishes a model that could be readily replicated in other countries or institutions.
(17) Proposes appropriate, qualified staff who have a demonstrated ability to administer programs capably so as to accomplish stated goals and objectives.
(18) Proposes an appropriate ratio of administrative to program funds.
(19) Is responsive to NED suggestions with regard to program revisions.
(20) Proposes a realistic budget that is consistent with NED perceptions of project value and is performed within a stated and realistic time frame; and
(21) Proposes a program that has, as one of its principal aspects, a major impact on the role of women and/or minorities.
(e) The following guidelines also apply to all projects funded by NED.
(1) The proposing organization must be able to show that it is a responsible, credible organization or group that has a serious and demonstrable commitment to democratic values. (Various factors may be considered in this regard: recognized democratic orientation; established professional reputation; proven ability to perform; existence of organization charter, board of directors, regular audits, etc.);
(2) The proposing organization must be willing to comply with all provisions of the National Endowment for Democracy Act as well as all provisions of current and subsequent agreements between the USIA and NED;
(3) The proposing organization must agree not to use grant funds for the purpose of educating, training, or informing United States audiences of any U.S. political party's policy or practice, or candidate for office. (This condition does not exclude making grants or expenditures for the purpose of educating, training or informing audiences of other countries on the institutions and values of democracy that may incidentally educate, train, or inform American participants);
(4) The proposing organization must agree that no NED funds will be used for lobbying or propaganda that is directed at influencing public policy decisions of the government of the United States or of any state or locality thereof;
(5) The proposing organization must agree that there shall be no expenditure of NED funds for the purpose of supporting physical violence by individuals, groups or governments;
(6) The proposing organization may not employ any person engaged in intelligence activity on behalf of the
United States government or any other government;
(7) NED will not normally reimburse grantees for expenses incurred prior to the signing of a grant agreement with NED;
(8) Each grant made by NED will be an independent action implying no future commitment on NED's part to a project or program;
(9) NED may, from time to time, fund feasibility studies. Applications for grants in this category should include, but not be limited to, the following: Scope, method and objective of the study; Calendar; Proposed administration of the study; and Detailed budget. The funding of a feasibility study by NED does not imply support for any project growing out of the study. It does, however, imply interest by NED in the area under study and a willingness to entertain a project proposal growing out of the study; and
(10) The proposing organization may not use NED funds to finance the campaigns of candidates for public office.
(f) All proposals received by NED are reviewed by the staff in order to determine their congruence with NED's purposes as stated in the organization's Articles of Incorporation and the NED Act.
(g) Grant applications must contain the following information:
(1) A one-page summary of the proposed program;
(2) Organizational background and biographical information on staff and directors in the U.S. and abroad;
(3) A complete project description, including a statement of objectives, a project calendar, and a description of anticipated results;
(4) A statement describing how the project relates to NED's purposes;
(5) A description of the methods to be used to evaluate the project in relation to its objectives;
(6) A detailed budget, including an explanation of any counterpart support anticipated by the applicant, whether monetary or in-kind, domestic or foreign; and
(7) The names and addresses of all other funding organizations to which the proposal has been submitted or will be submitted.
(h) After an award determination has been made by the Board, NED enters into a grant agreement with the recipient. That agreement is made in accordance with NED policy, the terms of NED's grant agreement with USIA, and the terms of the Act, and the terms of NED's standard grant agreement as they apply to the specific project in question. The NED Board of Directors approved a revised Statement of General Procedures and Guidelines on September 12, 1986. The statement, outlined above, is available from the NED office.
(i) NED Staff welcomes preliminary letters of inquiry prior to submission of a formal proposal. Letters of inquiry and formal proposals should be submitted to: Director of Program, National Endowment for Democracy 1101 15th Street, NW, Suite 700, Washington, DC 20005-5000.
[51 FR 40164, Nov. 5, 1986. Redesignated and amended at 64 FR 54541, Oct. 7, 1999]

# SUBCHAPTER H—PROTECTION AND WELFARE OF AMERICANS, THEIR PROPERTY AND ESTATES
Pt. 71

# PART 71—PROTECTION AND WELFARE OF CITIZENS AND THEIR PROPERTY

# Subpart A—General Activities
Sec.
71.1
Protection of Americans abroad.
71.2
Requests for naval force in foreign port.
71.3
American claimants to foreign estates and inheritances.
71.4
Real property of deceased American citizens.
71.5
Storage or safekeeping of private property.
71.6
Services for distressed Americans.
71.7
Reports on catastrophes abroad.
71.8
Assistance to American Red Cross.
71.9
Presentation of Americans at foreign courts.

# Subpart B—Emergency Medical/Dietary Assistance for U.S. Nationals Incarcerated Abroad
71.10
Emergency medical assistance.
71.11
Short-term full diet program.
71.12
Dietary supplements.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 3904; 22 U.S.C. 2715; 22 U.S.C. 2715a; 22 U.S.C 2715b; 22 U.S.C. 2715c; 22 U.S.C. 2671(b)(2); 22 U.S.C. 2671(d); 22 U.S.C. 2670(j); 22 U.S.C. 4196; 22 U.S.C. 4197.

# Source:
22 FR 10841, Dec. 27, 1957, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Activities
§ 71.1
Protection of Americans abroad.
(a) Consular officers shall perform such duties in connection with the protection of U.S. nationals abroad as may be required by regulations prescribed by the Secretary of State.
(b) U.S. citizens seeking protection, welfare, or other routine American Citizen Services, Special Consular Services, and consular crisis preparedness and response from an American Citizens Services Unit at a U.S. embassy or consulate may be assisted in related proceedings by a third party of their own choice at their own expense in accordance with 22 CFR 50.52.
(c) For purposes of this part,
consular officer
includes any United States citizen employee of the Department of State who is designated by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Overseas Citizens Services to perform consular services overseas.
[89 FR 41311, May 13, 2024]
§ 71.2
Requests for naval force in foreign port.
Diplomatic representatives and consular officers shall not request the presence of a naval force in a foreign port unless a public emergency so necessitates. The request may be addressed to the officers in command of the naval force, in which event responsibility of action rests with them, or it may be addressed to the Department of State. In either case, the request should contain detailed reasons for its submission.
§ 71.3
American claimants to foreign estates and inheritances.
Where treaty provisions, local laws, or established usage permit, a consular officer should protect the interests of American citizens claiming foreign estates and inheritances.
§ 71.4
Real property of deceased American citizens.
In the absence of special provisions by treaty the devolution and transfer of real property are covered by the law of the place where the property is situated. When real property is left by the decedent within the country where death occurs, or where the decedent was domiciled at the time of death, the consular officer, or diplomatic officer, if there be no consular officer, should if feasible informally observe the proceedings and report to the diplomatic mission or the Department any apparent irregularity or unnecessary delay in settling the estate.
§ 71.5
Storage or safekeeping of private property.
Except in a public emergency, no diplomatic or consular officer of the United States shall accept private property for storage or safekeeping in the office or for transmission to some
other destination, unless it is property belonging to the estate of a deceased American citizen, or property over which the officer has jurisdiction as a result of a catastrophe at sea. In public emergencies, officers may accept private property for storage and safekeeping or for transmission to another destination, provided the owner signs a statement to the effect that the property is being accepted for deposit at his request, at his own risk, and with full knowledge that neither the Government of the United States nor any of its officers assumes responsibility therefor.
[22 FR 10841, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 89 FR 41311, May 13, 2024]
§ 71.6
Services for distressed Americans.
Diplomatic or consular officers of the United States shall extend every possible aid and assistance within their power to distressed American citizens within their districts, but they shall not expend the funds nor pledge the credit of the Government of the United States for this purpose, except in the case of American seamen, or except as authorized by the Department of State.
[22 FR 10841, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 89 FR 41311, May 13, 2024]
§ 71.7
Reports on catastrophes abroad.
Whenever a great catastrophe occurs abroad, either on land or on sea, the officer within whose district the catastrophe takes place or into whose district the survivors are brought shall report immediately by telegraph the names of any American citizens who have been killed or injured and the names of American citizens known to be safe.
§ 71.8
Assistance to American Red Cross.
Officers and employees of the Foreign Service may cooperate fully with the American Red Cross within their respective districts and subject to the limitations prescribed in § 102.806 (22 CFR, 1947 Supp.). They shall, however, avoid taking an active part in the solicitation of memberships or the collection of funds.
§ 71.9
Presentation of Americans at foreign courts.
The chief of the mission concerned may exercise his discretion in the matter of procuring the presentation of American citizens at the court of the country to which he is accredited.

# Subpart B—Emergency Medical/Dietary Assistance for U.S. Nationals Incarcerated Abroad

# Source:
42 FR 60141, Nov. 25, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 71.10
Emergency medical assistance.
(a)
Eligibility criteria.
A U.S. national incarcerated abroad is considered eligible to receive funded medical treatment under the following general criteria:
(1) Adequate treatment cannot or will not be provided by prison authorities or the host government;
(2) All reasonable attempts to obtain private resources (prisoner's family, friends, etc.) have failed, or such resources do not exist;
(3) There are medical indications that the emergency medical assistance is necessary to prevent, or attempt to prevent, the death of the prisoners, or failure to provide the serviced will cause permanent disablement.
(b)
Services covered.
Funds, once approved, may be expended for:
(1) Medical examination, when required;
(2) Emergency treatment;
(3) Non-elective surgery;
(4) Medications and related medical supplies and equipment required on a routine basis to sustain life;
(5) Preventive or protective medications and medical supplies and equipment (vaccinations, inoculations, etc.) required to combat epidemic conditions (general or intramural);
(6) Childbirth attendance, including necessary medical care of newborn children; and
(7) Within the consular district, transportation for the U.S. national and attendant(s) designated by incarcerating officials between the place of incarceration and the place(s) of treatment.
(c)
Consular responsibility.
As soon as the consular officer is aware that a U.S. national prisoner in the consular district faces a medical crisis, the officer should take the following actions, setting forth the order or priority based on an evaluation of the facts received:
(1) Make every effort to contact the ill or injured prisoner as soon as possible;
(2) Take steps to obtain a professional medical diagnosis and prognosis of the ill or injured prisoner;
(3) Determine as accurately as possible the estimated costs of recommended treatment or surgery;
(4) Obtain the names and addreses of family or friends who might serve as a source of private funds for medical services, and attempt to obtain the necessary funds;
(5) Request the prisoner to execute a promissory note, since funds expended by the Department to cover medical services normally are on a reimbursable basis; and
(6) Submit the above information, along with recommendations and evaluations, to the Department for approval and authorization.
(d)
Emergency expenditure authorization.
When a medical emergency prohibits the delay inherent in contacting the Department and receiving authority to expend funds, the consular officer can expend up to an amount to be established by the Department without prior Departmental approval if:
(1) Symptoms determine eligibility for emergency medical treatment; or
(2) An immediate medical examination is warranted in order to verify the alleged abuse of a U.S. national prisoner by arresting or confining authorities; or
(3) Immediate emergency medical treatment or surgery is necessary to prevent death or permanent disablement, and there is insufficient time to explore private funds or obtain Department approval; and
(4) A promissory note already has been executed by the prisoner, or if the circumstances warrant, by the consular officer without recourse.
§ 71.11
Short-term full diet program.
(a)
Eligibility criteria.
A prisoner is considered eligible for the short-term full diet program under the following general criteria:
(1) The prisoner is to be or has been held in excess of one day in a holding jail or other facility;
(2) Incarcerating officials do not provide the prisoner food, and food is not available from any other sources, including private funding from family or friends; and
(3) If the funds exceed an amount to be established by the Department, the prisoner signs a promissory note for funds expended, since the assistance is on a normally reimbursable basis.
(b)
Consular responsibility.
As soon as the consular officer is aware that a U.S. national is incarcerated in a facility wherein food is not routinely provided, the consular officer should:
(1) Contact the prisoner in accordance with existing procedures;
(2) Determine the normal cost of basic diet and best method of effecting payment;
(3) Attempt to secure funds from private sources such as family or friends;
(4) Because funds expended by the Department to cover the short-term full diet program normally are on a reimbursable basis, have the prisoner execute a promissory note; and
(5) Contact the Department, providing the above information, for approval and authorization.
(c)
Emergency expenditure authorization.
Since an immediate need for a short-term full diet program often prohibits the delay inherent in contacting the Department and receiving authority to expend funds, the consular officer can expend up to an amount to be established by the Department without prior Departmental approval if the prisoner's case meets the criteria established in paragraph (a) of this section. Expenditures above the predetermined limit must receive the prior approval of the Department.
§ 71.12
Dietary supplements.
(a)
Eligibility criteria.
A prisoner is considered eligible for the dietary supplement program under the following general criteria:
(1) An evaluation by a priviate physician, prison doctor, or other host country medical authority reveals that the prison diet does not meet the minimum requriements to sustain adequate health; or
(2) If the evaluation in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is not available, an evaluation by either a regional medical officer or Departmental medical officer reveals that the prison diet does not provide the minimum requirements to sustain adequate health.
(b)
Consular responsibility.
(1) When the consular officer is aware that the U.S. prisoner's diet does not provide the minimum requirements to sustain adequate health, the consular officer shall obtain the necessary dietary supplements and distribute them to the prisoner on a regular basis.
(2) As soon as the consular officer believes that dietary supplements are being misused, the consular officer shall suspend provision of the dietary supplements and report the incident in full to the Department.
Pt. 72

# PART 72—DEATHS AND ESTATES

# Reporting Deaths of United States Nationals
Sec.
72.1
Definitions.
72.2
Consular responsibility.
72.3
Exceptions.
72.4
Notifications of death.
72.5
Final report of death.
72.6
Report of presumptive death.

# Disposition of Remains
72.7
Consular responsibility.

# Personal Estates of Deceased United States Citizens and Nationals.
72.8
Regulatory responsibility of consular officer.
72.9
Responsibility if legal representative is present.
72.10
Responsibility if a will intended to operate locally exists.
72.11
Responsibility if a will intended to operate in the United States exists.
72.12
Bank deposits in foreign countries.
72.13
Effects to be taken into physical possession.
72.14
Nominal possession; property not normally taken into physical possession.
72.15
Action when possession is impractical.
72.16
Procedure for inventorying and appraising effects.
72.17
Final statement of account.
72.18
Payment of debts owed by decedent.
72.19
Consular officer is ordinarily not to act as administrator of estate.
72.20
Prohibition against performing legal services or employing counsel.
72.21
Consular officer not to assume financial responsibility for the estate.
72.22
Release of personal estate to legal representative.
72.23
Affidavit of next of kin.
72.24
Conflicting claims.
72.25
Transfer of personal estate to Department of State.
72.26
Vesting of personal estate in United States.
72.27
Export of cultural property; handling other property when export, possession, or import may be illegal.
72.28
Claims for lost, stolen, or destroyed personal estate.

# Real Property Overseas Belonging to a Deceased United States Citizen or National.
72.29
Real property overseas belonging to deceased United States citizen or national.
72.30
Provisions in a will or advanced directive regarding disposition of remains.

# Fees
72.31
Fees for consular death and estates services.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2715, 2715b, 2715c, 4196, 4197, 4198, 4199.

# Source:
72 FR 8889, Feb. 28, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Reporting Deaths of United States Nationals
§ 72.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Consular officer
includes any United States citizen employee of the Department of State who is designated by the Department of State to perform consular services relating to the deaths and estates abroad of United States nationals.
(b)
Legal representative
means—
(1) An executor designated by will intended to operate in the country where the death occurred or in the country where the deceased was residing at the time of death to take possession and dispose of the decedent's personal estate;
(2) An administrator appointed by a court of law in intestate proceedings in the country where the death occurred or in the country where the deceased
was residing at the time of death to take possession and dispose of the decedent's personal estate;
(3) The next of kin, if authorized in the country where the death occurred or in the country where the deceased was residing at the time of death to take possession and dispose of the decedent's personal estate; or
(4) An authorized agent of the individuals described in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.
(c)
Department
means the United States Department of State
§ 72.2
Consular responsibility.
When a consular officer learns that a United States citizen or non-citizen national has died in the officer's consular district, the officer must—
(a) Report the death to the Department; and
(b) The officer must also try to notify, or assist the Secretary of State in notifying, the next of kin (or legal guardian) and the legal representative, if different from the next of kin, as soon as possible. See § 72.3 for exceptions to this paragraph.
§ 72.3
Exceptions.
If a consular office learns that a United States citizen or non-citizen national employee or dependent of an employee of a member of the United States Armed Forces, or a United States citizen or non-citizen national employee of another department or agency or a dependent of such an employee, or a Peace Corps volunteer as defined in 22 U.S.C. 1504(a) or dependent of a Peace Corps volunteer has died while in the officer's consular district while the employee or volunteer is on assignment abroad, the officer should notify the Department. The consular officer should not attempt to notify the next of kin (or legal guardian) and legal representative of the death, but rather should assist, as needed, the appropriate military, other department of agency or Peace Corps authorities in making notifications of death with respect to such individual.
§ 72.4
Notifications of death.
The consular officer should make best efforts to notify the next of kin (or legal guardian), if any, and the legal representative (if any, and if different from the next of kin), of the death of a United States citizen or non-citizen national by telephone as soon as possible, and then should follow up with a written notification of death.
§ 72.5
Final report of death.
(a)
Preparation.
Except in the case of the death of an active duty member of the United States Armed Forces, when there is a local death certificate or finding of death by a competent local authority, the consular officer should prepare a consular report of death (“CROD”) on the form prescribed by the Department. The CROD will list the cause of death that is specified on the local death certificate or finding of death. The consular officer must prepare an original Report of Death, which will be filed with the Vital Records Section of Passport Services at the Department of State. The consular officer will provide a certified copy of the Report of Death to the next of kin or other person with a valid need for the Report within six months of the time of death. The next of kin or other person with a valid need for the Report may obtain additional certified copies after six months by contacting the Department of State, Vital Records, Passport Services, 1111 19th St., NW., Rm. 510, Washington, DC 20036.
(b)
Provision to Department.
The consular officer must sent the original of the CROD to the Department, with one additional copy for each agency concerned, if the deceased was:
(1) A recipient of continuing payments other than salary from the Federal Government; or
(2) An officer or employee of the Federal Government (other than a member of the United States Armed Services); or
(3) A Selective Service registrant of inductable age.
(c)
Provision to next of kin/legal representative.
The consular officer must provide a copy of the CROD to the next of kin (or legal guardian) or to each of the next of kin, in the event there is more than one (e.g. more than one surviving child) and to any known legal representative who is not the next of kin.
(d)
Transmission of form to other consular districts.
If the consular officer knows that a part of the personal estate of the deceased is in a consular district other than that in which the death occurred, the officer should send a copy of the CROD to the consular officer in the other district.
(e) The Department may revoke a CROD if it determines in its sole discretion that the CROD was issued in error.
§ 72.6
Report of presumptive death.
(a)
Local finding.
When there is a local finding of presumptive death by a competent local authority, a consular officer should prepare a consular report of presumptive death on the form prescribed by the Department.
(b)
No local finding.
(1) A United States citizen or non-citizen national may disappear or be missing in circumstances where it appears likely that the individual has died, but there is no local authority able or willing to issue a death certificate or a judicial finding of death. This may include, for example, death in a plane crash where there are no identifiable remains, death in a plane crash beyond the territory of any country, death in an avalanche, disappearance/death at sea, or other sudden disaster where the body is not immediately (or perhaps ever) recoverable.
(2)
Authorization of issuance.
The Department may authorize the issuance of a consular report of presumptive death in such circumstances. A consular report of presumptive death may not be issued without the Department's authorization.
(3)
Considerations in determining whether the Department will authorize issuance of a Report of Presumptive Death.
The Department's decision whether to issue a Report of Presumptive Death is discretionary, and will be based on the totality of circumstances in each particular case. Although no one factor is conclusive or determinative, the Department will consider the factors cited below, among other relevant considerations, when deciding whether to authorize issuance in a particular case:
(i) Whether the death is believed to have occurred within a geographic area where no sovereign government exercises jurisdiction;
(ii) Whether the government exercising jurisdiction over the place where the death is believed to have occurred lacks laws or procedures for making findings of presumptive death;
(iii) Whether the government exercising jurisdiction over the place where the death is believed to have occurred requires a waiting period exceeding five years before findings of presumptive death may be made;
(iv) Whether the person who is believed to have died was seen to be in imminent peril by credible witnesses;
(v) Whether the person who is believed to have died is reliably known to have been in a place which experienced a natural disaster, or catastrophic event, that was capable of causing death;
(vi) Whether the person believed to have died was listed on the certified manifest of, and was confirmed to have boarded, an aircraft, or vessel, which was destroyed and, despite diligent search by competent authorities, some or all of the remains were not recovered or could not be identified;
(vii) Whether there is evidence of fraud, deception, or malicious intent.
(c) Consular reports of presumptive death should be processed and issued in accordance with § 72.5.
(d) The Department may revoke a report of presumptive death if it determines in its sole discretion that the report was issued in error.

# Disposition of Remains
§ 72.7
Consular responsibility.
(a) A consular officer has no authority to create Department or personal financial obligations in connection with the disposition of the remains of a United States citizen or non-citizen national who dies abroad. Responsibility for the disposition of the remains and all related costs (including but not limited to costs of embalming or cremation, burial expenses, cost of a burial plot or receptacle for ashes, markers, and grave upkeep), rests with the legal representative of the deceased. In the absence of a legal representative (including when the next of kin is not a
legal representative), the consular officer should ask the next of kin to provide funds and instructions for disposition of remains. If the consular officer cannot locate a legal representative or next of kin, the consular officer may ask friends or other interested parties to provide the funds and instructions.
(b) Arrangements for the disposition of remains must be consistent with the law and regulations of the host country and any relevant United States laws and regulations. Local law may, for example, require an autopsy, forbid cremation, require burial within a certain period of time, or specify who has the legal authority to make arrangements for the disposition of remains.
(c) If funds are not available for the disposition of the remains within the period provided by local law for the interment or preservation of dead bodies, the remains must be disposed of by the local authorities in accordance with local law or regulations.

# Personal Estates of Deceased United States Citizens and Nationals
§ 72.8
Regulatory responsibility of consular officer.
(a) A consular officer should act as provisional conservator of the personal estate of a United States citizen or non-citizen national who dies abroad in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of §§ 72.9 through 72.27. The consular officer may act as provisional conservator only with respect to the portion of the personal estate located within the consular officer's district.
(b) A consular officer may act as provisional conservator only to the extent that doing so is:
(1) Authorized by treaty provisions;
(2) Not prohibited by the laws or authorities of the country where the personal estate is located; or
(3) Permitted by established usage in that country.
§ 72.9
Responsibility if legal representative is present.
(a) A consular officer should not act as provisional conservator if the consular officer knows that a legal representative is present in the foreign country.
(b) If the consular officer learns that a legal representative is present after the consular officer has taken possession and/or disposed of the personal estate but prior to transmission of the proceeds and effects to the Secretary of State pursuant to § 72.25, the consular officer should follow the procedures specified in § 72.22.
§ 72.10
Responsibility if a will intended to operate locally exists.
(a) If a will that is intended to operate in the foreign country is discovered and the legal representative named in the will qualifies promptly and takes charge of the personal estate in the foreign country, the consular officer should assume no responsibility for the estate, and should not take possession, inventory and dispose of the personal property and effects or in any way serve as agent for the legal representative.
(b) If the legal representative does not qualify promptly and if the laws of the country where the personal estate is located permit, however, the consular officer should take appropriate protective measures such as—
(1) Requesting local authorities to provide protection for the property under local procedures; and/or
(2) Placing the consular officer's seal on the personal property of the decedent, such seal to be broken or removed only at the request of the legal representative.
(c) If prolonged delays are encountered by the local or domiciliary legal representative in qualifying and/or making arrangements to take charge of the personal estate, the consular officer should consult the Department concerning whether the will should be offered for probate.
§ 72.11
Responsibility if a will intended to operate in the United States exists.
The consular officer immediately should forward any will that is intended to operate in the United States and that is among the effects taken into possession to the person or persons designated as executor(s). When the executor(s) cannot be located, the consular officer should send the will to the appropriate court in the State of
the decedent's domicile. Until the consular officer knows that a legal representative is present in the foreign country and has qualified or made arrangements to take charge of the personal estate, the consular officer should act as provisional conservator in accordance with § 72.8.
§ 72.12
Bank deposits in foreign countries.
(a) A consular officer is not authorized to withdraw or otherwise dispose of bank accounts and other assets deposited in financial institutions left by a deceased United States citizen or non-citizen national in a foreign country. Such deposits or other assets are not considered part of the personal estate of a decedent.
(b) The consular officer should report the existence of bank accounts and other assets deposited in financial institutions of which the officer becomes aware to the legal representative, if any. The consular officer should inform the legal representative of the procedures required by local law and the financial institution to withdraw such deposits, and should provide a list of local attorneys in the event counsel is necessary to assist in withdrawing the funds.
(c) A consular officer must not under any circumstances withdraw funds left by a deceased United States citizen or non-citizen national in a bank or financial institution in a foreign country without express approval and specific instructions from the Department.
§ 72.13
Effects to be taken into physical possession.
(a) A consular officer normally should take physical possession of articles such as the following:
(1) Convertibles assets, such as currency, unused transportation tickets, negotiable evidence of debts due and payable in the consular district, and any other instruments that are negotiable by the consular officer;
(2) Luggage;
(3) Wearing apparel;
(4) Jewelry, heirlooms, and articles generally by sentimental value (such as family photographs);
(5) Non-negotiable instruments, which include any document or instrument not negotiable by the consular officer because it requires either the signatures of the decedent or action by, or endorsement of, the decedent's legal representative. Nonnegotiable instruments include, but are not limited to, transportation tickets not redeemable by the consular officer, traveler's checks, promissory notes, stocks, bonds or similar instruments, bank books, and books showing deposits in building and loan associations, and
(6) Personal documents and papers.
(b) All articles taken into physical possession by a consular officer should be kept in a locked storage area on post premises. If access to storage facilities on the post premises cannot be adequately restricted, the consular officer may explore the possibility of renting a safe deposit box if there are funds available in the estate or from other sources (such as the next of kin).
§ 72.14
Nominal possession; property not normally taken into physical possession.
(a) When a consular officer take articles of a decedent's personal property from a foreign official or other persons for the explicit purpose of immediate release to the legal representative such action is not a taking of physical possession by the officer. Before releasing the property, the consular officer must require the legal representative to provide a release on the form prescribed by the Department discharging the consular officer of any responsibility for the articles transferred.
(b) A consular officer is not normally expected to take physical possession of items of personal property such as:
(1) Items of personal property found in residences and places of storage such as furniture, household effects and furnishings, works of art, and book and wine collections, unless such items are of such nature and quantity that they can readily be taken into physical possession with the rest of the personal effects;
(2) Motor vehicles, airplanes or watercraft;
(3) Toiletries, such as toothpaste or razors;
(4) Perishable items.
(c) The consular officer should in his or her discretion take appropriate
steps permitted under the laws of the country where the personal property is located to safeguard property in the personal estate that is not taken into the officer's physical possession including such actions as:
(1) Placing the consular officer's seal on the premises or on the property (whichever is appropriate);
(2) Placing such property in safe storage such as a bonded warehouse, if the personal estate contains sufficient funds to cover the costs of such safekeeping; and/or
(3) If property that normally would be sealed by the consular officer is not immediately accessible, requesting local authorities to seal the premises or the property or otherwise ensure that the property remains intact until consular seals can be placed thereon, the property can be placed in safe storage, or the legal representative can assume responsibility for the property.
(d) the consular officer may decide in his or her discretion to discard toiletries and perishable items.
§ 72.15
Action when possession is impractical.
(a) A consular officer should not take physical possession of the personal estate of a deceased United States citizen or non-citizen national in his or her consular district when the consular officer determines in his or her discretion that it would be impractical to do so.
(b) In such cases, the consular officer must take action that he or she determines in his or her discretion would be appropriate to protect t the personal estate such as:
(1) Requesting the persons, officials or organizations having custody of the personal estate to ship the property to the consular officer, if the personal estate contains sufficient funds to cover the costs of such shipment; or
(2) Requesting local authorities to safeguard the property until a legal representative can take physical possession.
§ 72.16
Procedure for inventorying and appraising effects.
(a) After taking physical possession of the personal estate of a deceased United States citizen or non-citizen national, the consular officer should promptly inventory the personal effects.
(b) If the personal estate taken into physical possession includes apparently valuable items, the consular officer may, in his or her discretion, seek a professional appraisal for such items, but only to the extent that there are funds available in the estate or from other sources (such as the next of kin) to cover the cost of appraisal.
(c) The consular officer must also prepare a list of articles not taken into physical possession, with an indication of any measures taken by the consular office to safeguard such items for submission with the inventory of effects.
§ 72.17
Final statement of account.
The consular officer may have to account directly to the parties in interest and to the courts of law in estate matters. Consequently, the officer must keep an account of receipts and expenditures for the personal estate of the deceased, and must prepare a final statement of account when turning over the estate to the legal representative, a claimant, or the Department.
§ 72.18
Payment of debts owed by decedent.
The consular officer may pay debts of the decedent which the consular officer believes in his or her discretion are legitimately owed in the country in which the death occurred, or in the country in which the decedent was residing at the time of death, including expenses incident to the disposition of the remains and the personal effects, out of the convertible assets of the personal estate taken into possession by the consular officer.
§ 72.19
Consular officer is ordinarily not to act as administrator of estate.
(a) A consular officer is not authorized to accept appointment from any foreign state or from a court in the United States and/or to act as administrator or to assist (except as provided in §§ 72.8 to 72.30) in administration of the personal estate of a United States citizen or non-citizen national who has died, or was residing at the time of death, in his or her consular district,
unless the Department has expressly authorized the appointment. The Department will authorize such an appointment only in exceptional circumstances and will require the consular officer to execute bond consistent with 22 U.S.C. 4198 and 4199.
(b) The Department will not authorize a consular officer to serve as an administrator unless:
(1) Exercise of such responsibilities is:
(i) Authorized by treaty provisions or permitted by the laws or authorities of the country where the United States citizen or national died or was domiciled at the time of death; or
(ii) Permitted by established usage in that country; and
(2) The decedent does not have a legal representative in the consular district.
§ 72.20
Prohibition against performing legal services or employing counsel.
A consular officer may not act as an attorney or agent for the estate of a deceased United States citizen or non-citizen national overseas or employ counsel at the expense of the United States Government in taking possession and disposing of the personal estate of a United States citizen or non-citizen national who dies abroad, unless specifically authorized in writing by the Department. If the legal representative or other interested person wishes to obtain legal counsel, the consular officer may furnish a list of attorneys.
§ 72.21
Consular officer may not assume financial responsibility for the estate.
A consular officer is not authorized to assume any financial responsibility or to incur any expense on behalf of the United States Government in collecting and disposing of the personal estate of a United States citizen or national who dies abroad. A consular officer may incur expenses on behalf of the estate only to the extent that there are funds available in the estate or from other sources (such as the next of kin).
§ 72.22
Release of personal estate to legal representative.
(a) If a person or entity claiming to be a legal representative comes forward at any time prior to transmission of the decedent's personal estate to the Secretary of State under 22 CFR 72.25, the consular officer may release the personal estate in his or her custody to the legal representative provided that:
(1) The legal representative presents satisfactory evidence of the legal representative's right to receive the estate;
(2) The legal representative pays any fees prescribed for consular services provided in connection with the disposition of remains or protection of the estate (see 22 CFR 22.1);
(3) The legal representative executes a release in the form prescribed by the Department; and
(4) The Department approves the release of the personal estate.
(b) Satisfactory evidence of the right to receive the estate may include:
(1) In the case of an executor, a certified copy of letters testamentary or other evidence of legal capacity to act as executor;
(2) In the case of an administrator, a certified copy of letters of administration or other evidence of legal capacity to act as administrator;
(3) In the case of the agent of an executor or administrator, a power of attorney or other document evidencing agency (in addition to evidence of the executor's or administrator's legal capacity to act).
§ 72.23
Affidavit of next of kin.
If the United States citizen or non-citizen national who has died abroad did not leave a will that applies locally, and the personal estate in the consular district consists only of clothing and other personal effects that the consular officer concludes in his or her discretion is worth less than $2000 and/or cash of a value equal to or less than $2000, the consular officer may decide in his or her discretion to accept an affidavit from the decedent's next of kin as satisfactory evidence of the next of kin's right to take possession of the personal estate. The Department must approve any release based on an affidavit of next of kin where the consular officer concludes that the personal estate effects are worth more than $2000 and/or the cash involved is of a value
more than $2000 and generally will consider approving such releases only in cases where state law prohibits the appointment of executors or administrators for estates that are valued at less than a specified amount and the law of the foreign country where the personal property is located would not prohibit such a release.
§ 72.24
Conflicting claims.
Neither the consular officer nor the Department of State has the authority or responsibility to mediate or determine the validity or order of contending claims to the personal estate of a deceased United States citizen or non-citizen national. If rival claimants, executors or administrators demand the personal estate in the consular officer's possession, the officer should not release the estate to any claimant until a legally binding agreement in writing has been reached or until the dispute is settled by a court of competent jurisdiction, and/or the Department has approved the release.
§ 72.25
Transfer of personal estate to Department of State.
(a) If no claimant with a legal right to the personal estate comes forward, or if conflicting claims are not resolved, within one year of the date of death, the consular officer should sell or dispose of the personal estate (except for financial instruments, jewelry, heirlooms, and other articles of obvious sentimental value) in the same manner as United States Government-owned foreign excess property under Title IV of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 511
et seq.
). If, however, a reasonable amount of additional time is likely to permit final settlement of the estate, the consular officer may in his or her discretion postpone the sale for that period of additional time.
(b) The consular officer should send to the custody of the Department the proceeds of any sale, together with all financial instruments (including bonds, shares of stock and notes of indebtedness), jewelry, heirlooms and other articles of obvious sentimental value, to be held in trust for the legal claimant(s).
(c) After receipt of a personal estate, the Department may seek payment of all outstanding debts to the estate as they become due, may receive any balances due on such estate, may endorse all checks, bills of exchange, promissory notes, and other instruments of indebtedness payable to the estate for the benefit thereof, and may take such other action as is reasonably necessary for the conservation of the estate.
§ 72.26
Vesting of personal estate in United States.
(a) If no claimant with a legal right to the personal estate comes forward within the period of five fiscal years beginning on October 1 after the consular officer took possession of the personal estate, title to the personal estate shall be conveyed to the United States, the property in the estate shall be under the custody of the Department, and the Department may dispose of the estate under as if it were surplus United States Government-owned property under title II of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 4811
et seq.
or by such means as may be appropriate as determined by Department in its discretion in light of the nature and value of the property involved. The expenses of sales shall be paid from the estate, and any lawful claim received thereafter shall be payable to the extent of the value of the net proceeds of the estate as a refund from the appropriate Treasury appropriations account.
(b) The net cash estate shall be transferred to the miscellaneous receipts account of the Treasury of the United States.
§ 72.27
Export of cultural property; handling other property when export, possession, or import may be illegal.
(a) A consular officer should not ship, or assist in the shipping, of any archeological, ethnological, or cultural property, as defined in 19 U.S.C. 2601, that the consular officer is aware is part of the personal estate of a United States citizen or non-citizen national to the United States in order to avoid conflict with laws prohibiting or conditioning such export.
(b) A consular officer may refuse to ship, or assist in the shipping, of any property that is part of the personal estate of a United States citizen or non-citizen national if the consular officer has reason to believe that possession or shipment of the property would be illegal.
§ 72.28
Claims for lost, stolen, or destroyed personal estate.
(a) The legal representative of the estate of a decreased United States citizen or national may submit a claim to the Secretary of State for any personal property of the estate with respect to which a consular officer acted as provisional conservator, and that was lost, stolen, or destroyed while in the custody of officers or employees of the Department of State. Any such claim should be submitted to the Office of Legal Adviser, Department of State, in the manner prescribed by 28 CFR part 14 and will be processed in the same manner as claims made pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2669-1 and 2669 (f).
(b) Any compensation paid to the estate shall be in lieu of the personal liability of officers or employees of the Department to the estate.
(c) The Department nonetheless may hold an officer or employee of the Department liability to the Department to the extent of any compensation provided to the estate. The liability of the officer or employee shall be determined pursuant to the Department's procedures for determining accountability for United States government property.

# Real Property Overseas Belonging to a Decreased United States Citizen or National
§ 72.29
Real property overseas belonging to deceased United States citizen or national.
(a) If a consular officer becomes aware that the estate of a deceased United States citizen or national includes an interest in real property located within the consular officer's district that will not pass to any person or entity under the applicable local laws of intestate succession or testamentary disposition, and if local law provides that title may be conveyed to the Government of the United States, the consular officer should notify the Department.
(b) If the Department decides that it wishes to retain the property for its use, the Department will instruct the consular officer to take steps necessary to provide for title to the property to be conveyed to the Government of the United States.
(c) If title to the real estate is conveyed to the Government of the Unites States and the property is of use to the Department of State, the Department may treat such property as if it were an unconditional gift accepted on behalf of the Department of State under section 25 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act (22 U.S.C. 2697) and section 9(a)(3) of the Foreign Service Buildings Act of 1926 (22 U.S.C. 300(a)(3)).
(d) If the Department of State does not wish to retain such real property the Department may treat it as foreign excess property under title IV of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 511
et seq.
).
§ 72.30
Provisions in a will or advanced directive regarding disposition of remains.
United States state law regarding advance directives, deaths and estates include provisions regarding a person's right to direct disposition of remains. Host country law may or may not accept such directions, particularly if the surviving spouse/next-of-kin disagree with the wishes of the testator/affiant.

# Fees
§ 72.31
Fees for consular death and estates services.
(a) Fees for consular death and estates services are prescribed in the Schedule of Fees, 22 CFR 22.1.
(b) The personal estates of all officers and employees of the United States who die abroad while on official duty, including military and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense and the United States Coast Guard are exempt from the assessment of any fees proscribed by the Schedule of Fees.

# SUBCHAPTER I—SHIPPING AND SEAMEN
Pt. 89

# PART 89—PROHIBITIONS ON LONGSHORE WORK BY U.S. NATIONALS

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1288, Public Law 101-649, 104 Stat. 4878.
§ 89.1
Prohibitions on Longshore work by U.S. nationals; listing by country.
The Secretary of State has determined that, in the following countries, longshore work by crewmembers aboard United States vessels is prohibited by law, regulation, or in practice, with respect to the particular activities noted:

# Albania
(a) Cargo loading and discharge.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Algeria
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exception: Opening and closing of hatches.

# Angola
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches,
(2) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(3) Loading and discharge of cargo on board the ship if local labor is paid as if had done the work.

# Antigua
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions: activities on board ship.

# Argentina
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions: activities on board ship.

# Australia (including Norfolk and Christmas Islands)
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) When shore labor cannot be obtained at rates prescribed by collective bargaining agreements,
(2) Operation of cargo-related equipment and opening and closing of hatches in small ports where there is insufficient shore labor, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Bahamas
(a) Longshore activities on the pier.

# Bangladesh
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment integral to the vessel when there is a shortage of port workers able to operate the equipment and with the permission of the port authority, and
(2) Opening and closing of hatches.

# Barbados
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches,
(3) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(4) Loading and discharge of cargo of less than 10 tons.

# Belgium
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exception: Rigging of ship's gear.

# Belize
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Benin
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Bermuda
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Brazil
(a) Cargo handling,
(b) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(c) Watchmen,
(d) Handling of mooring lines on the pier, and
(e) Other longshore activities on the pier.
(f) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Brunei
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions: Longshore activities on board ship.

# Bulgaria
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches,
(2) Mooring and line handling on board ship, and
(3) Loading and discharge of supplies for the crew's own needs, spare parts for small repairs and other non-commercial longshore activities.

# Burma
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Cameroon
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Canada
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of specialized self-loading/unloading log carriers on the Pacific Coast,
(2) Operation of self-loading/unloading equipment and line handling by the crews of bulk vessels calling at private terminals,
(3) Opening and closing of hatches,
(4) Cleaning of holds and tanks,
(5) Loading of ship's stores,
(6) Operation of onboard rented equipment,
(7) Ballasting and deballasting, and
(8) Rigging of ship's gear.
(c) Exceptions in connection with bulk cargo at Great Lakes ports only:
(1) Handling of mooring lines on the pier when the vessel is made fast or let go,
(2) Moving the vessel to place it under shoreside loading and unloading equipment,
(3) Moving the vessel in position to unload the vessel onto specific cargo piles, hoppers or conveyor belt systems, and
(4) Operation of cargo related equipment integral to the vessel.

# Cape Verde
(a) All longshore activities.

# Chile
(a) Longshore activities on shore.
(b) Transfer of cargo to or from ship.

# China
(a) Longshore activities on shore.

# Colombia
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions: When local workers are unable or unavailable to provide longshore services.

# Comoros
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment, and
(2) Opening and closing of hatches.

# Congo, Democratic Republic of
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exception: Operation of cargo-related equipment, when authorized by the Port Authority.

# Cook Islands
(a) Longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Costa Rica
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Cote d'Ivoire
(a) All longshore activities.

# Croatia
(a) All longshore activities.

# Cyprus
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Djibouti
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Dominica
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Dominican Republic
(a) Local longshore workers get paid if crewmembers operate loading and unloading equipment.

# Ecuador
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear,

# Egypt
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment integral to the ship except to load and discharge cargo,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches,
(3) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(4) Handling of mooring lines on the ship.

# El Salvador
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment belonging to the vessel,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches,
(3) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(4) Special operations requiring special expertise, provided that local port workers are paid.

# Eritrea
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches,
(3) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(4) Longshore activities for LASH vessels.

# Fiji
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches,
(3) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(4) Operation of computerized off-loading equipment when local expertise is not available.

# Finland
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# France (including the French Antilles, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Reunion, St. Pierre and Miquelon and Wallis and Fortuna)
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Loading and discharge of the ship's own material and provisions if done by the ship's own equipment or by the owner of the merchandise using his own personnel,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches,
(3) Rigging of ship's gear,
(4) Operation of cargo-related equipment to shift cargo internally,
(5) Handling operations connected with shipbuilding and refitting, and
(6) Offloading fish by the crew or personnel for the shipowner.

# Gabon
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exception: All longshore activities if local workers are paid as if they had done the work.

# Gambia
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear,

# Georgia
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exception: All longshore activities if local workers are paid as if they had done the work.

# Germany
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Ghana
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Greece
(a) Operation of shore-based equipment to load/unload a vessel.

# Grenada
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Guatemala
(a) All longshore activities.
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Guinea
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment aboard ship,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches,
(3) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(4) Other activities with the prior approval of the port authority.

# Guyana
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment aboard ship except to load or discharge cargo,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Haiti
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Honduras
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Hong Kong
(a) Operation of equipment on the pier.

# Iceland
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches,
(2) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(3) Longshore activities in smaller harbors where there are no local port workers.

# India
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exception: Operation of shipboard equipment that local port workers cannot operate.

# Indonesia
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) With the permission of the port administrator, when no local port workers with requisite skills are available, and
(2) In the event of an emergency.

# Ireland
(a) All longshore activities on pier or on land at port.

# Israel
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions, other than for loading or discharging cargoes to and from the pier:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Italy
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions: Cargo loading, discharge, and transfer upon presentation of the following information:
(1) Documentation listing the vessel's mechanical apparatus for cargo handling,
(2) A list of crewmembers who will perform the longshore activities,
(3) An insurance policy guaranteeing recovery for damages to persons or property in relation to the longshore activities.

# Jamaica
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of unusual hatches,
(2) Rigging of unusual ship's gear, and
(3) Longshore activities on foreign government vessels or ships engaged on a community development or humanitarian project.

# Japan
(a) All longshore activities.

# Jordan
(a) All longshore activities.

# Kazakhstan
(a) All longshore activities.

# Kenya
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches,
(2) Rigging of ship's gear,
(3) In an emergency declared by the port authority, and
(4) Direct transfer of cargo from one ship to another.

# Korea
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions, when done in relation to ship safety, ship operation, or supervisory work to ensure that stevedoring is done correctly:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Kuwait
(a) Longshore activities on shore.

# Latvia
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions: activities on board the vessel.

# Lebanon
(a) Longshore activities on shore.

# Liberia
(a) Longshore activities on shore.

# Lithuania
(a) All longshore activities.

# Macau
(a) Longshore activities on the pier.

# Madagascar
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Malaysia
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches,
(3) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(4) Loading and discharge of hazardous materials.

# Maldive Islands
(a) All longshore activities on shore.

# Malta
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Mauritania
(a) Loading and discharge of cargo.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Mauritius
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions, other than for normal cargo handling activities:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Mexico
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exception: Preparation of cargo handling equipment to be operated by local port workers.

# Morocco
(a) Loading and discharge of merchandise,
(b) Rigging of ship from dockside, and
(c) Other longshore activities not onboard vessel.
(d) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of onboard cargo related equipment, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear onboard the ship, in coordination with local port workers.

# Mozambique
(a) Loading and discharge of cargo.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Namibia
(a) Longshore activities on shore.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Nauru
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions, with the authorization of the Harbor Master,
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Netherlands
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exception: Regular crew activities on board ship, including operation of cargo-related equipment, opening and closing of hatches, and rigging of ship's gear.

# Netherlands Antilles
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of ship's gear,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# New Zealand
(a) All longshore activities that take longer than 28 days of arriving in territorial waters.

# Nicaragua
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exception: Opening and closing of hatches and rigging of ship's gear if local workers are paid as if they had done the work.

# Nigeria
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of ship's gear,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches,
(3) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(4) Instructing local employees on equipment.

# Oman
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Assisting in the operation of cargo related equipment if required,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Pakistan
(a) Longshore activities on shore, and
(b) Handling of mooring lines.
(c) Exception: Operation of equipment which pier workers are not capable of operating.

# Panama
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Papua New Guinea
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Peru
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of sophisticated cargo-related equipment on container vessels,
(2) First opening and last closing of hatches and holds, and
(3) Cleaning of holds.

# Philippines
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, if not related to cargo handling,
(2) Rigging of ship's gear, if not related to cargo handling,
(3) Longshore activities for hazardous or polluting cargoes, and
(4) Longshore activities on government vessels.

# Poland
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Portugal (including Azores and Madeira)
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Military operations,
(2) Operations in an emergency, when under the supervision of the maritime authorities,
(3) Security or inspection operations,
(4) Loading and discharge of supplies for the vessel and its crew,
(5) Loading and discharge of fuel and petroleum products at special terminals,
(6) Loading and discharge of chemical products if required for safety reasons,
(7) Placing of trailers and similar material in parking areas when done before loading or after discharge,
(8) Cleaning of the vessel,
(9) Loading, discharge, and disposal of merchandise in other boats, and
(10) Opening and closing hatches.

# Qatar
(a) All longshore activities.

# Romania
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of specialized shipboard equipment, and
(2) Loading and discharge of cargo requiring special operations.

# Russia
(a) All longshore activities performed with local port equipment.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# St. Christopher and Nevis
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# St. Lucia
(a) Loading, discharge and handling of general cargo.
(b) Exceptions: activities on board the ship.

# St. Vincent and the Grenadines
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions: activities on board the ship.

# Saudi Arabia
(a) All longshore activities on shore.

# Senegal
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches,
(2) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(3) Cargo handling when necessary to ensure the safety or stability of the vessel.

# Seychelles
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Sierra Leone
(a) All longshore activities.

# Singapore
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ships gear.

# Slovenia
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Solomon Islands
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# South Africa
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Spain
(a) All longshore activities.

# Sri Lanka
(a) Longshore activities on shore, and
(b) Operation of cargo related equipment to load and discharge cargo.

# Sweden
(a) All longshore activities.

# Sudan
(a) All longshore activities.

# Syria
(a) All longshore activities on shore.

# Taiwan
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches operated automatically, and
(2) Raising and lowering of ship's gear.

# Tanzania
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Thailand
(a) Longshore activities on shore.

# Togo
(a) Loading and discharge of cargo.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment on board the ship,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ships gear.

# Tonga
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Trinidad and Tobago
(a) All longshore activities on shore.

# Tunisia
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exception: Operation of specialized equipment that local port workers cannot operate.

# Turkey
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Tuvalu
(a) Longshore activities on shore.

# United Arab Emirates
(a) All longshore activities on shore.

# Uruguay
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of on-board cranes requiring expert operation or at the master's request,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(3) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Vanuatu
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Venezuela
(a) Longshore activities on shore, at the discretion of the companies leasing and operating port facilities.

# Vietnam
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Operation of cargo-related equipment,
(2) Opening and closing of hatches,
(3) Rigging of ship's gear, and
(4) Loading and discharge of cargo with on-board equipment when the port of call does not have the necessary equipment.

# Western Samoa
(a) All longshore activities.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) Opening and closing of hatches, and
(2) Rigging of ship's gear.

# Yemen
(a) Longshore activities on shore.
[68 FR 69601, Dec. 15, 2003]

# SUBCHAPTER J—LEGAL AND RELATED SERVICES
Pt. 91

# PART 91—IMPORT CONTROLS
Sec.
91.1
Answering inquiries regarding tariff acts and custom regulations.
91.2
Furnishing samples to collectors of customs or appraising officers.
91.3
Assistance to Customs and Tariff Commission representatives.
91.4
Alcoholic liquors on vessels of not over 500 tons.

# Authority:
Sec. 4, 63 Stat. 111, as amended; 22 U.S.C. 2658.

# Source:
22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, unless otherwise noted.
§ 91.1
Answering inquiries regarding tariff acts and customs regulations.
In replying to inquiries received from exporters, travelers, or other interested parties, concerning tariff acts or customs regulations, consular officers shall refrain from giving, or appearing to give, decisions pertaining to matters upon which hey are not competent to pass.
§ 91.2
Furnishing samples to collectors of customs or appraising officers.
Upon the receipt of a request therefor from a collector of customs or appraising officer of the Government of the United States, a consular officer shall procure and forward samples of merchandise being imported or offered for importation into the United States from his particular district.
§ 91.3
Assistance to Customs and Tariff Commission representatives.
Consular officers shall render all proper assistance to Customs and Tariff Commission representatives abroad to aid them in the performance of their official duties.
§ 91.4
Alcoholic liquors on vessels of not over 500 tons.
(a) Upon request of interested shippers or masters of vessels at ports in the consular district other than the place where the consular office is situated, consular officers shall designate one or more reputable individuals residing in each such port, as authorized persons to witness the signatures of the masters of vessels of not over 500 net tons when affixed to declarations covering shipments of alcoholic liquors destined to the United States, and to issue certificates therefor as contemplated by section 7 of the Anti-Smuggling Act of 1935 (49 Stat. 520; 19 U.S.C. 1707). Any person so designated by a consular officer to issue such certificates shall state in each of his certificates that he has no interest in the shipment described therein. Having delivered the original document to the master, he shall forward the duplicate to the consular office for retention.
(b) Consular officers shall, with respect to declarations of masters of vessels of not over 500 net tons in instances in which the port of shipment is the same place as, or conveniently near to, the location of the consular office, supply their certifications directly as contemplated by the said section of the Anti-Smuggling Act. They shall retain, over the interval prescribed in the applicable records retirement schedule, a copy of each document so certified by them. They shall similarly retain the copies of the certifications supplied by authorized persons in outlying ports of the consular district, as set forth in the preceding subsection.
(c) This section, read together with § 4.13, title 19, of the Code of Federal Regulations, comprises the joint regulations contemplated for issuance by the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury under section 7 of the Anti-Smuggling Act of 1935.
[32 FR 12588, Aug. 30, 1967]
Pt. 92

# PART 92—NOTARIAL AND RELATED SERVICES

# Introduction
Sec.
92.1
Definitions.
92.2
Description of overseas notarial functions of the Department of State, record of acts.
92.3
Consular districts.
92.4
Authority of notarizing officers of the Department of State under the Federal law.
92.5
Acceptability of notarial acts under State or territorial law.
92.6
Authority of notarizing officers under international practice.
92.7
Responsibility of notarizing officers of the Department of State.

# General Notarial Procedures
92.8
Compliance with request for notarial services.
92.9
Refusals of requests for notarial services.
92.10
Specific waiver in notarial certificate.
92.11
Preparation of legal documents.
92.12
Necessity for certification of notarial acts.
92.13
Form of notarial certificate.
92.14
Venue on notarial certificates.
92.15
Signing notarial certificate.
92.16
Sealing the notarial certificate.
92.17
Fastening of pages.

# Specific Notarial Acts
92.18
Oaths and affirmations defined.
92.19
Administering an oath.
92.20
Administering an affirmation.
92.21
Notarial certificate to oath or affirmation.
92.22
“Affidavit” defined.
92.23
Taking an affidavit.
92.24
Usual form of affidavit.
92.25
Title of affidavit.
92.26
Venue on affidavit.
92.27
Affiant's allegations in affidavit.
92.28
Signature of affiant on affidavit.
92.29
Oath or affirmation to affidavit.
92.30
“Acknowledgment” defined.
92.31
Taking an acknowledgment.
92.32
Notarial certificate to acknowledgment.
92.33
Execution of certificate of acknowledgment.
92.34
Fastening certificate to instrument.
92.35
Errors in certificate of acknowledgment.
92.36
“Authentication” defined.
92.37
Authentication procedure.
92.38
Forms of certificate of authentication.
92.39
Authenticating foreign public documents (Federal procedures).
92.40
Authentication of foreign extradition papers.
92.41
Limitations to be observed in authenticating documents.
92.42
Certification of copies of foreign records relating to land titles.
92.43
Fees for notarial services and authentications.

# Depositions and Letters Rogatory
92.49
“Deposition” defined.
92.50
Use of depositions in court actions.
92.51
Methods of taking depositions in foreign countries.
92.52
“Deposition on notice” defined.
92.53
“Commission to take depositions” defined.
92.54
“Letters rogatory” defined.
92.55
Consular authority and responsibility for taking depositions.
92.56
Summary of procedure for taking depositions.
92.57
Oral examination of witnesses.
92.58
Examination on basis of written interrogatories.
92.59
Recording of objections.
92.60
Examination procedures.
92.61
Transcription and signing of record of examination.
92.62
Captioning and certifying depositions.
92.63
Arrangement of papers.
92.64
Filing depositions.
92.65
Depositions to prove genuineness of foreign documents.
92.66
Depositions taken before foreign officials or other persons in a foreign country.
92.67
Taking of depositions in United States pursuant to foreign letters rogatory.
92.68
Foreign Service fees and incidental costs in the taking of evidence.
92.69
Charges payable to foreign officials, witnesses, foreign counsel, and interpreters.
92.70
Special fees for depositions in connection with foreign documents.
92.71
Fees for letters rogatory executed by officials in the United States.

# Miscellaneous Notarial Services
92.72
Services in connection with patents and patent applications.
92.73
Services in connection with trademark registrations.
92.74
Services in connection with United States securities or interests therein.
92.75
Services in connection with income tax returns.

# Copying, Recording, Translating and Procuring Documents
92.76
Copying documents.
92.77
Recording documents.
92.78
Translating documents.
92.79
Procuring copies of foreign public documents.
92.80
Obtaining American vital statistics records.

# Quasi-Legal Services
92.81
Performance of legal services.
92.82
Recommending attorneys or notaries.
92.84
“Legal process” defined.
92.85
Service of legal process usually prohibited.
92.86
Consular responsibility for serving subpoenas.
92.87
Consular responsibility for serving orders to show cause.
92.88
Consular procedure.
92.89
Fees for service of legal process.
92.90
Delivering documents pertaining to the revocation of naturalization.
92.91
Service of documents at request of Congressional committees.
92.92
Service of legal process under provisions of State law.
92.93
Notarial services or authentications connected with service of process by other persons.
92.94
Replying to inquiries regarding service of process or other documents.
92.95
Transportation of witnesses to the United States.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2651a, 2656, 4215 and 4221.

# Source:
22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, unless otherwise noted.

# Introduction
§ 92.1
Definitions.
(a) In the United States the term
notary
or
notary public
means a public officer qualified and bonded under the laws of a particular jurisdiction for the performance of notarial acts, usually in connection with the execution of some document.
(b) The term
notarial act
means an act recognized by law or usage as pertaining to the office of a notary public.
(c) The term
notarial certificate
may be defined as the signed and sealed statement to which a “notarial act” is almost invariably reduced. The “notarial certificate” attests to the performance of the act by the notary, and may be an independent document or as in general American notarial practice, may be placed on or attached to the notarized document.
(d) For purposes of this part, except §§ 92.36 through 92.42 relating to the authentication of documents, the term “notarizing officer” includes consular officers, officers of the Foreign Service who are secretaries of embassy or legation under section 24 of the Act of August 18, 1856, 11 Stat. 61, as amended (22 U.S.C. 4221), and such U.S. citizen Department of State employees as the Director or Deputy Directors, and regional Division Chiefs, Office of American Citizens Services and Crisis Management, Overseas Citizens Services, Bureau of Consular Affairs, U.S. Department of State may designate for the purpose of performing notarial acts overseas pursuant to Section 127(b) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994-1995, Public Law 103-236, April 30, 1994 (“designated employees”). The authority of designated employees to perform notarial services shall not include the authority to perform authentications, to notarize patent applications, or take testimony in a criminal action or proceeding pursuant to a commission issued by a court in the United States, but shall otherwise encompass all notarial acts, including but not limited to administering or taking oaths, affirmations, affidavits or depositions. The notarial authority of a designated employee shall expire upon termination of the employee's assignment to such duty and may also be terminated at any time by the Director or Deputy Directors, or regional Division Chiefs of the Office of American Citizen Services and Crisis Management, Overseas Citizens Services, Bureau of Consular Affairs, U.S. Department of State.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51721, Oct. 3, 1995; 89 FR 85430, Oct. 28, 2024]
§ 92.2
Description of overseas notarial functions of the Department of State, record of acts.
The overseas notarial function of notarizing officers of the Department of State is similar to the function of a notary public in the United States. See § 22.5(b) of this chapter concerning the giving of receipts for fees collected and the maintenance of a register serving the same purposes as the record which notaries are usually expected or required to keep of their official acts.
[60 FR 51721, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.3
Consular districts.
Where consular districts have been established, the geographic limits of the district determine the area in which notarial acts can be performed by the notarizing officer. See § 92.41 (b) regarding authentication of the seals and signatures of foreign officials outside the consular district.
[27 FR 12616, Dec. 20, 1962, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.4
Authority of notarizing officers of the Department of State under Federal law.
(a) All notarizing officers are required, when application is made to them within the geographic limits of their consular district, to administer to and take from any person any oath, affirmation, affidavit, or deposition, and to perform any notarial act which any notary public is required or authorized by law to perform within the United States. The term “notarial act” as used herein shall not include the performance of extraordinary acts, such as marriages, that have not been traditionally regarded as notarial, notwithstanding that notary publics may be authorized to perform such acts in some of the states of the United States. If a request is made to perform an act that the notarizing officer believes is not properly regarded as notarial within the meaning of this regulation, the officer shall not perform the act unless expressly authorized by the Department upon its determination that the act is a notarial act within the meaning of 22 U.S.C. 4215 and 4221. The language “within the limits of the consulate” is construed to mean within the geographic limits of a consular district. With respect to notarial acts performed by notarizing officers away from their office, see § 92.7. Notarial acts shall be performed only if their performance is authorized by treaty provisions or is permitted by the laws or authorities of the country wherein the notarizing officer is stationed.
(b) These acts may be performed for any person regardless of nationality so long as the document in connection with which the notarial service is required is for use within the jurisdiction of the Federal Government of the United States or within the jurisdiction of one of the States or Territories of the United States. (However, see also § 92.6.) Within the Federal jurisdiction of the United States, these acts, when certified under the hand and seal of office of the notarizing officer are valid and of like force and effect as if performed by any duly authorized and competent person within the United States. Documents bearing the seal and signature of a secretary of embassy or legation, consular officer (including consul general, vice consul or consular agent) are admissible in evidence within the Federal jurisdiction without proof of any such seal or signature being genuine or of the official character of the notarizing officer.
(c) Every notarizing officer may perform notarial acts for use in countries occupied by the United States or under its administrative jurisdiction, provided the officer has reason to believe that the notarial act will be recognized in the country where it is intended to be used. These acts may be performed for United States citizens and for nationals of the occupied or administered countries, who reside outside such countries, except in areas where another government is protecting the interests of the occupied or administered country.
(d) Chiefs of mission, that is, ambassadors and ministers, have no authority under Federal law to perform notarial acts except in connection with the authentication of extradition papers (see § 92.40).
(e) Consular agents have authority to perform notarial services but acting consular agents do not.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 27 FR 12616, Dec. 20, 1962; 60 FR 51721, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.5
Acceptability of notarial acts under State or territorial law.
The acceptability with the jurisdiction of a State or Territory of the United States of a certificate of a notarial act performed by a notarizing officer depends upon the laws of the State or Territory.
[60 FR 51721, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.6
Authority of notarizing officers under international practice.
Although such services are not mandatory, notarizing officers may, as a courtesy, perform notarial acts for use in countries with which the United States has formal diplomatic and consular relations. Generally the applicant for such service will be a United States citizen or a national of the country in which the notarized document will be used. The notarizing officer's compliance with a request for a notarial service of this type should be based on the reasonableness of the request and the
absence of any apparent irregularity. When a notarizing officer finds it advisable to do so, the officer may question the applicant to such extent as may be necessary to be assured of the reasonableness of the request and the absence of irregularity.
(a) That his notarial certificate may reasonably be expected to satisfy the legal requirements of the country in which the notarized document will be used;
(b) That the notarial service is legally necessary and cannot be obtained otherwise than through a United States notarizing officer without loss or serious inconvenience to the applicant; and
(c) That the notarial certifcate will be used solely for a well-defined purpose, as represented by the applicant for the service. (See also § 92.4(c) regarding notarial services for use in countries occupied by the United States or under its administrative jurisdiction.)
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51721, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.7
Responsibility of notarizing officers of the Department of State.
(a) As a rule notarial acts should be performed at the consular office. Where required by the circumstances of a particular case and subject to the reasonableness of the request notarial acts may be performed elsewhere within the limits of the consulate subject to the assessment of the applicable fees under subheading “Services Rendered Outside of Office” of the Tariff of Fees (§ 22.1(a) of this chapter), as well as to payment by the interested party of the officer's expenses in going to the place where the service is performed and returning to his office (§ 22.1(b) of this chapter).
(b) As indicated in §§ 92.4, 92.5, and 92.6, the authority of secretaries of embassy or legation as well as consular officers to perform notarial acts is generally recognized. However, the function is essentially consular, and notarial powers are in practice exercised by diplomatic officers only in the absence of a consular officer or U.S. citizen State Department employee designated to perform notarial functions as provided in § 92.1(d). Performance of notarial acts by an officer assigned in dual diplomatic and consular capacity shall be performed in his/her consular capacity, except in special circumstances.
[27 FR 12616, Dec. 20, 1962, as amended at 60 FR 51721, Oct. 3, 1995]

# General Notarial Procedures
§ 92.8
Compliance with request for notarial services.
A notarizing officer should comply with all proper requests for the performance of notarial services within the limitations prescribed in this part. (See particularly §§ 92.3 to 92.7). Moreover, as a representative of the United States Government, the notarizing officer, when acting in a notarial capacity, should take great care to prevent the use of his official seal in furthering any unlawful or clearly improper purpose. (See § 92.9 regarding refusal to perform notarial services in certain cases.)
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51721, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.9
Refusals of requests for notarial services.
(a) A notarizing officer should refuse requests for notarial services, the performance of which is not authorized by treaty provisions or permitted by the laws or authorities of the country in which he is stationed. (See § 92.4(a).) Also, a notarizing officer should refuse to perform notarial acts for use in transactions which may from time to time be prohibited by law or by regulations of the United States Government such, for example, as regulations based on the “Trading With the Enemy Act of 1917,” as amended.
(b) A notarizing officer is also authorized to refuse to perform a notarial act if he had reasonable grounds for believing that the document in connection with which his notarial act is requested will be used for a purpose patently unlawful, improper or inimical to the best interests of the United States. Requests for notarial services should be refused only after the most careful deliberation.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.10
Specific waiver in notarial certificate.
If the notarizing officer has reason to believe that material statements in a document presented for notarization are false, and if no basis exists for refusing the notarial service in accordance with § 92.9, he may consider the advisability of informing the applicant that he will perform the service only with a specific waiver of responsibility included in the notarial certificate. Furthermore, a notarizing officer may, in his discretion, add to the specific waiver in the notarial certificate a statement of verifiable facts known to him, which will reveal the falsity of material in the document. However, normally a notarizing officer shall exercise great caution not to limit the general privilege of a United States citizen while abroad to execute under oath any statement he sees fit to make, including mistaken, unnecessary, and even frivolous statements:
Provided,
That substantial and compelling reasons do not exist which impel restraining action on the part of the notarizing officer. On the other hand, experience has shown the desirability of including, as standard practice, a specific waiver of responsibility in all authentications (§ 92.38) executed in connection with divorce proceedings.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.11
Preparation of legal documents.
(a)
By attorneys.
When a document has been prepared by an attorney for signature, a notarizing officer should not question the form of document unless it is obviously incorrect.
(b)
By notarizing officers.
A notarizing officer should not usually prepare for private persons legal documents for signature and notarization. (However, see the provisions in § 92.24 regarding the preparation of affidavits.) When asked to perform such a service, the notarizing officer should explain that the preparation of legal forms is normally the task of an attorney, that the forms used and the purposes for which they are used vary widely from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and that he could not guarantee the legal effectiveness of any document which he might prepare. The person desiring the preparation of a legal document should be referred to such publications as Jones Legal Forms and The Lawyers Directory with the suggestion that he select or adapt the form which appears best suited to his needs. The notarizing officer may, in his discretion, arrange to have a member of his office staff type the document. If the document is typed in the Foreign Service office, the fee for copying shall be collected as prescribed under the caption “Copying and Recording” of the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter).
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.12
Necessity for certification of notarial acts.
A notarizing officer must execute a written certificate attesting to the performance of a notarial act. This certificate may be inserted on or appended to the notarized document (see § 92.17 regarding the fastening of sheets). The certificate evidences the performance of the notarial act. Failure to execute this certificate renders the notarial act legally ineffective. Each notarial act should be evidenced by a separate certificate; two or more distinct notarial acts should not be attested to by one certificate.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51721, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.13
Form of notarial certificate.
The form of a notarial certificate depends on the nature of the notarial act it attests. (See §§ 92.18 to 92.48 for discussions of the various forms of notarial certificates.) Rules pertaining to venue, and signing and sealing, are common to all notarial certificates.
§ 92.14
Venue on notarial certificates.
(a) The term
venue
means the place where the certificate is executed. The venue must be shown on all notarial certificates to establish the qualifications and sphere of authority of the notarizing officer to perform the notarial act. The items characteristic of a typical venue, in the order of their appearance in the certificate, are as follows:
(1) Name of the country (or dominion, Territory, colony, island, as appropriate);
(2) Name of province or major administrative region (if none, this may be omitted);
(3) Name of local community (city, town, or village);
(4) Name of the Foreign Service post.
(b) When a notarial act is performed, and the notarial certificate executed, at a locality in a consular district other than the locality in which the Foreign Service office is situated, the venue should mention only the name of the country (or dominion, territory, colony, island, as appropriate), and the name of the consular district.
(c) The venue used at a Foreign Service post which has not been officially designated as an embassy, legation, consulate general, consulate, or consular agency should bear the notation “American Consular Service” in place of the post name.
§ 92.15
Signing notarial certificate.
The notarizing officer should sign a notarial certificate on the lower right-hand side. The name and full official title of the notarizing officer should by typed, stamped with a rubber stamp, or printed in ink on two separate lines immediately below his signature. When the notarizing officer is assigned to a Foreign Service post in both a diplomatic and consular capacity, he should use his consular title in the notarial certificate. (See § 92.7.)
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.16
Sealing the notarial certificate.
The notarizing officer should seal a notarial certificate with the impression seal of the post on the lower left-hand side of the certificate. A notarial certificate executed at a Foreign Service post which has not been officially designated as an embassy, legation, consulate general, consulate, or consular agency should be sealed with an impression seal bearing the legend “American Consular Service” and the name of the locality.
§ 92.17
Fastening of pages.
When the instrument or document to which a notarial act relates consists of more than one sheet, or when the notarial certificate will be attached and not written on the document itself, the notarizing officer should bring all the sheets comprising the document together under his official seal.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]

# Specific Notarial Acts
§ 92.18
Oaths and affirmations defined.
(a)
Oath.
An oath is an outward pledge given by the person taking it that his attestation or promise is made under an immediate sense of his responsibility to God. In a broad sense the word “oath” includes all forms of attestation by which a person signifies that he is bound in conscience to perform an act faithfully and truly, and in this sense it includes “affirmation”.
(b)
Affirmation.
An affirmation is a solemn and formal declaration or asseveration in the nature of an oath that a statement, or series of statements, is true. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by any person having conscientious scruples against taking an oath. As a general rule, an affirmation has the same legal force and effect as an oath.
§ 92.19
Administering an oath.
The usual formula for administering an oath is as follows: The officer administering the oath requests the person taking the oath to raise his right hand while the officer repeats the following words: “You do solemnly swear that the statements set forth in this paper which you have here signed before me are true. So help you God.” Whereupon the person taking the oath answers, “I do.”
§ 92.20
Administering an affirmation.
In administering an affirmation the procedure followed is generally the same as in the case of an oath, but the formula is varied by the use of the following words: “You do solemnly, sincerely, and truly affirm and declare that . . ., and this you do under the pains and penalties of perjury.”
§ 92.21
Notarial certificate to oath or affirmation.
The written statement attesting to the administration of an oath or affirmation is known as a jurat. The jurat must be signed and sealed by the notarizing officer (see §§ 92.15 and 92.16 on signing and sealing notarial certificates).
§ 92.22
“Affidavit” defined.
An affidavit is a written declaration under oath made before some person who has authority to administer oaths, without notice to any adverse party that may exist. One test of the sufficiency of an affidavit is whether it is so clear and certain that it will sustain an indictment for perjury, if found to be false. An affidavit differs from a deposition in that it is taken ex parte and without notice, while a deposition is taken after notice has been furnished to the opposite party, who is given an opportunity to cross-examine the witness.
§ 92.23
Taking an affidavit.
The notarizing officer taking an affidavit should:
(a) Satisfy himself, as far as possible, that his notarial act will be acceptable under the laws of the jurisdiction where the affidavit is to be used (see § 92.5);
(b) Require the personal appearance of the affiant at the time the affidavit is taken;
(c) Require satisfactory identification of the affiant; and
(d) Administer the oath to the affiant before the affiant signs the affidavit.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.24
Usual form of affidavit.
Affidavits are usually drawn by competent attorneys or are set out in established forms. The form and substantive requirements of an affidavit depend principally upon the purpose for which it is made and the statutes of the jurisdiction where it is intended to be used. When a notarizing officer finds it necessary in the discharge of his official duties to prepare an affidavit, or when he assists a private person in preparing an affidavit (see § 92.11(b)), he should, where possible, consult the pertinent statutory provisions.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.25
Title of affidavit.
Generally an affidavit taken for use in a pending cause must be entitled in that cause so that it will show to what proceedings it is intended to apply, and may support an indictment for perjury in case it proves to be false. If there is no suit pending at the time the affidavit is taken or if the affidavit is not to be used in any cause in court, no title need be given.
§ 92.26
Venue on affidavit.
The venue must always be given and should precede the body of the affidavit. (See § 92.14 regarding venue on notarial certificates generally.)
§ 92.27
Affiant's allegations in affidavit.
(a)
Substance of allegations.
Although a notarizing officer is generally not responsible for the correctness of the form of an affidavit or the manner in which the allegations therein are set forth (see § 92.11(a) regarding the preparation of legal documents by attorneys; § 92.11(b) regarding the preparation of legal documents by notarizing officers; and § 92.24 regarding the form of an affidavit), he may, in appropriate instances, draw the affiant's attention to the following generally accepted criteria as regards the substance of the allegations:
(1) Material facts within the personal knowledge of the affiant should be alleged directly and positively. Facts are not to be inferred where the affiant has it in his power to state them positively and fully.
(2) If the matters stated in the affiant's affidavit rest upon information derived from others rather than on facts within his personal knowledge, he should aver that such matters are true to the best of his knowledge and belief.
(3) If the allegations made on information and belief are material, the sources of information and grounds of belief should be set out and a good reason given why a positive statement could not be made.
(4) If the conclusions of the affiant are drawn from the contents of documents, such contents should be set out or exhibited, so that the authority to whom the affidavit is presented may determine whether the affiant's deductions are well founded.
(b)
Veracity of allegations.
Notarizing officers are not required to examine into the truth of the affiant's allegations or to pass upon any contentious questions involved. In many instances the matters referred to in an affidavit will be of a technical or special nature beyond the officer's general knowledge or experience. However, he may, in certain circumstances, refuse to take an affidavit. (See § 92.9 regarding the types of situations in which an officer might properly refuse to perform a notarial service; also see § 92.10 regarding the waiver and other statements which may be included in a notarial certificate where evidence exists of falsity in the affiant's declaration.)
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.28
Signature of affiant on affidavit.
The signature of the affiant is indispensable. The affiant should always sign the affidavit in the presence of the notarizing officer.
§ 92.29
Oath or affirmation to affidavit.
Affidavits made before notarizing officers must be sworn to or affirmed (see § 92.23(d)).
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.30
Acknowledgment defined.
An acknowledgment is a proceeding by which a person who has executed an instrument goes before a competent officer or court and declares it to be his act and deed to entitle it to be recorded or to be received in evidence without further proof of execution. An acknowledgment is almost never made under oath and should not be confused with an oath (see § 92.18(a) for definition of oath). Moreover, an acknowledgment is not the same as an attestation, the latter being the act of witnessing the execution of an instrument and then signing it as a witness. Instruments requiring acknowledgment generally are those relating to land, such as deeds, mortgages, leases, contracts for the sale of land, and so on.
§ 92.31
Taking an acknowledgment.
(a)
Officers' assurance of acceptability of notarial act.
A notarizing officer taking an acknowledgment should, if possible, ascertain the requirements of the jurisdiction in which the acknowledged document is to be used and execute the certificate in accordance with those requirements. Not all States or Territories will accept certificates of acknowledgment executed by notarizing officers other than consuls. Therefore, notarizing officers and consular agents who are called upon to perform this notarial act should consult the applicable State or territorial law to ascertain whether certificates of acknowledgment will be acceptable. (See § 92.5 regarding acceptability of consular notarial acts under state or territorial law.) Furthermore, public policy generally forbids that the act of taking and certifying an acknowledgment be performed by a person financially or beneficially interested in the transaction to which the acknowledged document relates. Notarizing officers should keep this point in mind, especially in connection with acknowledgments by members of their families.
(b)
Personal appearance of grantor(s).
A notarizing officer taking an acknowledgment should always require the personal appearance of the grantor(s),
i.e.
, the person or persons who have signed the instrument to be acknowledged. Since the officer states in his certificate that the parties did personally appear before him, failure to observe this requirement invalidates the notarial act and makes the officer liable to the charge of negligence and of having executed a false certificate. A notarizing officer should never take an acknowledgment by telephone.
(c)
Satisfactory identification of grantor(s).
The notarizing officer must be certain of the identity of the parties making an acknowledgment. If he is not personally acquainted with the parties, he should require from each some evidence of identity, such as a passport, police identity card, or the
like. The laws of some States and Territories require that the identity of an acknowledger be proved by the oath of one or more “credible witnesses”, and that a statement regarding the proving of identity in this manner be included in the certificate of acknowledgment. (See § 92.32(b) regarding forms of certificates of acknowledgment generally.) Mere introduction of a person not known to the notarizing officer, without further proof of identity, is not considered adequate identification for acknowledgment purposes.
(d)
Explanation of contents of instrument.
The notarizing officer must assure himself that the person acknowledging an instrument understands the nature of the instrument. If the person does not understand it, the officer is legally and morally bound to explain the instrument in such a way as to make the person who has signed it realize the character and effect of his act. This duty is particularly important where the signer of a document has little or no knowledge of the language in which the document is written.
(e)
Acknowledgments of married women.
Some of the States still require that a married woman who has executed an instrument of conveyance jointly with her husband be examined separately by the notarizing officer at the time the acknowledgments of the couple are taken. Notarizing officers should consult the applicable statutory provisions before taking the acknowledgments of a husband and wife to a document which they have both executed.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51722, 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.32
Notarial certificate to acknowledgment.
(a)
Title.
The notarial certificate evidencing the taking of an acknowledgment is commonly known as a “certificate of acknowledgment” or sometimes simply as an “acknowledgment.”
(b)
Form.
The form of a certificate of acknowledgment varies widely depending on the laws of the jurisdiction where the acknowledged document is intended to be used, the purpose for which the document is intended, and the legal position of the persons who have executed it. Instruments to be acknowledged are frequently prepared on printed forms, the entire contract or deed being on one sheet together with the certificate of acknowledgment. Often the document, including the certificate of acknowledgment, is drawn up in advance by an attorney. In these cases, the notarizing officer may use the certificate which is already on the document, making whatever modifications are manifestly required to show that the certificate was executed by a notarizing officer. However, if he finds it necessary to prepare the certificate of acknowledgment, the officer should consult the appropriate reference work for guidance as to the proper form. When no prescribed form can be found, the officer should use the language in Form FS-88. Certificate of Acknowledgment of Execution of an Instrument, inserting the certificate immediately at the close of the deed on the last page if space permits, or, if a separate sheet is necessary, using the printed Form FS-88 itself.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.33
Execution of certificate of acknowledgment.
(a)
When certificate should be executed.
A notarizing officer should execute a certificate of acknowledgment immediately after the parties to the instrument have made their acknowledgment. Allowing several days or weeks to elapse between the time the acknowledgment is made and the certificate executed is undesirable, even though the officer may remember the acknowledgment act.
(b)
Venue.
The venue must be shown as prescribed in § 92.14.
(c)
Date.
The date in the certificate must be the date the acknowledgment was made. This is not necessarily the same as the date the instrument was executed. In fact, there is no reason why an instrument may not be acknowledged a year or more after the date of its execution, or at different times and places by various grantors.
(d)
Names of parties.
The name or names of the person or persons making the acknowledgment should appear in the certificate in the same form as they are set out in the acknowledged document, and in the same form as their signature on the instrument.
(e)
Additional statements.
When executing a certificate of acknowledgment on Form FS-88, the notarizing officer may include any necessary additional statements in the blank space below the body of the certificate.
(f)
Signing and sealing certificate.
The certificate of acknowledgment shall be signed and sealed as prescribed in §§ 92.15 and 92.16.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.34
Fastening certificate to instrument.
The proper place for the certificate of acknowledgment is after the signature of the parties to the instrument. If the instrument is a printed form, the certificate will almost invariably be a part of the form. When Form FS-88 is used or when the certificate must be prepared on a sheet separate from the instrument, it should be fastened to the instrument as the last sheet. The method of fastening notarial certificates is prescribed in § 92.17.
§ 92.35
Errors in certificate of acknowledgment.
A notarizing officer having taken an acknowledgment of an instrument and made a certificate of that fact cannot afterwards amend or change his certificate for the purpose of correcting a mistake. This can be done only by the parties reacknowledging the instrument. However, typographical errors may be corrected by striking out the erroneous characters and inserting the correct ones above. Such changes should be initiated by the parties who executed the instrument and by the notarizing officer.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.36
Authentication defined.
An authentication is a certification of the genuineness of the official character,
i.e.
, signature and seal, or position of a foreign official. It is an act done with the intention of causing a document which has been executed or issued in one jurisdiction to be recognized in another jurisdiction. Documents which may require authentication include legal instruments notarized by foreign notaries or other officials, and copies of public records, such as birth, death, and marriage certificates, issued by foreign record keepers.
§ 92.37
Authentication procedure.
(a) The consular officer must compare the foreign official's seal and signature on the document he is asked to authenticate with a specimen of the same official's seal and signature on file either in the Foreign Service office or in a foreign public office to which he has access. If no specimen is available to the consular officer, he should require that each signature and seal be authenticated by some higher official or officials of the foreign government until there appears on the document a seal and signature which he can compare with a specimen available to him. However, this procedure of having a document authenticated by a series of foreign officials should be followed only where unusual circumstances, or the laws or regulations of the foreign country require it.
(b) Where the State law requires the consular officer's certificate of authentication to show that the foreign official is empowered to perform a particular act, such as administering an oath or taking an acknowledgment, the consular officer must verify the fact that the foreign official is so empowered.
(c) When the consular officer has satisfactorily identified the foreign seal and signature (and, where required, has verified the authority of the foreign official to perform a particular act), he may then execute a certificate of authentication, either placing this certificate on the document itself if space is available, or appending it to the document on a separate sheet (see § 92.17 on the fastening of notarial certificates).
§ 92.38
Forms of certificate of authentication.
The form of a certificate of authentication depends on the statutory requirements of the jurisdiction where the authenticated document will be used (see § 92.39 regarding the provisions of Federal law). Before authenticating a document for use in a State or Territory of the United States, a
consular officer should consult the pertinent law digest to ascertain what specific requirements must be met, or he should be guided by any special information he may receive from the attorney or other person requesting the document with regard to the applicable statutory requirements. (See § 92.41(e) regarding material which should not be in the certificate of authentication.) If no provisions relating to authentications can be found in a particular State or Territorial law digest, and in the absence of any special information from the attorney or other person requesting the document, the officer should prepare the certificate of authentication in the form which seems best suited to the needs of the case. When in his opinion the circumstances seem to warrant, and always in connection with certificates of marriage or divorce decrees, a consular officer should include in the body of his certificate of authentication a qualifying statement reading as follows: “For the contents of the annexed document I assume no responsibility.”
§ 92.39
Authenticating foreign public documents (Federal procedures).
(a) A copy of a foreign public document intended to be used as evidence within the jurisdiction of the Federal Government of the United States must be authenticated in accordance with the provisions of section 1 of the act of June 25, 1948, as amended (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 948, sec. 92(b), 63 Stat. 103; 28 U.S.C. 1741). This provision of Federal law provides that a copy of any foreign document of record, or on file in a public office of a foreign country or political subdivision thereof, if certified, by the lawful custodian thereof, may be admitted in evidence when authenticated by a certificate of a United States consular officer resident in the foreign country, under the seal of his office.
(b) The consular officer's certificate should indicate that the copy has been certified by the lawful custodian.
(c) In the absence of a consular officer of the United States as an officer resident in the State of the Vatican City, a copy of any document of record or on file in a public office of said State of the Vatican City, certified by the lawful custodian of such document may be authenticated by a consular officer of the United States resident in Rome, Italy (22 U.S.C. 1204).
§ 92.40
Authentication of foreign extradition papers.
Foreign extradition papers are authenticated by chiefs of mission.
§ 92.41
Limitations to be observed in authenticating documents.
(a)
Unknown seals and signatures.
A consular officer should not authenticate a seal and signature not known to him. See § 92.37(a) regarding the necessity for making a comparison with a specimen seal and signature.
(b)
Foreign officials outside consular district.
A consular officer should not authenticate the seals and signatures of foreign officials outside his consular district.
(c)
Officials in the United States.
Consular officers are not competent to authenticate the seals and signatures of notaries public or other officials in the United States. However, diplomatic and consular officers stationed at a United States diplomatic mission may certify to the seal of the Department of State (not the signature of the Secretary of State) if this is requested or required in particular cases by the national authorities of the foreign country.
(d)
Photostat copies.
Consular officers should not authenticate facsimiles of signatures and seals on photographic reproductions of documents. They may, however, authenticate original signatures and seals on such photographic reproductions.
(e)
Matters outside consular officer's knowledge.
A consular officer should not include in his certificate of authentication statements which are not within his power or knowledge to make. Since consular officers are not expected to be familiar with the provisions of foreign law, except in a general sense, they are especially cautioned not to certify that a document has been executed or certified in accordance with foreign law, nor to certify that a document is a valid document in a foreign country.
(f)
United States officials in foreign countries.
An authentication by a
United States consular officer is performed primarily to cause the official characters and positions of foreign officials to be known and recognized in the United States. Consular officers should not, therefore, undertake to authenticate the seals and signatures of other United States officials who may be residing in their consular districts.
(g)
Officers of the Foreign Service in other countries.
An officer of the Foreign Service stationed in one country is not expected to authenticate the signature or seal of an officer of the Foreign Service stationed in another country. When it is necessary for the seal and signature of an officer of the Foreign Service to be authenticated, such authentication will be done in the Department of State. An official of a foreign government requesting the authentication of the seal and signature of an officer of the United States Foreign Service who is, or was, stationed in another country should be informed that the document to be authenticated will have to be sent to the Department for this purpose. Any document bearing the seal and signature of an officer of the Foreign Service which is received at a Foreign Service post from a person in the United States with the request that it be further authenticated should be referred to the Department of State.
§ 92.42
Certification of copies of foreign records relating to land titles.
In certifying documents of the kind described in title 28, section 1742, of the United States Code, diplomatic and consular officers of the United States will conform to the Federal procedures for authenticating foreign public documents (§ 92.39), unless otherwise instructed in a specific case.
§ 92.43
Fees for notarial services and authentications.
The fees for administering an oath or affirmation and making a certificate thereof, for the taking of an acknowledgment of the execution of a document and executing a certificate thereof, for certifying to the correctness of a copy of or an extract from a document, official or private, for authenticating a foreign document, or for the noting of a bill of exchange, certifying to protest, etc., are as prescribed under the caption Documentary services in the Schedule of Fees (§ 22.1 of this chapter), unless the service is performed under a “no fee” item of the same caption of the Schedule. If an oath or affirmation is administered concurrently to several persons and only one consular certificate (jurat) is executed, only one fee is collectible. If more than one person joins in making an acknowledgment but only one certificate is executed, only one fee shall be charged.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 63 FR 6480, Feb. 9, 1998]

# Depositions and Letters Rogatory
§ 92.49
“Deposition” defined.
A deposition is the testimony of a witness taken in writing under oath or affirmation, before some designated or appointed person or officer, in answer to interrogatories, oral or written. (For the distinction between a deposition and an affidavit see § 92.22.)
§ 92.50
Use of depositions in court actions.
Generally depositions may be taken and used in all civil actions or suits. In criminal cases in the United States, a deposition cannot be used, unless a statute has been enacted which permits a defendant in a criminal case to have a deposition taken in his own behalf, or unless the defendant consents to the taking of a deposition by the State for use by the prosecution. (For exception in connection with the proving of foreign documents for use in criminal actions, see § 92.65.)
§ 92.51
Methods of taking depositions in foreign countries.
Rule 28(b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the United States provides that depositions may be taken in foreign countries by any of the following four methods:
(a) Pursuant to any applicable treaty or convention, or
(b) Pursuant to a letter of request (whether or not captioned a letter rogatory), or
(c) On notice before a person authorized to administer oaths in the place in which the examination is held, either by the law thereof or by the law of the United States. Notarizing officials as
defined by 22 CFR 92.1 are so authorized by the law of the United States, or
(d) Before a person commissioned by the court, and a person so commissioned shall have the power by virtue of the commission to administer any necessary oath and take testimony.
[60 FR 51722, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.52
“Deposition on notice” defined.
A
deposition on notice
is a deposition taken before a competent official after reasonable notice has been given in writing by the party or attorney proposing to take such deposition to the opposing party or attorney of record. Notarizing officers, as defined by 22 CFR 92.1, are competent officials for taking depositions on notice in foreign countries (see § 92.51). This method of taking a deposition does not necessarily involve the issuance of a commission or other court order.
[60 FR 51722, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.53
“Commission to take depositions” defined.
A
commission to take depositions
is a written authority issued by a court of justice, or by a quasi-judicial body, or a body acting in such capacity, giving power to take the testimony of witnesses who cannot appear personally to be examined in the court or before the body issuing the commission. In Federal practice, a commission to take depositions is issued only when necessary or convenient, on application and notice. The commission indicates the action or hearing in which the depositions are intended to be used, and the person or persons required to take the depositions, usually by name or descriptive title (see § 92.55 for manner of designating notarizing officers). Normally a commission is accompanied by detailed instructions for its execution.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.54
“Letters rogatory” defined.
In its broader sense in international practice, the term
letters rogatory
denotes a formal request from a court in which an action is pending, to a foreign court to perform some judicial act. Examples are requests for the taking of evidence, the serving of a summons, subpoena, or other legal notice, or the execution of a civil judgment. In United States usage, letters rogatory have been commonly utilized only for the purpose of obtaining evidence. Requests rest entirely upon the comity of courts toward each other, and customarily embody a promise of reciprocity. The legal sufficiency of documents executed in foreign countries for use in judicial proceedings in the United States, and the validity of the execution, are matters for determination by the competent judicial authorities of the American jurisdiction where the proceedings are held, subject to the applicable laws of that jurisdiction. See § 92.66 for procedures in the use of letters rogatory requesting the taking of depositions in foreign jurisdictions.
§ 92.55
Consular authority and responsibility for taking depositions.
(a)
Requests to take depositions or designations to execute commissions to take depositions.
Any United States notarizing officer may be requested to take a deposition on notice, or designated to execute a commission to take depositions. A commission or notice should, if possible, identify the officer who is to take depositions by his official title only in the following manner: “Any notarizing officer of the United States of America at (name of locality)”. The notarizing officer responsible for the performance of notarial acts at a post should act on a request to take a deposition on notice, or should execute the commission, when the documents are drawn in this manner, provided local law does not preclude such action. However, when the officer (or officers) is designated by name as well as by title, only the officer (or officers) so designated may take the depositions. In either instance, the officer must be a disinterested party. Rule 28(c) of the Rules of Civil Procedure for the district courts of the United States prohibits the taking of a deposition before a person who is a relative, employee, attorney or counsel of any of the parties, or who is a relative or employee of such attorney or counsel, or who is financially interested in the action.
(b)
Authority in Federal law.
The authority for the taking of depositions,
charging the appropriate fees, and imposing the penalty for giving false evidence is generally set forth in 22 U.S.C. 4215 and 4221. The taking of depositions for federal courts of the United States is further governed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. For the provisions of law which govern particularly the taking of depositions to prove the genuineness of foreign documents which it is desired to introduce in evidence in any criminal action or proceeding is a United States federal court, see 18 U.S.C. 3491 through 3496.
(c)
Procedure where laws of the foreign country do not permit the taking of depositions.
In countries where the right to take depositions is not secured by treaty, notarizing officers may take depositions only if the laws or authorities of the national government will permit them to do so. Notarizing officers in countries where the taking of depositions is not permitted who receive notices or commissions for taking depositions should return the documents to the parties from whom they are received explaining why they are returning them, and indicating what other method or methods may be available for obtaining the depositions, whether by letters rogatory or otherwise.
[60 FR 51722, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.56
Summary of procedure for taking depositions.
In taking a deposition on notice or executing a commission to take depositions, a notarizing officer should conform to any statutory enactments on the subject in the jurisdiction in which the depositions will be used. He should also comply with any special instructions which accompany the request for a deposition on notice or a commission. Unless otherwise directed by statutory enactments or special instructions, the officer should proceed as follows in taking depositions:
(a) Request the witnesses, whose testimony is needed, to appear before him; or, at the request of any party to the action or proceeding, request designated persons to supply him or the requesting party with needed records or documents in their possession, or copies thereof;
(b) When necessary, act as interpreter or translater, or see that arrangements are made for some qualified person to act in this capacity;
(c) Before the testimony is taken, administer oaths (or affirmations in lieu thereof) to the interpreter or translator (if there is one), to the stenographer taking down the testimony, and to each witness;
(d) Have the witnesses examined in accordance with the procedure described in §§ 92.57 to 92.60;
(e) Either record, or have recorded in his presence and under his direction, the testimony of the witnesses;
(f) Take the testimony, or have it taken, stenographically in question-and-answer form and transcribed (see § 92.58) unless the parties to the action agree otherwise (rules 30(c) and 31(b), Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the United States);
(g) Be actually present throughout the examination of the witnesses, but recess the examination for reasonable periods of time and for sufficient reasons;
(h) Mark or cause to be marked, by identifying exhibit numbers or letters, all documents identified by a witness or counsel and submitted for the record.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.57
Oral examination of witnesses.
When a witness is examined on the basis of oral interrogatories, the counsel for the party requesting the deposition has the right to conduct a direct examination of the witness without interruption except in the form of objection by opposing counsel. The opposing counsel has the same right on cross-examination. Cross-examination may be followed by redirect and recross-examinations until the interrogation is complete. The notarizing officer taking the deposition should endeavor to restrain counsel from indulging in lengthy colloquies, digressions, or asides, and from attempts to intimidate or mislead the witness. The notarizing officer has no authority to sustain or overrule objections but should have them recorded as provided in § 92.59. Instead of taking part in the
oral examination of a witness, the parties notified of the taking of a deposition may transmit written interrogatories to the notarizing officer. The notarizing officer should then question the witness on the basis of the written interrogatories and should record the answers verbatim. (Rules 30 (c) and 31 (b), Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the United States.)
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.58
Examination on basis of written interrogatories.
Written interrogatories are usually divided into three parts:
(a) The direct interrogatories or interrogatories in chief;
(b) The cross-interrogatories; and
(c) The redirect interrogatories.
Recross-interrogatories sometimes follow redirect interrogatories. The notarizing officer should not furnish the witness with a copy of the interrogatories in advance of the questioning, nor should he allow the witness to examine the interrogatories in advance of the questioning. Although it may be necessary for the officer, when communicating with the witness for the purpose of asking him to appear to testify, to indicate in general terms the nature of the evidence which is being sought, this information should not be given in such detail as to permit the witness to formulate his answers to the interrogatories prior to his appearance before the notarizing officer. The officer taking the deposition should put the interrogatories to the witness separately and in order. The written interrogatories should not be repeated in the record (unless special instructions to that effect are given), but an appropriate reference should be made thereto. These references should, of course, be followed by the witness' answers. All of the written interrogatories must be put to the witness, even though at some point during the examination the witness disclaims further knowledge of the subject. When counsel for all of the parties attend an examination conducted on written interrogatories, the notarizing officer may, all counsel having consented thereto, permit oral examination of the witness following the close of the examination upon written interrogatories. The oral examination should be conducted in the same manner and order as if not preceded by an examination upon written interrogatories.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995; 61 FR 14375, Apr. 1, 1996]
§ 92.59
Recording of objections.
All objections made at the time of the examination to the qualifications of the officer taking the deposition, or to the manner of taking it, or to the evidence presented, or to the conduct of any party, and any other objection to the proceedings must be noted in the deposition. Evidence objected to will be taken subject to the objections. (Rules 30 (c) and 31 (b), Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the United States.)
§ 92.60
Examination procedures.
(a)
Explaining interrogatory to witness.
If the witness does not understand what an interrogatory means, the notarizing officer should explain it to him, if possible, but only so as to get an answer strictly responsive to the interrogatory.
(b)
Refreshing memory by reference to written records.
A witness may be permitted to refresh his memory by referring to notes, papers or other documents. The notarizing officer should have such occurrence noted in the record of the testimony together with a statement of his opinion as to whether the witness was using the notes, papers or other documents to refresh his memory or for the sake of testifying to matters not then of his personal knowledge.
(c)
Conferring with counsel.
When the witness confers with counsel before answering any interrogatory, the notarizing officer should have that fact noted in the record of the testimony.
(d)
Examining witness as to personal knowledge.
The notarizing officer may at any time during the examination of a witness propound such inquiries as may be necessary to satisfy himself whether the witness is testifying from his personal knowledge of the subject matter of the examination.
(e)
Witness not to leave officer's presence.
The notarizing officer should request the witness not to leave his presence during the examination, except during the recesses for meals, rest, etc., authorized in § 92.56 (g). Failure of the witness to comply with this request must be noted in the record.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.61
Transcription and signing of record of examination.
After the examination of a witness is completed, the stenographic record of the examination must be fully transcribed and the transcription attached securely to any document or documents to which the testimony in the record pertains. (See § 92.63 regarding the arrangement of papers.) The transcribed deposition must then be submitted to the witness for examination and read to or by him, unless such examination and reading are waived by the witness and by the parties to the action. Any changes in form or substance desired by the witness should be entered upon the deposition by the notarizing officer with a statement of the reasons given by the witness for making the changes. The witness should then sign the transcript of his deposition and should initial in the margin each correction made at his request. However, the signature and initials of the witness may be omitted if the parties to the action by stipulation waive the signing or if the witness is ill, refuses to sign, or cannot be found. If the deposition is not signed by the witness, the notarizing officer should sign it and should state on the record the reason for his action,
i.e.
, the waiver of the parties, the illness or absence of the witness, or the refusal of the witness to sign, giving the reasons for such refusal. The deposition may then be used as though signed by the witness except when, on the motion to suppress, the court holds that the reasons given for the refusal to sign require the rejection of the deposition in whole or in part. (Rules 30 (e) and 31 (b), Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the United States.)
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.62
Captioning and certifying depositions.
The notarizing officer should prepare a caption for every deposition; should certify on the deposition that the witness was duly sworn by him and that the deposition is a true record of the testimony given by the witness; and should sign and seal the certification in the manner prescribed in §§ 92.15 and 92.16. (Rules 30 (f) (1) and 31 (b), Rules of Civil Procedures for the District Courts of the United States.)
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.63
Arrangement of papers.
Unless special instructions to the contrary are received, the various papers comprising the completed record of the depositions should usually be arranged in the following order from bottom to top:
(a) Commission to take depositions (or notice of taking depositions), with interrogatories, exhibits, and other supporting documents fastened thereto.
(b) Statement of fees charged, if one is prepared on a separate sheet.
(c) Record of the responses of the various witnesses, including any exhibits the witnesses may submit.
(d) Closing certificate.
All of these papers should be fastened together with ribbon, the ends of which should be secured beneath the notarizing officer's seal affixed to the closing certificate.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.64
Filing depositions.
(a)
Preparation and transmission of envelope.
The notice or commission, the interrogatories, the record of the witnesses' answers, the exhibits, and all other documents and papers pertaining to the depositions should be fastened together (see § 92.63 regarding the arrangement of papers) and should be enclosed in an envelope sealed with the wax engraving seal of the post. The envelope should be endorsed with the title of the action and should be marked and addressed. The sealed envelope should then be transmitted to
the court in which the action is pending.
(b)
Furnishing copies.
The original completed depositions should not be sent to any of the parties to the action or to their counsel. However, the notarizing officer may furnish a copy of a deposition to the deponent or to any party to the action upon the payment of the copying fee and if certification is desired under official seal that the copy is a true copy, the certification fee prescribed in the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter).
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 60 FR 51723, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.65
Depositions to prove genuineness of foreign documents.
(a)
Authority to execute commission.
Under the provisions of section 1 of the act of June 25, 1948, as amended (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 834, sec. 53, 63 Stat. 96; 18 U.S.C. 3492), a diplomatic or consular officer may be commissioned by an United States court to take the testimony of a witness in a foreign country either on oral or written interrogatories, or partly on oral and partly on written interrogatories, for the purpose of determining the genuineness of any foreign document (any book, paper, statement, record, account, writing, or other document, or any portion thereof, of whatever character and in whatever form, as well as any copy thereof equally with the original, which is not in the United States) which it is desired to introduce in evidence in any criminal action or proceeding in any United States court under the provisions of section 1 of the act of June 25, 1948 (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 945; 28 U.S.C. 1732). Such testimony may also be taken to determine whether the foreign document was made in the regular course of business and whether it was the regular course of business to make such document. The term “business” includes business, profession, occupation, and calling of every kind. (Sec. 1, 62 Stat. 945, 28 U.S.C. 1732.)
(b)
Disqualification to execute commission.
Any diplomatic or consular officer to whom a commission is addressed to take testimony, who is interested in the outcome of the criminal action or proceeding in which the foreign documents in question are intended to be used or who has participated in the prosecution of such action or proceeding, whether by investigations, preparation of evidence, or otherwise, may be disqualified on his own motion or on that of the United States or any other party to such criminal action or proceeding made to the court from which the commission issued at any time prior to the execution thereof. If, after notice and hearing, the court grants the motion, it will instruct the diplomatic or consular officer thus disqualified to send the commission to any other diplomatic or consular officer of the United States named by the court, and such other officer should execute the commission according to its terms and will for all purposes be deemed the officer to whom the commission is addressed. (Section 1, 62 Stat. 834, sec. 53, 63 Stat. 96; 18 U.S.C. 3492.)
(c)
Execution and return of commission.
(1) Commissions issued in criminal cases under the authority of the act of June 25, 1948, as amended, to take testimony in connection with foreign documents should be executed and returned by officers of the Foreign Service in accordance with section 1 of that act, as amended (sec. l, 62 Stat. 835; 18 U.S.C. 3493, 3494), and in accordance with any special instructions which may accompany the commission. For details not covered by such section or by special instructions, officers of the Foreign Service should be guided by such instructions as may be issued by the Department of State in connection with the taking of depositions generally. (See §§ 92.55 to 92.64.)
(2) Section 1 of the act of June 25, 1948 (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 835; 18 U.S.C. 3493) provides that every person whose testimony is taken should be cautioned and sworn to testify the whole truth and should be carefully examined. The testimony should be reduced to writing or typewriting by the consular officer, or by some person under his personal supervision, or by the witness himself in the presence of the consular officer, and by no other person. After it has been reduced to writing or typewriting, the testimony must be signed by the witness. Every foreign document with respect to which testimony is taken
must be annexed to such testimony and must be signed by each witness who appears for the purpose of establishing the genuineness of such document.
(3) When counsel for all of the parties attend the examination of any witness whose testimony will be taken on written interrogatories, they may consent that oral interrogatories, in addition to those accompanying the commission, be put to the witness. The consular officer taking the testimony should require an interpreter to be present when his services are needed or are requested by any party or his attorney. (Section 1, 62 Stat. 835, 18 U.S.C. 3493.)
(4) Section 1 of the act of June 25, 1948 (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 835; 18 U.S.C. 3494) provides that the consular officer, who executes any commission authorized under the same section, as amended (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 834, sec. 53, 63 Stat. 96; 18 U.S.C. 3492) and who is satisfied, upon all the testimony taken, that a foreign document is genuine, should certify such document to be genuine under the seal of his office. This certification must include a statement that the officer is not subject to disqualification under the provisions of section 1 of the act of June 25, 1948, as amended (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 834, sec. 53, 63 Stat. 96; 18 U.S.C. 3492). For purposes of assessment of fees, the issuance of this certificate shall be regarded as a part of the consular service of executing the commission, and no separate fee shall be charged for the certificate.
(5) The consular officer should then forward such foreign documents, together with the record of all testimony taken and the commission which has been executed, to the Department of State for transmission to the clerk of the court from which the commission issued. (Section 1, 62 Stat. 835; 18 U.S.C. 3494.) (See § 92.64 regarding the filing of depositions generally.)
(Sec. 303, 60 Stat. 1002, 62 Stat. 836; 22 U.S.C. 843, 18 U.S.C. 3496, E.O. 10307; 16 FR 11907, 3 CFR 1949-1953 Comp., page 387)
§ 92.66
Depositions taken before foreign officials or other persons in a foreign country.
(a)
Customary practice.
Under Federal law (Rule 28(b), Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the United States) and under the laws of some of the States, a commission to take depositions can be issued to a foreign official or to a private person in a foreign country. However, this method is rarely used; commissions are generally issued to U.S. notarizing officers. In those countries where U.S. notarizing officers are not permitted to take testimony (see § 92.55(c)) and where depositions must be taken before a foreign authority, letters rogatory are usually issued to a foreign court.
(b)
Transmission of letters rogatory to foreign officials.
Letters rogatory may often be sent direct from court to court. However, some foreign governments require that these requests for judicial aid be submitted through the diplomatic channel (
i.e.
, that they be submitted to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs by the American diplomatic representative). A usual requirement is that the letters rogatory as well as the interrogatories and other papers included with them be accompanied by a complete translation into the language (or into one of the languages) of the country of execution. Another requirement is that provision be made for the payment of fees and expenses. Inquiries from interested parties or their attorneys, or from American courts, as to customary procedural requirements in given countries, may be addressed direct to the respective American embassies and legations in foreign capitals, or to the Department of State, Washington, DC 20520.
(c)
Return of letters rogatory executed by foreign officials.
(1) Letters rogatory executed by foreign officials are returned through the same channel by which they were initially transmitted. When such documents are returned to a United States diplomatic mission, the responsible officer should endorse thereon a certificate stating the date and place of their receipt. This certificate should be appended to the documents as a separate sheet. The officer should then enclose the documents in an envelope sealed with the wax engraving seal of the post and bearing an endorsement indicating the title of the action to which the letters rogatory pertain. The name and address of the American judicial body from which the
letters rogatory issued should also be placed on the envelope.
(2) If the executed letters rogatory are returned to the diplomatic mission from the Foreign Office in an envelope bearing the seals of the foreign judicial authority who took the testimony, that sealed envelope should not be opened at the mission. The responsible officer should place a certificate on the envelope showing the date it was received at his office and indicating that it is being forwarded in the same condition as received from the foreign authorities. He should then place that sealed envelope in a second envelope, sealed with the wax engraving seal of the post, and bearing the title of the action and the name and address of the American judicial body from which the letters rogatory issued.
(3) Charges should be made for executing either of the certificates mentioned in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section, as prescribed by item 67 of the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter), unless the service is classifiable in a no-fee category under the exemption for Federal agencies and corporations (item 83 of the same Tariff).
(4) The sealed letters rogatory should be transmitted by appropriate means to the court in which the action is pending. See title 28, section 1781, of the United States Code concerning the manner of making return to a court of the United States (Federal court).
(d)
Transmissions of commissions to foreign officials or other persons.
A commission to take depositions which is addressed to an official or person in a foreign country other than a United States notarizing officer may be sent directly to the person designated. However, if such a commission is sent to the United States diplomatic mission in the country where the depositions are intended to be taken, it should be forwarded to the Foreign Office for transmission to the person appointed in the commission. If sent to a United States consular office, the commission may be forwarded by that office directly to the person designated, or, if the notarial officer deems it more advisable to do so, he may send the commission to the United States diplomatic mission for transmission through the medium of the foreign office.
[22 FR 10858, Dec. 27, 1957, as amended at 32 FR 11775, Aug. 16, 1967; 60 FR 51722, Oct. 3, 1995]
§ 92.67
Taking of depositions in United States pursuant to foreign letters rogatory.
(a)
Authority and procedure.
The taking of depositions by authority of State courts for use in the courts of foreign countries is governed by the laws of the individual States. As respects Federal practice, the district court of the district in which a person resides or is found may order him to give his testimony or statement or to produce a document or other thing for use in a proceeding in a foreign or international tribunal. The order may be made pursuant to a letter rogatory issued, or request made, by a foreign or international tribunal or upon the application of any interested person and may direct that the testimony or statement be given, or the document or other thing be produced, before a person appointed by the court. By virtue of his appointment, the person appointed has power to administer any necessary oath and take the testimony or statement. The order may prescribe the practice and procedure, which may be in whole or part the practice and procedure of the foreign country or the interntational tribunal, for taking the testimony or statement or producing the document or other thing. To the extent that the order does not prescribe otherwise, the testimony or statement shall be taken, and the document or other thing produced, in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. A person may not be compelled to give his testimony or statement or to produce a document or other thing in violation of any legally applicable privilege. This does not preclude a person within the United States from voluntarily giving his testimony or statement, or producing a document or other thing, for use in a proceeding in a foreign or international tribunal before any person or in any manner acceptable to him (28 U.S.C. 1782).
(b)
Formulation of letters rogatory.
A letter rogatory customarily states the nature of the judicial assistance sought by the originating court, prays that this assistance be extended, incorporates an undertaking of future reciprocity in like circumstances, and makes some provision for payment of fees and costs entailed in its execution. As respects Federal practice, it is not required that a letter rogatory emanating from a foreign court be authenticated by a diplomatic or consular officer of the United States or that it be submitted through the diplomatic channel; the seal of the originating court suffices. When testimony is desired, the letter rogatory should state whether it is intended to be taken upon oral or written interrogatories. If the party on whose behalf the testimony is intended to be taken will not be represented by counsel, written interrogatories should be attached. Except where manifestly unneeded (e.g. a Spanish-language letter rogatory intended for execution in Puerto Rico) or dispensed with by arrangement with the court, letters rogatory and interrogatories in a foreign language should be accompanied by English translations.
(c)
Addressing letters rogatory.
To avert uncertainties and minimize possibilities for refusal of courts to comply with requests contained in letters rogatory in the form in which they are presented, it is advisable that counsel for the parties in whose behalf testimony is sought ascertain in advance if possible, with the assistance of correspondent counsel in the United States or that of a consular representative or agent of his nation in the United States, the exact title of the court, Federal or State as the case may be, which will be prepared to entertain the letter rogatory. In Federal practice the following form of address is acceptable:
The U.S. District Court for the ______________________ (e.g. Northern, Southern) District of ____________________ (State) ____________________ (City) __________________, (State)
In instances where it is not feasible to ascertain the correct form of address at the time of preparation of the letter rogatory, and it will be left for counsel in the United States, or a consul or agent in the United States of the nation of origin of the letter rogatory to effect its transmission to an appropriate court, the following form may be used: “To the Appropriate Judicial Authority at (name of locality).”
(d)
Submitting letters rogatory to courts in the United States.
A letter rogatory may be submitted to the clerk of the court of which assistance is sought, either in person or by mail. This may be direct by international mail from the originating foreign court. Alternatively, submission to the clerk of court may be effected in person or by mail by any party to the action at law or his attorney or agent, or by a consular officer or agent in the United States of the foreign national concerned. Finally, the Department of State has been authorized (62 Stat. 949; 28 U.S.C. 1781) to receive a letter rogatory issued, or request made, by a foreign or international tribunal, to transmit it to the tribunal, officer, or agency in the United States to whom it is addressed, and to receive and return it after execution. This authorization does not preclude—
(1) The transmittal of a letter rogatory or request directly from a foreign or international tribunal to the tribunal, officer, or agency in the United States to whom it is addressed and its return in the same manner; or
(2) The transmittal of a letter rogatory or request directly from a tribunal in the United States to the foreign or international tribunal, officer, or agency to whom it is addressed and its return in the same manner.
[32 FR 11775, Aug. 16, 1967]
§ 92.68
Foreign Service fees and incidental costs in the taking of evidence.
The fees for the taking of evidence by officers of the Foreign Service are as prescribed by the Tariff or Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter), under the caption “Services Relating to the Taking of Evidence,” unless the service is performed for official use, which comes under the caption “Exemption for Federal Agencies and Corporations” of the same Tariff. See § 22.6 of this chapter concerning the requirement for
advance deposit of estimated fees. When the party on whose behalf the evidence is sought or his local representative is not present to effect direct payment of such incidental costs as postage or travel of witnesses, the advance deposit required by the officer shall be in an amount estimated as sufficient to cover these in addition to the fees proper. The same rule shall apply to charges for interpreting or for the taking and transcribing of a stenographic record when performed commercially rather than by staff members at Tariff of Fee rates.
§ 92.69
Charges payable to foreign officials, witnesses, foreign counsel, and interpreters.
(a)
Execution of letters rogatory by foreign officials.
Procedures for payment of foreign costs will be by arrangement with the foreign authorities.
(b)
Execution of commissions by foreign officials or other persons abroad.
Procedure for the payment of foreign costs will be as arranged, by the tribunal requiring the evidence, with its commissioner.
(c)
Witness fees and allowances when depositions are taken pursuant to commission from a Federal court.
A witness attending in any court of the United States, or before a United States commissioner, or before any person authorized to take his deposition pursuant to any rule or order of a cut of the United States, shall receive $4 for each day's attendance and for the time necessarily occupied in going to and returning from the same, and 8 cents per mile for going from and returning to his place of residence. Witnesses who are not salaried employees of the Government and who are not in custody and who attend at points so far removed from their respective residence as to prohibit return thereto from day to day shall be entitled to an additional allowance of $8 per day for expenses of subsistence, including the time necessarily occupied in going to and returning from the place of attendance (28 U.S.C. 1821, Supp. IV). Witnesses giving depositions before consular officers pursuant to a commission issued by the Federal Court are entitled to these fees and allowances, and the officer shall make payment thereof in the same manner as payment is made of other expenses involved in the execution of the commission, charging the advance deposit provided by the party at whose request the depositions are taken (see § 92.68). In any case to which the Government of the United States, or an officer or agency thereof, is a party, the United States marshal for the district will pay all fees of witnesses on the certificate of the United States Attorney or Assistant United States Attorney, and in the proceedings before a United States Commissioner, on the certificate of such commissioner (28 U.S.C. 1825).
§ 92.70
Special fees for depositions in connection with foreign documents.
(a)
Fees payable to witnesses.
Each witness whose testimony is obtained under a commission to take testimony in connection wtih foreign documents for use in criminal cases shall be entitled to receive compensation at the rate of $15 a day for each day of attendance, plus 8 cents a mile for going from his place of residence or business to the place of examination, and returning, by the shortest feasible route (18 U.S.C. 3495 and 3496, and E.O. 10307, 3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp.). When, however it is necessary to procure the attendance of a witness on behalf of the United States or an indigent party, an officer or agent of the United States may negotiate with the witness to pay compensation at such higher rate as may be approved by the Attorney General, plus the mileage allowance stated above (5 U.S.C. 341). The expense of the compensation and mileage of each witness will be borne by the party, or parties, applying for the commission unless the commission is accompanied by an order of court (18 U.S.C. 3495(b) that all fees, compensations, and other expenses authorized by these regulations are chargeable to the United States (18 U.S.C. 3495).
(b)
Fee payable to counsel.
Each counsel who represents a party to the action or proceeding in the examination before the commissioner will receive compensation for each day of attendance at a rate of not less than $15 a day and not more than $50 a day, as agreed between him and the party whom he
represents, plus such actual and necessary expenses as may be allowed by the commissioner upon verified statements filed with him. If the commission is issued on application of the United States, the compensation and expenses of counsel representing each party are chargeable to the United States under section 3495(b) of title 18 of the United States Code (18 U.S.C. 3495 and 3496, and E.O. 10307, 3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp.).
(c)
Fees payable to interpreters and translators.
Each interpreter and translator employed by the commissioner under these regulations shall receive an allowance of $10 a day, plus 8 cents a mile for going from his place of residence or business to the place of examination and returning, by the shortest feasible route. The compensation and mileage of interpreters and translators shall be chargeable to the United States.
(d)
Time for paying fees.
Witnesses, counsel, interpreters, and translators will be paid, in accordance with the foregoing regulations, by the commissioner at the conclusion of their services. Other expenses authorized by these regulations will be paid by the commissioner as they are incurred.
(e)
Payment of fees by the United States.
When it appears that the commission was issued on application of the United States or when the commission is accompanied by an order of court that all fees, compensation, and other expenses authorized by these regulations are chargeable to the United States under section 3495(b) of title 18 of the United States Code, the commissioner shall execute the commission without charge for his service as commissioner in connection therewith. The Commissioner shall pay witnesses, counsel, interpreter, or translator, and other expenses authorized by these regulations through the disbursing officer in his area in accordance with instructions which will be issued in each case.
(f)
Payment of fees by other parties.
When fees, compensation, and other expenses authorized by this section are chargeable to any party other than the United States, the commissioner shall undertake the execution of the commission only if such party deposits with the Department of State or with the appropriate Foreign Service post, in advance, an amount to be set by the court as apparently adequate to defray all fees, compensation, and other expenses authorized by this part. If the amount of the deposit is later found to be insufficient, the depositor shall be so notified, and the commissioner shall retain the commission and other papers until a sufficient supplemental amount has been deposited. If the amount of the deposit exceeds the aggregate amount of fees, compensation, and other expenses authorized by this part, the excess shall be returned to the party, or parties, entitled thereto. The commissioner shall pay witnesses, counsel, interpreter, or translator, and other expenses authorized by this section, from the proceeds of a check which the disbursing officer for his area will be authorized to draw on the Treasurer of the United States.
§ 92.71
Fees for letters rogatory executed by officials in the United States.
Arrangements for the payment of fees should be made directly with the court in the United States by the party in the foreign country at whose request the depositions are taken, either through his legal representative in the United States or through the appropriate diplomatic or consular officer of his country in the United States. (See § 92.67 regarding the execution of letters rogatory in the United States.)

# Miscellaneous Notarial Services
§ 92.72
Services in connection with patents and patent applications.
(a)
Affidavit of applicant.
The form of the affidavit of an applicant for a United States patent depends on who is making the application, the type of invention, and the circumstances of the case. Officers of the Foreign Service are not responsible for the correctness of form of such affidavits, and should not endeavor to advise in their preparation. Persons who inquire at a Foreign Service post regarding the filing of patent applications may be referred to the pamphlet entitled “General Information Concerning Patents,” if copies thereof are available at the post.
(b)
Oath or affirmation of applicant
—(1)
Authority to administer oath or affirmation.
When an applicant for a patent resides in a foreign country, his oath or affirmation may be made before any diplomatic or consular officer of the United States authorized to administer oaths, or before any officer having an official seal and authorized to administer oaths in the foreign country in which the applicant may be, whose authority shall be proved by certificate of a diplomatic or consular officer of the United States (35 U.S.C. 115). See paragraph (c) of this section regarding authentication of the authority of a foreign official. A notary or other official in a foreign country who is not authorized to administer oaths is not qualified to notarize an application for a United States patent.
(2)
Form of oath or affirmation.
See §§ 92.19 and 92.20 for usual forms of oaths and affirmations.
(3)
Execution of jurat.
In executing the jurat, the officer should carefully observe the following direction with regard to ribboning and sealing: When the oath is taken before an officer in a country foreign to the United States, all the application papers, except the drawings, must be attached together and a ribbon passed one or more times through all the sheets of the application, except the drawings, and the ends of said ribbon brought together under the seal before the latter is affixed and impressed, or each sheet must be impressed with the official seal of the officer before whom the oath is taken. If the papers as filed are not properly ribboned or each sheet impressed with the seal, the case will be accepted for examination but before it is allowed, duplicate papers, prepared in compliance with the foregoing sentence, must be filed. (Rule 66, Rules of Practice of the United States Patent Office.)
(c)
Authentication of authority of foreign official
—(1)
Necessity for authentication.
When the affidavit required in connection with a patent application been sworn to or affirmed before an official in a foreign country other than a diplomatic or consular officer of the United States, an officer of the Foreign Service authenticate the authority of the official administering the oath or affirmation (35 U.S.C. 115). If the officer of the Foreign Service cannot authenticate the oath or affirmation, the document should be authenticated by a superior foreign official, or by a series of superior foreign officials if necessary. The seal and signature of the foreign official who affixes the last foreign authentication to the document should then be authenticated by the officer of the Foreign Service.
(2)
Use of permanent ink.
All papers which will become a part of a patent application filed in the United States Patent Office must be legibly written or printed in permanent ink. (Rule 52, Rules of Practice of the United States Patent Office.) Consular certificates of authentication executed in connection with patent applications should preferably be prepared on a typewriter; they should not be prepared on a hectograph machine.
(d)
Authority of a foreign executor or administrator acting for deceased inventor.
Legal representatives of deceased inventors and of those under legal incapacity may make application for patent upon compliance with the requirements and on the same terms and conditions applicable to the inventor (35 U.S.C. 117). The rules of the Patent Office require proof of the power or authority of the legal representative. See paragraph (c) of this section for procedure for authenticating the authority of a foreign official.
(e)
Assignments of patents and applications for patents.
An application for a patent, or a patent, or any interest therein, may be assigned in law by an instrument in writing. The applicant, or the patentee, or his assigns or legal representatives, may grant and convey an exclusive right under the application for patent, or under the patent, to the whole or any specified part of the United States. Any such assignment, grant, or conveyance of any application for patent, or of any patent, may be acknowledged, in a foreign country, before “a diplomatic or consular officer of the United States or an officer authorized to administer oaths whose authority is proved by a certificate of a diplomatic or consular officer of the United States” (35 U.S.C. 261). See § 92.37 regarding authentication of the authority of a foreign official.
(f)
Fees.
The fee for administering an oath, taking an acknowledgment, or supplying an authentication, in connection with patent applications is as prescribed in item 49 of the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter).
§ 92.73
Services in connection with trademark registrations.
(a)
Authority and responsibility.
Acknowledgments and oaths required in connection with applications for registration of trademarks may be made, in a foreign country, before any diplomatic or consular officer of the United States or before any official authorized to administer oaths in the foreign country whose authority must be proved by a certificate of a diplomatic or consular officer of the United States (15 U.S.C. 1061). The responsibility of officers of the Foreign Service in this connection is the same as that where notarial services in connection with patent applications are involved (see § 92.72(a)). (See § 92.72(c) regarding the authentication of the authority of a foreign official who performs a notarial service in connection with a patent application.)
(b)
Fees.
The fee for administering an oath, taking an acknowledgment, or supplying an authentication, in connection with an application for registration of a trademark, or with the assignment or transfer of rights thereunder, is as prescribed in item 49 of the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter).
§ 92.74
Services in connection with United States securities or interests therein.
(a)
Authority and responsibility.
Assignments or requests for payment of United States securities, or securities for which the Treasury Department acts as transfer agent, or powers of attorney in connection therewith where authorized by the Treasury Department, should, in a foreign country, be executed before a United States consular or diplomatic officer. However, if they are executed before a foreign official having power to administer oaths, the Treasury Department requires that the official character and jurisdiction on the foreign official be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer. (See §§ 92.36 to 92.41 on authentications.)
(b)
Fees.
Officers of the Foreign Service should charge no fees for notarial services they perform in connection with the execution of documents, including the certification or authentication of documents where necessary, which affect United States securities or securities for which the Treasury Department acts as transfer agent, or which may be required in the collection of interest thereon. Item 58(b) of the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter) applies in cases of this nature.
§ 92.75
Services in connection with income tax returns.
(a)
Responsibility.
Officers of the Foreign Service are authorized to perform any and all notarial services which may be required in connection with the execution of Federal, state, territorial, municipal, or insular income tax returns. Officers should not give advice on the preparation of tax returns.
(b)
Fees.
No charge under the caption “Notarial Services and Authentications” should be made for services performed in connection with the execution of tax returns for filing with the Federal or State Governments or political subdivisions thereof. When requested, see item 58(d) of the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter).

# Copying, Recording, Translating and Procuring Documents
§ 92.76
Copying documents.
(a)
Consular authority.
The consular officer is authorized to have documents, or abstracts therefrom, copied at a Foreign Service post, if he deems it advisable and it is practicable to do so. This service frequently is necessary in connection with the performance of certain notarial acts, such as the certification of copies of documents.
(b)
Fees.
The charges for making copies of documents are as prescribed by the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of
the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter), under the caption “Copying and Recording,” unless the service is Performed for official use, which comes under the caption Exemption for Federal Agencies and Corporations of the same Tariff.
§ 92.77
Recording documents.
(a)
Consular authority.
Consular officers may, at their discretion, accept for recording in the Miscellaneous Record Book of the office concerned unofficial documents such as deeds, leases, agreements, wills, and so on. The object of this service is primarily to afford United States citizens and interests the means of preserving, in official custody, records of their business and other transactions where other suitable facilities are not available locally for making such records. The recording of unofficial documents is not a notarial service, strictly speaking; however, the certifying of copies of documents thus recorded is a notarial service.
(b)
Recording procedure.
Generally, before accepting a document for recording the consular officer should require satisfactory proof of its genuineness. The document should be copied, word for word, in the Miscellaneous Record Book. At the close of the record a statement that it is a true copy of the original should be entered and signed by the consular officer who copies or compares the record. In the margin of the first page where the document is recorded, the consular officer should note the following data:
(1) By whom the document is presented for recording;
(2) On whose behalf the service is requested;
(3) Date and hour of presentation for recording;
(4) How the authenticity of the document was proved (where appropriate); and
(5) The name of the person by whom recorded (in his proper signature) and the name of the consular officer with whom compared (in his proper signature).
(c)
Certificate of recording.
Ordinarily, a certificate of recording need not be issued. The original document may simply be endorsed: “Recorded at (name and location of consular office) this __________ day of __________________, 19____, in (here insert appropriate reference to volume of Miscellaneous Record Book)”. Below the endorsement should appear the notation regarding the service number, the Tariff item number, and the amount of the fee collected. When a certificate of recording is requested, the consular officer may issue it, if he sees fit to do so. The certificate may be either entered on the document, if space permits, or appended to the document as a separate sheet in the manner prescribed in § 92.17.
(d)
Fees.
The fee for recording unofficial documents at a Foreign Service post is as prescribed under the caption “Copying and Recording” of the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter). For purposes of assessment of fees, the issuance of certificates of recording, when requested, shall be regarded as part of the consular service of recording unofficial documents, and no separate fee shall be charged for the certificate.
§ 92.78
Translating documents.
Officers of the Foreign Service are not authorized to translate documents or to certify to the correctness of translations. (However, see § 92.56 with regard to interpreting and translating services which may be performed in connection with depositions.) They are authorized to administer to a translator an oath as to the correctness of a translation; to take an acknowledgment of the preparation of a translation; and to authenticate the seal and signature of a local official affixed to a translation. Separate fees should be charged for each of these services, as indicated under the caption “Notarial Services and Authentications” of the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter).
§ 92.79
Procuring copies of foreign public documents.
(a)
Nature of services.
When requested to do so by United States citizens or by persons acting in behalf of United States citizens, a consular officer should endeavor to obtain from foreign
officials copies of birth, death, and marriage certificates, or copies of other public records such as divorce decrees, probated wills, and so on. The interest of the party requesting the document should be clearly indicated, and there should be good reason for asking for the consular officer's assistance. Persons requesting documents for use in the preparation of family trees or in the compilation of genealogical studies should be referred to a local attorney or to a genealogical research bureau if one is available.
(b)
Payment of expenses involved
—(1)
Official funds not to be used.
The use of official funds to pay for copies of or extracts from foreign public records obtained at the request of private persons is prohibited.
(2)
Payment of costs by Federal Government.
In instances of requests emanating from departments or agencies of the Federal Government for copies of or extracts from foreign public records, the Department will issue to Foreign Service posts concerned appropriate instructions with respect to the payment of whatever local costs may be entailed if the documents cannot be obtained gratis from the local authorities.
(3)
Payment of costs by State or municipal governments.
Should State, county, municipal or other authorities in the United States besides the Federal Government request the consular officer to obtain foreign documents, and express willingness to supply documents gratis in analogous circumstances, the consular officer may endeavor on that basis to obtain the desired foreign documents gratis. Otherwise, such authorities should be informed that they must pay the charges of the foreign officials, as well as any fees which it may be necessary for the consular officer to collect under the provisions of the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter).
(4)
Payment of costs by private persons.
Before a consular officer endeavors to obtain a copy of a foreign public document in behalf of a private person, the person requesting the document should be required to make a deposit of funds in an amount sufficient to defray any charges which may be made by the foreign authorities, as well as the Foreign Service fee for authenticating the document, should authentication be desired.
§ 92.80
Obtaining American vital statistics records.
Individuals who inquire as to means of obtaining copies of or extracts from American birth, death, marriage, or divorce records may be advised generally to direct their inquires to the Vital Statistics Office at the place where the record is kept, which is usually in the capital city of the State or Territory. Legal directories and other published works of references at the post may be of assistance in providing exact addresses, information about fees, etc. An inquirer who is not an American citizen may write directly to the diplomatic or appropriate consular representative of his own country for any needed assistance in obtaining a desired document.

# Quasi-Legal Services
§ 92.81
Performance of legal services.
(a)
Legal services defined.
The term “legal services” means services of the kind usually performed by attorneys for private persons and includes such acts as the drawing up of wills, powers of attorney, or other legal instruments.
(b)
Performance usually prohibited
—(1)
General prohibition; exceptions.
Officers of the Foreign Service should not perform legal services except when instructed to do so by the Secretary of State, or in cases of sudden emergency when the interests of the United States Government, might be involved, or in cases in which no lawyer is available and refusal to perform the service would result in the imposition of extreme hardship upon a United States citizen. There is no objection, however, to permitting persons to use the legal references in the Foreign Service office giving specimen forms of wills, powers of attorney, etc.
(2)
Specific prohibitions and restrictions.
See § 72.41 of this chapter for prohibition of performance of legal services by consular officers in connection with decedents' estates. See § 92.11 restricting the preparation for private parties of legal documents for signature and notarization.
(3)
Acceptance of will for deposit prohibited.
Wills shall not be accepted for safekeeping in the office safe. If a person desires to have his last will and testament made a matter of record in a Foreign Service establishment, the officer to whom application is made shall have the will copied in the Miscellaneous Record Book (§ 92.77) and charge the prescribed fee therefor.
(c)
Refusal of requests.
In refusing requests for the performance of legal services, an officer of the Foreign Service should cite these regulations and should state clearly his reasons for refusing to act. In appropriate cases, the officer may furnish the inquirer with a copy of the annual list of attorneys (see § 92.82) practicing in the consular district or he may refer the inquirer to the Department for a list of attorneys.
(d)
Waiver of responsibility.
When an officer of the Foreign Service accedes to a request for the performance of a legal service, he should inform the applicant that the service is performed at the latter's risk and without any responsibility on the part of the United States Government or the officer performing the service.
(e)
Fees.
No fee should be charged for any legal services which may be performed under these regulations, beyond the fees or charges for specific services enumerated in the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter).
§ 92.82
Recommending attorneys or notaries.
(a)
Assistance in selecting American lawyers.
When any person in the district of a Foreign Service post desires to have the name of an attorney in the United States, the officer at the post may refer him to American law directories or other published references at his disposal, but he shall refrain from recommending any particular attorney.
(b)
Assistance in selecting foreign attorneys or notaries.
Persons applying to a Foreign Service post for services of a legal or fiduciary character or for assistance in selecting an attorney or notary capable of rendering the services in view, may be furnished the names of several attorneys or notaries in the district, or referred to the lists to be found in American or foreign law directories or other published references. Alternatively, they may be referred to bar associations or, where applicable, to the organization charged by local law with the responsibility for providing legal assistance.
(c)
Agreements for referral of legal business prohibited.
Officers of the Foreign Service shall not recommend particular attorneys or notaries to persons who apply to a Foreign Service post for legal assistance, nor shall they make agreements with attorneys or notaries for the referral to them of inquiries for legal assistance.
§ 92.84
Legal process defined.
Legal process means a writ, warrant, mandate, or other process issuing from a court of justice. The term includes subpoenas, citations, and complaints.
§ 92.85
Service of legal process usually prohibited.
The service of process and legal papers is not normally a Foreign Service function. Except when directed by the Department of State, officers of the Foreign Service are prohibited from serving process or legal papers or appointing other persons to do.
[32 FR 11776, Aug. 16, 1967]
§ 92.86
Consular responsibility for serving subpoenas.
When directed by the Department of State, officers of the Foreign Service will serve a subpoena issued by a court of the United States on a national or resident of the United States who is in a foreign country unless such action is prohibited by the law of the foreign country.
[32 FR 11776, Aug. 16, 1967]
§ 92.87
Consular responsibility for serving orders to show cause.
Officers of the Foreign Service are required to serve orders to show cause issued in contempt proceedings on a person who has failed or neglected to appear in answer to a subpoena served in accordance with the provisions of § 92.86. (Section 1, 62 Stat. 949; 28 U.S.C. 1784.)
§ 92.88
Consular procedure.
With regard to the serving of subpoenas and orders to show cause referred to in §§ 92.86 and 92.87, section 1 of the act of June 25, 1948 (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 819, 28 U.S.C. 1783), provides that the subpoena shall designate the time and place for appearance before the court of the United States, and shall issue to any consular officer of the United States in the foreign country. The consular officer is required to make personal service of the subpoena and any order to show cause, rule, judgment or decree on the request of the Federal court or its marshal, and to make return thereof to such court after tendering to the witness his necessary travel and attendance expenses, which will be determined by the court and sent with the subpoena. When the subpoena or order is forwarded to the officer, it is usually accompanied by instructions directing exactly how service should be made and how the return of service should be executed. These instructions should be followed carefully.
§ 92.89
Fees for service of legal process.
No charge should be made for serving a subpoena or order to show cause issuing out of Federal court under the procedures set forth in §§ 92.86 and 92.87. The taking of the affidavit of the officer effecting the service, or the performance of any other notarial act which may be involved in making the return, should be without charge, under the caption “Exemption for Federal Agencies and Corporations” of the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this chapter).
§ 92.90
Delivering documents pertaining to the revocation of naturalization.
Officers of the Foreign Service shall deliver, or assist in delivering, to designated persons, documents relating to proceedings in the cancellation of certificates of naturalization when such documents are forwarded by duly authorized officials of the Federal courts. The responsibility for furnishing detailed instructions on the procedure to be followed in delivering such documents rests with the court or with the United States attorney concerned, and officers should follow such instructions carefully.
§ 92.91
Service of documents at request of Congressional committees.
Officers of the Foreign Service have no authority to serve upon persons in their consular districts legal process such as subpoenas or citations in connection with Congressional investigations. All requests for such service should be referred to the Department of State.
§ 92.92
Service of legal process under provisions of State law.
It may be found that a State statute purporting to regulate the service of process in foreign countries is so drawn as to mention service by an American consular officer or a person appointed by him, without mention of or provision for alternate methods of service. State laws of this description do not operate in derogation of the laws of the foreign jurisdiction wherein it may be sought to effect service of legal process, and such State laws do not serve to impose upon American consular officers duties or obligations which they are unauthorized to accept under Federal law, or require them to perform acts contrary to Federal regulations (see § 92.85).
§ 92.93
Notarial services or authentications connected with service of process by other persons.
An officer of the Foreign Service may administer an oath to a person making an affidavit to the effect that legal process has ben served. When an affidavit stating that legal process has been served is executed before a foreign notary or other official, an officer of the Foreign Service may authenticate the official character of the person administering the oath. The fee for administering an oath to a person making an affidavit or for an authentication, as the case may be, is as prescribed under the caption “Notarial Services and Authentications” in the Tariff of Fees, Foreign Service of the United States of America (§ 22.1 of this
chapter), unless the case is of such nature as to fall under the caption, “Exemption for Federal Agencies and Corporations” of the same Tariff.
§ 92.94
Replying to inquiries regarding service of process or other documents.
Officers should make prompt and courteous replies to all inquiries regarding the service of legal process or documents of like nature, and should render such assistance as they properly can to the court and to interested parties. Such assistance could include furnishing information as to the standard procedure of the locality for service of legal papers, with the name and address of the local office having a bailiff authorized to effect and make return of service; it could include furnishing a list of local attorneys capable of making necessary arrangements; or it could, where appropriate, include a suggestion that the request of the American court might be presented to the foreign judicial authorities in the form of letters rogatory (see definition, § 92.54, and procedures, § 92.66 (b)). If the person upon whom the process is intended to be served is known to be willing to accept service, or if it is clear that it would be in his interest at least to be informed of the matter, the consular officer may suggest to the interested parties in the United States the drawings up of papers for voluntary execution by such person, such as a waiver of service or a document which would be acceptable to the American court to signify the person's entering an appearance in the action pending therein.
§ 92.95
Transportation of witnesses to the United States.
Officers of the Foreign Service may at times be called upon to assist in arranging for the transportation to the United States of persons in foreign countries whose testimony is desired by the Attorney General in a case pending in a Federal court. Requests that the travel of such persons be facilitated originate in the Department of Justice, and special instructions in each case are transmitted to the appropriate Foreign Service post by the Department of State.
Pt. 93

# PART 93—SERVICE ON FOREIGN STATE
Sec.
93.1
Service through the diplomatic channel.
93.2
Notice of suit (or of default judgment).

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2658; 28 U.S.C. 1608(a).
§ 93.1
Service through the diplomatic channel.
(a) The Director of the Office of Special Consular Services in the Bureau of Consular Affairs, Department of State (“The Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service”), shall perform the duties of the Secretary of State under section 1608(a)(4) of title 28, United States Code.
(b) When the clerk of the court concerned sends documents under section 1608(a)(4), of title 28, United States Code, the Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service shall promptly ascertain if the documents include the required copies of the notice of suit and of the summons and complaint (or default judgment), and any required translations. If not, he shall promptly advise the clerk of the missing items.
(c) Upon receiving the required copies of documents and any required translations, the Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service shall promptly cause one copy of each such document and translation (“the documents”) to be delivered—
(1) To the Embassy of the United States in the foreign state concerned, and the Embassy shall promptly deliver them to the foreign ministry or other appropriate authority of the foreign state, or
(2) If the foreign state so requests or if otherwise appropriate, to the embassy of the foreign state in the District of Columbia, or
(3) If paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section are unavailable, through an existing diplomatic channel, such as to the embassy of another country authorized to represent the interests of the foreign state concerned in the United States.
(d) The documents, when delivered under paragraph (c) of this section, shall be accompanied by a diplomatic note of transmittal, requesting that
the documents be forwarded to the appropriate authority of the foreign state or political subdivision upon which service is being made. The note shall state that, under United States law, questions of jurisdiction and of state immunity must be addressed to the court and not to the Department of State, and that it is advisable to consult with an attorney in the United States.
(e) If the documents are delivered under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Embassy of the United States shall promptly transmit by diplomatic pouch, to the Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service, a certified copy of the diplomatic note of transmittal. If the documents are delivered under paragraph (c) (2) or (3) of this section, the Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service shall prepare a certified copy of the diplomatic note of transmittal. In each case, the certification shall state the date and place the documents were delivered. The Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service shall then promptly send the certified copy to the clerk of the court concerned.
(Sec. 1608(a), Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976, Pub. L. 94-583 (28 U.S.C. 1608(a)); sec. 4, 63 Stat. 111, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2658))
[42 FR 6367, Feb. 2, 1977, as amended at 63 FR 16687, Apr. 6, 1998]
§ 93.2
Notice of suit (or of default judgment).
(a) A Notice of Suit prescribed in section 1608(a) of title 28, United States Code, shall be prepared in the form that appears in the Annex to this section.
(b) In preparing a Notice of Suit, a party shall in every instance supply the information specified in items 1 through 5 of the form appearing in the Annex to this section. A party shall also supply information specified in item 6, if notice of a default judgment is being served.
(c) In supplying the information specified in item 5, a party shall in simplified language summarize the nature and purpose of the proceeding (including principal allegations and claimed bases of liability), the reasons why the foreign state or political subdivision has been named as a party in the proceeding, and the nature and amount of relief sought. The purpose of item 5 is to enable foreign officials unfamiliar with American legal documents to ascertain the above information.
(d) A party may attach additional pages to the Notice of Suit to complete information under any item.
(e) A party shall attach, as part of the Notice of Suit, a copy of the Foreign State Immunities Act of 1976 (Pub. L. 94-583; 90 Stat. 2891).

# Annex

# Notice of Suit (or of Default Judgment
1

# )
1
Relevant only if items 4 and 6 indicate that a default judgment has occurred.
1. Title of legal proceeding; full name of court; case or docket number.
2. Name of foreign state (or political subdivision) concerned:
3. Identity of the other Parties:

# Judicial Documents
4. Nature of documents served (e.g., Summons and Complaint; Default Judgment):
5. Nature and purpose of the proceedings; why the foreign state (or political subdivision) has been named; relief requested:
6. Date of default judgment (if any):
7. A response to a “Summons” and “Complaint” is required to be submitted to the court, not later than 60 days after these documents are received. The response may present jurisdictional defenses (including defenses relating to state immunity).
8. The failure to submit a timely response with the court can result in a Default Judgment and a request for execution to satisfy the judgment. If a default judgment has been entered, a procedure may be available to vacate or open that judgment.
9. Questions relating to state immunities and to the jurisdiction of United States courts over foreign states are governed by the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976, which appears in sections 1330, 1391(f), 1441(d), and 1602 through 1611, of Title 28, United States Code (Pub. L. 94-583; 90 Stat. 2891).
(Sec. 1608(a), Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976, Pub. L. 94-583 (28 U.S.C. 1608(a)); sec. 4, 63 Stat. 111, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2658))
[42 FR 6367, Feb. 2, 1977]
Pt. 94

# PART 94—INTERNATIONAL CHILD ABDUCTION
Sec.
94.1
Definitions.
94.2
Designation of Central Authority.
94.3
Functions of the Central Authority.
94.4
Prohibitions.
94.5
Application.
94.6
Procedures for children abducted to the United States.
94.7
Procedures for children abducted from the United States.
94.8
Interagency coordinating group.

# Authority:
Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction; the federal “International Child Abduction Remedies Act,” Pub. L. 100-300.

# Source:
53 FR 23608, June 23, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 94.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part—
(a)
Convention
means the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, Appendix B to Department of State notice, 51 FR 10498, March 26, 1986.
(b)
Contracting State
means any country which is a party to the Convention.
(c)
Child
and
children
mean persons under the age of sixteen.
§ 94.2
Designation of Central Authority.
The Office of Children's Issues in the Bureau of Consular Affairs is designated as the U.S. Central Authority to discharge the duties which are imposed by the Convention and the International Child Abduction Remedies Act upon such authorities.
[60 FR 25843, May 15, 1995]
§ 94.3
Functions of the Central Authority.
The U.S. Central Authority shall cooperate with the Central Authorities of other countries party to the Convention and promote cooperation by appropriate U.S. state authorities to secure the prompt location and return of children wrongfully removed to or retained in any Contracting State, to ensure that rights of custody and access under the laws of one Contracting State are effectively respected in the other Contracting States, and to achieve the other objects of the Convention. In performing its functions, the U.S. Central Authority may receive from, or transmit to, any department, agency, or instrumentality of the federal government, or of any state or foreign government, information necessary to locate a child or for the purpose of otherwise implementing the Convention with respect to a child.
§ 94.4
Prohibitions.
(a) The U.S. Central Authority is prohibited from acting as an agent or attorney or in any fiduciary capacity in legal proceedings arising under the Convention. The U.S. Central Authority is not responsible for the costs of any legal representation or legal proceedings nor for any transportation expenses of the child or applicant. However, the U.S. Central Authority may not impose any fee in relation to the administrative processing of applications submitted under the Convention.
(b) The U.S. Central Authority shall not be a repository of foreign or U.S. laws.
§ 94.5
Application.
Any person, institution, or other body may apply to the U.S. Central Authority for assistance in locating a child, securing access to a child, or obtaining the return of a child that has been removed or retained in breach of custody rights. The application shall be made in the form prescribed by the U.S. Central Authority and shall contain such information as the U.S. Central Authority deems necessary for the purposes of locating the child and otherwise implementing the Convention. The application and any accompanying documents should be submitted in duplicate in English or with English translations. If intended for use in a foreign country, two additional copies should be provided in the language of the foreign country.
§ 94.6
Procedures for children abducted to the United States.
The U.S. Central Authority, or an entity acting at its direction, shall perform the following operational functions with respect to all Hague Convention applications seeking the return of
children wrongfully removed to or retained in the United States or seeking access to children in the United States:
(a) Receive all applications seeking return of children wrongfully retained in the United States or seeking access to children in the United States;
(b) Confirm the child's location or, where necessary, seek to ascertain its location;
(c) Seek to ascertain the child's welfare through inquiry to the appropriate state social service agencies and, when necessary, consult with those agencies about the possible need for provisional arrangements to protect the child or to prevent the child's removal from the jurisdiction of the state;
(d) Seek through appropriate authorities (such as state social service agencies or state attorneys general or prosecuting attorneys), where appropriate, to achieve a voluntary agreement for suitable visitation rights by the applicant or for return of the child;
(e) Assist applicants in securing information useful for choosing or obtaining legal representation, for example, by providing a directory of lawyer referral services, or pro bono listing published by legal professional organizations, or the name and address of the state attorney general or prosecuting attorney who has expressed a willingness to represent parents in this type of case and who is employed under state law to intervene on the applicant's behalf;
(f) Upon request, seek from foreign Central Authorities information relating to the social background of the child;
(g) Upon request, seek from foreign Central Authorities information regarding the laws of the country of the child's habitual residence;
(h) Upon request, seek from foreign Central Authorities a statement as to the wrongfulness of the taking of the child under the laws of the country of the child's habitual residence;
(i) Upon request, seek a report on the status of court action when no decision has been reached by the end of six weeks;
(j) Consult with appropriate agencies (such as state social service departments, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, state attorneys general) about possible arrangements for temporary foster care and/or return travel for the child from the United States;
(k) Monitor all cases in which assistance has been sought and maintain records on the procedures followed in each case and its disposition;
(l) Perform such additional functions as determined by the U.S. Central Authority, deemed advisable to maintain U.S. treaty compliance with the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction.
[53 FR 23608, June 23, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 66074, Dec. 21, 1995; 73 FR 47831, Aug. 15, 2008]
§ 94.7
Procedures for children abducted from the United States.
Upon receipt of an application requesting access to a child or return of a child abducted from the United States and taken to another country party to the Convention, the U.S. Central Authority shall—
(a) Review and forward the application to the Central Authority of the country where the child is believed located or provide the applicant with the necessary form, instructions, and the name and address of the appropriate Central Authority for transmittal of the application directly by the applicant;
(b) Upon request, transmit to the foreign Central Authority requests for a report on the status of any court action when no decision has been reached by the end of six weeks;
(c) Upon request, facilitate efforts to obtain from appropriate U.S. state authorities and transmit to the foreign Central Authority information regarding the laws of the child's state of habitual residence;
(d) Upon request, facilitate efforts to obtain from appropriate U.S. state authorities and transmit to the foreign Central Authority a statement as to the wrongfulness of the taking of the child under the laws of the child's state of habitual residence;
(e) Upon request, facilitate efforts to obtain from appropriate U.S. state authorities and transmit to the foreign Central Authority information relating to the social background of the child;
(f) Upon request, be available to facilitate possible arrangements for temporary foster care and/or travel for the child from the foreign country to the United States;
(g) Monitor all cases in which assistance has been sought; and
(h) Perform such additional functions as the Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs may from time to time direct.
§ 94.8
Interagency coordinating group.
The U.S. Central Authority shall nominate federal employees and may, from time to time, nominate private citizens to serve on an interagency coordinating group to monitor the operation of the Convention and to provide advice on its implementation. This group shall meet from time to time at the request of the U.S. Central Authority.
Pt. 95

# PART 95—IMPLEMENTATION OF TORTURE CONVENTION IN EXTRADITION CASES
Sec.
95.1
Definitions.
95.2
Application.
95.3
Procedures.
95.4
Review and construction.

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 3181
et seq.;
Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.

# Source:
64 FR 9437, Feb. 26, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 95.1
Definitions.
(a)
Convention
means the United Nations Convention Against Torture and Other Forms of Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, done at New York on December 10, 1984, entered into force for the United States on November 10, 1994. Definitions provided below in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section reflect the language of the Convention and understandings set forth in the United States instrument of ratification to the Convention.
(b)
Torture
means:
(1) Any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is intentionally inflicted on a person for such purposes as obtaining from him or a third person information or a confession, punishing him for an act he or a third person has committed or is suspected of having committed, or intimidating or coercing him or a third person, or for any reason based on discrimination of any kind, when such pain or suffering is inflicted by or at the instigation of or with the consent or acquiescence of a public official or other person acting in an official capacity. It does not include pain or suffering arising only from, inherent in or incidental to lawful sanctions.
(2) In order to constitute torture, an act must be specifically intended to inflict severe physical or mental pain or suffering and that mental pain or suffering refers to prolonged mental harm caused by or resulting from:
(i) The intentional infliction or threatened infliction of severe physical pain or suffering;
(ii) The administration or application, or threatened administration or application, of mind altering substances or other procedures calculated to disrupt profoundly the senses or the personality;
(iii) The threat of imminent death; or
(iv) The threat that another person will imminently be subjected to death, severe physical pain or suffering, or the administration or application of mind altering substances or other procedures calculated to disrupt profoundly the senses or personality.
(3) Noncompliance with applicable legal procedural standards does not per se constitute torture.
(4) This definition of torture applies only to acts directed against persons in the offender's custody or physical control.
(5) The term “acquiescence” as used in this definition requires that the public official, prior to the activity constituting torture, have awareness of such activity and thereafter breach his or her legal responsibility to intervene to prevent such activity.
(6) The term “lawful sanctions” as used in this definition includes judicially imposed sanctions and other enforcement actions authorized by law, provided that such sanctions or actions were not adopted in order to defeat the object and purpose of the Convention to prohibit torture.
(7) Torture is an extreme form of cruel and inhuman treatment and does not include lesser forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
(c)
Where there are substantial grounds for believing that [a fugitive] would be in danger of being subjected to torture
means if it is more likely than not that the fugitive would be tortured.
(d)
Secretary
means Secretary of State and includes, for purposes of this rule, the Deputy Secretary of State, by delegation.
§ 95.2
Application.
(a) Article 3 of the Convention imposes on the parties certain obligations with respect to extradition. That Article provides as follows:
(1) No State party shall expel, return (“refouler”) or extradite a person to another State where there are substantial grounds for believing that he would be in danger of being subjected to torture.
(2) For the purpose of determining whether there are such grounds, the competent authorities shall take into account all relevant considerations including, where applicable, the existence in the State concerned of a consistent pattern of gross, flagrant or mass violations of human rights.
(b) Pursuant to sections 3184 and 3186 of Title 18 of the United States Criminal Code, the Secretary is the U.S. official responsible for determining whether to surrender a fugitive to a foreign country by means of extradition. In order to implement the obligation assumed by the United States pursuant to Article 3 of the Convention, the Department considers the question of whether a person facing extradition from the U.S. “is more likely than not” to be tortured in the State requesting extradition when appropriate in making this determination.
§ 95.3
Procedures.
(a) Decisions on extradition are presented to the Secretary only after a fugitive has been found extraditable by a United States judicial officer. In each case where allegations relating to torture are made or the issue is otherwise brought to the Department's attention, appropriate policy and legal offices review and analyze information relevant to the case in preparing a recommendation to the Secretary as to whether or not to sign the surrender warrant.
(b) Based on the resulting analysis of relevant information, the Secretary may decide to surrender the fugitive to the requesting State, to deny surrender of the fugitive, or to surrender the fugitive subject to conditions.
§ 95.4
Review and construction.
Decisions of the Secretary concerning surrender of fugitives for extradition are matters of executive discretion not subject to judicial review. Furthermore, pursuant to section 2242(d) of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998, P.L. 105-277, notwithstanding any other provision of law, no court shall have jurisdiction to review these regulations, and nothing in section 2242 shall be construed as providing any court jurisdiction to consider or review claims raised under the Convention or section 2242, or any other determination made with respect to the application of the policy set forth in section 2242(a), except as part of the review of a final order of removal pursuant to section 242 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1252), which is not applicable to extradition proceedings.
Pt. 96

# PART 96—INTERCOUNTRY ADOPTION ACCREDITATION OF AGENCIES AND APPROVAL OF PERSONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
96.1
Purpose.
96.2
Definitions.
96.3
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Selection, Designation, and Duties of Accrediting Entities
96.4
Designation of accrediting entities by the Secretary.
96.5
Requirement that accrediting entity be a nonprofit or public entity.
96.6
Performance criteria for designation as an accrediting entity.
96.7
Authorities and responsibilities of an accrediting entity.
96.8
Fees charged by accrediting entities.
96.9
Agreement between the Secretary and the accrediting entity.
96.10
Suspension or cancellation of the designation of an accrediting entity by the Secretary.
96.11
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Accreditation and Approval Requirements for the Provision of Adoption Services
96.12
Authorized adoption service providers.
96.13
Circumstances in which accreditation, approval, or supervision is not required.
96.14
Providing adoption services using other providers.
96.15
Examples.
96.16
Public domestic authorities.
96.17
Effective date of accreditation and approval requirements.

# Subpart D—Application Procedures for Accreditation and Approval
96.18
Scope.
96.19
First-time application procedures for accreditation and approval.
96.20
Choosing an accrediting entity.
96.21-96.22
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Evaluation of Applicants for Accreditation and Approval
96.23
Scope.
96.24
Procedures for evaluating applicants for accreditation or approval.
96.25
Access to information and documents requested by the accrediting entity.
96.26
Protection of information and documents by the accrediting entity.
96.27
Substantive criteria for evaluating applicants for accreditation or approval.
96.28
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Standards for Intercountry Adoption Accreditation and Approval
96.29
Scope.

# Licensing, Compliance With Applicable Laws, and Corporate Governance
96.30
State licensing and compliance with all applicable laws.
96.31
Corporate structure.
96.32
Internal structure and oversight.

# Financial and Risk Management
96.33
Budget, audit, insurance, and risk assessment requirements.
96.34
Compensation.

# Ethical Practices and Responsibilities
96.35
Suitability of agencies and persons to provide adoption services.
96.36
Prohibition on child buying and inducement.

# Professional Qualifications and Training for Employees
96.37
Education and experience requirements for social service personnel.
96.38
Training requirements for social service personnel.

# Information Disclosure, Fee Practices, and Quality Control Policies and Practices
96.39
Information disclosure and quality control practices.
96.40
Fee policies and procedures.

# Responding to Complaints and Records and Reports Management
96.41
Procedures for responding to complaints and improving service delivery.
96.42
Retention, preservation, and disclosure of adoption records.
96.43
Case tracking, data management, and reporting.

# Service Planning and Delivery
96.44
Acting as primary provider.
96.45
Using supervised providers in the United States.
96.46
Using providers in foreign countries.

# Standards for Cases in Which a Child Is Immigrating to the United States (Incoming Cases)
96.47
Preparation of home studies in incoming cases.
96.48
Preparation and training of prospective adoptive parent(s) in incoming cases.
96.49
Provision of medical and social information in incoming cases.
96.50
Placement and post-placement monitoring until final adoption in incoming cases.
96.51
Post-adoption services in incoming cases.
96.52
Performance of communication and coordination functions in incoming cases.

# Standards for Convention Cases in Which a Child Is Emigrating From the United States (Outgoing Cases)
96.53
Background studies on the child and consents in outgoing Convention cases.
96.54
Placement standards in outgoing Convention cases.
96.55
Performance of Convention communication and coordination functions in outgoing Convention cases.
96.56
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Decisions on Applications for Accreditation or Approval
96.57
Scope.
96.58
Notification of accreditation and approval decisions.
96.59
Review of decisions to deny accreditation or approval.
96.60
Length of accreditation or approval period.
96.61
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Renewal of Accreditation or Approval
96.62
Scope.
96.63
Renewal of accreditation or approval.
96.64
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Routine Oversight by Accrediting Entities
96.65
Scope.
96.66
Oversight of accredited agencies and approved persons by the accrediting entity.
96.67
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—Oversight Through Review of Complaints
96.68
Scope.
96.69
Filing of complaints against accredited agencies and approved persons.
96.70
Operation of the Complaint Registry.
96.71
Review by the accrediting entity of complaints against accredited agencies and approved persons.
96.72
Referral of complaints to the Secretary and other authorities.
96.73
[Reserved]

# Subpart K—Adverse Action by the Accrediting Entity
96.74
Scope.
96.75
Adverse action against accredited agencies or approved persons not in substantial compliance.
96.76
Procedures governing adverse action by the accrediting entity.
96.77
Responsibilities of the accredited agency, approved person, and accrediting entity following adverse action by the accrediting entity.
96.78
Accrediting entity procedures to terminate adverse action.
96.79
Administrative or judicial review of adverse action by the accrediting entity.
96.80
[Reserved]

# Subpart L—Oversight of Accredited Agencies and Approved Persons by the Secretary
96.81
Scope.
96.82
The Secretary's response to actions by the accrediting entity.
96.83
Suspension or cancellation of accreditation or approval by the Secretary.
96.84
Reinstatement of accreditation or approval after suspension or cancellation by the Secretary.
96.85
Temporary and permanent debarment by the Secretary.
96.86
Length of debarment period and reapplication after temporary debarment.
96.87
Responsibilities of the accredited agency, approved person, and accrediting entity following suspension, cancellation, or debarment by the Secretary.
96.88
Procedures for debarment with prior notice.
96.89
Procedures for debarment effective immediately.
96.90
Review of suspension, cancellation, or debarment by the Secretary.

# Subpart M—Dissemination and Reporting of Information by Accrediting Entities
96.91
Scope.
96.92
Dissemination of information to the public about accreditation and approval status.
96.93
Dissemination of information to the public about complaints against accredited agencies and approved persons.
96.94
Reports to the Secretary about accredited agencies and approved persons and their activities.
96.95-96.99
[Reserved]
Subparts N-Q [Reserved]

# Subpart R—Alternative Procedures for Primary Providers in Intercountry Adoption by Relatives
96.100
Alternative procedures for primary providers in intercountry adoption by relatives.
96.101
Effective date for alternative procedures for primary providers in intercountry adoption by relatives.

# Authority:
The Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption (done at the Hague, May 29, 1993), S. Treaty Doc. 105-51 (1998), 1870 U.N.T.S. 167 (Reg. No. 31922 (1993)); The Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000, 42 U.S.C. 14901-14954; The Intercountry Adoption Universal Accreditation Act of 2012, Pub. L. 112-276, 42 U.S.C. 14925.

# Source:
71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
89 FR 57259, July 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 96.1
Purpose.
This part provides for the accreditation and approval of agencies and persons pursuant to the Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14901-14954, Pub. L. 106-279), which implements the 1993 Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption, U.S. Senate Treaty Doc. 105-51, Multilateral Treaties in Force as of January 1, 2016, p. 9; and the Intercountry Adoption Universal Accreditation Act of 2012 (42 U.S.C. 14925, Pub. L. 112-276).
§ 96.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
Accredited agency
means an agency that has been accredited by an accrediting entity, in accordance with the standards in subpart F of this part, to provide adoption services in the United States in intercountry adoption cases.
Accrediting entity
means an entity that has been designated by the Secretary to accredit agencies and/or to approve persons for purposes of providing adoption services in the United States in intercountry adoption cases.
Adoption
means the judicial or administrative act that establishes a permanent legal parent-child relationship between a minor and an adult who is not already the minor's legal parent and terminates the legal parent-child relationship between the adoptive child and any former parent(s).
Adoption record
means any record, information, or item related to a specific intercountry adoption of a child received or maintained by an agency, person, or public domestic authority, including, but not limited to, photographs, videos, correspondence, personal effects, medical and social information, and any other information about the child.
Adoption service
means any one of the following six services:
(1) Identifying a child for adoption and arranging an adoption;
(2) Securing the necessary consent to termination of parental rights and to adoption;
(3) Performing a background study on a child or a home study on a prospective adoptive parent(s), and reporting on such a study;
(4) Making non-judicial determinations of the best interests of a child and the appropriateness of an adoptive placement for the child;
(5) Monitoring a case after a child has been placed with prospective adoptive parent(s) until final adoption; or
(6) When necessary because of a disruption before final adoption, assuming custody and providing (including facilitating the provision of) child care or any other social service pending an alternative placement.
Agency
means a private, nonprofit organization licensed to provide adoption services in at least one State. (For-profit entities and individuals that provide adoption services are considered “persons” as defined in this section.)
Approved home study
means a review of the home environment of the child's prospective adoptive parent(s) that has been:
(1) Completed by an accredited agency; or
(2) Approved by an accredited agency.
Approved person
means a person that has been approved, in accordance with the standards in subpart F of this part, by an accrediting entity to provide adoption services in the United States in intercountry adoption cases.
Best interests of the child,
in cases in which a State has jurisdiction to decide whether a particular adoption or adoption-related action is in a child's best interests, shall have the meaning given to it by the law of the State. In all other cases, including any case in which a child is outside the United States at the time the ASP considers the best interests of the child in connection with any decision or action, best interests of the child shall be interpreted in light of the object and purpose of the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, and their implementing regulations.
Case Registry
means the tracking system jointly established by the Secretary and DHS to comply with section 102(e) of the IAA (42 U.S.C. 14912).
Central Authority
means the entity designated as such under Article 6(1) of the Convention by any Convention country, or, in the case of the United States, the United States Department of State. In countries that are not Convention countries, Central Authority
means the relevant “competent authority” as defined in this section.
Child welfare services
means services, other than those defined as “adoption services” in this section, that are designed to promote and protect the well-being of a family or child. Such services include, but are not limited to, providing temporary foster care for a child in connection with an intercountry adoption or providing educational, social, cultural, medical, psychological assessment, mental health, or other health-related services for a child or family in an intercountry adoption case.
Competent authority
means a court or governmental authority of a foreign country that has jurisdiction and authority to make decisions in matters of child welfare, including adoption.
Complaint Registry
means the system created by the Secretary pursuant to § 96.70 to receive, distribute, and monitor complaints relevant to the accreditation or approval status of agencies and persons.
Convention
means the Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption done at The Hague on May 29, 1993.
Convention adoption
means the adoption of a child resident in a Convention country by a United States citizen, or an adoption of a child resident in the United States by an individual or individuals residing in a Convention country, when, in connection with the adoption, the child has moved or will move between the United States and the Convention country.
Convention country
means a country that is a party to the Convention and with which the Convention is in force for the United States.
Country of origin
means the country in which a child is a resident and from which a child is emigrating in connection with his or her adoption.
Debarment
means the loss of accreditation or approval by an agency or person as a result of an order of the Secretary under which the agency or person is temporarily or permanently barred from accreditation or approval.
DHS
means the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and encompasses the former Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) or any successor entity designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security to assume the functions vested in the Attorney General by the IAA relating to the INS's responsibilities.
Disruption
means the interruption of a placement for adoption during the post-placement period.
Dissolution
means the termination of the adoptive parent(s)' parental rights after an adoption.
Exempted provider
means a social work professional or organization that performs a home study on prospective adoptive parent(s) or a child background study (or both) in the United States in connection with an intercountry adoption (including any reports or updates), but that is not currently providing and has not previously provided any other adoption service in the case.
IAA
means the Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000, Public Law 106-279 (2000) (42 U.S.C. 14901-14954), as amended from time to time.
INA
means the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
), as amended.
Intercountry adoption
means a Convention adoption of a child described in INA section 101(b)(1)(G) or the adoption of a child described in INA section 101(b)(1)(F).
Legal custody
means having legal responsibility for a child under the order of a court of law, a public domestic authority, competent authority, public foreign authority, or by operation of law.
Legal services
means services, other than those defined in this section as “adoption services,” that relate to the provision of legal advice and information and to the drafting of legal instruments. Such services include, but are not limited to, drawing up contracts, powers of attorney, and other legal instruments; providing advice and counsel to adoptive parent(s) on completing DHS or Central Authority forms; and providing advice and counsel to accredited agencies, approved persons, or prospective adoptive parent(s) on how to comply with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, and the regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA.
Person
means an individual or a private, for-profit entity (including a corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, or joint stock company) providing adoption services. It does not include public domestic authorities or public foreign authorities.
Post-adoption
means after an adoption; in cases in which an adoption occurs in a foreign country and is followed by a re-adoption in the United States, it means after the adoption in the foreign country.
Post-placement
means after a grant of legal custody or guardianship of the child to the prospective adoptive parent(s), or to a custodian for the purpose of escorting the child to the identified prospective adoptive parent(s), and before an adoption.
Primary provider
means the accredited agency or approved person that is identified pursuant to § 96.14 as responsible for ensuring that all six adoption services are provided and for supervising and being responsible for supervised providers where used.
Public domestic authority
means an authority operated by a State, local, or Tribal government within the United States.
Public foreign authority
means an authority operated by a national or subnational government of a foreign country.
Relative,
for the purposes of the alternative procedures for primary providers in intercountry adoption by relatives found in subpart R of this part, means a prospective adoptive parent was already, before the adoption, any of the following: parent, step-parent, brother, step-brother, sister, step-sister, grandparent, aunt, uncle, half-brother to the child's parent, half-sister to the child's parent, half-brother, half-sister, or the U.S. citizen spouse of the person with one of these qualifying relationships with the child. The relationship can exist by virtue of blood, marriage, or adoption.
Secretary
means the Secretary of State, the Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs, or any other Department of State official exercising the Secretary of State's authority under the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, or any regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA, pursuant to a delegation of authority.
State
means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Supervised provider
means any agency, person, or other non-governmental entity, including any domestic or foreign entity, regardless of whether it is called a facilitator, agent, attorney, or by any other name, that is providing one or more adoption services in an intercountry adoption case under the supervision and responsibility of an accredited agency or approved person that is acting as the primary provider in the case.
UAA
means the Intercountry Adoption Universal Accreditation Act of 2012 (42 U.S.C. 14925, Pub. L. 112-276 (2012)).
USCIS
means U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
§ 96.3
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Selection, Designation, and Duties of Accrediting Entities

# Source:
89 FR 57261, July 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 96.4
Designation of accrediting entities by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary, in the Secretary's discretion, will designate one or more entities that meet the criteria set forth in § 96.5 to perform the accreditation and/or approval functions. Each accrediting entity's designation will be set forth in an agreement between the Secretary and the accrediting entity. The agreement will govern the accrediting entity's operations. The agreements will be published in the
Federal Register
.
(b) The Secretary's designation may authorize an accrediting entity to accredit agencies, to approve persons, or to both accredit agencies and approve persons. The designation may also limit the accrediting entity's geographic jurisdiction or impose other limits on the entity's jurisdiction.
(c) A public entity under § 96.5(b) may only be designated to accredit agencies
and approve persons that are located in the public entity's State.
§ 96.5
Requirement that accrediting entity be a nonprofit or public entity.
An accrediting entity must qualify as either:
(a) An organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 CFR 1.501(c)(3)-1), that has expertise in developing and administering standards for entities providing child welfare services; or
(b) A public entity (other than a Federal entity), including, but not limited to, any State or local government or governmental unit or any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, that has expertise in developing and administering standards for entities providing child welfare services.
§ 96.6
Performance criteria for designation as an accrediting entity.
An entity that seeks to be designated as an accrediting entity must demonstrate to the Secretary:
(a) That it has a governing structure, the human and financial resources, and systems of control adequate to ensure its reliability;
(b) That it is capable of performing the accreditation or approval functions or both on a timely basis and of administering any renewal cycle authorized under § 96.60;
(c) That it can monitor the performance of accredited agencies and approved persons (including their use of any supervised providers) to ensure their continued compliance with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, and the regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA;
(d) That it has the capacity to take appropriate adverse actions against accredited agencies and approved persons;
(e) That it can perform the required data collection, reporting, and other similar functions;
(f) Except in the case of a public entity, that it operates independently of any agency or person that provides adoption services, and of any membership organization that includes agencies or persons that provide adoption services;
(g) That it has the capacity to conduct its accreditation and approval functions fairly and impartially;
(h) That it can comply with any conflict of interest prohibitions set by the Secretary;
(i) That it prohibits conflicts of interest with agencies or persons or with any membership organization that includes agencies or persons that provide adoption services; and
(j) That it prohibits its employees or other individuals acting as site evaluators, including, but not limited to, volunteer site evaluators, from becoming employees or supervised providers of an accredited agency or approved person for at least one year after they have evaluated such agency or person for accreditation or approval.
§ 96.7
Authorities and responsibilities of an accrediting entity.
(a) An accrediting entity may be authorized by the Secretary to perform some or all of the following functions:
(1) Determining whether agencies are eligible for accreditation;
(2) Determining whether persons are eligible for approval;
(3) Overseeing accredited agencies and/or approved persons by monitoring their compliance with applicable requirements;
(4) Reviewing and responding to complaints about accredited agencies and approved persons (including their use of supervised providers);
(5) Taking adverse action against an accredited agency or approved person, and/or referring an accredited agency or approved person for possible action by the Secretary;
(6) Determining whether accredited agencies and approved persons are eligible for renewal of their accreditation or approval on a cycle consistent with § 96.60;
(7) Collecting data from accredited agencies and approved persons, maintaining records, and reporting information to the Secretary, State courts, and other entities; and
(8) Assisting the Secretary in taking appropriate action to help an agency or person in transferring its intercountry adoption cases and adoption records.
(9) Maintaining all records related to its role as an accrediting entity for a period of at least ten years, or longer if otherwise set forth in its agreement with the Secretary.
(b) The Secretary may require the accrediting entity:
(1) To utilize the Complaint Registry as provided in subpart J of this part; and
(2) To fund a portion of the costs of operating the Complaint Registry with fees collected by the accrediting entity pursuant to the schedule of fees approved by the Secretary as provided in § 96.8.
(c) An accrediting entity must perform all responsibilities in accordance with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, the regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA, and its agreement with the Secretary.
§ 96.8
Fees charged by accrediting entities.
(a) An accrediting entity may charge fees for accreditation or approval services under this part only in accordance with a schedule of fees approved by the Secretary. Before approving a schedule of fees proposed by an accrediting entity, or subsequent proposed changes to an approved schedule, the Secretary will require the accrediting entity to demonstrate:
(1) That its proposed schedule of fees reflects appropriate consideration of the relative size and geographic location and volume of intercountry adoption cases of the agencies or persons it expects to serve; and
(2) That the total fees the accrediting entity expects to collect under the schedule of fees will not exceed the full costs of the accrediting entity functions the Secretary has authorized it to perform under this part (including, but not limited to, costs for completing the accreditation or approval process, complaint review, routine oversight and enforcement, and other data collection and reporting activities).
(b) The Secretary shall publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of the proposed fee schedule along with a summary of the information provided by the accrediting entity and a general statement explaining their basis. After notice required by this section, the Secretary shall give interested persons an opportunity to participate in the proposed fee schedule setting through submission of written data, views, or arguments with or without opportunity for oral presentation. After consideration of the relevant matter presented, the Secretary shall, following approval of the final schedule of fees, publish the final schedule of fees and a concise general statement of their basis.
(c) The schedule of fees must:
(1) Establish separate, non-refundable fees for accreditation and approval; and
(2) Include in each fee the costs of all activities associated with such fee, including but not limited to, costs for completing the accreditation or approval process, complaint review, routine oversight and enforcement, and other data collection and reporting activities, except that separate fees based on actual costs incurred may be charged for the travel and maintenance of evaluators.
(d) An accrediting entity must make its approved schedule of fees available to the public, including prospective applicants for accreditation or approval, upon request. At the time of application, the accrediting entity must specify the fees to be charged to the applicant in a contract between the parties and must provide notice to the applicant that no portion of the fee will be refunded if the applicant fails to become accredited or approved.
(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to provide a private right of action to challenge any fee charged by an accrediting entity pursuant to a schedule of fees approved by the Secretary.
§ 96.9
Agreement between the Secretary and the accrediting entity.
An accrediting entity must perform its functions pursuant to a written agreement with the Secretary that will be published in the
Federal Register.
The agreement will address:
(a) The responsibilities and duties of the accrediting entity;
(b) The method by which the costs of delivering the authorized accrediting entity functions may be recovered through the collection of fees from
those seeking accreditation or approval, and how the entity's schedule of fees will be approved;
(c) How the accrediting entity will address complaints about accredited agencies and approved persons (including their use of supervised providers) and complaints about the accrediting entity itself;
(d) Data collection requirements;
(e) Matters of communication and accountability between both the accrediting entity and the applicant(s) and between the accrediting entity and the Secretary; and
(f) Other matters upon which the parties have agreed.
§ 96.10
Suspension or cancellation of the designation of an accrediting entity by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary will suspend or cancel the designation of an accrediting entity if the Secretary concludes that it is substantially out of compliance with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, the regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA, other applicable laws, or the agreement with the Secretary. Complaints regarding the performance of the accrediting entity may be submitted to the Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs. The Secretary will consider complaints in determining whether an accrediting entity's designation should be suspended or canceled.
(b) The Secretary will notify an accrediting entity in writing of any deficiencies in the accrediting entity's performance that could lead to the suspension or cancellation of its designation and will provide the accrediting entity with an opportunity to demonstrate that suspension or cancellation is unwarranted, in accordance with procedures established in the agreement entered into pursuant to § 96.9.
(c) An accrediting entity may be considered substantially out of compliance under circumstances that include, but are not limited to:
(1) Failing to act in a timely manner when presented with evidence that an accredited agency or approved person is substantially out of compliance with the standards in subpart F of this part;
(2) Accrediting or approving an agency or person whose performance results in intervention of the Secretary for the purpose of suspension, cancellation, or debarment;
(3) Failing to perform its responsibilities fairly and objectively;
(4) Violating prohibitions on conflicts of interest;
(5) Failing to meet its reporting requirements;
(6) Failing to protect information, including personally identifiable information, or documents that it receives in the course of performing its responsibilities; and
(7) Failing to monitor frequently and carefully the compliance of accredited agencies and approved persons with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, and the regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA, including the home study requirements of the Convention, section 203(b)(1)(A)(ii) of the IAA (42 U.S.C. 14923(b)(1)(A)(ii)), and § 96.47.
(d) An accrediting entity that is subject to a final action of suspension or cancellation may petition the United States District Court for the District of Columbia or the United States district court in the judicial district in which the accrediting entity is located to set aside the action as provided in section 204(d) of the IAA (42 U.S.C. 14924(d)).
§ 96.11
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Accreditation and Approval Requirements for the Provision of Adoption Services
§ 96.12
Authorized adoption service providers.
(a) Except as provided in section 505(b) of the IAA (relating to transition cases) and section 2(c) of the UAA (relating to transition cases), an agency or person may not offer, provide, or facilitate the provision of any adoption service in connection with an intercountry adoption unless it is:
(1) An accredited agency or an approved person;
(2) A supervised provider; or
(3) An exempted provider, if the exempted provider's home study or child background study will be reviewed and approved by an accredited agency pursuant to § 96.47(c) or § 96.53(b).
(b) A public domestic authority may also offer, provide, or facilitate the provision of any such adoption service.
(c) Neither conferral nor maintenance of accreditation or approval, nor status as an exempted or supervised provider, nor status as a public domestic authority shall be construed to imply, warrant, or establish that, in any specific case, an adoption service has been provided consistently with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, or the regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA. Conferral and maintenance of accreditation or approval under this part establishes only that the accrediting entity has concluded, in accordance with the standards and procedures of this part, that the accredited agency or approved person provides adoption services in substantial compliance with the applicable standards set forth in this part; it is not a guarantee that in any specific case the accredited agency or approved person is providing adoption services consistently with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, the regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA, or any other applicable law, whether Federal, State, or foreign. Neither the Secretary nor any accrediting entity shall be responsible for any acts of an accredited agency, approved person, exempted provider, supervised provider, or other entity providing services in connection with an intercountry adoption.
[89 FR 57263, July 12, 2024]
§ 96.13
Circumstances in which accreditation, approval, or supervision is not required.
(a)
Home studies and child background studies.
Home studies and child background studies, when performed by exempted providers, may be performed without accreditation, approval, or supervision; provided, however, that an exempted provider's home study must be approved by an accredited agency in accordance with § 96.47(c), and an exempted provider's child background study must be approved by an accredited agency in accordance with § 96.53(b).
(b)
Child welfare services.
An agency or person does not need to be accredited, approved, or operate as a supervised provider if it is providing only child welfare services, and not providing any adoption services, in connection with an intercountry adoption. If the agency or person provides both a child welfare service and any adoption service in the United States in an intercountry adoption case, it must be accredited, approved or operate as a supervised provider unless the only adoption service provided is preparation of a home study and/or a child background study.
(c)
Legal services.
An agency or person does not need to be accredited, approved, or to operate as a supervised provider if it is providing only legal services, and not providing any adoption services, in connection with an intercountry adoption. If the agency or person provides both a legal service and any adoption service in the United States in an intercountry adoption case, it must be accredited, approved or operate as a supervised provider unless the only adoption service provided is preparation of a home study and/or a child background study. Nothing in this part shall be construed:
(1) To permit an attorney to provide both legal services and adoption services in an adoption case where doing so is prohibited by State law; or
(2) To require any attorney who is providing one or more adoption services as part of his or her employment by a public domestic authority to be accredited or approved or operate as a supervised provider.
(d)
Prospective adoptive parent(s) acting on own behalf.
Prospective adoptive parent(s) may act on their own behalf without being accredited, or approved unless so acting is prohibited by State law or the law of the foreign country. In the case of a child immigrating to the United States in connection with his or her adoption, such conduct must be permissible under the laws of the State in which the prospective adoptive parent(s) reside and the laws of the foreign country from which the parent(s) seek to adopt. In the case of a child emigrating from the United States in connection with his or her adoption, such conduct must be permissible under the laws of the State where the child resides and the laws of
the Convention country in which the parent(s) reside.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40633, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.14
Providing adoption services using other providers.
(a) Accreditation and approval under this part require that, in each intercountry adoption case, an accredited agency or an approved person will be identified and act as the primary provider. If one accredited agency or approved person is providing all adoption services by itself, it must act as the primary provider. If just one accredited agency or approved person is involved in providing adoption services, the sole accredited agency or approved person must act as the primary provider. If adoption services in the intercountry adoption case are being provided by more than one accredited agency or approved person, the agency or person that has child placement responsibility, as evidenced by the following, must act as the primary provider throughout the case:
(1) Entering into placement contracts with prospective adoptive parent(s) to provide child referral and placement;
(2) Accepting custody from a birth parent or other legal custodian in a foreign country for the purpose of placement for adoption;
(3) Assuming responsibility for liaison with a foreign country's Central Authority or its designees with regard to arranging an adoption; or
(4) Receiving from or sending to a foreign country information about a child that is under consideration for adoption, unless acting as a local service provider that conveys such information to parent(s) on behalf of the primary provider.
(b) Pursuant to § 96.44, in the case of accredited agencies or approved persons, the primary provider may only use the following to provide adoption services in the United States:
(1) A supervised provider, including an accredited agency or approved person;
(2) An exempted provider, if the exempted provider's home study or child background study will be reviewed and approved by an accredited agency pursuant to § 96.47(c) or § 96.53(b); or
(3) A public domestic authority.
(c) Pursuant to § 96.44 of subpart F, in the case of accredited agencies or approved persons, the primary provider may only use the following to provide adoption services in a foreign country:
(1) A Central Authority, competent authority, or a public foreign authority;
(2) A foreign supervised provider, including a provider accredited by the foreign country; or
(3) A foreign provider (agency, person, or other non-governmental entity) who
(i) Has secured or is securing the necessary consent to termination of parental rights and to adoption, if the primary provider verifies consent pursuant to § 96.46(c); or
(ii) Has prepared or is preparing a background study on a child in a case involving immigration to the United States (incoming case) or a home study on prospective adoptive parent(s) in a case involving emigration from the United States (outgoing case), and a report on the results of such a study, if the primary provider verifies the study and report pursuant to § 96.46(c).
(d) The primary provider is not required to provide supervision or to assume responsibility for:
(1) Public domestic authorities; or
(2) Central Authorities, competent authorities, and public foreign authorities.
(e) The primary provider must adhere to the standards contained in § 96.45 (Using supervised providers in the United States) when using supervised providers in the United States and the applicable standards contained in § 96.46 (Using providers in foreign countries) when using providers outside the United States.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40633, July 14, 2014; 80 FR 7323, Feb. 10, 2015]
§ 96.15
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of §§ 96.12 to 96.14:

# Example 1.
Identifying a child for adoption and arranging an adoption. Agency X identifies children eligible for adoption in the United States on a TV program in an effort to recruit prospective adoptive parent(s). A couple in a foreign country calls Agency X
about one of the children. Agency X refers them to an agency or person in the United States who arranges intercountry adoptions. Agency X does not require accreditation, temporarily accreditation, approval or supervision because it is not both identifying and arranging the adoption. In contrast, Agency Y, located in the United States, provides information about children eligible for adoption in a foreign country on a website and then arranges for interested U.S. parents to adopt those children. Agency Y must be accredited, approved, or supervised because, in addition to identifying children eligible for adoption, it is also helping to arrange the adoption.

# Example 2.
Child welfare services exemption. Doctor X evaluates the medical records and a video of Child Y. The evaluation will be used in an intercountry adoption as part of the placement of Child Y and is the only service that Doctor X provides in the United States with regard to Child Y's adoption. Doctor X (not employed with an accredited agency or approved person) does not need to be approved or supervised because she is not providing an adoption service as defined in § 96.2.

# Example 3.
Home study exemption. Social Worker X, in the United States, (not employed with an accredited agency or approved person) interviews Prospective Adoptive Parent Y, obtains a criminal background study, and checks the references of Prospective Adoptive Parent Y, then composes a report and submits the report to an accredited agency for use in an intercountry adoption. Social Worker X does not provide any other services to Prospective Adoptive Parent Y. Social Worker X qualifies as an exempted provider and therefore need not be approved or operate as supervised provider. In contrast, Social Worker Z, in the United States, (not employed with an accredited agency or approved person) prepares a home study report for Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) W, and in addition re-enters the house after Child V has been placed with Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) W to assess how V and W are adjusting to life as a family. This assessment is post-placement monitoring, which is an adoption service. Therefore, Social Worker Z would need to become approved before providing this assessment for this intercountry adoption or else operate as a supervised provider. If an agency or person provides an adoption service in addition to a home study or child background study, the agency or person needs to become accredited, approved, or supervised before providing that adoption service.

# Example 4.
Child background study exemption. An employee of Agency X interviews Child Y in the United States and compiles a report concerning Child Y's social and developmental history for use in an intercountry adoption. Agency X provides no other adoption services on behalf of Child Y. Agency X does not need to be accredited, approved, or supervised. Agency X is only conducting and creating a child background study, and therefore is an exempted provider. In contrast, an employee of Agency Z interviews Child W in the United States and creates a child background study for use in an intercountry adoption. Agency Z subsequently identifies prospective adoptive parent(s) and arranges a new adoption when Child W's previous adoption becomes disrupted. Agency Z needs to be accredited, approved, or supervised before providing this service. If an agency or person provides an adoption service in addition to a child background study or home study, the agency or person needs to be accredited, approved, or supervised before providing the additional service.

# Example 5.
Home study and child welfare services exemptions. Agency X interviews Prospective Adoptive Parent Y, obtains a criminal background check, checks the references of Prospective Adoptive Parent Y, then composes a home study and submits it to an accredited agency for use in an intercountry adoption in the United States. Parent Y later joins a post-adoption support group for adoptive parents sponsored by Agency X. If Agency X performs no other adoption services, Agency X does not need to be accredited, approved, or supervised. If an agency or person provides a home study or child background study as well as other services in the United States that do not require accreditation, approval, or supervision, and no other adoption services, the agency or person is an exempted provider.

# Example 6.
Exempted provider. Agency X interviews Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) Y, obtains a criminal background check, checks the references of Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) Y, and then composes a home study and submits the report to an accredited agency. In addition, Agency X interviews Child Z and compiles a report concerning Child Z's social and developmental history. All of Agency X's work is done in the United States. Both reports will be used in an intercountry adoption. If Agency X performs no other adoption services, Agency X does not need to be accredited, approved, or supervised. If an agency or person provides a home study and child background study as well as other services that do not require accreditation, approval or supervision, and no other adoption services, the agency or person is an exempted provider.

# Example 7.
Legal services exemption. Attorney X (not employed with an accredited agency or approved person) provides advice and counsel to Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) Y on filling out DHS paperwork required for an intercountry adoption. Among other papers, Attorney X prepares an affidavit of consent to termination of parental rights and to adoption of Child W to be
signed by the birth mother in the United States. Attorney X must be approved or supervised because securing consent to termination of parental rights is an adoption service. In contrast, Attorney Z (not employed with an accredited agency or approved person) assists Adoptive Parent(s) T to complete an adoption in the State in which they reside, after they have been granted an adoption in Child V's foreign country of origin. Attorney Z is exempt from approval or supervision because she is providing legal services, but no adoption services.

# Example 8.
Post-placement monitoring. A court in a foreign country has granted custody of Child W to Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) Y pending the completion of W's adoption. Agency X interviews both Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) Y and Child W in their home in the United States. Agency X gathers information on the adjustment of Child W as a member of the family and inquires into the social and educational progress of Child W. Agency X must be accredited, approved, or supervised. Agency X's activities constitute post-placement monitoring, which is an adoption service. In contrast, if Person Z provided counseling for Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) Y and/or Child W, but provided no adoption services in the United States to the family, Person Z would not need to be approved or supervised. Post-placement counseling is different than post-placement monitoring because it does not relate to evaluating the adoption placement. Post-placement counseling is not an adoption service and does not trigger the accreditation/approval requirements of the IAA or the UAA and this part.

# Example 9.
Post-adoption services. Foreign Country H requires that post-adoption reports be completed and sent to its Central Authority every year until adopted children reach the age of 18. Agency X provides support groups and a newsletter for U.S. parents that have adopted children from Country H and encourages parents to complete their post-adoption reports annually. Agency X does not need to be accredited, approved, or supervised because it is providing only post-adoption services. Post-adoption services are not included in the definition of adoption services, and therefore, do not trigger accreditation/approval requirements of the IAA or the UAA and this part.

# Example 10.
Assuming custody and providing services after a disruption. Agency X provides counseling for Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) Y and for Child W pending the completion of Child W's intercountry adoption. The adoption eventually disrupts. Agency X helps recruit and identify new prospective adoptive parent(s) for Child W, but it is Agency P that assumes custody of Child W and places him in foster care until an alternative adoptive placement can be found. Agency X is not required to be accredited, approved, or supervised because it is not providing an adoption service in the United States as defined in § 96.2. Agency P, on the other hand, is providing an adoption service and would have to be accredited, approved, or supervised.

# Example 11.
Making non-judicial determinations of best interest of child and appropriateness of adoptive placement of child. Agency X receives information about and a videotape of Child W from the institution where Child W lives in a foreign country. Based on the age, sex, and health problems of Child W, Agency X matches Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) Y with Child W. Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) Y receive a referral from Agency X and agree to accept the referral and proceed with the adoption of Child W. Agency X determines that Prospective Adoptive Parent(s) Y are a good placement for Child W and notifies the competent authority in W's country of origin that it has found a match for Child W and will start preparing adoption paperwork. All of Agency X's services are provided in the United States. Agency X is performing an adoption service and must be accredited, approved, or supervised.

# Example 12.
Securing necessary consent to termination of parental rights and to adoption. Facilitator Y is accredited by Convention Country Z. He has contacts at several orphanages in Foreign Country Z and helps Agency X match children eligible for adoption with prospective adoptive parent(s) in the United States. Facilitator Y works with the institution that is the legal guardian of Child W in order to get the documents showing the institution's legal consent to the adoption of Child W. Agency X is the only U.S. agency providing adoption services in the case. Agency X must be accredited, or approved and must either treat Facilitator Y as a foreign supervised provider in accordance with § 96.46(a) and (b) or verify the consents Facilitator Y secured, in accordance with § 96.46(c).
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40634, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.16
Public domestic authorities.
Public domestic authorities are not required to become accredited to be able to provide adoption services in intercountry adoption cases, but must comply with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, and other applicable law when providing services in an intercountry adoption case.
[79 FR 40634, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.17
Effective date of accreditation and approval requirements.
The Convention entered into force for the United States on April 1, 2008. As of
that date, the regulations in subpart C of this part govern Convention adoptions between the United States and Convention countries, and require agencies or persons providing adoption services on behalf of prospective adoptive parent(s) to comply with § 96.12 and applicable Federal regulations. The Secretary maintains for the public a current listing of Convention countries. The effective date of the UAA is July 14, 2014. As of that date, consistent with the UAA, the regulations in subpart C of this part will govern adoptions of children described in INA § 101(b)(1)(F), and will require agencies or persons providing adoption services on behalf of prospective adoptive parent(s) in connection with a child described in section 101(b)(1)(F) to comply with § 96.12 and applicable Federal regulations.
[79 FR 40634, July 14, 2014]

# Subpart D—Application Procedures for Accreditation and Approval
§ 96.18
Scope.
(a) Agencies are eligible to apply for “accreditation.” Persons are eligible to apply for “approval.” Applications for accreditation or approval will be processed in accordance with §§ 96.19 and 96.20.
(b) If an agency or person is reapplying for accreditation or approval following cancellation of its accreditation or approval by an accrediting entity or refusal by an accrediting entity to renew its accreditation or approval, it must comply with the procedures in § 96.78.
(c) If an agency or person that has been accredited or approved is seeking renewal, it must comply with the procedures in § 96.63.
[79 FR 40634, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.19
First-time application procedures for accreditation and approval.
(a) Agencies or persons seeking accreditation or approval for the first time may submit an application at any time, with the required fee(s), to an accrediting entity with jurisdiction to evaluate the application.
(b) The accrediting entity must establish and follow uniform application procedures and must make information about those procedures available to agencies and persons that are considering whether to apply for accreditation or approval. An accrediting entity must evaluate the applicant for accreditation or approval in a timely fashion.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006. Redesignated and amended at 79 FR 40634, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.20
Choosing an accrediting entity.
(a) An agency that seeks to become accredited must apply to an accrediting entity that is designated to provide accreditation services and that has jurisdiction over its application. A person that seeks to become approved must apply to an accrediting entity that is designated to provide approval services and that has jurisdiction over its application. The agency or person may apply to only one accrediting entity at a time.
(b)(1) If the agency or person is applying for accreditation or approval pursuant to this part for the first time, it may apply to any accrediting entity with jurisdiction over its application. However, the agency or person must apply to the same accrediting entity that handled its prior application when it next applies for accreditation or approval, if the agency or person:
(i) Has been denied accreditation or approval;
(ii) Has withdrawn its application in anticipation of denial;
(iii) Has had its accreditation or approval cancelled by an accrediting entity or the Secretary;
(iv) Has been temporarily debarred by the Secretary; or
(v) Has been refused renewal of its accreditation or approval by an accrediting entity.
(2) If the prior accrediting entity is no longer providing accreditation or approval services, the agency or person may apply to any accrediting entity with jurisdiction over its application.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006. Redesignated at 79 FR 40634, July 14, 2014]
§§ 96.21-96.22
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Evaluation of Applicants for Accreditation and Approval

# Source:
89 FR 57263, July 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 96.23
Scope.
The provisions in this subpart govern the evaluation of agencies and persons for accreditation or approval.
§ 96.24
Procedures for evaluating applicants for accreditation or approval.
(a) The accrediting entity must designate at least two evaluators to evaluate an agency or person for accreditation or approval. The accrediting entity's evaluators must have expertise in intercountry adoption, standards evaluation, finance or accounting, or have experience with the management or oversight of child welfare organizations and must also meet any additional qualifications required by the Secretary in the agreement with the accrediting entity.
(b) To evaluate the agency's or person's eligibility for accreditation or approval, the accrediting entity must:
(1) Review the agency's or person's written application and supporting documentation;
(2) Verify the information provided by the agency or person by examining underlying documentation;
(3) Consider any complaints received by the accrediting entity pursuant to subpart J of this part; and
(4) Conduct site visit(s).
(c) The site visit(s) may include, but need not be limited to, interviews with birth parents, adoptive parent(s), prospective adoptive parent(s), and adult adoptee(s) served by the agency or person, interviews with the agency's or person's employees, and interviews with other individuals knowledgeable about the agency's or person's provision of adoption services. It may also include a review of on-site documents. The accrediting entity must, to the extent practicable, advise the agency or person in advance of the type of documents it wishes to review during the site visit. The accrediting entity must require at least one of the evaluators to participate in each site visit. The accrediting entity must determine the number of evaluators that participate in a site visit in light of factors such as:
(1) The agency's or person's size;
(2) The number of adoption cases it handles;
(3) The number of sites the accrediting entity decides to visit; and
(4) The number of individuals working at each site.
(d) Before deciding whether to accredit an agency or approve a person, the accrediting entity may, in its discretion, advise the agency or person of any deficiencies that may hinder or prevent its accreditation or approval and defer a decision to allow the agency or person to correct the deficiencies.
§ 96.25
Access to information and documents requested by the accrediting entity.
(a) The agency or person must give the accrediting entity access to information and documents, including adoption case files and proprietary information, that it requires or requests to evaluate an agency or person for accreditation or approval and to perform its oversight, enforcement, renewal, data collection, and other functions. The agency or person must also cooperate with the accrediting entity by making employees available for interviews upon request.
(b) Accrediting entity review of adoption case files pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be limited to Convention adoption case files and cases subject to the UAA, except that, in the case of first-time applicants for accreditation or approval, the accrediting entity may review adoption case files related to other non-Convention cases for purposes of assessing the agency's or person's capacity to comply with record-keeping and data-management standards in subpart F of this part. The accrediting entity shall permit the agency or person to redact names and other information that identifies birth parent(s), prospective adoptive parent(s), and adoptee(s) from such non-Convention adoption case files not subject to the UAA prior to
their inspection by the accrediting entity.
(c) If an agency or person fails to provide requested documents or information, or to make employees available as requested, or engages in deliberate destruction of requested documentation or information, or provides false or misleading documents or information, the accrediting entity may deny accreditation or approval or, in the case of an accredited agency or approved person, take appropriate adverse action against the agency or person solely on that basis.
§ 96.26
Protection of information and documents by the accrediting entity.
(a) The accrediting entity must protect from unauthorized use and disclosure all documents and information about the agency or person it receives including, but not limited to, documents and proprietary information about the agency's or person's finances, management, and professional practices received in connection with the performance of its accreditation or approval, oversight, enforcement, renewal, data collection, or other functions under its agreement with the Secretary and this part.
(b) The documents and information received may not be disclosed to the public and may be used only for the purpose of performing the accrediting entity's accreditation or approval functions, monitoring and oversight, and related tasks under its agreement with the Secretary and this part, or to provide information to the Secretary, the Complaint Registry, or an appropriate Federal, State, tribal, or local authority, including, but not limited to, a public domestic authority or local law enforcement authority unless:
(1) Otherwise authorized by the agency or person in writing;
(2) Otherwise required under Federal or State laws; or
(3) Required pursuant to subpart M of this part.
(c) Unless the names and other information that identifies the birth parent(s), prospective adoptive parent(s), and adoptee(s) are requested by the accrediting entity for an articulated reason, the agency or person may withhold from the accrediting entity such information and substitute individually assigned codes in the documents it provides. The accrediting entity must have appropriate safeguards to protect from unauthorized use and disclosure of any information in its files that identifies birth parent(s), prospective adoptive parent(s), and adoptee(s). The accrediting entity must ensure that its officers, employees, contractors, and evaluators who have access to information or documents provided by the agency or person have signed a non-disclosure agreement reflecting the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d) The accrediting entity must maintain a complete and accurate record of all information it receives related to an agency or person, and the basis for the accrediting entity's decisions concerning the agency or person for a period of at least ten years, or longer if otherwise set forth in its agreement with the Secretary.
§ 96.27
Substantive criteria for evaluating applicants for accreditation or approval.
(a) The accrediting entity may not grant an agency accreditation or a person approval, or permit an agency's or person's accreditation or approval to be maintained, unless the agency or person demonstrates to the satisfaction of the accrediting entity that it is in substantial compliance with the standards in subpart F of this part.
(b) When the agency or person makes its initial application for accreditation or approval, the accrediting entity may measure the capacity of the agency or person to achieve substantial compliance with the standards in subpart F of this part where relevant evidence of its actual performance is not yet available. Once the agency or person has been accredited or approved pursuant to this part, the accrediting entity must, for the purposes of monitoring, renewal, enforcement, and reapplication after adverse action, consider the agency's or person's actual performance in deciding whether the agency or person is in substantial compliance with the standards in subpart F of this part, unless the accrediting entity determines that it is still necessary to
measure capacity because services have not yet been provided and thus adequate evidence of actual performance is not available.
(c) The standards contained in subpart F of this part apply during all the stages of accreditation and approval, including, but not limited to, when the accrediting entity is evaluating an applicant for accreditation or approval, when it is determining whether to renew an agency's or person's accreditation or approval, when it is monitoring the performance of an accredited agency or approved person, and when it is taking adverse action against an accredited agency or approved person. Except as provided in § 96.25 and paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, the accrediting entity may only use the standards contained in subpart F of this part, when determining whether an agency or person may be granted or permitted to maintain accreditation or approval.
(d) The Secretary will ensure that each accrediting entity performs its accreditation and approval functions using only a method approved by the Secretary that is substantially the same as the method approved for use by each other accrediting entity. Each such method will include: an assigned value for each standard (or element of a standard); a method of rating an agency's or person's compliance with each applicable standard; and a method of evaluating whether an agency's or person's overall compliance with all applicable standards establishes that the agency or person is in substantial compliance with the standards and can be accredited or approved. The Secretary will ensure that the value assigned to each standard reflects the relative importance of that standard to compliance with the Convention, the IAA, and the UAA and is consistent with the value assigned to the standard by other accrediting entities. The accrediting entity must advise applicants of the value assigned to each standard (or elements of each standard) at the time it provides applicants with the application materials.
(e) If an agency or person previously has been denied accreditation or approval, has withdrawn its application in anticipation of denial, or is reapplying for accreditation or approval after cancellation, refusal to renew, or temporary debarment, the accrediting entity must take the reasons underlying such actions into account when evaluating the agency or person for accreditation or approval, and may deny accreditation or approval on the basis of the previous action.
(f) If an agency or person that has an ownership or control interest in the applicant, as that term is defined in section 1124 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-3), has been debarred pursuant to § 96.85, the accrediting entity must take into account the reasons underlying the debarment when evaluating the agency or person for accreditation or approval, and may deny accreditation or approval or refuse to renew accreditation or approval on the basis of the debarment.
(g) The standards contained in subpart F of this part do not eliminate the need for an agency or person to comply fully with the laws of jurisdictions in which it operates. An agency or person must provide adoption services in intercountry adoption cases consistent with the laws of any State in which it operates, and with the Convention, the IAA, and the UAA. Persons that are approved to provide adoption services may only provide such services in States that do not prohibit persons from providing adoption services. Nothing in the application of this subpart E and subpart F of this part should be construed to require a State to allow persons to provide adoption services if State law does not permit them to do so.
§ 96.28
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Standards for Intercountry Adoption Accreditation and Approval

# Source:
89 FR 57265, July 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 96.29
Scope.
The provisions in this subpart provide the standards for accrediting agencies and approving persons.

# Licensing, Compliance with Applicable Laws, and Corporate Governance
§ 96.30
State licensing and compliance with all applicable laws.
(a) The agency or person is properly licensed or otherwise authorized by State law to provide adoption services in at least one State.
(b) The agency or person follows applicable State licensing and regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions in which it provides adoption services.
(c) If it provides adoption services in a State in which it is not itself licensed or authorized to provide such services, the agency or person does so only:
(1) Through agencies or persons that are licensed or authorized by State law to provide adoption services in that State and that are exempted providers or acting as supervised providers; or
(2) Through public domestic authorities.
(d) In the case of a person, the individual or for-profit entity is not prohibited by State law from providing adoption services in any State where it is providing adoption services, and does not provide adoption services in foreign countries that prohibit individuals or for-profit entities from providing adoption services.
(e) The agency or person complies with applicable laws in all foreign countries in which it provides adoption services.
§ 96.31
Corporate structure.
(a) The agency qualifies for nonprofit tax treatment under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or qualifies for nonprofit status under the laws of any State.
(b) The person is an individual or is a for-profit entity organized as a corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, or joint stock company, or other legal entity under the laws of any State.
§ 96.32
Internal structure and oversight.
(a) The agency or person has (or, in the case of an individual, is) a chief executive officer or equivalent official who is qualified by education, adoption service experience, and management credentials to ensure effective use of resources and coordinated delivery of the services provided by the agency or person, and has authority and responsibility for management and oversight of the staff and any supervised providers in carrying out the adoption-related functions of the organization.
(b) The agency or person has a board of directors or a similar governing body that establishes and approves its mission, policies, budget, and programs; provides leadership to secure the resources needed to support its programs; includes one or more individuals with experience in adoption, including but not limited to, adoptees, birth parents, prospective adoptive parent(s), and adoptive parents; and appoints and oversees the performance of its chief executive officer or equivalent official. This standard does not apply where the person is an individual practitioner.
(c) The agency or person keeps permanent records of the meetings and deliberations of its governing body and of its major decisions affecting the delivery of adoption services.
(d) The agency or person has in place procedures and standards, pursuant to §§ 96.45 and 96.46, for the selection, monitoring, and oversight of supervised providers.
(e) The agency or person discloses to the accrediting entity the following information:
(1) Any other names by which the agency or person is or has been known, under either its current or any former form of organization, and the addresses and phone numbers used when such names were used;
(2) The name, address, and phone number of each current director, manager, and employee of the agency or person, and, for any such individual who previously served as a director, manager, or employee of another provider of adoption services, the name, address, and phone number of such other provider;
(3) The name, address, and phone number of any entity it uses or intends to use as a supervised provider; and
(4) The name, address, and phone number of all agencies or persons, non-
profit organizations, or for-profit organizations that share with it any leadership, officers, board of directors, or family relationships, if such agency, person, or organization provides any service to, or receives any payment from, the agency or person.

# Financial and Risk Management
§ 96.33
Budget, audit, insurance, and risk assessment requirements.
(a) The agency or person operates under a budget approved by its governing body, if applicable, for management of its funds. The budget discloses all remuneration (including perquisites) paid to the agency's or person's board of directors, managers, employees, and supervised providers.
(b) The agency's or person's finances are subject to annual internal review and oversight and are subject to independent audits every four years. The agency or person submits copies of internal financial review reports for inspection by the accrediting entity each year.
(c) The agency or person submits copies of each audit, as well as any accompanying management letter or qualified opinion letter, for inspection by the accrediting entity.
(d) The agency or person meets the financial reporting requirements of Federal and State laws and regulations.
(e) The agency's or person's balance sheets show that it operates on a sound financial basis and maintains on average sufficient cash reserves, assets, or other financial resources to meet its operating expenses for two months, taking into account its projected volume of cases and its size, scope, and financial commitments.
(f) The agency or person has a plan to transfer its intercountry adoption cases to an accredited agency or approved person if it ceases to provide or is no longer permitted to provide adoption services in intercountry adoption cases. The plan includes provisions for an organized transfer and reimbursement to clients of funds paid for services not yet rendered.
(g) If it accepts charitable donations, the agency or person has safeguards in place to ensure that such donations do not influence child placement decisions in any way.
(h) The agency or person assesses the risks it assumes, including by reviewing information on the availability of insurance coverage for intercountry adoption-related activities. The agency or person uses the assessment to meet the requirements in paragraph (i) of this section and as the basis for determining the type and amount of professional, general, directors' and officers', errors and omissions, and other liability insurance to carry.
(i) The agency or person maintains professional liability insurance in amounts reasonably related to its exposure to risk, but in no case in an amount less than $1,000,000 in the aggregate.
(j) The agency's or person's chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and other officers or employees with direct responsibility for financial transactions or financial management of the agency or person are bonded.
§ 96.34
Compensation.
(a) The agency or person does not compensate or offer to compensate any individual or entity involved in an intercountry adoption with an incentive fee or contingent fee for each child located or placed for adoption.
(b) The agency or person compensates its directors, officers, employees, supervised providers, individuals, and entities involved in an intercountry adoption only for services actually rendered and only on a fee-for-service, hourly wage, or salary basis rather than a contingent fee basis.
(c) The agency or person does not make any payments, promise payment, or give other consideration to any individual or entity directly or indirectly involved in provision of adoption services in a particular case, except for salaries or fees for services actually rendered and reimbursement for costs incurred. This does not prohibit an agency or person from providing in-kind or other donations not intended to influence or affect a particular adoption.
(d) The fees, wages, or salaries paid to the directors, officers, employees, supervised providers, individuals, or entities involved in an intercountry adoption on behalf of the agency or
person, are not unreasonably high in relation to the services actually rendered, taking into account the country in which the services are provided and norms for compensation within the intercountry adoption community in that country, to the extent that such norms are known to the accrediting entity; the location, number, and qualifications of staff; workload requirements; budget; and size of the agency or person.
(e) Any other compensation paid or offered to the agency's or person's directors or members of its governing body is not unreasonably high in relation to the services rendered, taking into account the same factors listed in paragraph (d) of this section and its for-profit or nonprofit status.
(f) The agency or person identifies all vendors to whom clients are referred for non-adoption services and discloses to the accrediting entity and the agency's or person's clients, any corporate or financial arrangements and any family relationships with such vendors.

# Ethical Practices and Responsibilities
§ 96.35
Suitability of agencies and persons to provide adoption services.
(a) The agency or person provides adoption services ethically and in accordance with the Convention's principles of:
(1) Ensuring that intercountry adoptions take place in the best interests of children; and
(2) Preventing the abduction, exploitation, sale, or trafficking of children.
(b) In order to permit the accrediting entity to evaluate the suitability of an agency or person for accreditation or approval, the agency or person discloses to the accrediting entity the following information related to the agency or person, under its current or any former name:
(1) Any instances in which the agency or person has lost the right to provide adoption services in any State or country, including the basis for such action(s);
(2) Any instances in which the agency or person was debarred or otherwise denied the authority to provide adoption services in any State or country, including the basis and disposition of such action(s);
(3) Any licensing suspensions for cause or other negative sanctions by oversight bodies against the agency or person, including the basis and disposition of such action(s);
(4) For the prior ten-year period, any disciplinary action(s) against the agency or person by a licensing or accrediting body, including the basis and disposition of such action(s);
(5) For the prior ten-year period, any written complaint(s) related to the provision of adoption-related services, including the basis and disposition of such complaints, against the agency or person filed with any State or Federal or foreign regulatory body or court and of which the agency or person was notified;
(6) For the prior ten-year period, any known past or pending investigation(s) by Federal authorities, public domestic authorities, or by foreign authorities, criminal charge(s), child abuse charge(s), or lawsuit(s) against the agency or person, related to the provision of child welfare or adoption-related services, and the basis and disposition of such action(s);
(7) Any instances where the agency or person has been found guilty of any crime under Federal, State, or foreign law or has been found to have committed any civil or administrative violation involving financial irregularities under Federal, State, or foreign law;
(8) For the prior five-year period, any instances where the agency or person has filed for bankruptcy; and
(9) Descriptions of any businesses or activities that are inconsistent with the principles of the Convention and that have been or are currently carried out by the agency or person, affiliate organizations, or by any organization in which the agency or person has an ownership or controlling interest.
(c) In order to permit the accrediting entity to evaluate the suitability of an agency or person for accreditation or approval, the agency or person (for its current or any former names) discloses to the accrediting entity the following information about its individual directors, officers, and employees:
(1) For the prior ten-year period, any conduct by any such individual related
to the provision of adoption-related services that was subject to external disciplinary proceeding(s);
(2) Any convictions, formal disciplinary actions or known, current investigations of any such individual who is in a senior management position for acts involving financial irregularities;
(3) The results of a State criminal background check and a child abuse clearance for any such individual in the United States in a senior management position or who works directly with parent(s) and/or children (unless such checks have been included in the State licensing process); and
(4) Descriptions of any businesses or activities that are inconsistent with the principles of the Convention and that are known to have been or are currently carried out by current individual directors, officers, or employees of the agency or person.
(d) In order to permit the accrediting entity to evaluate the suitability of a person who is an individual practitioner for approval, the individual:
(1) Provides the results of a State criminal background check and a child abuse clearance to the accrediting entity;
(2) If a lawyer, for every jurisdiction in which he or she has ever been admitted to the Bar, provides a certificate of good standing or an explanation of why he or she is not in good standing, accompanied by any relevant documentation, and immediately reports to the accrediting entity any disciplinary action considered by a State bar association, regardless of whether the action relates to intercountry adoption; and
(3) If a social worker, for every jurisdiction in which he or she has been licensed, provides a certificate of good standing or an explanation of why he or she is not in good standing, accompanied by any relevant documentation.
(e) In order to permit the accrediting entity to monitor the suitability of an agency or person, the agency or person must disclose any changes in the information required by this section within 30 business days of becoming aware of the change.
§ 96.36
Prohibition on child buying and inducement.
(a) The agency or person prohibits its employees and agents from giving money or other consideration, directly or indirectly, to a child's parent(s), other individual(s), or an entity as payment for the child or as an inducement to release the child. If permitted or required by the child's country of origin, an agency or person may remit reasonable payments for activities related to the adoption proceedings, pre-birth and birth medical costs, the care of the child, the care of the birth mother while pregnant and immediately following birth of the child, or the provision of child welfare and child protection services generally. Permitted or required contributions shall not be remitted as payment for the child or as an inducement to release the child.
(b) The agency or person has written policies and procedures in place reflecting the prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section and reinforces them in its employee training programs. In order to monitor compliance, the agency's or person's policies and procedures require its employees and supervised providers to retain a record of all payments or fees tendered in connection with an intercountry adoption and the purposes for which they were paid for as long as adoption records are kept in accordance with § 96.42, and provide a copy thereof to the agency or person.

# Professional Qualifications and Training for Employees
§ 96.37
Education and experience requirements for social service personnel.
(a)
Appropriate qualifications and credentials.
The agency or person only uses employees with appropriate qualifications and credentials to perform, in connection with an intercountry adoption, adoption-related social service functions that require the application of clinical skills and judgment (home studies, child background studies, counseling, parent preparation, post-placement, and other similar services).
(b)
State licensing, regulatory requirements.
The agency's or person's employees meet any State licensing or
regulatory requirements for the services they are providing.
(c)
Application of clinical skills and judgment, training, or experience.
The agency's or person's executive director, the supervisor overseeing a case, or the social service employee providing adoption-related social services that require the application of clinical skills and judgment (home studies, child background studies, counseling, parent preparation, post-placement, and other similar services) has training or experience in the professional delivery of intercountry adoption services.
(d)
Supervisors.
The agency's or person's social work supervisors have prior experience in family and children's services, adoption, or intercountry adoption and either:
(1) A master's degree from an accredited program of social work;
(2) A master's degree (or doctorate) in a related human service field, including, but not limited to, psychology, psychiatry, psychiatric nursing, counseling, rehabilitation counseling, or pastoral counseling; or
(3) In the case of a social work supervisor who was an incumbent at the time the Convention entered into force for the United States, the supervisor had significant skills and experience in intercountry adoption and had regular access for consultation purposes to an individual with the qualifications listed in paragraphs (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section.
(e)
Non-supervisory employees.
The agency's or person's non-supervisory employees providing adoption-related social services that require the application of clinical skills and judgment other than home studies or child background studies have either:
(1) A master's degree from an accredited program of social work or in another human service field; or
(2) A bachelor's degree from an accredited program of social work; or a combination of a bachelor's degree in any field and prior experience in family and children's services, adoption, or intercountry adoption; and
(3) Are supervised by an employee of the agency or person who meets the requirements for supervisors in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f)
Home studies.
The agency's or person's employees who conduct home studies:
(1) Are authorized or licensed to complete a home study under the laws of the States in which they practice;
(2) Meet the requirements for home study preparers in 8 CFR 204.301; and
(3) Are supervised by an employee of the agency or person who meets the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section.
(g)
Child background studies.
The agency's or person's employees who prepare child background studies:
(1) Are authorized or licensed to complete a child background study under the laws of the States in which they practice; and
(2) Are supervised by an employee of the agency or person who meets the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 96.38
Training requirements for social service personnel.
(a) The agency or person provides newly hired employees who have adoption-related responsibilities involving the application of clinical skills and judgment (home studies, child background studies, counseling services, parent preparation, post-placement, and other similar services) with a comprehensive orientation to intercountry adoption that includes training on:
(1) The requirements of the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, the regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA, and other applicable Federal regulations;
(2) The INA provisions applicable to the immigration of children described in INA 101(b)(1)(F) and (G) and the applicable regulations contained in 8 CFR 204.3 and 204.300 through 204.314;
(3) The adoption laws of any foreign country where the agency or person provides adoption services;
(4) Relevant State laws;
(5) Ethical considerations in intercountry adoption and prohibitions on child-buying;
(6) The agency's or person's goals, ethical and professional guidelines, organizational lines of accountability, policies, and procedures; and
(7) The cultural diversity of the population(s) served by the agency or person.
(b) In addition to the orientation training required under paragraph (a) of this section, the agency or person provides initial training to newly hired or current employees whose responsibilities include providing adoption-related social services that involve the application of clinical skills and judgment (home studies, child background studies, counseling services, parent preparation, post-placement, and other similar services) that addresses:
(1) The factors in the countries of origin that lead to children needing adoptive families;
(2) Feelings of separation, grief, and loss experienced by the child with respect to the family of origin;
(3) Adverse childhood experiences, and attachment and post-traumatic stress disorders;
(4) Trauma-informed parenting;
(5) Physical, psychological, cognitive, and emotional issues facing children who have experienced trauma, abuse, including sexual abuse, or neglect, and/or whose parents' parental rights have been terminated;
(6) The long-term impact of institutionalization on child development;
(7) Outcomes for children placed for adoption internationally and the benefits of permanent family placements over other forms of government care;
(8) The impact of adoption on other children already in the home;
(9) How adoptive parents can support children who experience racism and discrimination;
(10) How adoptive parents can support and advocate for children discriminated against due to physical, cognitive, and other disabilities;
(11) The most frequent medical, and psychological problems experienced by children from the countries of origin served by the agency or person, and the possibility that such problems may not be reflected in the medical reports transmitted to prospective adoptive parents;
(12) The process of developing emotional ties to an adoptive family;
(13) Acculturation and assimilation issues, including those arising from factors such as race, ethnicity, religion, and culture and the impact of having been adopted internationally; and
(14) Child, adolescent, and adult development as affected by adoption.
(c) The agency or person ensures that employees who provide adoption-related social services that involve the application of clinical skills and judgment (home studies, child background studies, counseling services, parent preparation, post-placement, and other similar services) also receive, in addition to the orientation and initial training described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, no less than 30 hours of training every two years, or more if required by State law, on current and emerging adoption practice issues through participation in seminars, conferences, documented distance learning courses, and other similar programs. Continuing education hours required under State law may count toward the 30 hours of training as long as the training is related to current and emerging adoption practice issues.
(d) The agency or person may exempt newly hired employees from elements of the orientation and initial training required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section if the newly hired individual was, within the previous two years, employed by an accredited or approved adoption service provider where they had received orientation training pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and §§ 96.39 and 96.40.

# Information Disclosure, Fee Practices, and Quality Control Policies and Practices
§ 96.39
Information disclosure and quality control practices.
(a) The agency or person fully discloses in writing to the general public upon request and to prospective client(s) upon initial contact:
(1) Its adoption service policies and practices, including general eligibility criteria and fees;
(2) The supervised providers with whom the prospective client(s) can expect to work in the United States and in the child's country of origin and the usual costs associated with their services; and
(3) A sample written adoption services contract substantially like the one that the prospective client(s) will be expected to sign should they proceed.
(b) The agency or person discloses to client(s) and prospective client(s) that the following information is available upon request and makes such information available when requested:
(1) The number of its adoption placements per year for the prior three calendar years, and the number and percentage of those placements that remain intact, are disrupted, or have been dissolved as of the time the information is provided;
(2) The number of parents who apply to adopt on a yearly basis, based on data for the prior three calendar years; and
(3) The number of children eligible for adoption and awaiting an adoptive placement referral via the agency or person.
(c) The agency or person does not give preferential treatment to its board members, contributors, volunteers, employees, agents, consultants, or independent contractors with respect to the placement of children for adoption and has a written policy to this effect.
(d) The agency or person requires a client to sign a waiver of liability as part of the adoption service contract only where that waiver complies with applicable State law and these regulations. Any waiver required is limited and specific, based on risks that have been discussed and explained to the client in the adoption services contract.
(e) The agency or person cooperates with reviews, inspections, and audits by the accrediting entity or the Secretary.
(f) The agency or person uses the internet in the placement of individual children eligible for adoption only where:
(1) Such use is not prohibited by applicable State or Federal law or by the laws of the child's country of origin;
(2) Such use is subject to controls to avoid misuse and links to any sites that reflect practices that involve the sale, abduction, exploitation, or trafficking of children;
(3) Such use, if it includes photographs, is designed to identify children either who are currently waiting for adoption or who have already been adopted or placed for adoption (and who are clearly so identified); and
(4) Such use does not serve as a substitute for the direct provision of adoption services, including services to the child, the prospective adoptive parent(s), and/or the birth parent(s).
§ 96.40
Fee policies and procedures.
(a) The agency or person provides to all applicants, prior to application, a written schedule of expected total fees and estimated expenses and an explanation of the conditions under which fees or expenses may be charged, waived, reduced, or refunded and when and how the fees and expenses must be paid.
(b) Before providing any adoption service to prospective adoptive parent(s), the agency or person itemizes and discloses in writing the following information for each separate category of fees and estimated expenses that the prospective adoptive parent(s) will be charged in connection with an intercountry adoption:
(1)
Home Study.
The expected total fees and estimated expenses for home study preparation and approval, whether the home study is to be prepared directly by the agency or person itself, or prepared by a supervised provider, exempted provider, or approved person, and approved as required under § 96.47;
(2)
Adoption expenses in the United States.
The expected total fees and estimated expenses for all adoption services other than the home study that will be provided in the United States. This category includes, but is not limited to, personnel costs, administrative overhead, operational costs, training and education, communications and publications costs, and any other costs related to providing adoption services in the United States;
(3)
Foreign Country Program Expenses.
The expected total fees and estimated expenses for all adoption services that will be provided in the child's country of origin. This category includes, but is not limited to, costs for personnel, administrative overhead, training, education, legal services, and communications, and any other costs related to providing adoption services, in the child's Convention country;
(4)
Care of the Child.
The expected total fees and estimated expenses charged to prospective adoptive parent(s) for the care of the child in the country of origin prior to adoption, including, but not limited to, costs for food, clothing, shelter and medical care; foster care services; orphanage care; and any other services provided directly to the child;
(5)
Translation and document expenses.
The expected total fees and estimated expenses for obtaining any necessary documents and for any translation of documents related to the adoption, along with information on whether the prospective adoptive parent(s) will be expected to pay such costs directly or to third parties, either in the United States or in the child's country of origin, or through the agency or person. This category includes, but is not limited to, costs for obtaining, translating, or copying records or documents required to complete the adoption, costs for the child's court documents, passport, adoption certificate and other documents related to the adoption, and costs for notarizations and certifications;
(6)
Contributions.
Any fixed contribution amount, or percentage that the prospective adoptive parent(s) will be expected or required to make to child protection or child welfare service programs in the child's country of origin country or in the United States, along with an explanation of the intended use of the transaction and the manner in which the contribution will be recorded and accounted for; and
(7) Post-placement and post-adoption reports. The expected total fees and estimated expenses for any post-placement or post-adoption reports that the agency or person or parent(s) must prepare in light of any requirements of the expected country of origin.
(c) If the following fees and estimated expenses were not disclosed as part of the categories identified in paragraph (b) of this section, the agency or person itemizes and discloses in writing any:
(1) Third party fees. The expected total fees and estimated expenses for services that the prospective adoptive parent(s) will be responsible to pay directly to a third party. Such third party fees include, but are not limited to, fees to competent authorities for services rendered or Central Authority processing fees; and
(2) Travel and accommodation expenses. The expected total fees and estimated expenses for any travel, transportation, and accommodation services arranged by the agency or person for the prospective adoptive parent(s).
(d) The agency or person also specifies in its adoption services contract when and how funds advanced to cover fees or expenses will be refunded if adoption services are not provided.
(e) When the agency or person uses part of its fees to provide special services, such as cultural programs for adoptee(s), scholarships or other services, it discloses this policy to the prospective adoptive parent(s) in advance of providing any adoption services and gives the prospective adoptive parent(s) a general description of the programs supported by such funds.
(f) The agency or person has mechanisms in place for transferring funds to foreign countries when the financial institutions of the foreign country so permit and for obtaining written receipts for such transfers, so that direct cash transactions by the prospective adoptive parent(s) to pay for adoption services provided in the Convention country are minimized or unnecessary.
(g) The agency or person does not customarily charge additional fees and expenses beyond those disclosed in the adoption services contract and has a written policy to this effect. In the event that unforeseen additional fees and expenses are incurred in the foreign country, the agency or person charges such additional fees and expenses only under the following conditions:
(1) It discloses the fees and expenses in writing to the prospective adoptive parent(s);
(2) It obtains the specific consent of the prospective adoptive parent(s) prior to expending any funds in excess of $1,000 for which the agency or person will hold the prospective adoptive parent(s) responsible or gives the prospective adoptive parent(s) the opportunity to waive the notice consent requirement in advance. If the prospective adoptive parent(s) has the opportunity
to waive the notice and consent requirement in advance, this policy is reflected in the written policies and procedures of the agency or person; and
(3) It provides written receipts to the prospective adoptive parent(s) for fees and expenses paid directly by the agency or person in the foreign country and retains copies of such receipts.
(h) The agency or person returns any funds to which the prospective adoptive parent(s) may be entitled within 60 days of the completion of the delivery of services.

# Responding to Complaints and Records and Reports Management
§ 96.41
Procedures for responding to complaints and improving service delivery.
(a) The agency or person has written complaint policies and procedures that incorporate the standards in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section and provides a copy of such policies and procedures, including contact information for the Complaint Registry, to client(s) at the time the adoption services contract is signed.
(b) The agency or person permits any birth parent, prospective adoptive parent or adoptive parent, or adoptee to lodge directly with the agency or person dated written or electronic (including by email or facsimile) complaints about any of the services or activities of the agency or person (including its use of supervised providers) that he or she believes raise an issue of compliance with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, or the regulations implementing the IAA or UAA, and advises such individuals of the additional procedures available to them under subpart J of this part and the accrediting entity's policies and procedures if they are dissatisfied with the agency's or person's response to their complaint. All complaints must include the name of the complainant.
(c) The agency or person responds in writing to complaints received pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section within 30 days of receipt and provides expedited review of such complaints that are time-sensitive or that involve allegations of fraud.
(d) The agency or person maintains a written record of each complaint received pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section and the steps taken to investigate and respond to it and makes this record available to the accrediting entity or the Secretary upon request.
(e) The agency or person does not take any action to discourage a client or prospective client from, or retaliate against a client or prospective client for making a complaint; expressing a grievance; providing information in writing or interviews to an accrediting entity on the agency's or person's performance; or questioning the conduct of or expressing an opinion about the performance of an agency or person.
(f) The agency or person provides to the accrediting entity and the Secretary, on a semi-annual basis, a summary of all complaints received pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section during the preceding six months (including the number of complaints received and how each complaint was resolved) and an assessment of any discernible patterns in complaints received against the agency or person pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, along with information about what systemic changes, if any, were made or are planned by the agency or person in response to such patterns.
(g) The agency or person provides any information about complaints received pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section as may be requested by the accrediting entity or the Secretary.
(h) The agency or person has a quality improvement program appropriate to its size and circumstances through which it makes systematic efforts to improve its adoption services as needed. The agency or person uses quality improvement methods such as reviewing complaint data, using client satisfaction surveys, or comparing the agency's or person's practices and performance against the data contained in the Secretary's annual reports to Congress on intercountry adoptions.
§ 96.42
Retention, preservation, and disclosure of adoption records.
(a) The agency or person retains or archives adoption records in a safe, secure, and retrievable manner for the period of time required by applicable State law.
(b) The agency or person makes readily available to the adoptee and the adoptive parent(s) of minor children upon request all information in its custody about the adoptee's health history or background, to the extent permitted by State law.
(c) The agency or person ensures that personal data gathered or transmitted in connection with an adoption is used only for the purposes for which the information was gathered and safeguards sensitive individual information.
(d) The agency or person has a plan that is consistent with the provisions of this section, the plan required under § 96.33, and applicable State law for transferring custody of adoption records that are subject to retention or archival requirements to an appropriate custodian, and ensuring the accessibility of those adoption records, in the event that the agency or person ceases to provide or is no longer permitted to provide adoption services in intercountry adoption cases.
(e) The agency or person notifies the accrediting entity and the Secretary in writing within 30 days of the time it ceases to provide or is no longer permitted to provide adoption services and provides information about the transfer of its adoption records.
§ 96.43
Case tracking, data management, and reporting.
(a) When acting as the primary provider, the agency or person maintains all the data required in this section in a format approved by the accrediting entity and provides it to the accrediting entity on an annual basis.
(b) When acting as the primary provider, the agency or person routinely generates and maintains reports as follows:
(1) For cases involving children immigrating to the United States, information and reports on the total number of Convention and non-Convention adoptions undertaken by the agency or person each year and, for each case:
(i) The foreign country from which the child emigrated;
(ii) The State to which the child immigrated;
(iii) The State or foreign country in which the adoption was finalized;
(iv) The age of the child; and
(v) The date of the child's placement for adoption.
(2) For cases involving children emigrating from the United States, information and reports on the total number of Convention and non-Convention adoptions undertaken by the agency or person each year and, for each case:
(i) The State from which the child emigrated;
(ii) The foreign country to which the child immigrated;
(iii) The State or foreign country in which the adoption was finalized;
(iv) The age of the child; and
(v) The date of the child's placement for adoption.
(3) For each disrupted placement involving an intercountry adoption, information and reports about the disruption, including information on:
(i) The foreign country from which the child emigrated;
(ii) The State to which the child immigrated;
(iii) The age of the child;
(iv) The date of the child's placement for adoption;
(v) The reason(s) for and resolution(s) of the disruption of the placement for adoption, including information on the child's re-placement for adoption and final legal adoption;
(vi) The names of the agencies or persons that handled the placement for adoption; and
(vii) The plans for the child;
(4) Wherever possible, for each dissolution of an intercountry adoption, information and reports on the dissolution, including information on:
(i) The foreign country from which the child emigrated;
(ii) The State to which the child immigrated;
(iii) The age of the child;
(iv) The date of the child's placement for adoption;
(v) The reason(s) for and resolution(s) of the dissolution of the adoption, to the extent known by the agency or person;
(vi) The names of the agencies or persons that handled the placement for adoption; and
(vii) The plans for the child.
(5) Information on the shortest, longest, and average length of time it takes to complete an intercountry adoption,
set forth by the child's country of origin, calculated from the time the child is matched with the prospective adoptive parent(s) until the time the adoption is finalized by a court, excluding any period for appeal.
(6) Information on the range of adoption fees, including the lowest, highest, average, and the median of such fees, set forth by the child's country of origin, charged by the agency or person for intercountry adoptions involving children immigrating to the United States in connection with their adoption.
(c) If the agency or person provides adoption services in cases not subject to the Convention that involve a child emigrating from the United States for the purpose of adoption or after an adoption has been finalized, it provides such information as required by the Secretary directly to the Secretary and demonstrates to the accrediting entity that it has provided this information.
(d) The agency or person provides any of the information described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section to the accrediting entity or the Secretary within thirty days of request.

# Service Planning and Delivery
§ 96.44
Acting as primary provider.
(a) When required by § 96.14(a), the agency or person acts as primary provider and adheres to the provisions in § 96.14(b) through (e). When acting as the primary provider, the agency or person develops and implements a service plan for providing all adoption services and provides all such services, either directly or through arrangements with supervised providers, exempted providers, public domestic authorities, competent authorities, Central Authorities, public foreign authorities, or, to the extent permitted by § 96.14(c), other foreign providers (agencies, persons, or other non-governmental entities).
(b) The agency or person has an organizational structure, financial and personnel resources, and policies and procedures in place that demonstrate that the agency or person is capable of acting as a primary provider in any intercountry adoption case and, when acting as the primary provider, provides appropriate supervision to supervised providers, and verifies the work of other foreign providers in accordance with §§ 96.45 and 96.46.
§ 96.45
Using supervised providers in the United States.
(a) The agency or person, when acting as the primary provider and using supervised providers in the United States to provide adoption services, ensures that each such supervised provider:
(1) Is in compliance with applicable State licensing and regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions in which it provides adoption services;
(2) In providing any adoption service, complies with the relevant section of the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, and regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA for the particular adoption service being provided;
(3) Does not engage in practices inconsistent with the Convention's principles of furthering the best interests of the child and preventing the sale, abduction, exploitation, or trafficking of children; and
(4) Before entering into an agreement with the primary provider for the provision of adoption services, discloses to the primary provider the suitability information listed in § 96.35.
(b) The agency or person, when acting as the primary provider and using supervised providers in the United States to provide adoption services, ensures that each such supervised provider operates under a written agreement with the primary provider that:
(1) Identifies clearly the adoption service(s) to be provided by the supervised provider and requires that the service(s) be provided in accordance with the applicable service standard(s) for accreditation and approval (for example: home study (§ 96.47); parent training (§ 96.48); child background studies and consent (§ 96.53));
(2) Requires the supervised provider to comply with the following standards regardless of the type of adoption services it is providing: § 96.36 (prohibition on child buying), § 96.34 (compensation), § 96.38 (employee training), § 96.39(d) (waivers of liability), and § 96.41(b) through (e) (complaints);
(3) Identifies specifically the lines of authority between the primary provider and the supervised provider, the employee of the primary provider who will be responsible for supervision, and the employee of the supervised provider who will be responsible for ensuring compliance with the written agreement;
(4) States clearly the compensation arrangement for the services to be provided and the fees and expenses to be charged by the supervised provider;
(5) Specifies whether the supervised provider's fees and expenses will be billed to and paid by the client(s) directly or billed to the client through the primary provider;
(6) Provides that, if billing the client(s) directly for its service, the supervised provider will give the client(s) an itemized bill of all fees and expenses to be paid, with a written explanation of how and when such fees and expenses will be refunded if the service is not completed, and will return any funds collected to which the client(s) may be entitled within 60 days of the completion of the delivery of services;
(7) Requires the supervised provider to meet the same personnel qualifications as accredited agencies and approved persons, as provided for in § 96.37, except that, for purposes of § 96.37(e)(3), (f)(3), and (g)(2), the work of the employee must be supervised by an employee of an accredited agency or approved person;
(8) Requires the supervised provider to limit the use of and safeguard personal data gathered or transmitted in connection with an adoption, as provided for in § 96.42;
(9) Requires the supervised provider to respond within a reasonable period of time to any request for information from the primary provider, the Secretary, or an accrediting entity with jurisdiction over the primary provider;
(10) Requires the supervised provider to provide the primary provider on a timely basis any data that is necessary to comply with the primary provider's reporting requirements;
(11) Requires the supervised provider to disclose promptly to the primary provider any changes in the suitability information required by § 96.35; and
(12) Permits suspension or termination of the agreement on reasonable notice if the primary provider has grounds to believe that the supervised provider is not in compliance with the agreement or the requirements of this section.
§ 96.46
Using providers in foreign countries.
(a) The agency or person, when acting as the primary provider and using foreign supervised providers to provide adoption services in foreign countries, ensures that each such foreign supervised provider:
(1) Is in compliance with the laws of the foreign country in which it operates;
(2) Does not engage in practices inconsistent with the Convention's principles of furthering the best interests of the child and preventing the sale, abduction, exploitation, or trafficking of children;
(3) Before entering into an agreement with the primary provider for the provision of adoption services, discloses to the primary provider the suitability information listed in § 96.35, taking into account the authorities in the foreign country that are analogous to the authorities identified in that section;
(4) Does not have a pattern of licensing suspensions or other sanctions and has not lost the right to provide adoption services in any jurisdiction for reasons germane to the Convention or the Convention's principles of furthering the best interests of the child and preventing the abduction, exploitation, sale, or trafficking of children; and
(5) Is accredited in the foreign country in which it operates, if such accreditation is required by the laws of that foreign country to perform the adoption services it is providing.
(b) The agency or person, when acting as the primary provider and using foreign supervised providers to provide adoption services in foreign countries, ensures that each such foreign supervised provider operates under a written agreement with the primary provider that:
(1) Identifies clearly the adoption service(s) to be provided by the foreign supervised provider;
(2) Requires the foreign supervised provider, if responsible for obtaining medical or social information on the child, to comply with the standards in § 96.49(d) through (j);
(3) Requires the foreign supervised provider to adhere to the standard in § 96.36(a) prohibiting child buying and to have written policies and procedures in place reflecting the prohibitions in § 96.36(a) and to reinforce them in training programs for its employees and agents;
(4) Requires the foreign supervised provider to compensate its directors, officers, and employees who provide intercountry adoption services on a fee-for-service, hourly wage, or salary basis, rather than based on whether a child is placed for adoption, located for an adoptive placement, or on a similar contingent fee basis;
(5) Identifies specifically the lines of authority between the primary provider and the foreign supervised provider, the employee of the primary provider who will be responsible for supervision, and the employee of the supervised provider who will be responsible for ensuring compliance with the written agreement;
(6) States clearly the compensation arrangement for the services to be provided and the fees and expenses to be charged by the foreign supervised provider;
(7) Specifies that the foreign supervised provider's fees and expenses will be billed to and paid by the client(s) through the primary provider. The primary provider provides a written explanation of how and when such fees and expenses will be refunded if the service is not provided or completed, and will return any funds collected to which the client(s) may be entitled within 60 days of the completion of the delivery of services;
(8) Requires the foreign supervised provider to respond within a reasonable period of time to any request for information from the primary provider, the Secretary, or the accrediting entity that issued the primary provider's accreditation or approval;
(9) Requires the foreign supervised provider to provide the primary provider on a timely basis any data that is necessary to comply with the primary provider's reporting requirements;
(10) Requires the foreign supervised provider to disclose promptly to the primary provider any changes in the suitability information required by § 96.35; and
(11) Permits suspension or termination of the agreement on reasonable notice if the primary provider has grounds to believe that the foreign supervised provider is not in compliance with the agreement or the requirements of this section.
(c) The agency or person, when acting as the primary provider and, in accordance with § 96.14, using foreign providers that are not under its supervision, verifies, through review of the relevant documentation and other appropriate steps, that:
(1) Any necessary consent to termination of parental rights or to adoption obtained by the foreign provider was obtained in accordance with applicable foreign law and Article 4 of the Convention;
(2) Any background study and report on a child in a case involving immigration to the United States (an incoming case) performed by the foreign provider was performed in accordance with applicable foreign law and Article 16 of the Convention.
(3) Any home study and report on prospective adoptive parent(s) in a case involving emigration from the United States (an outgoing case) performed by the foreign provider was performed in accordance with applicable foreign law and Article 15 of the Convention.

# Standards for Cases in Which a Child Is Immigrating to the United States (Incoming Cases)
§ 96.47
Preparation of home studies in incoming cases.
(a) The agency or person ensures that a home study on the prospective adoptive parent(s) (which for purposes of this section includes the initial report and any supplemental update(s) submitted to DHS) is completed that includes the following:
(1) Information about the identity, eligibility and suitability of the prospective adoptive parent(s) to adopt,
background, family and medical history, social environment, reasons for adoption, ability to undertake an intercountry adoption, and the characteristics of the children for whom the prospective adoptive parent(s) would be qualified to care (specifying in particular whether they are willing and able to care for a child with special needs);
(2) A determination of the eligibility and suitability of the prospective adoptive parent(s) to adopt;
(3) A statement describing the counseling, preparation, and training provided to the prospective adoptive parent(s);
(4) The results of a criminal background check on the prospective adoptive parent(s) and any other individual for whom a check is required by 8 CFR 204.311;
(5) A full and complete statement of all facts relevant to the eligibility and suitability of the prospective adoptive parent(s) to adopt a child under any specific requirements identified to the Secretary by the Central Authority of the child's country of origin; and
(6) A statement in each copy of the home study that it is a true and accurate copy of the home study that was provided to the prospective adoptive parent(s) or DHS.
(b) The agency or person ensures that the home study is performed in accordance with 8 CFR 204.311 and any applicable State law.
(c) Where the home study is not performed in the first instance by an accredited agency, the agency or person ensures that the home study is reviewed and approved in writing by an accredited agency. The written approval must include a determination that the home study:
(1) Includes all of the information required by paragraph (a) of this section and is performed in accordance with 8 CFR 204.311, and applicable State law; and
(2) Was performed by an individual who meets the requirements in § 96.37(f), or, if the individual is an exempted provider, ensures that the individual meets the requirements for home study providers established by 8 CFR 204.301.
(d) The agency or person takes all appropriate measures to ensure the timely transmission of the same home study that was provided to the prospective adoptive parent(s) or to DHS to the Central Authority of the child's country of origin (or to an alternative authority designated by that Central Authority).
(e) If, based on new information relating to paragraph (a)(1) of this section or 8 CFR 204.311, the agency or person withdraws its recommendation of the prospective adoptive parent(s) for adoption, or the agency that reviewed and approved a home study withdraws any such approval of the home study required under paragraph (c) of this section, the agency or person must:
(1) Notify the prospective adoptive parent(s), and if applicable, the home study preparer and primary provider, of its withdrawal of its recommendation and/or approval and the reasons for its withdrawal, in writing, within 5 business days of the decision, and prior to notifying USCIS;
(2) Notify USCIS of its withdrawal of its recommendation and/or approval and the reasons for its withdrawal, in writing, and within 5 business days of notifying the prospective adoptive parent(s), in accordance with the agency's or person's ethical practices and responsibilities under § 96.35(a); and
(3) Maintain written records of the withdrawal of its recommendation and/or approval, the step(s) taken to reach such decision, and the reasons for the withdrawal.
§ 96.48
Preparation and training of prospective adoptive parent(s) in incoming cases.
(a) The agency or person provides prospective adoptive parent(s) with at least ten hours (independent of the home study) of preparation and training, as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, designed to promote a successful intercountry adoption. The agency or person provides such training before the prospective adoptive parent(s) travel to adopt the child or the child is placed with the prospective adoptive parent(s) for adoption.
(b) The training provided by the agency or person addresses the following topics:
(1) The intercountry adoption process, the general characteristics and needs of children awaiting adoption, and the in-country conditions that affect children in the foreign country from which the prospective adoptive parent(s) plan to adopt;
(2) The effects on children of malnutrition, relevant environmental toxins, maternal substance abuse, and of any other known genetic, health, emotional, and developmental risk factors associated with children from the expected country of origin;
(3) Information about the impact on a child of leaving familiar ties and surroundings, as appropriate to the expected age of the child;
(4) Data on institutionalized children and the impact of institutionalization on children, including the effect on children of the length of time spent in an institution and of the type of care provided in the expected country of origin;
(5) Information on attachment disorders and other emotional problems that institutionalized or traumatized children and children with a history of multiple caregivers may experience, before and after their adoption;
(6) Information on the laws and adoption processes of the expected country of origin, including foreseeable delays and impediments to finalization of an adoption;
(7) Information on the long-term implications for a family that has become multicultural through intercountry adoption; and
(8) An explanation of any reporting requirements associated with intercountry adoptions, including any post-placement or post-adoption reports required by the expected country of origin.
(c) The agency or person also provides the prospective adoptive parent(s) with training that allows them to be as fully prepared as possible for the adoption of a particular child. This includes counseling on:
(1) The child's history and cultural, racial, religious, ethnic, and linguistic background;
(2) The known health risks in the specific region or country where the child resides; and
(3) Any other medical, social, background, birth history, educational data, developmental history, or any other data known about the particular child.
(d) The agency or person provides such training through appropriate methods, including:
(1) Collaboration among agencies or persons to share resources to meet the training needs of prospective adoptive parents;
(2) Group seminars offered by the agency or person or other agencies or training entities;
(3) Individual counseling sessions;
(4) Video, computer-assisted, or distance learning methods using standardized curricula; or
(5) In cases where training cannot otherwise be provided, an extended home study process, with a system for evaluating the thoroughness with which the topics have been covered.
(e) The agency or person provides additional in-person, individualized counseling and preparation, as needed, to meet the needs of the prospective adoptive parent(s) in light of the particular child to be adopted and his or her special needs, and any other training or counseling needed in light of the child background study or the home study.
(f) The agency or person provides the prospective adoptive parent(s) with information about print, internet, and other resources available for continuing to acquire information about common behavioral, medical, and other issues; connecting with parent support groups, adoption clinics and experts; and seeking appropriate help when needed.
(g) The agency or person exempts prospective adoptive parent(s) from all or part of the training and preparation that would normally be required for a specific adoption only when the agency or person determines that the prospective adoptive parent(s) have received adequate prior training or have prior experience as parent(s) of children adopted from abroad.
(h) The agency or person records the nature and extent of the training and preparation provided to the prospective
adoptive parent(s) in the adoption record.
§ 96.49
Provision of medical and social information in incoming cases.
(a) The agency or person provides a copy of the child's medical records (including, to the fullest extent practicable, a correct and complete English-language translation of such records) to the prospective adoptive parent(s) as early as possible, but no later than two weeks before either the adoption or placement for adoption, or the date on which the prospective adoptive parent(s) travel to the foreign country to complete all procedures in such country relating to the adoption or placement for adoption, whichever is earlier.
(b) Where any medical record provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is a summary or compilation of other medical records, the agency or person includes those underlying medical records in the medical records provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section if they are available.
(c) The agency or person provides the prospective adoptive parent(s) with any untranslated medical reports or video or other reports and provides an opportunity for the client(s) to arrange for their own translation of the records, including a translation into a language other than English, if needed.
(d) The agency or person itself uses reasonable efforts, or requires its supervised provider in the child's country of origin who is responsible for obtaining medical information about the child on behalf of the agency or person to use reasonable efforts, to obtain available information, including in particular:
(1) The date that the foreign country or other child welfare authority assumed custody of the child and the child's condition at that time;
(2) History of any significant illnesses, hospitalizations, special needs, and changes in the child's condition since the foreign country or other child welfare authority assumed custody of the child;
(3) Growth data, including prenatal and birth history, and developmental status over time and current developmental data at the time of the child's referral for adoption; and
(4) Specific information on the known health risks in the specific region or country where the child resides.
(e) When the agency or person provides medical information, other than the information provided by public foreign authorities, to the prospective adoptive parent(s) from an examination by a physician or from an observation of the child by someone who is not a physician, the agency or person uses reasonable efforts to include the following:
(1) The name and credentials of the physician who performed the examination or the individual who observed the child;
(2) The date of the examination or observation; how the report's information was retained and verified; and if anyone directly responsible for the child's care has reviewed the report;
(3) If the medical information includes references, descriptions, or observations made by any individual other than the physician who performed the examination or the individual who performed the observation, the identity of that individual, the individual's training, and information on what data and perceptions the individual used to draw his or her conclusions;
(4) A review of hospitalizations, significant illnesses, and other significant medical events, and the reasons for them;
(5) Information about the full range of any tests performed on the child, including tests addressing known risk factors in the child's country of origin; and
(6) Current health information.
(f) The agency or person itself uses reasonable efforts, or requires its supervised provider in the child's country of origin who is responsible for obtaining social information about the child on behalf of the agency or person to use reasonable efforts, to obtain available information, including in particular:
(1) Information about the child's birth family and prenatal history and cultural, racial, religious, ethnic, and linguistic background;
(2) Information about all of the child's past and current placements prior to adoption, including, but not limited to any social work or court reports on the child and any information on who assumed custody and provided care for the child; and
(3) Information about any birth siblings whose existence is known to the agency or person, or its supervised provider, including information about such siblings' whereabouts.
(g) Where any of the information listed in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section cannot be obtained, the agency or person documents in the adoption record the efforts made to obtain the information and why it was not obtainable. The agency or person continues to use reasonable efforts to secure those medical or social records that could not be obtained up until the adoption is finalized.
(h) Where available, the agency or person provides information for contacting the examining physician or the individual who made the observations to any physician engaged by the prospective adoptive parent(s), upon request.
(i) The agency or person ensures that any video and photographs of the child taken by the agency or person (including by their supervised providers) are identified by the date on which the video or photograph was recorded or taken and that they were made in compliance with the laws in the country where recorded or taken.
(j) The agency or person does not withhold from or misrepresent to the prospective adoptive parent(s) any available medical, social, or other pertinent information concerning the child.
(k) The agency or person does not withdraw a referral until the prospective adoptive parent(s) have had two weeks (unless extenuating circumstances involving the child's best interests require a more expedited decision) to consider the needs of the child and their ability to meet those needs, and to obtain physician review of medical information and other descriptive information, including video of the child if available.
§ 96.50
Placement and post-placement monitoring until final adoption in incoming cases.
(a) The agency or person takes all appropriate measures to ensure that the transfer of the child takes place in secure and appropriate circumstances, with properly trained and qualified escorts, if used, and, if possible, in the company of the prospective adoptive parent(s).
(b) In the post-placement phase, the agency or person monitors and supervises the child's placement to ensure that the placement remains in the best interests of the child, and ensures that at least the number of home visits required by State law or by the child's country of origin are performed, whichever is greater.
(c) When a placement for adoption is in crisis in the post-placement phase, the agency or person makes an effort to provide or arrange for counseling by an individual with appropriate skills to assist the family in dealing with the problems that have arisen.
(d) If counseling does not succeed in resolving the crisis and the placement is disrupted, the agency or person assuming custody of the child assumes responsibility for making another placement of the child.
(e) The agency or person acts promptly and in accord with any applicable legal requirements to remove the child when the placement may no longer be in the child's best interests, to provide temporary care, to find an eventual adoptive placement for the child, and, in consultation with the Secretary, to inform the Central Authority of the child's country of origin about any new prospective adoptive parent(s).
(1) In all cases where removal of a child from a placement is considered, the agency or person considers the child's views when appropriate in light of the child's age and maturity and, when required by State law, obtains the consent of the child prior to removal.
(2) The agency or person does not return from the United States a child placed for adoption in the United States unless the Central Authority of the country of origin and the Secretary have approved the return in writing.
(f) The agency or person includes in the adoption services contract with the prospective adoptive parent(s) a plan describing the agency's or person's responsibilities if a placement for adoption is disrupted. This plan addresses:
(1) Who will have legal and financial responsibility for transfer of custody in an emergency or in the case of impending disruption and for the care of the child;
(2) If the disruption takes place after the child has arrived in the United States, under what circumstances the child will, as a last resort, be returned to the child's country of origin, if that is determined to be in the child's best interests;
(3) How the child's wishes, age, length of time in the United States, and other pertinent factors will be taken into account; and
(4) How the Central Authority of the child's country of origin and the Secretary will be notified.
(g) The agency or person provides post-placement reports until final adoption of a child to the foreign country when required by the foreign country. Where such reports are required, the agency or person:
(1) Informs the prospective adoptive parent(s) in the adoption services contract of the requirement prior to the referral of the child for adoption;
(2) Informs the prospective adoptive parent(s) that they will be required to provide all necessary information for the report(s); and
(3) Discloses who will prepare the reports and the fees that will be charged.
(h) The agency or person takes steps to:
(1) Ensure that an order declaring the adoption as final is sought by the prospective adoptive parent(s), and in Convention adoptions is entered in compliance with section 301(c) of the IAA (42 U.S.C. 14931(c)); and
(2) Notify the Secretary of the finalization of the adoption within thirty days of the entry of the order.
§ 96.51
Post-adoption services in incoming cases.
(a) The agency or person takes all appropriate measures to ensure that the transfer of the child takes place in secure and appropriate circumstances, with properly trained and qualified escorts, if used, and, if possible, in the company of the adoptive parent(s).
(b) The agency or person informs the prospective adoptive parent(s) in the adoption services contract whether the agency or person will or will not provide any post-adoption services. The agency or person also informs the prospective adoptive parent(s) in the adoption services contract whether it will provide services if an adoption is dissolved, and, if it indicates it will, it provides a plan describing the agency's or person's responsibilities, or if it will not, provides information about entities that may be consulted for assistance in the event an adoption is dissolved.
(c) When post-adoption reports are required by the child's country of origin, the agency or person includes a requirement for such reports in the adoption services contract and makes good-faith efforts to encourage adoptive parent(s) to provide such reports.
(d) The agency or person does not return from the United States an adopted child whose adoption has been dissolved unless the Central Authority of the country of origin and the Secretary have approved the return in writing.
§ 96.52
Performance of communication and coordination functions in incoming cases.
(a) The agency or person keeps the Central Authority of the foreign country and the Secretary informed as necessary about the adoption process and the measures taken to complete it, as well as about the progress of the placement if a probationary period is required.
(b) The agency or person takes all appropriate measures, consistent with the procedures of the U.S. Central Authority and of the foreign country, to:
(1) Transmit on a timely basis to the Central Authority or other competent authority in the child's country of origin the home study, including any updates required by such competent authority in the child's country of origin;
(2) Obtain the child background study, proof that the necessary consents to the child's adoption have been obtained, and the necessary determination that the prospective placement is
in the child's best interests, from the Central Authority or other competent authority in the child's country of origin;
(3) Provide confirmation that the prospective adoptive parent(s) agree to the adoption to the Central Authority or other competent authority in the child's country of origin; and
(4) Transmit the determination that the child is or will be authorized to enter and reside permanently in the United States to the Central Authority or other competent authority in the child's country of origin, or confirm that this information has been transmitted to the foreign country's Central Authority or other competent authority by the U.S. Central Authority.
(c) The agency or person takes all necessary and appropriate measures, consistent with the procedures of the foreign country, to obtain permission for the child to leave his or her country of origin and to enter and reside permanently in the United States.
(d) When the transfer of the child does not take place, the agency or person must consider the specific requirements, if any, of competent authorities in the State and/or in the child's country of origin and the preference of prospective adoptive parents in its determination of the disposition of the home study on the prospective adoptive parent(s) and/or the child background study.
(e) The agency or person takes all necessary and appropriate measures to perform any tasks in an intercountry adoption case that the Secretary has identified, consistent with this part, as required to comply with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, or any regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA.

# Standards for Convention Cases in Which a Child Is Emigrating From the United States (Outgoing Cases)
§ 96.53
Background studies on the child and consents in outgoing Convention cases.
(a) The agency or person takes all appropriate measures to ensure that a child background study is performed that includes information about the child's identity, adoptability, background, social environment, family history, medical history (including that of the child's family), and any special needs of the child. The child background study must include the following:
(1) Information that demonstrates that consents were obtained in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Information that demonstrates consideration of the child's wishes and opinions in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; and
(3) Information that confirms that the child background study was prepared either by an exempted provider or by an individual who meets the requirements set forth in § 96.37(g).
(b) Where the child background study is not prepared in the first instance by an accredited agency, the agency or person ensures that the child background study is reviewed and approved in writing by an accredited agency. The written approval must include a determination that the background study includes all the information required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The agency or person takes all appropriate measures to ensure that consents have been obtained as follows:
(1) The persons, institutions, and authorities whose consent is necessary for adoption have been counseled as necessary and duly informed of the effects of their consent, in particular, whether or not an adoption will result in the termination of the legal relationship between the child and his or her family of origin;
(2) All such persons, institutions, and authorities have given their consents;
(3) The consents have been expressed or evidenced in writing in the required legal form, have been given freely, were not induced by payments or compensation of any kind, and have not been withdrawn;
(4) The consent of the mother, where required, was executed after the birth of the child;
(5) The child, as appropriate in light of his or her age and maturity, has been counseled and duly informed of the effects of the adoption and of his or her consent to the adoption; and
(6) The child's consent, where required, has been given freely, in the required legal form, and expressed or evidenced in writing and not induced by payment or compensation of any kind.
(d) If the child is 12 years of age or older, or as otherwise provided by State law, the agency or person gives due consideration to the child's wishes or opinions before determining that an intercountry placement is in the child's best interests.
(e) The agency or person prior to the child's adoption takes all appropriate measures to transmit to the Central Authority or other competent authority or accredited bodies of the Convention country the child background study, proof that the necessary consents have been obtained, and the reasons for its determination that the placement is in the child's best interests. In doing so, the agency or person, as required by Article 16(2) of the Convention, does not reveal the identity of the mother or the father if these identities may not be disclosed under State law.
§ 96.54
Placement standards in outgoing Convention cases.
(a) Except in the case of adoption by relatives or in the case in which the birth parent(s) have identified specific prospective adoptive parent(s) or in other special circumstances accepted by the State court with jurisdiction over the case, the agency or person makes reasonable efforts to find a timely adoptive placement for the child in the United States by:
(1) Disseminating information on the child and his or her availability for adoption through print, media, and internet resources designed to communicate with potential prospective adoptive parent(s) in the United States;
(2) Listing information about the child on a national or State adoption exchange or registry for at least 60 calendar days after the birth of the child;
(3) Responding to inquiries about adoption of the child; and
(4) Providing a copy of the child background study to potential U.S. prospective adoptive parent(s).
(b) The agency or person demonstrates to the satisfaction of the State court with jurisdiction over the adoption that sufficient reasonable efforts (including no efforts, when in the best interests of the child) to find a timely and qualified adoptive placement for the child in the United States were made.
(c) In placing the child for adoption, the agency or person:
(1) To the extent consistent with State law, gives significant weight to the placement preferences expressed by the birth parent(s) in all voluntary placements;
(2) To the extent consistent with State law, makes diligent efforts to place siblings together for adoption and, where placement together is not possible, to arrange for contact between separated siblings, unless it is in the best interests of one of the siblings that such efforts or contact not take place; and
(3) Complies with all applicable requirements of the Indian Child Welfare Act.
(d) The agency or person complies with any State law requirements pertaining to the provision and payment of independent legal counsel for birth parents. If State law requires full disclosure to the birth parent(s) that the child is to be adopted by parent(s) who reside outside the United States, the agency or person provides such disclosure.
(e) The agency or person takes all appropriate measures to give due consideration to the child's upbringing and to his or her ethnic, religious, and cultural background.
(f) When particular prospective adoptive parent(s) in a Convention country have been identified, the agency or person takes all appropriate measures to determine whether the envisaged placement is in the best interests of the child, on the basis of the child background study and the home study on the prospective adoptive parent(s).
(g) The agency or person thoroughly prepares the child for the transition to the Convention country, using age-appropriate services that address the child's likely feelings of separation, grief, and loss and difficulties in making any cultural, religious, racial, ethnic, or linguistic adjustment.
(h) The agency or person takes all appropriate measures to ensure that the
transfer of the child takes place in secure and appropriate circumstances, with properly trained and qualified escorts, if used, and, if possible, in the company of the adoptive parent(s) or the prospective adoptive parent(s).
(i) Before the placement for adoption proceeds, the agency or person identifies the entity in the receiving country that will provide post-placement supervision and reports, if required by State law, and ensures that the child's adoption record contains the information necessary for contacting that entity.
(j) The agency or person ensures that the child's adoption record includes the order granting the adoption or legal custody for the purpose of adoption in the Convention country.
(k) The agency or person consults with the Secretary before arranging for the return to the United States of any child who has emigrated to a Convention country in connection with the child's adoption.
§ 96.55
Performance of Convention communication and coordination functions in outgoing Convention cases.
(a) The agency or person keeps the Central Authority of the Convention country and the Secretary informed as necessary about the adoption process and the measures taken to complete it, as well as about the progress of the placement if a probationary period is required.
(b) The agency or person ensures that:
(1) Copies of all documents from the State court proceedings, including the order granting the adoption or legal custody, are provided to the Secretary;
(2) Any additional information on the adoption is transmitted to the Secretary promptly upon request; and
(3) It otherwise facilitates, as requested, the Secretary's ability to provide the certification that the child has been adopted or that custody has been granted for the purpose of adoption, in accordance with the Convention and the IAA.
(c) When transfer of the child does not take place, the agency or person must consider the specific requirements, if any, of competent authorities in either the State or in the receiving country and the preference of the prospective adoptive parents in its determination of the disposition of the home study on the prospective adoptive parent(s) and/or the child background study.
(d) The agency or person provides to the State court with jurisdiction over the adoption:
(1) Proof that consents have been given as required in § 96.53(c);
(2) A copy in English or certified English translation of the home study on the prospective adoptive parent(s) in the Convention country, and the determination by the agency or person that the placement with the prospective adoptive parent(s) is in the child's best interests;
(3) Evidence that the prospective adoptive parent(s) in the Convention country agree to the adoption;
(4) Evidence that the child will be authorized to enter and reside permanently in the Convention country or on the same basis as that of the prospective adoptive parent(s); and
(5) Evidence that the Central Authority of the Convention country has agreed to the adoption, if such consent is necessary under its laws for the adoption to become final.
(e) The agency or person makes the showing required by § 96.54(b) to the State court with jurisdiction over the adoption.
(f) The agency or person takes all necessary and appropriate measures to perform any tasks in a Convention adoption case that the Secretary has identified, consistent with this Part, as required to comply with the Convention, the IAA, or any regulations implementing the IAA.
§ 96.56
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Decisions on Applications for Accreditation or Approval
§ 96.57
Scope.
The provisions in this subpart establish the procedures for when the accrediting entity issues decisions on applications for accreditation or approval.
[79 FR 40635, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.58
Notification of accreditation and approval decisions.
(a) The accrediting entity must routinely inform applicants in writing of its accreditation and approval decisions—whether an application has been granted or denied—as those decisions are finalized. The accrediting entity must routinely provide this information to the Secretary in writing.
(b) The accrediting entity may, in its discretion, communicate with agencies and persons that have applied for accreditation or approval about the status of their pending applications to afford them an opportunity to correct deficiencies that may hinder or prevent accreditation or approval.
[79 FR 40635, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.59
Review of decisions to deny accreditation or approval.
(a) There is no administrative or judicial review of an accrediting entity's decision to deny an application for accreditation or approval. As provided in § 96.79, a decision to deny for these purposes includes:
(1) A denial of the agency's or person's initial application for accreditation or approval;
(2) A denial of an application made after cancellation or refusal to renew by the accrediting entity; and
(3) A denial of an application made after cancellation or debarment by the Secretary.
(b) The agency or person may petition the accrediting entity for reconsideration of a denial. The accrediting entity must establish internal review procedures that provide an opportunity for an agency or person to petition for reconsideration of the denial.
§ 96.60
Length of accreditation or approval period.
(a) The accrediting entity will accredit or approve an agency or person for a period of four years, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The accreditation or approval period will commence on the date that the agency or person is granted accreditation or approval.
(b) In order to stagger the renewal requests from agencies and persons applying for accreditation or approval and to prevent the renewal requests from coming due at the same time, the accrediting entity may extend the period of accreditation it has previously granted for no more than one year and such that the total period of accreditation does not exceed five years, as long as the agency or person remains in substantial compliance with the applicable standards in subpart F of this part. The only agencies and persons that may qualify for an extension are: Those that have no pending Complaint Registry investigations or adverse actions (see § 96.70); and those that have not undergone a change in corporate or internal structure (such as a merger or change in chief executive or financial officer) during their current accreditation or approval period. For agencies and persons that meet these two criteria, the Secretary, in his or her discretion, may consider additional factors in deciding upon an extension including, but not limited to, the agency's or person's volume of intercountry adoption cases in the year preceding the application for renewal or extension, the agency's or person's state licensure record, and the number of extensions available.
[80 FR 50196, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 96.61
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Renewal of Accreditation or Approval
§ 96.62
Scope.
The provisions in this subpart establish the procedures for renewal of an agency's accreditation or a person's approval.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40636, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.63
Renewal of accreditation or approval.
(a) The accrediting entity must advise accredited agencies and approved persons that it monitors of the date by which they should seek renewal of their accreditation or approval so that the renewal process can reasonably be completed prior to the expiration of the agency's or person's current accreditation or approval. If the accredited agency or approved person does
not wish to renew its accreditation or approval, it must immediately notify the accrediting entity and take all necessary steps to complete its intercountry adoption cases and to transfer its pending intercountry adoption cases and adoption records to other accredited agencies, approved persons, or a State archive, as appropriate, under the oversight of the accrediting entity, before its accreditation or approval expires.
(b) The accredited agency or approved person may seek renewal from a different accrediting entity than the one that handled its prior application. If it changes accrediting entities, the accredited agency or approved person must so notify the accrediting entity that handled its prior application by the date on which the agency or person must (pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section) seek renewal of its status. The accredited agency or approved person must follow the new accrediting entity's instructions when submitting a request for renewal and preparing documents and other information for the new accrediting entity to review in connection with the renewal request.
(c) The accrediting entity must process the request for renewal in a timely fashion. Before deciding whether to renew the accreditation or approval of an agency or person, the accrediting entity may, in its discretion, advise the agency or person of any deficiencies that may hinder or prevent its renewal and defer a decision to allow the agency or person to correct the deficiencies. The accrediting entity must notify the accredited agency, approved person, and the Secretary in writing when it renews or refuses to renew an agency's or person's accreditation or approval.
(d) Sections 96.24, 96.25, and 96.26, which relate to evaluation procedures and to requests for and use of information, and § 96.27, which relates to the substantive criteria for evaluating applicants for accreditation or approval, other than § 96.27(e), will govern determinations about whether to renew accreditation or approval. In lieu of § 96.27(e), if the agency or person has been suspended by an accrediting entity or the Secretary during its most current accreditation or approval cycle, the accrediting entity may take the reasons underlying the suspension into account when determining whether to renew accreditation or approval and may refuse to renew accreditation or approval based on the prior suspension.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40636, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.64
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Routine Oversight by Accrediting Entities
§ 96.65
Scope.
The provisions in this subpart establish the procedures for routine oversight of accredited agencies and approved persons.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40636, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.66
Oversight of accredited agencies and approved persons by the accrediting entity.
(a) The accrediting entity must monitor agencies it has accredited and persons it has approved at least annually to ensure that they are in substantial compliance with the standards in subpart F of this part, as determined using a method approved by the Secretary in accordance with § 96.27(d). The accrediting entity must investigate complaints about accredited agencies and approved persons, as provided in subpart J of this part.
(b) An accrediting entity may, on its own initiative, conduct site visits to inspect an agency's or person's premises or programs, with or without advance notice, for purposes of random verification of its continued compliance or to investigate a complaint. The accrediting entity may consider any information about the agency or person that becomes available to it about the compliance of the agency or person. The provisions of §§ 96.25 and 96.26 govern requests for and use of information.
(c) The accrediting entity must require accredited agencies or approved persons to attest annually that they have remained in substantial compliance and to provide supporting documentation to indicate such ongoing
compliance with the standards in subpart F of this part.
§ 96.67
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—Oversight Through Review of Complaints
§ 96.68
Scope.
The provisions in this subpart establish the procedures that the accrediting entity will use for processing complaints against accredited agencies and approved persons (including complaints concerning their use of supervised providers) that raise an issue of compliance with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, or the regulations implementing the IAA or UAA, as determined by the accrediting entity or the Secretary, and that are therefore relevant to the oversight functions of the accrediting entity or the Secretary.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40636, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.69
Filing of complaints against accredited agencies and approved persons.
(a) Complaints described in § 96.68 will be subject to review by the accrediting entity pursuant to §§ 96.71 and 96.72, when submitted as provided in this section and § 96.70.
(b) Complaints against accredited agencies and approved persons by parties to specific intercountry adoption cases and relating to that case must first be submitted by the complainant in writing to the primary provider and to the agency or person providing adoption services, if a U.S. provider different from the primary provider. If the complaint cannot be resolved through the complaint processes of the primary provider or the agency or person providing the services (if different), or if the complaint was resolved by an agreement to take action but the primary provider or the agency or person providing the service (if different) failed to take such action within thirty days of agreeing to do so, the complaint may then be filed with the Complaint Registry in accordance with § 96.70.
(c) An individual who is not party to a specific intercountry adoption case but who has information about an accredited agency or approved person may provide that information by filing it in the form of a complaint with the Complaint Registry in accordance with § 96.70.
(d) A Federal, State, or local government official or a foreign Central Authority may file a complaint with the Complaint Registry in accordance with § 96.70, or may raise the matter in writing directly with the accrediting entity, who will record the complaint in the Complaint Registry, or with the Secretary, who will record the complaint in the Complaint Registry, if appropriate, and refer it to the accrediting entity for review pursuant to § 96.71 or take such other action as the Secretary deems appropriate.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40636, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.70
Operation of the Complaint Registry.
(a) The Secretary will establish a Complaint Registry to support the accrediting entities in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities, including the responsibilities of recording, screening, referring, and otherwise taking action on complaints received, and to support the Secretary in the Secretary's oversight responsibilities as the Secretary deems appropriate. The Secretary may provide for the Complaint Registry to be funded in whole or in part from fees collected by the Secretary pursuant to section 403(b) of the IAA (42 U.S.C. 14943(b)) or by the accrediting entities.
(b) The Complaint Registry will:
(1) Receive and maintain records of complaints about accredited agencies, approved persons and agencies temporarily accredited for one or two years after the Convention entered into force (including complaints concerning their use of supervised providers) and make such complaints available to the appropriate accrediting entity and the Secretary;
(2) Receive and maintain information regarding action taken to resolve each complaint by the accrediting entity or the Secretary;
(3) Track compliance with any deadlines applicable to the resolution of complaints;
(4) Generate reports designed to show possible patterns of complaints; and
(5) Perform such other functions as the Secretary may determine.
(c) Forms and information necessary to submit complaints to the Complaint Registry electronically or by such other means as the Secretary may determine will be accessible through the Department's website to persons who wish to file complaints. Such forms will be designed to ensure that each complaint complies with the requirements of § 96.69.
(d) Accrediting entities will have access to, and the capacity to enter data into, the Complaint Registry as the Secretary deems appropriate.
(e) Nothing in this part shall be construed to limit the Secretary's authority to take such action as the Secretary deems appropriate with respect to complaints.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40636, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.71
Review by the accrediting entity of complaints against accredited agencies and approved persons.
(a) The accrediting entity must establish written procedures, including deadlines, for recording, investigating, and acting upon complaints it receives pursuant to §§ 96.69 and 96.70(b)(1). The procedures must be consistent with this section and be approved by the Secretary. The accrediting entity must make written information about its complaint procedures available upon request.
(b) If the accrediting entity determines that a complaint implicates the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, or the regulations implementing the IAA or UAA:
(1) The accrediting entity must verify that the complainant has already attempted to resolve the complaint as described in § 96.69(b) and, if not, may refer the complaint to the agency or person, or to the primary provider, for attempted resolution through its internal complaint procedures;
(2) The accrediting entity may conduct whatever investigative activity (including site visits) it considers necessary to determine whether any relevant accredited agency or approved person may maintain accreditation or approval as provided in § 96.27. The provisions of §§ 96.25 and 96.26 govern requests for and use of information. The accrediting entity must give priority to complaints submitted pursuant to § 96.69(d);
(3) If the accrediting entity determines that the agency or person may not maintain accreditation or approval, it must take adverse action pursuant to subpart K of this part.
(c) When the accrediting entity has completed its complaint review process, it must provide written notification of the outcome of its investigation, and any actions taken, to the complainant, or to any other entity that referred the information.
(d) The accrediting entity will enter information about the outcomes of its investigations and its actions on complaints into the Complaint Registry as provided in its agreement with the Secretary.
(e) The accrediting entity may not take any action to discourage an individual from, or retaliate against an individual for, making a complaint, expressing a grievance, questioning the conduct of, or expressing an opinion about the performance of an accredited agency, an approved person, or the accrediting entity.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40636, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.72
Referral of complaints to the Secretary and other authorities.
(a) An accrediting entity must report promptly to the Secretary any substantiated complaint that:
(1) Reveals that an accredited agency or approved person has engaged in a pattern of serious, willful, grossly negligent, or repeated failures to comply with the standards in subpart F of this part; or
(2) Indicates that continued accreditation or approval would not be in the best interests of the children and families concerned.
(b) An accrediting entity must, after consultation with the Secretary, refer, as appropriate, to a State licensing authority, the Attorney General, or other law enforcement authorities any substantiated complaints that involve conduct that is:
(1) Subject to the civil or criminal penalties imposed by section 404 of the IAA (42 U.S.C. 14944);
(2) In violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
); or
(3) Otherwise in violation of Federal, State, or local law.
(c) When an accrediting entity makes a report pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, it must indicate whether it is recommending that the Secretary take action to debar the agency or person, either temporarily or permanently.
§ 96.73
[Reserved]

# Subpart K—Adverse Action by the Accrediting Entity
§ 96.74
Scope.
The provisions in this subpart establish the procedures governing adverse action by an accrediting entity against accredited agencies and approved persons.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40636, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.75
Adverse action against accredited agencies or approved persons not in substantial compliance.
The accrediting entity must take adverse action when it determines that an accredited agency or approved person may not maintain accreditation or approval as provided in § 96.27. The accrediting entity is authorized to take any of the following actions against an accredited agency or approved person whose compliance the entity oversees. Each of these actions by an accrediting entity is considered an adverse action for purposes of the IAA, the UAA, and the regulations in this part:
(a) Suspending accreditation or approval;
(b) Canceling accreditation or approval;
(c) Refusing to renew accreditation or approval;
(d) Requiring an accredited agency or approved person to take a specific corrective action to bring itself into compliance; and
(e) Imposing other sanctions including, but not limited to, requiring an accredited agency or approved person to cease providing adoption services in a particular case or in a specific foreign country.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40636, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.76
Procedures governing adverse action by the accrediting entity.
(a) The accrediting entity must decide which adverse action to take based on the seriousness and type of violation and on the extent to which the accredited agency or approved person has corrected or failed to correct deficiencies of which it has been previously informed. The accrediting entity must notify an accredited agency or approved person in writing of its decision to take an adverse action against the agency or person. The accrediting entity's written notice must identify the deficiencies prompting imposition of the adverse action.
(b) Before taking adverse action, the accrediting entity may, in its discretion, advise an accredited agency or approved person in writing of any deficiencies in its performance that may warrant an adverse action and provide it with an opportunity to demonstrate that an adverse action would be unwarranted before the adverse action is imposed. If the accrediting entity takes the adverse action without such prior notice, it must provide a similar opportunity to demonstrate that the adverse action was unwarranted after the adverse action is imposed, and may withdraw the adverse action based on the information provided.
(c) The provisions in §§ 96.25 and 96.26 govern requests for and use of information.
§ 96.77
Responsibilities of the accredited agency, approved person, and accrediting entity following adverse action by the accrediting entity.
(a) If the accrediting entity takes an adverse action against an agency or person, the action will take effect immediately unless the accrediting entity agrees to a later effective date.
(b) If the accrediting entity suspends or cancels the accreditation or approval of an agency or person, the agency or person must immediately, or by any later effective date set by the accrediting entity, cease to provide
adoption services in all intercountry adoption cases. In the case of suspension, it must consult with the accrediting entity about whether to transfer its intercountry adoption cases and adoption records. In the case of cancellation, it must execute the plans required by §§ 96.33(e) and 96.42(d) under the oversight of the accrediting entity, and transfer its intercountry adoption cases and adoption records to other accredited agencies, approved persons, or a State archive, as appropriate. When the agency or person is unable to transfer such intercountry adoption cases or adoption records in accordance with the plans or as otherwise agreed by the accrediting entity, the accrediting entity will so advise the Secretary who, with the assistance of the accrediting entity, will coordinate efforts to identify other accredited agencies or approved persons to assume responsibility for the cases, and to transfer the records to other accredited agencies or approved persons, or to public domestic authorities, as appropriate.
(c) If the accrediting entity refuses to renew the accreditation or approval of an agency or person, the agency or person must cease to provide adoption services in all intercountry adoption cases upon expiration of its existing accreditation or approval. It must take all necessary steps to complete its intercountry adoption cases before its accreditation or approval expires. It must also execute the plans required by §§ 96.33(e) and 96.42(d) under the oversight of the accrediting entity, and transfer its pending intercountry adoption cases and adoption records to other accredited agencies, approved persons, or a State archive, as appropriate. When the agency or person is unable to transfer such intercountry adoption cases or adoption records in accordance with the plans or as otherwise agreed by the accrediting entity, the accrediting entity will so advise the Secretary who, with the assistance of the accrediting entity, will coordinate efforts to identify other accredited agencies or approved persons to assume responsibility for the cases and to transfer the records to other accredited agencies or approved persons, or to public domestic authorities, as appropriate.
(d) The accrediting entity must notify the Secretary, in accordance with procedures established in its agreement with the Secretary, when it takes an adverse action that changes the accreditation or approval status of an agency or person. The accrediting entity must also notify the relevant State licensing authority as provided in the agreement.
[71 FR 8131, Feb. 15, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 40636, July 14, 2014]
§ 96.78
Accrediting entity procedures to terminate adverse action.
(a) The accrediting entity must maintain internal petition procedures, approved by the Secretary, to give accredited agencies and approved persons an opportunity to terminate adverse actions on the grounds that the deficiencies necessitating the adverse action have been corrected. The accrediting entity must inform the agency or person of these procedures when it informs them of the adverse action pursuant to § 96.76(a). An accrediting entity is not required to maintain procedures to terminate adverse actions on any other grounds, or to maintain procedures to review its adverse actions, and must obtain the consent of the Secretary if it wishes to make such procedures available.
(b) An accrediting entity may terminate an adverse action it has taken only if the agency or person demonstrates to the satisfaction of the accrediting entity that the deficiencies that led to the adverse action have been corrected. The accrediting entity must notify an agency or person in writing of its decision on the petition to terminate the adverse action.
(c) If the accrediting entity described in paragraph (b) of this section is no longer providing accreditation or approval services, the agency or person may petition any accrediting entity with jurisdiction over its application.
(d) If the accrediting entity cancels or refuses to renew an agency's or person's accreditation or approval, and does not terminate the adverse action pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the agency or person may reapply for accreditation or approval. Before
doing so, the agency or person must request and obtain permission to make a new application from the accrediting entity that cancelled or refused to renew its accreditation or approval or, if such entity is no longer designated as an accrediting entity, from any alternate accrediting entity designated by the Secretary to give such permission. The accrediting entity may grant such permission only if the agency or person demonstrates to the satisfaction of the accrediting entity that the specific deficiencies that led to the cancellation or refusal to renew have been corrected.
(e) If the accrediting entity grants the agency or person permission to reapply, the agency or person may file an application with that accrediting entity in accordance with subpart D of this part.
(f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent an accrediting entity from withdrawing an adverse action if it concludes that the action was based on a mistake of fact or was otherwise in error. Upon taking such action, the accrediting entity will take appropriate steps to notify the Secretary and the Secretary will take appropriate steps to notify the Permanent Bureau of the Hague Conference on Private International Law.
§ 96.79
Administrative or judicial review of adverse action by the accrediting entity.
(a) Except to the extent provided by the procedures in § 96.78, an adverse action by an accrediting entity shall not be subject to administrative review.
(b) Section 202(c)(3) of the IAA (42 U.S.C. 14922(c)(3)) provides for judicial review in Federal court of adverse actions by an accrediting entity, regardless of whether the entity is described in § 96.5(a) or (b). When any petition brought under section 202(c)(3) raises as an issue whether the deficiencies necessitating the adverse action have been corrected, the procedures maintained by the accrediting entity pursuant to § 96.78 must first be exhausted. Adverse actions are only those actions listed in § 96.75. There is no judicial review of an accrediting entity's decision to deny accreditation or approval, including:
(1) A denial of an initial application;
(2) A denial of an application made after cancellation or refusal to renew by the accrediting entity; and
(3) A denial of an application made after cancellation or debarment by the Secretary.
(c) In accordance with section 202(c)(3) of the IAA (42 U.S.C. 14922(c)(3)), an accredited agency or approved person that is the subject of an adverse action by an accrediting entity may petition the United States district court in the judicial district in which the agency is located or the person resides to set aside the adverse action imposed by the accrediting entity. The United States district court shall review the adverse action in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 706. When an accredited agency or approved person petitions a United States district court to review the adverse action of an accrediting entity, the accrediting entity will be considered an agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 701 for the purpose of judicial review of the adverse action.
§ 96.80
[Reserved]

# Subpart L—Oversight of Accredited Agencies and Approved Persons by the Secretary

# Source:
89 FR 57277, July 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 96.81
Scope.
The provisions in this subpart establish the procedures governing adverse action by the Secretary against accredited agencies and approved persons.
§ 96.82
The Secretary's response to actions by the accrediting entity.
(a) There is no administrative review by the Secretary of an accrediting entity's decision to deny accreditation or approval, nor of any decision by an accrediting entity to take an adverse action.
(b) When informed by an accrediting entity that an agency has been accredited or a person has been approved, the Secretary will take appropriate steps to ensure that relevant information
about the accredited agency or approved person is provided to the Permanent Bureau of the Hague Conference on Private International Law. When informed by an accrediting entity that it has taken an adverse action that impacts an agency's or person's accreditation or approval status, the Secretary will take appropriate steps to inform the Permanent Bureau of the Hague Conference on Private International Law.
§ 96.83
Suspension or cancellation of accreditation or approval by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary must suspend or cancel the accreditation or approval granted by an accrediting entity when the Secretary finds, in the Secretary's discretion, that the agency or person is substantially out of compliance with the standards in subpart F of this part and that the accrediting entity has failed or refused, after consultation with the Secretary, to take appropriate enforcement action.
(b) The agency or person shall be provided with written notice of cancellation or suspension by the Secretary, which shall include:
(1) The reasons for the suspension or cancellation in terms sufficient to put the agency or person on notice of the conduct or transaction(s) upon which it is based;
(2) The standards in subpart F of this part with which the agency or person is out of compliance;
(3) The effect of the suspension or cancellation, including the agency's or person's responsibility to cease providing adoption services and, if applicable, its responsibilities with respect to the transfer of cases and the return of fees; and
(4) Copies of any evidence relied on by the Department in support of the suspension or cancellation.
(c) If the Secretary suspends or cancels the accreditation or approval of an agency or person, the Secretary will take appropriate steps to notify the accrediting entity(ies), USCIS, the Permanent Bureau of the Hague Conference on Private International Law, State licensing authorities, the Central Authorities in the countries where the agency or person operates, and other authorities as appropriate.
§ 96.84
Reinstatement of accreditation or approval after suspension or cancellation by the Secretary.
(a) An agency or person who has been the subject of a suspension or cancellation by the Secretary may, within 30 days after receipt of the notice of suspension or cancellation, submit a written statement including any reasons why it believes the adverse action is unwarranted. Such statement must include any supporting materials that the agency or person wishes to be considered in support of its submission. If the agency or person does not submit such a statement within 30 days, the Department's decision will become final.
(b) Upon review and consideration of the agency or person's submission and the evidence relied on by the Department, the Secretary shall determine whether to withdraw the cancellation or suspension. The Secretary shall withdraw the suspension or cancellation if he or she finds that the determination that the agency or person is substantially out of compliance with applicable requirements is not supported by substantial evidence. The agency or person will be notified of this decision within 30 days of the Department's receipt of the written statement described in paragraph (a) of this section. If the Secretary withdraws a suspension or cancellation under this paragraph, the Secretary will also take appropriate steps to notify the entities referenced in § 96.83(c).
(c) An agency or person may petition the Secretary for relief from the Secretary's suspension or cancellation of its accreditation or approval on the grounds that the deficiencies necessitating the suspension or cancellation have been corrected. If the Secretary is satisfied that the deficiencies that led to the suspension or cancellation have been corrected, the Secretary shall, in the case of a suspension, terminate the suspension or, in the case of a cancellation, notify the agency or person that it may reapply for accreditation or approval to the same accrediting entity that handled its prior application for
accreditation or approval. If that accrediting entity is no longer providing accreditation or approval services, the agency or person may reapply to any accrediting entity with jurisdiction over its application. If the Secretary terminates a suspension or permits an agency or person to reapply for accreditation or approval, the Secretary will so notify the appropriate accrediting entity. If the Secretary terminates a suspension, the Secretary will also take appropriate steps to notify the entities referenced in § 96.83(c).
(d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the Secretary from withdrawing a cancellation or suspension if the Secretary concludes that the action was based on a mistake of fact or was otherwise in error. Upon taking such action, the Secretary will take appropriate steps to notify the accrediting entity(ies) and the entities referenced in § 96.83(c).
§ 96.85
Temporary and permanent debarment by the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary may temporarily or permanently debar an agency from accreditation or a person from approval on the Secretary's own initiative, at the request of DHS, or at the request of an accrediting entity. An agency or person that is debarred pursuant to this section ceases to be accredited or approved.
(b) The Secretary may issue a debarment order only if the Secretary, in the Secretary's discretion, determines that:
(1) There is substantial evidence that the agency or person is out of compliance with the standards in subpart F of this part; and
(2) There has been a pattern of serious, willful, or grossly negligent failures to comply with the standards in subpart F of this part, or there are other aggravating circumstances indicating that continued accreditation or approval would not be in the best interests of the children and families concerned. For purposes of this paragraph:
(i) “The children and families concerned” include any children and any families whose interests have been or may be affected by the agency's or person's actions.
(ii) In determining whether the agency's or person's continued accreditation or approval would not be in the best interests of the children and families concerned, the Secretary may consider whether the agency's or person's continued accreditation would be detrimental to the ability of U.S. citizens to adopt children through intercountry adoption in the future.
(3) A failure to comply with § 96.47 (home study requirements) shall constitute a “serious failure to comply” unless it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that such noncompliance had neither the purpose nor the effect of determining the outcome of a decision or proceeding by a court or other competent authority in the United States or the child's country of origin; and
(i) Repeated serious, willful, or grossly negligent failures to comply with § 96.47 (home study requirements) by an agency or person after consultation between the Secretary and the accrediting entity with respect to previous noncompliance by such agency or person shall constitute a pattern of serious, willful, or grossly negligent failures to comply.
(ii) [Reserved]
(c) The Secretary shall initiate a debarment proceeding by notice of proposed debarment, in accordance with the procedures in § 96.88, unless the Secretary finds that it is necessary that debarment be effective immediately because the agency's or person's continued accreditation would pose a substantial risk of significant harm to children or families. If the Secretary finds that it is necessary that debarment be effective immediately, the procedures in § 96.89 shall govern such debarment.
§ 96.86
Length of debarment period and reapplication after temporary debarment.
(a) In the case of a temporary debarment order, the order will take effect on the date specified in the order and will specify a date, not earlier than three years later, on or after which the agency or person may petition the Secretary for withdrawal of the temporary debarment. If the Secretary withdraws the temporary debarment, the agency
or person may then reapply for accreditation or approval to the same accrediting entity that handled its prior application for accreditation or approval. If that accrediting entity is no longer providing accreditation or approval services, the agency or person may apply to any accrediting entity with jurisdiction over its application.
(b) In the case of a permanent debarment order, the order will take effect on the date specified in the order. The agency or person will not be permitted to apply again to an accrediting entity for accreditation or approval, or to the Secretary for termination of the debarment.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the Secretary from withdrawing a debarment if the Secretary concludes that the action was based on a mistake of fact or was otherwise in error. Upon taking such action, the Secretary will take appropriate steps to notify the accrediting entity(ies) and the entities referenced in § 96.83(c).
§ 96.87
Responsibilities of the accredited agency, approved person, and accrediting entity following suspension, cancellation, or debarment by the Secretary.
If the Secretary suspends or cancels the accreditation or approval of an agency or person, or debars an agency or person, the agency or person must cease to provide adoption services in all intercountry adoption cases. In the case of suspension, the agency or person must consult with the accrediting entity about whether to transfer its intercountry adoption cases and adoption records. In the case of cancellation or debarment, the agency or person must execute the plans required by §§ 96.33(f) and 96.42(d) under the oversight of the accrediting entity, and transfer its intercountry adoption cases and adoption records to other accredited agencies or approved persons or, where required by State law, to the State repository for such records.
(a) When the agency or person does not transfer such intercountry adoption cases or adoption records in accordance with the plans or as otherwise agreed by the accrediting entity, the accrediting entity will so advise the Secretary who, with the assistance of the accrediting entity, will coordinate efforts to identify other accredited agencies or approved persons to assume responsibility for the cases, and to transfer the records to other accredited agencies or approved persons, or to public domestic authorities, as appropriate.
(b) If the Secretary cancels the accreditation or approval of an agency or person, or debars an agency or person, the accrediting entity shall refuse to renew any pending applications for renewal of accreditation or approval.
§ 96.88
Procedures for debarment with prior notice.
Unless the Secretary finds that it is necessary that debarment be effective immediately because the agency's or person's continued accreditation would risk significant harm to children or families, an agency or person shall be provided with notice of the proposed debarment and an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment, in accordance with the provisions of this section:
(a) A debarment proceeding shall be initiated by notice from the Department to the agency or person that includes:
(1) A statement that debarment is being considered under § 96.85;
(2) The reasons for the proposed debarment in terms sufficient to put the agency or person on notice of the conduct or transaction(s) upon which it is based;
(3) The standards in subpart F of this part with which the Secretary believes the agency or person is out of compliance;
(4) The provisions of this section and any other procedures, if applicable, governing the debarment proceedings, including specifically the right to request a hearing, when applicable; and
(5) The potential effect of a debarment, including the agency's or person's responsibilities with respect to ceasing to provide adoption services, transferring cases, and returning fees.
(b) If the agency or person elects to contest the proposed debarment, it may do so in accordance with the following procedures:
(1) Within 45 days after receipt of the notice of proposed debarment, the
agency or person may submit a written statement in opposition to the proposed debarment. Such statement may include any evidence on which the agency or person intends to rely in opposition to the proposed debarment. Such statement may also include a request for a hearing. If a request for a hearing is not included with agency or person's statement, no hearing will be held, and the Secretary's debarment decision will be based upon his or her review of the written record only.
(2) Within 45 days after its receipt of the agency's or person's written statement, the Department will give the agency or person copies of the evidence relied on in support of the debarment action. In addition, the Department may choose to provide a written statement in response to the agency's or person's submission.
(3) If a hearing was not timely requested in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, then the agency or person may, within 45 days of its receipt of the Department's response described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, submit a further statement in reply, which may, if appropriate, include additional evidence.
(4) If a hearing was requested in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, then the agency or person will, within 30 days of its receipt of the Department's response described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, produce to the Department all physical or documentary evidence on which it will rely at the hearing.
(5) The statements described in this paragraph, and any evidence submitted therewith, will be made part of the record of the proceeding, and if no hearing was timely requested, will constitute the entire record of the proceeding.
(c) If a hearing was timely requested in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Department will, within 60 days of its receipt of the written statement described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, give the agency or person written notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing. The proposed date of the hearing must be at least 30 days after the agency or person has received the evidence described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and at least 30 days after the agency or person has received the written notice described in this paragraph. The Department will make reasonable efforts to hold the hearing within 120 days of the date the Department receives the agency's or person's written request.
(1) The Department will name a hearing officer, who will generally be a Department employee. The hearing officer will make only preliminary findings of fact and submit recommendations based on the record of the proceeding to the Secretary.
(2) The hearing shall take place in Washington, DC. The agency or person may appear in person (if an individual), or be represented by an organizational representative (if an agency), or with or through an attorney admitted to practice in any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any territory or possession of the United States. The agency or person is responsible for all costs associated with attending the hearing.
(3) There is no right to subpoena witnesses or to conduct discovery in connection with the hearing. However, the agency or person may testify in person, offer evidence on its own behalf, present witnesses, and make arguments at the hearing. The agency or person is responsible for all costs associated with the presentation of its case. The Department may present witnesses, offer evidence, and make arguments on its behalf. The Department is responsible for all costs associated with the presentation of its case.
(4) Any evidence not produced in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section will not be considered by the hearing officer or be made part of the record of the proceeding, unless the hearing officer, in his or her discretion, elects to accept it. The hearing officer shall state his or her reasons for accepting evidence under this subparagraph. The hearing officer shall not accept under this subparagraph any evidence offered by a party that could have been produced by that party in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(5) The hearing is informal and permissive. As such, the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 554
et seq.
do not apply to the hearing. Formal rules of evidence also
do not apply; however, the hearing officer may impose reasonable restrictions on relevancy, materiality, and competency of evidence presented. Testimony will be under oath or by affirmation under penalty of perjury. The hearing officer may not consider any information that is not also made available to the agency or person and made a part of the record of the proceeding.
(6) If any witness is unable to appear, the hearing officer may, in his or her discretion, permit the witness to testify via teleconference or accept an affidavit or sworn deposition testimony of the witness, the cost for which will be the responsibility of the requesting party, subject to such limits as the hearing officer deems appropriate.
(7) A qualified reporter will make a complete verbatim transcript of the hearing. The agency or person may review and purchase a copy of the transcript directly from the reporter. The hearing transcript and all the information and documents received by the hearing officer, whether or not deemed relevant, will be made part of the record of the proceeding. The hearing officer's preliminary findings and recommendations are deliberative and shall not be considered part of the record unless adopted by the Secretary.
(d) Upon review and consideration of the complete record of the proceeding and the preliminary findings of fact and recommendations of the hearing officer, if applicable, the Secretary shall determine whether or not to impose the debarment. The Secretary shall render his or her decision within a reasonable period of time after the date for submission of the agency's or person's reply statement described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, if no hearing was requested; or after the close of the hearing described in paragraph (c) of this section, if a hearing was held.
(1) The standard of proof applicable to a debarment proceeding under this subpart is substantial evidence. The Department bears the burden to establish that substantial evidence exists:
(i) That the agency or person is out of compliance with some or all of the standards identified in the notice of proposed debarment; and
(ii) That there is either a pattern of serious, willful, or grossly negligent failures to comply, or other aggravating circumstances indicating that continued accreditation or approval would not be in the best interests of the children and families concerned.
(2) The Secretary is not limited to the specific conduct or transactions identified in the notice of proposed debarment, but may consider any evidence in the record of the proceeding that supplies substantial evidence of a violation of the standards identified in the notice of proposed debarment.
(e) If the Secretary decides to impose debarment, the agency or person shall be given prompt notice:
(1) Referring to the notice of proposed debarment;
(2) Specifying the reasons for debarment;
(3) Stating the effect of debarment, including the debarred agency's or person's responsibilities with respect to ceasing to provide adoption services, transferring cases, and returning fees; and
(4) Stating the period of debarment, including effective dates.
(f) The decision of the Secretary is final and is not subject to further administrative review.
(g) If the Secretary decides not to impose debarment, the agency or person shall be given prompt notice of that decision. A decision not to impose debarment shall be without prejudice to any adverse action imposed, or that may be imposed, on the agency or person by an accrediting entity.
§ 96.89
Procedures for debarment effective immediately.
If the Secretary finds that the agency's or person's continued accreditation or approval would risk significant harm to children or families, and that debarment should be effective immediately, the Secretary shall debar the agency or person from accreditation or approval by providing written notice of debarment to the agency or person.
(a) The notice of debarment shall include:
(1) A statement that the agency or person is debarred in accordance with § 96.85;
(2) The reasons for the debarment in terms sufficient to put the agency or person on notice of the conduct or transaction(s) upon which it is based;
(3) The standards in subpart F of this part with which the Secretary believes the agency or person is out of compliance;
(4) The period of the debarment, including effective dates;
(5) The effect of the debarment, including the debarred agency's or person's obligations; and
(6) The provisions of this section and any other procedures, if applicable, governing proceedings to contest the debarment action, including specifically the right to request a hearing, when applicable.
(b) If the agency or person elects to contest the Department's debarment action, it may do so in accordance with the following procedures:
(1) Within 30 days after receipt of the notice of debarment, the debarred agency or person may submit a written statement in opposition to the debarment. Such statement may include any evidence on which the debarred agency or person intends to rely in opposition to the debarment. Such statement may also include a request for a hearing. If a request for hearing is not included with the agency or person's statement, no hearing will be held, and the Secretary's debarment decision will be based upon his or her review of the written record only.
(2) Within 30 days after its receipt of the agency's or person's written statement, the Department will give the debarred agency or person copies of the evidence relied on in support of the debarment action. In addition, the Department may choose to provide a written statement in response to the debarred agency's or person's submission.
(3) The debarred agency or person may, within 30 days of its receipt of the Department's response described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, submit a further statement in reply. The debarred agency or person will include with its reply, or will produce to the Department if it elects not to submit a reply, any additional physical or documentary evidence on which it will rely at the hearing.
(4) The statements described in this paragraph, and any evidence submitted therewith, will be made part of the record of the proceeding, and if no hearing was timely requested, will constitute the entire record of the proceeding.
(c) If a hearing was timely requested in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the provisions of § 96.88(c) shall apply, except that the Department will give notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing within 30 days of its receipt of the debarred agency's or person's written statement described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and will make reasonable efforts to hold the hearing within 90 days of such receipt.
(d) Upon review and consideration of the complete record of the proceeding and the preliminary findings of fact and recommendations of the hearing officer, the Secretary shall confirm the debarment, if he or she determines that it is supported by substantial evidence, or shall withdraw the debarment, if he or she determines that it is not supported by substantial evidence. The Secretary shall render his or her decision within 30 days of the date for submission of the debarred agency's or person's reply statement described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, if no hearing was requested; or within 45 days of the close of the hearing, if a hearing was held.
(1) The Department bears the burden to establish that substantial evidence exists:
(i) That the debarred agency or person is out of compliance with some, or all of the standards identified in the notice of debarment; and
(ii) That there is either a pattern of serious, willful, or grossly negligent failures to comply, or other aggravating circumstances indicating that continued accreditation or approval would not be in the best interests of the children and families concerned.
(2) The Secretary is not limited to the specific conduct or transactions identified in the notice of debarment, but may consider any evidence in the record of the proceeding that supplies substantial evidence of a violation of the standards identified in the notice of debarment.
(3) If the Secretary decides to confirm the debarment, the agency or person shall be given prompt notice:
(i) Referring to the notice of debarment;
(ii) Stating that the debarment is confirmed;
(iii) Specifying the reasons for the decision to confirm the debarment; and
(iv) Stating the period, including effective dates, of the debarment, if different from those set forth in the notice of debarment.
(e) The decision of the Secretary is final and is not subject to further administrative review.
(f) If the Secretary decides to withdraw the debarment, the agency or person shall be given prompt notice of that decision. A decision not to confirm the debarment shall be without prejudice to any adverse action imposed, or that may be imposed, on the agency or person by an accrediting entity.
§ 96.90
Review of suspension, cancellation, or debarment by the Secretary.
(a) Except to the extent provided by the procedures in §§ 96.84, 96.88, and 96.89, an adverse action by the Secretary shall not be subject to administrative review.
(b) Section 204(d) of the IAA (42 U.S.C. 14924(d)) provides for judicial review of final actions by the Secretary. When any petition brought under section 204(d) raises as an issue whether the deficiencies necessitating a suspension or cancellation of accreditation or approval have been corrected, procedures maintained by the Secretary pursuant to § 96.84(c) must first be exhausted. A suspension or cancellation of accreditation or approval and a debarment (whether temporary or permanent) by the Secretary are final actions subject to judicial review. Other actions by the Secretary are not final actions and are not subject to judicial review.
(c) In accordance with section 204(d) of the IAA (42 U.S.C. 14924(d)), an agency or person that has been suspended, cancelled, or temporarily or permanently debarred by the Secretary may petition the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, or the United States district court in the judicial district in which the person resides or the agency is located, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 706, to set aside the action.

# Subpart M—Dissemination and Reporting of Information by Accrediting Entities

# Source:
89 FR 57281, July 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 96.91
Scope.
The provisions in this subpart govern the dissemination and reporting of information on accredited agencies and approved persons by accrediting entities.
§ 96.92
Dissemination of information to the public about accreditation and approval status.
(a) Each accrediting entity must maintain and make available to the public at least monthly the following information:
(1) The name, address, and contact information for each agency and person that has been accredited or approved;
(2) The names of agencies and persons that have been denied accreditation or approval that have not subsequently been accredited or approved;
(3) The names of agencies and persons that have been subject to suspension, cancellation, refusal to renew accreditation or approval, or debarment by an accrediting entity or the Secretary; and
(4) Other information specifically authorized in writing by the accredited agency or approved person to be disclosed to the public.
(b) Each accrediting entity must make the following information available to individual members of the public upon specific request:
(1) Confirmation of whether or not a specific agency or person has a pending application for accreditation or approval, and, if so, the date of the application and whether it is under active consideration or whether a decision on the application has been deferred; and
(2) If an agency or person has been subject to suspension, cancellation, refusal to renew accreditation or approval, or debarment, a brief statement of the reasons for the action, including,
where relevant, the identity and conduct of any foreign supervised providers.
§ 96.93
Dissemination of information to the public about complaints against accredited agencies and approved persons.
Each accrediting entity must maintain a written record documenting each complaint received and the steps taken in response to it. This information may be disclosed to the public as follows:
(a) Each accrediting entity must confirm, upon inquiry from a member of the public, whether there have been any substantiated complaints against an accredited agency or approved person, and if so, provide information about the status and nature of any such complaints.
(b) Each accrediting entity must have procedures for disclosing information about complaints that are substantiated.
§ 96.94
Reports to the Secretary about accredited agencies and approved persons and their activities.
(a) Each accrediting entity must make annual reports to the Secretary on the information it collects from accredited agencies and approved persons pursuant to § 96.43. Each accrediting entity must make semi-annual reports to the Secretary that summarize for the preceding six-month period the following information:
(1) The accreditation and approval status of its applicants, accredited agencies, and approved persons;
(2) Any instances where it has denied accreditation or approval;
(3) Any adverse actions it has taken against an accredited agency or approved person;
(4) All substantiated complaints against its accredited agencies and approved persons and the impact of such complaints on their accreditation or approval status;
(5) The number, nature, and outcome of complaint reviews carried out by the accrediting entity as well as the shortest, longest, average, and median length of time expended to complete complaint reviews;
(6) Any discernible patterns in complaints it has received about specific agencies or persons, as well as any discernible patterns of complaints in the aggregate;
(7) A list of cases involving disruption, dissolution, unregulated custody transfer, and serious harm to the child, by agency or person and by country or origin, and any discernible patterns in these cases; and
(8) A summary of unsubstantiated complaints, and those which the accrediting entity declined to review.
(b) In addition to the reporting requirements contained in § 96.72, an accrediting entity must immediately notify the Secretary in writing:
(1) When it learns an accredited agency or approved person has:
(i) Ceased to provide adoption services;
(ii) Transferred its intercountry adoption cases and adoption records; or
(iii) Withdrawn a pending application for renewal of accreditation or approval;
(2) When it accredits an agency or approves a person;
(3) When it renews the accreditation or approval of an agency or person; or
(4) When it takes an adverse action against an accredited agency or approved person that impacts its accreditation or approval status.
§§ 96.95-96.99
[Reserved]
Subparts N-Q [Reserved]

# Subpart R—Alternative Procedures for Primary Providers in Intercountry Adoption by Relatives

# Source:
89 FR 57282, July 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 96.100
Alternative procedures for primary providers in intercountry adoption by relatives.
In a case where the child is being adopted by a relative as defined in § 96.2:
(a) The primary provider, in accordance with § 96.44, develops and implements a service plan for providing adoption service 3 (performing and reporting on the home study and child background study, according to the
provisions in §§ 96.47 and 96.53), adoption service 5 (monitoring a case after a child has been placed with prospective adoptive parent(s) until final adoption), and adoption service 6 (when necessary because of a disruption before final adoption, assuming custody and providing child care or any other social service pending an alternative placement, according to the provisions in §§ 96.50 and 96.51), and provides all such services in accordance with § 96.44.
(b) The primary provider includes in the service plan any additional adoption services found in the definition of adoption services in § 96.2 only if they will be provided by the primary provider or one of its supervised providers.
(c) The primary provider verifies that the prospective adoptive parents have met the training requirements outlined in § 96.48 in incoming cases before the finalization of the adoption or the granting of legal custody for purposes of emigration and adoption in the United States. In cases where the adoption or legal custody grant occurred prior to the primary provider's involvement in the case, the primary provider must verify such training requirements have been met as soon as practicable.
(d) All services provided pursuant to this section must be performed in accordance with the Convention, the IAA, the UAA, and the regulations implementing the IAA and the UAA.
§ 96.101
Effective date for alternative procedures for primary providers in intercountry adoption by relatives.
The provisions of this subpart become effective January 8, 2025.
Pt. 97

# PART 97—ISSUANCE OF ADOPTION CERTIFICATES AND CUSTODY DECLARATIONS IN HAGUE CONVENTION ADOPTION CASES
Sec.
97.1
Definitions.
97.2
Application for a Hague Adoption Certificate or a Hague Custody Declaration (outgoing Convention case).
97.3
Requirements subject to verification in an outgoing Convention case.
97.4
Issuance of a Hague Adoption Certificate or a Hague Custody Declaration (outgoing Convention case).
97.5
Certification of Hague Convention Compliance in an incoming Convention case where final adoption occurs in the United States.
97.6-97.7
[Reserved]

# Authority:
Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption (done at The Hague, May 29, 1993), S. Treaty Doc. 105-51 (1998); 1870 U.N.T.S. 167 (Reg. No. 31922 (1993)); Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000, 42 U.S.C. 14901-14954.

# Source:
71 FR 64456, Nov. 2, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 97.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Adoption Court
means the State court with jurisdiction over the adoption or the grant of custody for purpose of adoption.
(b)
U.S. Authorized Entity
means a public domestic authority or an agency or person that is accredited or temporarily accredited or approved by an accrediting entity pursuant to 22 CFR part 96, or a supervised provider acting under the supervision and responsibility of an accredited agency or temporarily accredited agency or approved person.
(c)
Foreign Authorized Entity
means a foreign Central Authority or an accredited body or entity other than the Central Authority authorized by the relevant foreign country to perform Central Authority functions in a Convention adoption case.
(d)
Hague Adoption Certificate
means a certificate issued by the Secretary in an outgoing case (where the child is emigrating from the United States to another Convention country) certifying that a child has been adopted in the United States in accordance with the Convention and, except as provided in § 97.4(b), the IAA.
(e)
Hague Custody Declaration
means a declaration issued by the Secretary in an outgoing case (where the child is emigrating from the United States to another Convention country) declaring that custody of a child for purposes of adoption has been granted in the United States in accordance with the Convention and, except as provided in § 97.4(b), the IAA.
(f) Terms defined in 22 CFR 96.2 have the meaning given to them therein.
§ 97.2
Application for a Hague Adoption Certificate or a Hague Custody Declaration (outgoing Convention case).
(a) Once the Convention has entered into force for the United States, any party to an outgoing Convention adoption or custody proceeding may apply to the Secretary for a Hague Adoption Certificate or a Hague Custody Declaration. Any other interested person may also make such application, but such application will not be processed unless such applicant demonstrates that a Hague Adoption Certificate or Hague Custody Declaration is needed to obtain a legal benefit or for purposes of a legal proceeding, as determined by the Secretary in the Secretary's discretion.
(b) Applicants for a Hague Adoption Certificate or Hague Custody Declaration shall submit to the Secretary:
(1) A completed application form in such form as the Secretary may prescribe, with any required fee;
(2) An official copy of the order of the adoption court finding that the child is eligible for adoption and that the adoption or proposed adoption is in the child's best interests and granting the adoption or custody for purposes of adoption;
(3) An official copy of the adoption court's findings (either in the order granting the adoption or custody for purposes of adoption or separately) verifying, in substance, that each of the requirements of § 97.3 has been complied with or, if the adoption court has not verified compliance with a particular requirement in § 97.3, authenticated documentation showing that such requirement nevertheless has been met and a written explanation of why the adoption court's verification of compliance with the requirement cannot be submitted; and
(4) Such additional documentation and information as the Secretary may request at the Secretary's discretion.
(c) If the applicant fails to submit all of the documentation and information required pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section within 120 days of the Secretary's request, the Secretary may consider the application abandoned.
§ 97.3
Requirements subject to verification in an outgoing Convention case.
(a)
Preparation of child background study.
An accredited agency, temporarily accredited agency, or public domestic authority must complete or approve a child background study that includes information about the child's identity, adoptability, background, social environment, family history, medical history (including that of the child's family), and any special needs of the child.
(b)
Transmission of child data.
A U.S. authorized entity must conclude that the child is eligible for adoption and, without revealing the identity of the birth mother or the birth father if these identities may not be disclosed under applicable State law, transmit to a foreign authorized entity the background study, proof that the necessary consents have been obtained, and the reason for its determination that the proposed placement is in the child's best interests, based on the home study and child background study and giving due consideration to the child's upbringing and his or her ethnic, religious, and cultural background.
(c)
Reasonable efforts to find domestic placement.
Reasonable efforts pursuant to 22 CFR 96.54 must be made to actively recruit and make a diligent search for prospective adoptive parent(s) to adopt the child in the United States and a timely adoptive placement in the United States not found.
(d)
Preparation and transmission of home study.
A U.S. authorized entity must receive from a foreign authorized entity a home study on the prospective adoptive parent(s) prepared in accordance with the laws of the receiving country, under the responsibility of a foreign Central Authority, foreign accredited body, or public foreign authority, that includes:
(1) Information on the prospective adoptive parent(s)' identity, eligibility, and suitability to adopt, background, family and medical history, social environment, reasons for adoption, ability to undertake an intercountry adoption, and the characteristics of the children for whom they would be qualified to care;
(2) Confirmation that a competent authority has determined that the prospective adoptive parent(s) are eligible and suited to adopt and has ensured that the prospective adoptive parent(s) have been counseled as necessary; and
(3) The results of a criminal background check.
(e)
Authorization to enter.
The Central Authority or other competent authority of the receiving country must declare that the child will be authorized to enter and reside in the receiving country permanently or on the same basis as the adopting parent(s).
(f)
Consent by foreign authorized entity.
A foreign authorized entity or competent authority must declare that it consents to the adoption, if its consent is necessary under the law of the relevant foreign country for the adoption to become final.
(g)
Guardian counseling and consent.
Each person, institution, and authority (other than the child) whose consent is necessary for the adoption must be counseled as necessary and duly informed of the effects of the consent (including whether or not an adoption will terminate the legal relationship between the child and his or her family of origin); must freely give consent expressed or evidenced in writing in the required legal form without any inducement by compensation of any kind; and consent must not have been subsequently withdrawn. If the consent of the mother is required, it may be given only after the birth of the child.
(h)
Child counseling and consent.
As appropriate in light of the child's age and maturity, the child must be counseled and informed of the effects of the adoption and the child's views must be considered. If the child's consent is required, the child must also be counseled and informed of the effects of granting consent, and must freely give consent expressed or evidenced in writing in the required legal form without any inducement by compensation of any kind.
(i)
Authorized entity duties.
A U.S. authorized entity must:
(1) Ensure that the prospective adoptive parent(s) agree to the adoption;
(2) Agree, together with a foreign authorized entity, that the adoption may proceed;
(3) Take all appropriate measures to ensure that the transfer of the child takes place in secure and appropriate circumstances and, if possible, in the company of the adoptive parent(s) or the prospective adoptive parent(s), and arrange to obtain permission for the child to leave the United States; and
(4) Arrange to keep a foreign authorized entity informed about the adoption process and the measures taken to complete it, as well as about the progress of the placement if a probationary period is required; to return the home study and the child background study to the authorities that forwarded them if the transfer of the child does not take place; and to be consulted in the event a new placement or alternative long-term care for the child is required.
(j)
Contacts.
Unless the child is being adopted by a relative, there may be no contact between the prospective adoptive parent(s) and the child's birthparent(s) or any other person who has care of the child prior to the competent authority's determination that the prospective adoptive parent(s) are eligible and suited to adopt and the adoption court's determinations that the child is eligible for adoption, that the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section have been met, and that an intercountry adoption is in the child's best interests,
provided that
this prohibition on contacts shall not apply if the relevant State or public domestic authority has established conditions under which such contact may occur and any such contact occurred in accordance with such conditions.
(k)
Improper financial gain.
No one may derive improper financial or other gain from an activity related to the adoption, and only costs and expenses (including reasonable professional fees of persons involved in the adoption) may be charged or paid.
§ 97.4
Issuance of a Hague Adoption Certificate or a Hague Custody Declaration (outgoing Convention case).
(a) Once the Convention has entered into force for the United States, the Secretary shall issue a Hague Adoption
Certificate or a Hague Custody Declaration if the Secretary, in the Secretary's discretion, is satisfied that the adoption or grant of custody was made in compliance with the Convention and the IAA.
(b) If compliance with the Convention can be certified but it is not possible to certify compliance with the IAA, the Secretary personally may authorize issuance of an appropriately modified Hague Adoption Certificate or Hague Custody Declaration, in the interests of justice or to prevent grave physical harm to the child.
§ 97.5
Certification of Hague Convention Compliance in an incoming convention case where final adoption occurs in the United States.
(a) Once the Convention has entered into force for the United States, any person may request the Secretary to certify that a Convention adoption in an incoming case finalized in the United States was done in accordance with the Convention.
(b) Persons seeking such a certification must submit the following documentation:
(1) A copy of the certificate issued by a consular officer pursuant to 22 CFR 42.24(j) certifying that the granting of custody of the child has occurred in compliance with the Convention;
(2) An official copy of the adoption court's order granting the final adoption; and
(3) Such additional documentation and information as the Secretary may request at the Secretary's discretion.
(c) If a person seeking the certification described in paragraph (a) of this section fails to submit all the documentation and information required pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section within 120 days of the Secretary's request, the Department may consider the request abandoned.
(d) The Secretary may issue the certification if the Secretary, in the Secretary's discretion, is satisfied that the adoption was made in compliance with the Convention. The Secretary may decline to issue a certification, including to a party to the adoption, in the Secretary's discretion. A certification will not be issued to a non-party requestor unless the requestor demonstrates that the certification is needed to obtain a legal benefit or for purposes of a legal proceeding, as determined by the Secretary in the Secretary's discretion.
(e) A State court's final adoption decree, when based upon the certificate issued by a consular officer pursuant to 22 CFR 42.24(j), certifying that the grant of custody of the child has occurred in compliance with the Convention, or upon its determination that the requirements of Article 17 of the Convention have been met constitutes the certification of the adoption under Article 23 of the Convention.
§§ 97.6-97.7
[Reserved]
Pt. 98

# PART 98—INTERCOUNTRY ADOPTION—CONVENTION RECORD PRESERVATION
Sec.
98.1
Definitions.
98.2
Preservation of Convention records.

# Authority:
Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption (done at The Hague, May 29, 1993), S. Treaty Doc. 105-51 (1998); 1870 U.N.T.S. 167 (Reg. No. 31922 (1993)); Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000, 42 U.S.C. 14901-14954.

# Source:
71 FR 8164, Feb. 15, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 98.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a) Convention means the Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption, done at The Hague on May 29, 1993.
(b) Convention record means any item, collection, or grouping of information contained in an electronic or physical document, an electronic collection of data (including the information contained in the Case Registry), a photograph, an audio or video tape, or any other information storage medium of any type whatever that contains information about a specific past, current, or prospective adoption covered by the Convention (regardless of whether the adoption was made final) that has been generated or received by the Secretary or the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Convention record includes a record, generated or
received by the Secretary or DHS, about a specific adoption case involving two Convention countries other than the United States in connection with which the Secretary or DHS performs a Central Authority function.
(c) Such other terms as are defined in 22 CFR 96.2 shall have the meaning given to them therein.
§ 98.2
Preservation of Convention records.
Once the Convention has entered into force for the United States, the Secretary and DHS will preserve, or require the preservation of, Convention records for a period of not less than 75 years. For Convention records involving a child who is immigrating to the United States and Convention records involving a child who is emigrating from the United States, the 75-year period shall start on the date that the Secretary or DHS generates or receives the first Convention record related to the adoption of the child. For an intercountry adoption or placement for adoption involving two Convention countries other than the United States, the 75-year period shall start on the date that the Secretary or DHS generates or receives the first Convention record in connection with the performance of a Central Authority function.
Pt. 99

# PART 99—REPORTING ON CONVENTION AND NON-CONVENTION ADOPTIONS OF EMIGRATING CHILDREN
Sec.
99.1
Definitions.
99.2
Reporting requirements for adoption cases involving children emigrating from the United States.
99.3
[Reserved]

# Authority:
The Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption (done at The Hague, May 29, 1993), S. Treaty Doc. 105-51 (1998); 1870 U.N.T.S. 167 (Reg. No. 31922 (1993)); The Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000, 42 U.S.C. 14901-14954.

# Source:
72 FR 9854, Mar. 6, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 99.1
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
(a)
Convention
means the Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption done at The Hague on May 29, 1993.
(b) Such other terms as are defined in 22 CFR 96.2 shall have the meaning given to them therein.
§ 99.2
Reporting requirements for adoption cases involving children emigrating from the United States.
(a) Once the Convention has entered into force for the United States, an agency (including an accredited agency and temporarily accredited agency), person (including an approved person), public domestic authority, or other adoption service provider providing adoption services in a case involving the emigration of a child from the United States must report information to the Secretary in accordance with this section if it is identified as the reporting provider in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) In a Convention case in which an accredited agency, temporarily accredited agency, or approved person is providing adoption services, the primary provider is the reporting provider. In any other Convention case, or in a non-Convention case, the reporting provider is the agency, person, public domestic authority, or other adoption service provider that is providing adoption services in the case, if it is the only provider of adoption services. If there is more than one provider of adoption services in a non-Convention case, the reporting provider is the one that has child placement responsibility, as evidenced by the following factors:
(1) Entering into placement contracts with prospective adoptive parent(s) to provide child referral and placement;
(2) Accepting custody from a birthparent or other legal guardian for the purpose of placement for adoption;
(3) Assuming responsibility for liaison with a foreign government or its designees with regard to arranging an adoption; or
(4) Receiving information from, or sending information to a foreign country about a child that is under consideration for adoption.
(c) A reporting provider, as identified in paragraph (b) of this section, must
report the following identifying information to the Secretary for each outgoing case within 30 days of learning that the case involves emigration of a child from the United States to a foreign country:
(1) Name, date of birth of child, and place of birth of child;
(2) The U.S. State from which the child is emigrating;
(3) The country to which the child is immigrating;
(4) The U.S. State where the final adoption is taking place, or the U.S. State where legal custody for the purpose of adoption is being granted and the country where the final adoption is taking place; and
(5) Its name, address, phone number, and other contact information.
(d) A reporting provider, as identified in paragraph (b) of this section, must report any changes to information previously provided as well as the following milestone information to the Secretary for each outgoing case within 30 days of occurrence:
(1) Date case determined to involve emigration from the United States (generally the time the child is matched with adoptive parents);
(2) Date of U.S. final adoption or date on which custody for the purpose of adoption was granted in United States;
(3) Date of foreign final adoption if custody for purpose of adoption was granted in the United States, to the extent practicable; and
(4) Any additional information when requested by the Secretary in a particular case.
§ 99.3
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER K—ECONOMIC AND OTHER FUNCTIONS
Pt. 101

# PART 101—ECONOMIC AND COMMERCIAL FUNCTIONS
Sec.
101.1
Protection of American interests.
101.2
Promotion of American interests.
101.3
Services for American businessmen and organizations.
101.4
Economic and commercial reporting.

# Authority:
Sec. 302, 60 Stat. 1001; 22 U.S.C. 842.

# Source:
22 FR 10871, Dec. 27, 1957, unless otherwise noted.
§ 101.1
Protection of American interests.
Officers of the Foreign Service shall protect the rights and interests of the United States in its international agricultural, commercial, and financial relations. In pursuance of this duty, they shall:
(a) Guard against the infringement of rights of American citizens in matters relating to commerce and navigation which are based on custom, international law, or treaty.
(b) Observe, report on, and, whenever possible, endeavor to remove discriminations against American agricultural, commercial, and industrial interests in other countries.
(c) Protect the national commercial reputation of the United States.
§ 101.2
Promotion of American interests.
Officers of the Foreign Service shall further the agricultural and commercial interests of the United States:
(a) By carefully studying and reporting on the potentialities of their districts as a market for American products or as a competitor of American products in international trade.
(b) By investigating and submitting World Trade Directory Reports on the general standing and distributing capacity of foreign firms within their districts.
(c) By preparing and submitting upon request trade lists of commercial firms within their districts.
(d) By keeping constantly on the alert for and submitting immediate reports on concrete trade opportunities.
(e) By endeavoring to create, within the scope of the duties to which they are assigned, a demand for American products within their districts.
(f) By facilitating and reporting on proposed visits of alien businessmen to the United States.
(g) By taking appropriate steps to facilitate the promotion of such import trade into the United States as the economic interests of the United States may require.
§ 101.3
Services for American businessmen and organizations.
Officers of the Foreign Service shall perform the following-enumerated services for American citizens and business organizations in connection with the conduct of foreign trade subject to such rules and limitations thereon as may be prescribed by the Secretary of State:
(a) Answering trade inquiries.
(b) Lending direct assistance to American citizens and business firms.
(c) Encouraging the establishment of, and supporting, American chambers of commerce.
(d) Preparing themselves for and, upon instructions, performing trade conference work when in the United States on leave, or otherwise.
§ 101.4
Economic and commercial reporting.
Officers of the Foreign Service shall prepare and submit reports in connection with their duties of protecting and promoting American agricultural commercial interests and for the purpose of providing general information on economic developments within their respective districts for the Departments of State, Agriculture, and Commerce, and for other governmental departments and agencies, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Secretary of State may prescribe.
Pt. 103

# PART 103—REGULATIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION AND THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION IMPLEMENTATION ACT OF 1998 ON THE TAKING OF SAMPLES AND ON ENFORCEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING RECORDKEEPING AND INSPECTIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
103.1
Purpose.
103.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Samples
103.3
Requirement to provide a sample.

# Subpart C—Recordkeeping and Inspection Requirements
103.4
General.
103.5
Violations.
103.6
Penalties.
103.7
Initiation of administrative enforcement proceedings.
103.8
Final agency decision after administrative proceedings.
103.9
Final agency decision after settlement negotiations.
103.10
Appeals.
103.11
Payment of final assessment.
103.12
Reporting a violation.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2651a; 22 U.S.C. 6701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 584.

# Source:
64 FR 73813, Dec. 30, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 103.1
Purpose.
This part is intended to implement sections 304(f)(1) and 501 of the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1998 (Act), 22 U.S.C. 6701
et seq.
The Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations promulgated by the Department of Commerce, 15 CFR Parts 710 through 722, also implement sections of the Act.
§ 103.2
Definitions.
The following are definitions of terms as used in this part only.
Bureau of Export Administration (BXA).
The Bureau of Export Administration of the United States Department of Commerce, including the Office of Export Administration and the Office of Export Enforcement.
Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC or Convention).
The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, and its annexes opened for signature on January 13, 1993, and entered into force on April 29, 1997.
CWCIA.
The Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1998. (22 U.S.C. 6701
et seq.
)
CWCR.
The Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations promulgated by the Department of Commerce. (15 CFR parts 710 through 722.)
Executive Director.
The Executive Director, Office of the Legal Adviser, U.S. Department of State.
Facility agreement.
A written agreement or arrangement between a State Party to the Convention and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons relating to a specific facility subject to on-site verification pursuant to Articles IV, V, and VI of the Convention.
Final decision.
A decision or order assessing a civil penalty, or otherwise disposing of or dismissing a case, which is not subject to further administrative review under this part, but which may be subject to collection proceedings or judicial review in an appropriate federal court as authorized by law.
Host Team.
The U.S. Government team that accompanies the Inspection Team during a CWC inspection to which this part applies.
Host Team Leader.
The head of the U.S. Government team that hosts and accompanies the Inspection Team during a CWC inspection to which this part applies.
Inspection assistant.
An individual designated by the Technical Secretariat to assist inspectors in an inspection, such as medical, security and administrative personnel and interpreters.
Inspection Team.
The group of inspectors and inspection assistants assigned by the Director-General of the OPCW's Technical Secretariat to conduct a particular inspection.
Lead agency.
The executive department or agency responsible for implementation of the CWC declaration and inspection requirements for specified facilities. The lead agencies are the Department of Defense (DOD) for facilities owned and operated by DOD (including those operated by contractors to the agency), and those facilities leased to and operated by DOD (including those operated by contractors to the agency); the Department of Energy (DOE) for facilities owned and operated by DOE (including those operated by contractors to the agency), and those facilities leased to and operated by DOE (including those operated by contractors to the agency), including the National Laboratories and components of the nuclear weapons complex; and the Department of Commerce (DOC) for all facilities that are not owned and operated by or leased to and operated by DOD, DOE or other U.S. Government agencies. Other departments and agencies that have notified the United States National Authority of their decision to be excluded from the CWCR shall also have lead agency responsibilities for facilities that are owned or operated by (including those operated by contractors to the agency), or that are leased to or operated by, those other departments and agencies (including those operated by contractors to the agency).
Office of Chemical and Biological Weapons Conventions.
The office in the Bureau of Arms Control of the United States Department of State that includes the United States National Authority Coordinating Staff.
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).
The entity established by the Convention to achieve the object and purpose of the Convention, to ensure the implementation of its provisions, including those for international verification of compliance with it, and to provide a forum for consultation and cooperation among States Parties.
Party.
The United States Department of State and any person named as a respondent under this part.
Perimeter.
In case of a challenge inspection, the external boundary of the site, defined by either geographic coordinates or description on a map.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, any State or any political subdivision thereof, or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity located in the United States.
Respondent.
Any person named as the subject of a letter of intent to charge, or a Notice of Violation and Assessment (NOVA) and proposed order.
Secretary.
The Secretary of State.
Technical Secretariat.
The Technical Secretariat of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons established by the Chemical Weapons Convention.
United States National Authority.
The Department of State serving as the national focal point for effective liaison with the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and States Parties to the Convention and implementing the provisions of the CWCIA in coordination with an interagency group designated by the President consisting of the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Energy, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the heads of agencies considered necessary or advisable by the President, or their designees. The Secretary of State is the Director of the United States National Authority.

# Subpart B—Samples
§ 103.3
Requirement to provide a sample.
(a)
Voluntary provision of a sample.
The Host Team Leader will notify appropriate site representatives of any request by an Inspection Team to take a sample. At the request of the appropriate site representative, this notification will be in writing. A site representative may volunteer to provide a sample to the Inspection Team, or may communicate to the Host Team Leader any reason for which the representative believes a sample should not be required.
(b)
Notification of requirement to provide a sample.
If a sample is not provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
section, the Host Team Leader will notify, in writing, the owner or operator, occupant or agent in charge of an inspected premises of any requirement, under paragraph (c) or (e) of this section, to provide a sample pursuant to a request, made in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section, of an Inspection Team of the Technical Secretariat.
(c)
Requirement to provide a sample.
Pursuant to section 304(f)(1) of the CWCIA, unless a lead agency advises the United States National Authority pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises to be inspected is hereby required to provide a sample pursuant to a request, made in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section, of an Inspection Team of the Technical Secretariat that a sample be taken in accordance with the applicable provisions contained in the Chemical Weapons Convention and the CWCIA.
(d)
Consultations with the United States National Authority.
After consulting with the Host Team Leader, a lead agency that finds that any of the following conditions, as modified pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section if applicable, may not have been satisfied shall promptly advise the United States National Authority, which, in coordination with the interagency group designated by the President in section 2 of Executive Order 13128, shall make a decision:
(1) The taking of a sample is consistent with the inspection aims under the Convention and with its Confidentiality Annex;
(2) The taking of a sample does not unnecessarily hamper or delay the operation of a facility or affect its safety, and is arranged so as to ensure the timely and effective discharge of the Inspection Team's functions with the least possible inconvenience and disturbance to the facility;
(3) The taking of a sample is consistent with the applicable facility agreement. In particular:
(i) Any sample will be taken at sampling points agreed to in the relevant facility agreement; and
(ii) Any sample will be taken according to procedures agreed to in the relevant facility agreement;
(4) In the absence of a facility agreement, due consideration is given to existing sampling points used by the owner or operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises, consistent with any procedures developed pursuant to the CWCR (15 CFR parts 710 through 722);
(5) The taking of a sample does not affect the safety of the premises and will be consistent with safety regulations established at the premises, including those for protection of controlled environments within a facility and for personal safety;
(6) The taking of a sample does not pose a threat to the national security interests of the United States; and
(7) The taking of a sample is consistent with any conditions negotiated pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section, if applicable.
(e)
Determination by United States National Authority.
(1) If, after being advised by the lead agency pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, the United States National Authority, in coordination with the interagency group designated by the President to implement the provisions of the CWCIA, determines that all of the conditions of paragraph (d) are satisfied and that a sample shall be required, then the owner or the operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises shall provide a sample pursuant to a request of the Inspection Team of the Technical Secretariat.
(2) If, however, after being advised by the lead agency pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, the United States National Authority, in coordination with the interagency group designated by the President to implement the provisions of the CWCIA, determines that any of the conditions of paragraph (d) are not satisfied and that a sample shall not be required, then the owner or the operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises shall not be required to provide a sample pursuant to a request of the Inspection Team of the Technical Secretariat.
(f)
Person to take a sample.
If a sample is required, the owner or the operator,
occupant or agent in charge of the inspected premises will determine whether the sample will be taken by a representative of the premises, the Inspection Team, or any other individual present. The owner or the operator, occupant or agent in charge of the inspected premises may elect to have a representative present during the taking of a sample.
(g)
Requirement that samples remain in the United States.
No sample collected in the United States pursuant to an inspection permitted by the CWCIA may be transferred for analysis to any laboratory outside the territory of the United States.
(h)
Handling of samples.
Samples will be handled in accordance with the Convention, the CWCIA, other applicable law, and the provisions of any applicable facility agreement.
(i)
Failure to comply with this section.
Failure by any person to comply with this section may be treated as a violation of section 306 of the Act and section 103.5(a).
(j)
Conditions that restrict sampling activities during challenge inspections.
During challenge inspections within the inspected premises the Host Team may negotiate conditions that restrict activities regarding sampling, e.g., conditions that restrict where, when, and how samples are taken, whether samples are removed from the site, and how samples are analyzed.
(k)
Format of Inspection Team request.
It is the policy of the United States Government that Inspection Team requests for samples should be in written form from the head of the Inspection Team. When necessary, before a sample is required to be provided, the Host Team Leader should seek a written request from the head of the Inspection Team.
(l)
Requirement to provide a sample in the band around the outside of the perimeter during a challenge inspection.
In a band, not to exceed a width of 50 meters, around the outside of the perimeter of the inspected site, the Inspection Team, during a challenge inpsection, may take wipes, air, soil or effluent samples where either:
(1) There is consent; or
(2) Such activity is authorized by a search warrant obtained pursuant to section 305(b)(4) of the CWCIA.

# Subpart C—Recordkeeping and Inspection Requirements
§ 103.4
General.
This subpart implements the enforcement of the civil penalty provisions of section 501 of the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1998 (CWCIA), and sets forth relevant administrative proceedings by which such violations are adjudicated. Both the Department of State (in this subpart), and the Department of Commerce (in part 719 of the CWCR at 15 CFR parts 710 through 722) are involved in the implementation and enforcement of section 501.
§ 103.5
Violations.
(a)
Refusal to permit entry or inspection.
No person may willfully fail or refuse to permit entry or inspection, or disrupt, delay or otherwise impede an inspection, authorized by the CWCIA.
(b)
Failure to establish or maintain records.
No person may willfully fail or refuse:
(1) To establish or maintain any record required by the CWCIA or the Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations (CWCR, 15 CFR parts 710 through 722) of the Department of Commerce; or
(2) To submit any report, notice, or other information to the United States Government in accordance with the CWCIA or CWCR; or
(3) To permit access to or copying of any record that is exempt from disclosure under the CWCIA or the CWCR.
§ 103.6
Penalties.
(a)
Civil penalties
—(1)
Civil penalty for refusal to permit entry or inspection.
Any person that is determined to have willfully failed or refused to permit entry or inspection, or to have willfully disrupted, delayed or otherwise impeded an authorized inspection, as set forth in § 103.5(a), shall pay a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $48,119 for each violation. Each day the violation continues constitutes a separate violation.
(2)
Civil penalty for failure to establish or maintain records.
Any person that is
determined to have willfully failed or refused to establish or maintain any record, or to submit any report, notice, or other information required by the CWCIA or the CWCR, or to permit access to or copying of any record exempt from disclosure under the CWCIA or CWCR as set forth in § 103.5(b), shall pay a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $9,624 for each violation.
(b)
Criminal penalties.
Any person that knowingly violates the CWCIA by willfully failing or refusing to permit entry or inspection; or by disrupting, delaying or otherwise impeding an inspection authorized by the CWCIA; or by willfully failing or refusing to establish or maintain any required record, or to submit any required report, notice, or other information; or by willfully failing or refusing to permit access to or copying of any record exempt from disclosure under the CWCIA or CWCR, shall, in addition to or in lieu of any civil penalty that may be imposed, be fined under Title 18 of the United States Code, or be imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(c)
Other remedial action
—(1)
Injunction.
The United States may, in a civil action, obtain an injunction against:
(i) The conduct prohibited under 18 U.S.C. 229 or 229C; or
(ii) The preparation or solicitation to engage in conduct prohibited under 18 U.S.C. 229 or 229D.
(2) In addition, the United States may, in a civil action, restrain any violation of section 306 or section 405 of the CWCIA, or compel the taking of any action required by or under the CWCIA or the Convention.
[64 FR 73813, Dec. 30, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 36793, June 8, 2016; 82 FR 3170, Jan. 11, 2017; 83 FR 237, Jan. 3, 2018; 84 FR 9959, Mar. 19, 2019; 85 FR 2022, Jan. 14, 2020; 86 FR 7806, Feb. 2, 2021; 87 FR 1074, Jan. 10, 2022; 88 FR 1507, Jan. 11, 2023; 89 FR 702, Jan. 5, 2024; 90 FR 1868, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 103.7
Initiation of administrative enforcement proceedings.
(a)
Issuance of Notice of Violation and Assessment (NOVA).
The Director of the Office of Export Enforcement, Bureau of Export Administration, Department of Commerce, may request that the Secretary initiate an administrative enforcement proceeding under this section and 15 CFR 719.5. If the request is in accordance with applicable law, the Secretary will initiate an administrative enforcement proceeding by issuing a Notice of Violation and Assessment (NOVA). The Office of Chief Counsel for Export Administration, Department of Commerce shall serve the NOVA as directed by the Secretary.
(b)
Content of NOVA.
The NOVA shall constitute a formal complaint, and will set forth the basis for the issuance of the proposed order. It will set forth the alleged violation(s) and the essential facts with respect to the alleged violation(s), reference the relevant statutory, regulatory or other provisions, and state the amount of the civil penalty to be assessed. The NOVA will inform the respondent of the right to request a hearing pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section and the CWCR (15 CFR parts 710 through 722) at 15 CFR 719.6, inform the respondent that failure to request such a hearing shall result in the proposed order becoming final and unappealable on signature of the Secretary of State, and provide payment instructions. A copy of the regulations that govern the administrative proceedings will accompany the NOVA.
(c)
Proposed order.
A proposed order shall accompany every NOVA. It will briefly set forth the substance of the alleged violation(s) and the statutory, regulatory or other provisions violated. It will state the amount of the civil penalty to be assessed.
(d)
Notice.
The Secretary shall notify, via the Department of Commerce, the respondent (or respondent's agent for service of process or attorney) of the initiation of administrative proceedings by sending, via first class mail, facsimile, or by personal delivery, the relevant documents.
(e)
Time to answer.
If the respondent wishes to contest the NOVA and proposed order issued by the Secretary, the respondent must request a hearing in writing within 15 days from the date of the NOVA. If the respondent requests a hearing, the respondent must answer the NOVA within 30 days from the date of the request for hearing. The request for hearing and answer must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ), along with a copy of the
NOVA and proposed order, and served on the Office of Chief Counsel for Export Administration, Department of Commerce, and any other address(es) specified in the NOVA, in accordance with 15 CFR 719.8.
(f)
Content of answer.
The respondent's answer must be responsive to the NOVA and proposed order, and must fully set forth the nature of the respondent's defense(s). The answer must specifically admit or deny each separate allegation in the NOVA; if the respondent is without knowledge, the answer will so state and will operate as a denial. Failure to deny or controvert a particular allegation will be deemed an admission of that allegation. The answer must also set forth any additional or new matter the respondent believes supports a defense or claim of mitigation. Any defense or partial defense not specifically set forth in the answer shall be deemed waived, and evidence thereon may be refused, except for good cause shown.
(g)
English required.
The request for hearing, answer, and all other papers and documentary evidence must be submitted in English.
(h)
Waiver.
The failure of the respondent to file a request for a hearing and an answer within the times provided constitutes a waiver of the respondent's right to appear and contest the allegations set forth in the NOVA and proposed order. If no hearing is requested and no answer is provided, the Secretary will sign the proposed order, which shall, upon signature, become final and unappealable.
(i)
Administrative procedures.
The regulations that govern the administrative procedures that apply when a hearing is requested are set forth in the CWCR at 15 CFR part 719.
§ 103.8
Final agency decision after administrative proceedings.
(a)
Review of initial decision
—(1)
Petition for review.
Any party may, within 7 days of the Administrative Law Judge's (ALJ) certification of the initial decision and order, petition the Secretary for review of the initial decision. A petition for review shall be addressed to and served on the Executive Director of the Office of the Legal Adviser, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street, N.W., Room 5519, Washington D.C. 20520, and shall also be served on the Chief Counsel for Export Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Room H-3839, Washington, D.C. 20230, and on the respondent. Petitions for review may be filed only on one or more of the following grounds:
(i) That a necessary finding of fact is omitted, erroneous or not supported by substantial evidence of record;
(ii) That a necessary legal conclusion or finding is contrary to law;
(iii) That a prejudicial procedural error has occurred; or
(iv) That the decision or the extent of sanctions is arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion.
(2)
Content of petition for review.
The petition must specifically set forth the grounds on which review is requested and be supported by citations to the record, statutes, regulations, and principal authorities.
(3)
Decision to review.
Review of the initial decision by the Secretary is discretionary, and is not a matter of right. The Secretary shall accept or decline review of the initial decision and order within 3 days after a petition for review is filed. If no such petition is filed, the Secretary may, on his or her own initiative, notify the parties within 10 days after the ALJ's certification of the initial decision and order that he or she intends to exercise his or her discretion to review the initial decision.
(4)
Effect of decision to review.
The initial decision is stayed until further order of the Secretary upon a timely petition for review, or upon action to review taken by the Secretary on his or her own initiative.
(5)
Review declined.
If the Secretary declines to exercise discretionary review, such order, and the resulting final agency decision, will be served on all parties personally, by overnight mail, or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. The Secretary need not give reasons for declining review.
(6)
Review accepted.
If the Secretary grants a petition for review or decides to review the initial decision on his or her own initiative, he or she will issue an order confirming that acceptance
and specifying any issues to be briefed by all parties within 10 days after the order. Briefing shall be limited to the issues specified in the order. Only those issues specified in the order will be considered by the Secretary. The parties may, within 5 days after the filing of any brief of the issues, file and serve a reply to that brief. The Department of Commerce shall review all written submissions, and, based on the record, make a recommendation to the Secretary as to whether the ALJ's initial decision should be modified or vacated. The Secretary will make a final decision within 30 days after the ALJ's certification of the initial decision and order.
(b)
Final decision.
Unless the Secretary, within 30 days after the date of the ALJ's certification of the initial decision and order, modifies or vacates the decision and order, with or without conditions, the ALJ's initial decision and order shall become effective as the final decision and order of the United States Government. If the Secretary does modify or vacate the initial decision and order, that decision and order of the Secretary shall become the final decision and order of the United States Government. The final decision and order shall be served on the parties and will be made available to the public.
(c)
Computation of time for the purposes of this section.
In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this section, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run is not included. The last day of the period is computed to be included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday (as defined in Rule 6(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure), in which case the period runs until the end of the next day that is neither a Saturday, a Sunday, nor a legal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays are excluded from the computation when the period of time prescribed or allowed is 7 days or less.
§ 103.9
Final agency decision after settlement negotiations.
(a)
Settlements based on letter of intent to charge
—(1)
Approval of settlement.
Pursuant to § 719.5(b) of the CWCR (15 CFR parts 710 through 722), the Department of Commerce may notify a respondent by letter of the intent to charge. If, following the issuance of such a letter of intent to charge, the Department of Commerce and respondent reach an agreement to settle a case, the Department of Commerce will recommend the proposed settlement to the Secretary. If the recommended settlement is in accordance with applicable law the Secretary will approve and sign it. No action is required by the ALJ in cases where the Secretary approves and signs such a settlement agreement and order.
(2)
Refusal to approve settlement.
If the Secretary refuses to approve the recommended settlement, the Secretary will notify the parties and the case will proceed as though no settlement proposal had been made.
(b)
Settlements following issuance of a NOVA
—(1)
Approval of settlement.
When the Department of Commerce and respondent reach an agreement to settle a case after administrative proceedings have been initiated before an ALJ, the Department of Commerce will recommend the settlement to the Secretary of State. If the recommended settlement is in accordance with applicable law, the Secretary will approve and sign it. If the Secretary approves the settlement, the Secretary shall notify the ALJ that the case is withdrawn from adjudication.
(2)
Refusal to approve settlement.
If the Secretary of State refuses to approve the recommended settlement, the Secretary will notify the parties of the disapproval, and the case will proceed as though no settlement proposal had been made.
(c)
Scope of settlement.
Any respondent who agrees to an order imposing any administrative sanction does so solely for the purpose of resolving the claims in the administrative enforcement proceeding brought pursuant to this part. This reflects the fact that the Government officials involved have neither the authority nor the responsibility for initiating, conducting, settling, or otherwise disposing of criminal proceedings. That authority and responsibility is vested in the Attorney General and the Department of Justice.
(d)
Finality.
Cases that are settled may not be reopened or appealed.
§ 103.10
Appeals.
Any person adversely affected by a final order respecting an assessment may, within 30 days after the final order is issued, file a petition in the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit or for any other circuit in which the person resides or transacts business, to appeal the order.
§ 103.11
Payment of final assessment.
(a)
Time for payment.
Full payment of the civil penalty must be made within 30 days of the date upon which the final order becomes effective, or within the time specified in the order. Payment shall be made in the manner specified in the NOVA.
(b)
Enforcement of order.
The Secretary, through the Attorney General, may file suit in an appropriate district court if necessary to enforce compliance with a final order issued pursuant to this part. This suit will include a claim for interest at current prevailing rates from the date payment was due or ordered or, if an appeal was filed pursuant to § 103.10, from the date of final judgment.
(c)
Offsets.
The amount of any civil penalty imposed by a final order may be deducted from any sum(s) owed by the United States to a respondent.
§ 103.12
Reporting a violation.
If a person learns that a violation of the Convention, the CWCIA, this part, or the CWCR (15 CFR parts 710 through 722) has occurred or may occur, that person may notify: United States National Authority, Office of Chemical and Biological Weapons Conventions, Bureau of Arms Control, U.S. Department of State, Washington, DC 20520, Telephone: (703) 235-1204 or toll-free (877) CWC-NACS ((877) 292-6227), Facsimile: (703) 235-1065.
Pt. 104

# PART 104—INTERNATIONAL TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS: INTERAGENCY COORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES AND SHARING OF INFORMATION
Sec.
104.1
Coordination of implementation of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, as amended.
104.2
Sharing of information regarding international trafficking in persons.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 7103(f)(5); Executive Order 13257 (as amended by Executive Order 13333).

# Source:
70 FR 59655, Oct. 13, 2005, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 71 FR 12132, Mar. 9, 2006.
§ 104.1
Coordination of implementation of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, as amended.
The Director of the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons of the Department of State, who is the Chairperson of the Senior Policy Operating Group of the President's Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, shall call meetings of the Senior Policy Operating Group on a regular basis to coordinate activities of Federal departments and agencies regarding policies (including grants and grant policies) involving the international trafficking in persons and the implementation of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, as amended.
§ 104.2
Sharing of information regarding international trafficking in persons.
Each Federal Department or agency represented on the Senior Policy Operating Group shall, to the extent permitted by law, share information on all matters relating to grants, grant policies, or other significant actions regarding the international trafficking in persons. In its coordinating role, the Senior Policy Operating Group shall establish appropriate mechanisms to effect such information sharing.
SUBCHAPTER L [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER M—INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC IN ARMS REGULATIONS
Pt. 120

# PART 120—PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
120.1
General authorities.
120.2
Designation of defense articles and defense services.
120.3
Policy on designating or determining defense articles and services on the U.S. Munitions List.
120.4
Commodity jurisdiction.
120.5
Relation to regulations of other agencies.
120.6
U.S. criminal statutes.
120.7
Relations to other provisions of law.
120.8-120.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—General Policies and Processes
120.10
Introduction to the U.S. Munitions List.
120.11
Order of review.
120.12
Commodity jurisdiction determination requests.
120.13
Registration.
120.14
Licenses and related authorizations.
120.15
Exemptions.
120.16
Eligibility for approvals.
120.17
End-use monitoring.
120.18
Denial, revocation, suspension, or amendment of licenses and other approvals.
120.19
Violations and penalties.
120.20
Administrative procedures.
120.21
Disclosure of information.
120.22
Advisory opinions and related authorizations.
120.23
Organizations and arrangements.
120.24-120.29v
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Definitions
120.30
Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
120.31
Defense article.
120.32
Defense service.
120.33
Technical data.
120.34
Public domain.
120.35
[Reserved]
120.36
Significant military equipment.
120.37
Major defense equipment.
120.38
Classified.
120.39
Foreign defense article or defense service.
120.40
Compositional terms.
120.41
Specially designed.
120.42
Form, fit, function, performance capability, equivalent, enumerated, and catch-all control.
120.43
Development, production, and related terms; Basic and applied research.
120.44
[Reserved]
120.45
Maintenance levels.
120.46-120.49
[Reserved]
120.50
Export.
120.51
Reexport.
120.52
Retransfer.
120.53
Temporary import.
120.54
Activities that are not exports, reexports, retransfers, or temporary imports.
120.55
Access information.
120.56
Release.
120.57
Authorization types.
120.58
Subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR).
120.59
[Reserved]
120.60
United States.
120.61
Person.
120.62
U.S. person.
120.63
Foreign person.
120.64
Regular employee.
120.65
Foreign ownership and foreign control.
120.66
Affiliate.
120.67
Empowered official.
120.68
Party to the export.
120.69
Port Directors.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2651a, 2752, 2753, 2776, 2778, 2779, 2779a, 2785, 2794, 2797; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129, 3 CFR, 2013 Comp., p. 223.

# Source:
87 FR 16411, Mar. 23, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 120.1
General authorities.
(a)
Authority and delegation.
Section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778), as amended, authorizes the President to control the export and import of defense articles and defense services. The statutory authority of the President to promulgate regulations with respect to exports of defense articles and defense services is delegated to the Secretary of State by Executive Order 13637. This subchapter implements that authority, as well as other relevant authorities in the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.
). The Secretary of State delegates the authority to administer the regulations in this subchapter to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs.
(b)
Authorized officials.
(1) All authorities administered by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls pursuant to this subchapter may be exercised at any time by the Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security or the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs.
(2) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls supervises the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which is comprised of the following offices:
(i) The Office of Defense Trade Controls Licensing and the Director, Office of Defense Trade Controls Licensing, which have responsibilities related to licensing or other approvals of defense trade, including references under this part and parts 123, 124, 125, 126, 129, and 130 of this subchapter.
(ii) The Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance and the Director, Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, which have responsibilities related to violations of law or regulation and compliance therewith, including references contained in parts 122, 126, 127, 128, and 130 of this subchapter, and those portions under this part and part 129 of this subchapter pertaining to registration.
(iii) The Office of Defense Trade Controls Policy and the Director, Office of Defense Trade Controls Policy, which have responsibilities related to the general policies of defense trade, including references under this part and part 126 of this subchapter, and the commodity jurisdiction procedure under this part.
§ 120.2
Designation of defense articles and defense services.
The Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a) and 2794(7)) provides that the President shall designate the articles and services deemed to be defense articles and defense services for purposes of import or export controls. The President has delegated to the Secretary of State the authority to control the export and temporary import of defense articles and services. The items designated by the Secretary of State for purposes of export and temporary import control constitute the U.S. Munitions List (USML) specified in part 121 of this subchapter. Defense articles on the USML specified in part 121 of this subchapter that are also subject to permanent import control by the Attorney General on the U.S. Munitions Import List enumerated in 27 CFR part 447 are subject to temporary import controls administered by the Secretary of State. Designations of defense articles and defense services on the USML in part 121 of this subchapter are made by the Department of State with the concurrence of the Department of Defense. The scope of the USML shall be changed only by amendments made pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778). For a designation or determination on whether a particular item is enumerated on the USML,
see
§ 120.4.
§ 120.3
Policy on designating or determining defense articles and services on the U.S. Munitions List.
(a) For purposes of this subchapter, a specific article or service may be designated a defense article (see § 120.31) or defense service (see § 120.32) if it:
(1) Meets the criteria of a defense article or defense service on the U.S. Munitions List (USML) (part 121 of this subchapter); or
(2) Provides the equivalent performance capabilities of a defense article on the USML.
(b) For purposes of this subchapter, a specific article or service shall be determined in the future as a defense article or defense service if it provides a critical military or intelligence advantage such that it warrants control under this subchapter.

# Note 1 to paragraphs (a) and (b):
An article or service determined in the future pursuant to this subchapter as a defense article or defense service, but not currently on the USML, will be placed in Category XXI of § 121.1 of this subchapter until the appropriate category of the USML has been amended to provide the necessary entry.
(c) A specific article or service is not a defense article or defense service for purposes of this subchapter if it:
(1) Is determined to be under the jurisdiction of another department or agency of the U.S. Government (see § 120.5) pursuant to a commodity jurisdiction determination (see § 120.4) unless superseded by changes to the
USML or by a subsequent commodity jurisdiction determination; or
(2) Meets one of the criteria of § 120.41(b) when the article is used in or with a defense article and specially designed is used as a control criteria.

# Note 2 to § 120.3:
The intended use of the article or service after its export (
i.e.,
for a military or civilian purpose), by itself, is not a factor in determining whether the article or service is subject to the controls of this subchapter.
§ 120.4
Commodity jurisdiction.
(a) The commodity jurisdiction procedure is used with the U.S. Government if doubt exists as to whether an article or service is covered by the U.S. Munitions List (USML). It may also be used for consideration of a redesignation of an article or service currently covered by the USML. The Department must provide notice to Congress at least 30 days before any item is removed from the USML.
(b) The procedure for submitting a Commodity Jurisdiction Determination Request to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls is set forth in § 120.12.
§ 120.5
Relation to regulations of other agencies.
(a)
The Department of Justice, the U.S. Munitions Import List (USMIL), and permanent imports.
Defense articles and defense services covered by the U.S. Munitions List set forth in this subchapter are regulated by the Department of State (see also § 120.2) for purposes of export, reexport, retransfer, and temporary import. The President has delegated the authority to control the permanent import of defense articles and services to the Attorney General. The defense articles and services controlled by the Secretary of State and the Attorney General collectively comprise the U.S. Munitions List under the Arms Export Control Act. As the Attorney General exercises independent delegated authority to designate defense articles and services for purposes of permanent import controls, the permanent import control list administered by the Department of Justice has been separately labeled the U.S. Munitions Import List (27 CFR part 447) to distinguish it from the list set out in this subchapter. In carrying out the functions delegated to the Attorney General pursuant to the Arms Export Control Act, the Attorney General shall be guided by the views of the Secretary of State on matters affecting world peace and the external security and foreign policy of the United States.
(b)
The Department of Commerce and the Export Administration Regulations
—(1)
Export of items subject to the Export Administration Regulations by authority of the Department of Commerce.
The Department of Commerce regulates the export, reexport, and in-country transfer of items on the Commerce Control List and other items subject to its jurisdiction, as well as certain activities performed by U.S. persons, including those that may contribute to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, under the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR parts 730 through 774).
(2)
Export of items subject to the EAR by authority of the Department of State.
A license or other approval (
see
§ 120.57) from the Department of State granted in accordance with this subchapter may also authorize the export of items subject to the EAR (
see
§ 120.58). An exemption (
see
§ 120.57 and parts 123, 124, 125, and 126 of this subchapter) may only be used to export an item subject to the EAR that is for use in or with a defense article and is included in the same shipment as any defense article. Separate approval from the Department of Commerce is not required for these items. No exemption under this subchapter may be utilized to export an item subject to the EAR if not accompanied by a defense article. Those items subject to the EAR exported pursuant to a Department of State license or other approval would remain under the jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce for any subsequent transactions. The inclusion of items subject to the EAR on a Department of State license or other approval does not change the licensing jurisdiction of the items.
(c)
Nuclear related controls; Department of Energy and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
(1) The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to articles, technical data, or services in Category VI, Category XV, Category XVI, and
Category XX of § 121.1 of this subchapter to the extent that exports of such articles, technical data, or services are controlled by the Department of Energy or the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (AEA), as amended, and the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, as amended, or are government transfers authorized pursuant to these Acts. For Department of Commerce controls, see 15 CFR 742.3 and 744.2, administered pursuant to Section 309(c) of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 1978, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2139a(c)), and 15 CFR 744.5, which are not subject to this subchapter.
(2) The transfer of materials, including special nuclear materials, nuclear parts of nuclear weapons, or other, non-nuclear parts of nuclear weapons systems involving Restricted Data or of assistance involving any person directly or indirectly engaging in the production or use thereof is prohibited except as authorized by the AEA. The transfer of Restricted Data or such assistance is prohibited except as authorized by the AEA. The technical data or defense services relating to nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons systems or related defense purposes (and such data or services relating to applications of atomic energy for peaceful purposes, or related research and development) may constitute Restricted Data or such assistance, subject to the foregoing prohibition.
(3) A license for the export of a defense article, technical data, or the furnishing of a defense service relating to defense articles referred to in Category VI(e) or Category XX(b)(1) of § 121.1 of this subchapter will not be granted unless the defense article, technical data, or defense service comes within the scope of an existing Agreement for Cooperation for Mutual Defense Purposes concluded pursuant to the AEA with the government of the country to which the defense article, technical data, or defense service is to be exported. Licenses may be granted in the absence of such an agreement only:
(i) If the proposed export involves an article which is identical to that in use in an unclassified civilian nuclear power plant;
(ii) If the proposed export has no relationship to naval nuclear propulsion; and
(iii) If it is not for use in a naval propulsion plant.
§ 120.6
U.S. criminal statutes.
For purposes of this subchapter, the phrase
U.S. criminal statutes
comprises the following:
(a) Section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778);
(b) Section 1760 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4819) or section 11 of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4610);
(c) Section 793, 794, or 798 of title 18, United States Code (relating to espionage involving defense or classified information) or section 2332d, 2339A, 2339B, 2339C, or 2339D of such title (relating to financial transactions with the government of a country designated as a country supporting international terrorism, providing material support to terrorists or terrorist organizations, financing of terrorism, or receiving military-type training from a foreign terrorist organization);
(d) Section 16 of the Trading with the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. 4315);
(e) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (relating to foreign assets controls; 50 U.S.C. 1705);
(f) Section 30A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78dd-1) or section 104 of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 78dd-2 or 78dd-3);
(g) Chapter 105 of title 18, United States Code (relating to sabotage);
(h) Section 4(b) of the Internal Security Act of 1950 (relating to communication of classified information; 50 U.S.C. 783(a));
(i) Sections 57, 92, 101, 104, 222, 224, 225, or 226 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2077, 2122, 2131, 2134, 2272, 2274, 2275, and 2276);
(j) Section 601 of the National Security Act of 1947 (relating to intelligence identities protection; 50 U.S.C. 421);
(k) Section 371 of title 18, United States Code (when it involves conspiracy to violate any of the statutes listed in this section);
(l) Sections 3, 4, 5, and 6 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, Public Law 108-458 sections 6903-6906, relating to missile systems designed to destroy aircraft (18 U.S.C. 2332g), prohibitions governing atomic weapons (42 U.S.C. 2122), radiological dispersal services (18 U.S.C. 2332h), and variola virus (18 U.S.C. 175c);
(m) Sections 2779 and 2780 of title 22, United States Code (relating to fees of military sales agents and other payments, and transactions with countries supporting acts of international terrorism);
(n) Section 542 of title 18, United States Code (relating to the entry of goods by means of false statements), where the underlying offense involves a defense article, including technical data, or violations related to the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) or International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) in this subchapter;
(o) Section 545 of title 18, United States Code (relating to smuggling goods into the United States), where the underlying offense involves a defense article, including technical data, or violations related to the AECA or ITAR;
(p) Section 554 of title 18, United States Code (relating to smuggling goods from the United States), where the underlying offense involves a defense article, including technical data, or violations related to the AECA or ITAR; and
(q) Section 1001 of title 18, United States Code (relating to false statements or entries generally), Section 1831 of title 18, United States Code (relating to economic espionage), and Section 1832 of title 18, United States Code (relating to theft of trade secrets) where the underlying offense involves a defense article, including technical data, or violations related to the AECA or ITAR.
§ 120.7
Relations to other provisions of law.
(a) The provisions in this subchapter are in addition to, and are not in lieu of, any other provisions of law or regulations. The sale of firearms in the United States, for example, remains subject to the provisions of the Gun Control Act of 1968 and regulations administered by the Department of Justice. The performance of defense services on behalf of foreign governments by retired military personnel continues to require consent pursuant to part 3a of this title. Persons who intend to export defense articles or furnish defense services should not assume that satisfying the requirements of this subchapter relieves one of other requirements of law.
(b) All determinations, authorizations, licenses, approvals of contracts and agreements, and other action issued, authorized, undertaken, or entered into by the Department of State pursuant to section 414 of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended, or under the previous provisions of this subchapter, continue in full force and effect until or unless modified, revoked, or superseded by the Department of State.
§§ 120.8-120.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—General Policies and Processes
§ 120.10
Introduction to the U.S. Munitions List.
(a)
The U.S. Munitions List.
The articles, services, and related technical data designated as defense articles or defense services pursuant to sections 38 and 47(7) of the Arms Export Control Act appear in part 121 of this subchapter and constitute the U.S. Munitions List (USML). Changes in designations are published in the
Federal Register.
Paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section describe or explain the elements of a USML category.
(b)
Composition of U.S. Munitions List categories.
USML categories are organized by paragraphs and subparagraphs identified alphanumerically. They usually start by enumerating or otherwise describing end-items, followed by major systems and equipment; parts, components, accessories, and attachments; and technical data and defense services directly related to the defense articles of that USML category.
(c)
Significant Military Equipment paragraphs in the USML.
All items described within a USML paragraph or subordinate paragraph that is preceded
by an asterisk (*) are designated Significant Military Equipment (SME). Note that technical data directly related to the manufacture or production of a defense article designated as SME is also designated as SME.
(d)
Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) designation.
Annotation with the parenthetical (MT) at the end of a USML entry indicates those defense articles that are on the MTCR Annex.
§ 120.11
Order of review.
(a)
Control.
Articles are controlled on the U.S. Munitions List (USML) because they are either:
(1) Enumerated in a category; or
(2) Described in a catch-all paragraph that incorporates specially designed as a control parameter. In order to classify an item on the USML, begin with a review of the general characteristics of the item. This should guide you to the appropriate category, whereupon you should attempt to match the particular characteristics and functions of the article to a specific entry within that category.
(b)
Specially designed.
(1) If the entry includes the term specially designed, refer to § 120.41 to determine if the article qualifies for one or more of the exclusions articulated in § 120.41(b).
(2) An item described in multiple entries should be categorized according to an enumerated entry rather than a specially designed catch-all paragraph.
(c)
Integration of controlled items.
Defense articles described on the USML are controlled and remain subject to this subchapter following incorporation or integration into any item not described on the USML, unless specifically provided otherwise in this subchapter.
(d)
Other controls.
In all cases, articles not controlled on the USML may be subject to another U.S. Government regulatory agency (see § 120.5, and Supplement No. 4 to part 774 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) in title 15 of the CFR for guidance on classifying an item subject to the EAR).
§ 120.12
Commodity jurisdiction determination requests.
(a) Upon electronic submission of a Commodity Jurisdiction Determination Form (Form DS-4076), the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) shall provide a determination of whether a particular article or service is covered by the U.S. Munitions List in part 121 of this subchapter. The determination, consistent with §§ 120.2, 120.3, and 120.4, entails consultation among the Departments of State, Defense, Commerce, and other U.S. Government agencies and industry in appropriate cases. State, Defense, and Commerce will resolve commodity jurisdiction determination disputes in accordance with established procedures. State shall notify Defense and Commerce, and other U.S. Government agencies as appropriate, of the initiation and conclusion of each case.
(b) A determination that an article or service meets the criteria of a defense article or defense service, or provides the equivalent performance capabilities of a defense article on the U.S. Munitions List, is made on a case-by-case basis, taking into account:
(1) The form and fit of the article;
(2) The function and performance capability of the article; and
(3) Other applicant-provided information, to include a history of the product's design, development, and use, as well as specifications and any other relevant data as described in brochures and other related documents.
(c) A determination that an article or service has a critical military or intelligence advantage such that it warrants control under Category XXI of § 121.1 of this subchapter is made, on a case-by-case basis, taking into account:
(1) The function and performance capability of the article; and
(2) The nature of controls imposed by other nations on such items (including the Wassenaar Arrangement and other multilateral controls).
(d) DDTC will provide a preliminary response within 10 working days of receipt of a complete request for commodity jurisdiction determination. If after 45 days DDTC has not provided a final commodity jurisdiction determination, the applicant may request in writing to the Director, Office of Defense Trade Controls Policy that this determination be given expedited processing.
(e) A person may appeal a commodity jurisdiction determination by submitting a written request for reconsideration to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls. The Deputy Assistant Secretary's determination of the appeal will be provided, in writing, within 30 days of receipt of the appeal. If desired, an appeal of the Deputy Assistant Secretary's decision can then be made to the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs.
(f) Registration with DDTC as described in part 122 of this subchapter is not required prior to submission of a commodity jurisdiction determination request.
§ 120.13
Registration.
(a) Any person who engages in the United States in the business of manufacturing or exporting or temporarily importing defense articles, or furnishing defense services, is required to register with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls as set forth in part 122 of this subchapter. For the purpose of this subchapter, engaging in such a business requires only one occasion of manufacturing or exporting or temporarily importing a defense article or furnishing a defense service. A manufacturer who does not engage in exporting must nevertheless register.
(b) Any U.S. person; foreign person located in the United States; or foreign person located outside the United States that is owned or controlled by a U.S. person, who engages in brokering activities is required to register with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls as set forth in part 129 of this subchapter.
(c) The registration requirements as set forth in parts 122 and 129 of this subchapter include limited exemptions.
[87 FR 16411, Mar. 23, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 12213, Jan. 27, 2023]
§ 120.14
Licenses and related authorizations.
(a)
Export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import, of defense articles.
The approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) must be requested and obtained before the export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import of a defense article, unless an exemption under the provisions of this subchapter is applicable.
(b)
Furnishing defense services.
The approval of DDTC must be requested and obtained before a defense service may be furnished, unless an exemption under the provisions of this subchapter is applicable.
(c)
Brokering activities.
The approval of DDTC must be requested and obtained before engaging in the business of brokering activities for the defense articles described in § 129.4(a) of this subchapter by a person who is required to register as a broker under part 129 of this subchapter, unless an exemption under the provisions of part 129 is applicable.
§ 120.15
Exemptions.
(a) Persons otherwise required to register with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls in accordance with this subchapter must do so prior to utilization of an exemption.
(b) Exemptions provided in this subchapter may not be utilized for transactions in which the exporter, any party to the export, any source or manufacturer, broker or other participant in the brokering activities, is generally ineligible as set forth in § 120.16, unless prior written authorization has been granted by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(c) Exemptions provided in this subchapter do not apply with respect to defense articles or defense services originating in or for export to any proscribed countries, areas, or persons identified in § 126.1 of this subchapter, except as provided in § 126.1.
(d) Each exemption provided in this subchapter is subject to limitation as described in the section or paragraph of this subchapter in which the exemption is prescribed.
(e) Any person engaging in any export, reexport, transfer, or retransfer of a defense article or defense service pursuant to an exemption must maintain records of each such export, reexport, transfer, or retransfer. The records shall, to the extent applicable to the transaction and consistent with
the requirements of § 123.22 of this subchapter, include the following information: A description of the defense article, including technical data, or defense service; the name and address of the end-user and other available contact information (e.g., telephone number and electronic mail address); the name of the natural person responsible for the transaction; the stated end-use of the defense article or defense service; the date of the transaction; the Electronic Export Information (EEI) Internal Transaction Number (ITN); and the method of transmission. The person using or acting in reliance upon the exemption shall also comply with any additional recordkeeping requirements enumerated in the text of the regulations concerning such exemption (e.g., requirements specific to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaties in §§ 126.16 and 126.17 of this subchapter).
(f) To claim an exemption for the export of technical data under the provisions of this subchapter (e.g., §§ 125.4 and 125.5 of this subchapter), the exporter must certify that the proposed export is covered by a relevant section of this subchapter, to include the paragraph and applicable subordinate paragraph. Certifications consist of clearly marking the package or letter containing the technical data “22 CFR [insert ITAR exemption] applicable.” This certification must be made in written form and retained in the exporter's files for a period of 5 years. For exports that are oral, visual, or electronic the exporter must also complete a written certification and retain it for a period of 5 years.
§ 120.16
Eligibility for approvals.
(a) A U.S. person may receive a license or other approval pursuant to this subchapter. A foreign person may not receive such a license or other approval, except as follows:
(1) A foreign governmental entity in the U.S. may receive a license or other approval;
(2) A foreign person may receive a reexport or retransfer approval; or
(3) A foreign person may receive an approval for brokering activities.
(b) A request for a license or other approval by a U.S. person or by a person referred to in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section will be considered only if the applicant has registered with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls pursuant to part 122 or 129 of this subchapter, as appropriate.
(c) Persons who have been convicted of violating the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6, who have been debarred pursuant to part 127 or 128 of this subchapter, who are subject to indictment or are otherwise charged (e.g., charged by criminal information in lieu of indictment) with violating the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6, who are ineligible to contract with or to receive a license or other form of authorization to import defense articles or defense services from any agency of the U.S. Government, who are ineligible to receive an export license or other approval from any other agency of the U.S. Government, or who are subject to a publicly announced Department of State policy of denial, suspension, or revocation under § 120.18(a), are generally ineligible to be involved in activities regulated under this subchapter.
§ 120.17
End-use monitoring.
(a) Pursuant to section 40A of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2785) and related delegations of authority, the Department of State is required to establish a monitoring program in order to improve accountability with respect to defense articles and defense services, sold, leased, or exported under Department of State licenses or other approvals under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act and this subchapter.
(b) All exports of defense articles, technical data, services, and brokering activities made pursuant to this subchapter are subject to end-use monitoring by the Department of State through the Blue Lantern program.
§ 120.18
Denial, revocation, suspension, or amendment of licenses and other approvals.
(a)
Policy.
Licenses or approvals shall be denied or revoked whenever required by any statute of the United States. Any application for an export license or other approval under this subchapter may be disapproved, and any license or other approval or exemption
granted under this subchapter may be revoked, suspended, or amended without prior notice whenever:
(1) The Department of State deems such action to be in furtherance of world peace, the national security or the foreign policy of the United States, or is otherwise advisable; or
(2) The Department of State believes that 22 U.S.C. 2778, any regulation contained in this subchapter, or the terms of any U.S. Government export authorization (including the terms of a manufacturing license or technical assistance agreement, or export authorization granted pursuant to the Export Administration Regulations in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774) has been violated by any party to the export or other person having significant interest in the transaction; or
(3) An applicant is the subject of a criminal complaint, other criminal charge (e.g., an information), or indictment for a violation of any of the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6; or
(4) An applicant or any party to the export or the agreement has been convicted of violating any of the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6; or
(5) An applicant is ineligible to contract with, or to receive a license or other authorization to import defense articles or defense services from, any agency of the U.S. Government; or
(6) An applicant, any party to the export or agreement, any source or manufacturer of the defense article or defense service or any person who has a significant interest in the transaction has been debarred, suspended, or otherwise is ineligible to receive an export license or other authorization from any agency of the U.S. Government (e.g., pursuant to an order denying export privileges issued by the Department of Commerce under 15 CFR part 766 or by the Department of State under part 127 or 128 of this subchapter); or
(7) An applicant has failed to include any of the information or documentation expressly required to support a license application, exemption, or other request for approval under this subchapter, or as required in the instructions in the applicable Department of State form or has failed to provide notice or information as required under this subchapter; or
(8) An applicant is subject to sanctions under other relevant U.S. laws (e.g., the Missile Technology Controls title of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 1991 (Pub. L. 101-510); the Chemical and Biological Weapons Control and Warfare Elimination Act of 1991 (Pub. L. 102-182); or the Iran-Iraq Arms Non-Proliferation Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-484)); or
(9) Any person involved in the transaction has been the subject of an unfavorable finding of an end-use monitoring check as described in § 120.17.
(b)
Notification.
The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will notify applicants or licensees or other appropriate U.S. persons of actions taken pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The reasons for the action will be stated as specifically as security and foreign policy considerations permit.
(c)
Reconsideration.
If a written request for reconsideration of an adverse decision is made within 30 days after a person has been informed of the decision, the U.S. person will be accorded an opportunity to present additional information. The case will then be reviewed by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(d)
Reconsideration of certain applications.
Applications for licenses or other requests for approval denied for repeated failure to provide information or documentation expressly required will normally not be reconsidered during the 30 day period following denial. They will be reconsidered after this period only after a final decision is made on whether the applicant will be subject to an administrative penalty imposed pursuant to this subchapter. Any request for reconsideration shall be accompanied by a letter explaining the steps that have been taken to correct the failure and to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
§ 120.19
Violations and penalties.
(a) Part 127 of this subchapter specifies conduct that constitutes a violation of the Arms Export Control Act
(AECA) and/or the International Traffic in Arms Regulations in this subchapter and the sanctions that may be imposed for such violations.
(b) The Department strongly encourages the disclosure of information to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls by persons that believe they may have violated any export control provision of the AECA, or any regulation in this subchapter, order, license, or other authorization issued under the authority of the AECA.
§ 120.20
Administrative procedures.
The Arms Export Control Act (AECA) authorizes the President to control the import and export of defense articles and services in furtherance of world peace and the security and foreign policy of the United States. Pursuant to delegated authorities, the Secretary of State is authorized to make decisions on whether license applications or other written requests for approval shall be granted, or whether exemptions may be used. The Secretary of State is also authorized to revoke, suspend, or amend licenses or other written approvals whenever such action is deemed to be advisable. The administration of the AECA is a foreign affairs function encompassed within the meaning of the military and foreign affairs exclusion of the Administrative Procedure Act and is thereby expressly exempt from various provisions of that Act. Because the exercising of the foreign affairs function, including the decisions required to implement the AECA, is highly discretionary, it is excluded from review under the Administrative Procedure Act.
§ 120.21
Disclosure of information.
(a)
Freedom of information.
Subchapter R of this title contains regulations on the availability to the public of information and records of the Department of State. The provisions of subchapter R apply to such disclosures by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
(b)
Determinations required by law.
Section 38(e) of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) (22 U.S.C. 2778(e)) provides that information obtained for the purpose of consideration of, or concerning, license applications shall be withheld from public disclosure unless the release of such information is determined by the Secretary of State to be in the national interest. Section 38(e) of the AECA further provides that the names of countries and types and quantities of defense articles for which licenses are issued under this section shall not be withheld from public disclosure unless certain determinations are made that the release of such information would be contrary to the national interest. Such determinations required by section 38(e) shall be made by the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs.
(c)
Information required under part 130 of this subchapter.
Part 130 contains specific provisions on the disclosure of information described in that part.
(d)
National interest determinations.
In accordance with section 38(e) of the AECA, the Secretary of State has determined that the following disclosures are in the national interest of the United States:
(1) Furnishing information to foreign governments for law enforcement or regulatory purposes; and
(2) Furnishing information to foreign governments and other agencies of the U.S. Government in the context of multilateral or bilateral export regimes (e.g., the Missile Technology Control Regime, the Australia Group, and Wassenaar Arrangement).
§ 120.22
Advisory opinions and related authorizations.
(a)
Preliminary authorization determinations.
A person may request information from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) as to whether it would likely grant a license or other approval for a particular defense article or defense service to a particular country. Such information from DDTC is issued on a case-by-case basis and applies only to the particular matters presented to DDTC. These opinions are not binding on the Department of State and may not be used in future matters before the Department. A request for an advisory opinion must be made in writing and must outline in
detail the equipment, its usage, the security classification (if any) of the articles or related technical data, and the country or countries involved.
(b)
Related authorizations.
DDTC may, as appropriate, in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, provide export authorization, subject to all other relevant requirements of this subchapter, both for transactions that have been the subject of advisory opinions requested by prospective U.S. exporters, or for the Directorate's own initiatives. Such initiatives may cover pilot programs, or specifically anticipated circumstances for which the Directorate considers special authorizations appropriate.
(c)
Interpretations of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations in this subchapter.
Any person may request an interpretation of the requirements set forth in this subchapter in the form of an advisory opinion. A request for an advisory opinion must be made in writing. Any response to an advisory opinion provided by DDTC pursuant to this paragraph (c) shall not be an authorization to export and shall not bind the Department to grant or deny any such authorization.
§ 120.23
Organizations and arrangements.
(a)
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) refers to the organization of member states that are parties to the North Atlantic Treaty, which members include: Albania, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Montenegro, the Netherlands, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States, and any state not included here that has deposited an instrument of accession in accordance with Article 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty.
(b)
Major non-NATO ally.
(1) Major non-NATO ally, as defined in section 644(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2403(q)), means a country that is designated in accordance with section 517 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321k) as a major non-NATO ally for purposes of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2151
et seq.
and 22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.
).
(2) The following countries are designated as major non-NATO allies: Afghanistan (see § 126.1(g) of this subchapter), Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, Egypt, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, New Zealand, Pakistan, the Philippines, the Republic of Korea, Thailand, and Tunisia. Taiwan shall be treated as though it were designated a major non-NATO ally.
(c)
Wassenaar Arrangement.
(1) The Wassenaar Arrangement refers to the Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual-Use Goods and Technologies among the United States, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom, established on 12 July 1996, to promote transparency and greater responsibility in transfers of conventional arms and dual-use goods and technologies.
(2) The term Wassenaar Munitions List (WAML) refers to the list of military items for which all participants have agreed to maintain national export controls.
(d)
Missile Technology Control Regime
—(1)
Regime.
Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) refers to the policy statement among the United States, the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, Canada, and Japan, announced on April 16, 1987, to restrict sensitive missile-relevant transfers based on the MTCR Annex, and any amendments thereto.
(2)
MTCR Annex.
The term MTCR Annex refers to the MTCR Guidelines and the Equipment, Software and Technology Annex of the MTCR, and any amendments thereto.
(3)
List of all items on the MTCR Annex.
MTCR Annex items specified in
the U.S. Munitions List shall be annotated by the parenthetical (MT) at the end of each applicable paragraph.
(e)
Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia.
Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia refers to the Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Australia Concerning Defense Trade Cooperation, done at Sydney, September 5, 2007. For additional information on making exports pursuant to this treaty, see § 126.16 of this subchapter.
(f)
Australia Implementing Arrangement.
Australia Implementing Arrangement refers to the Implementing Arrangement Pursuant to the Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Australia Concerning Defense Trade Cooperation, done at Washington, March 14, 2008, as it may be amended.
(g)
Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom.
Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom refers to the Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Concerning Defense Trade Cooperation, done at Washington and London, June 21 and 26, 2007. For additional information on making exports pursuant to this treaty, see § 126.17 of this subchapter.
(h)
United Kingdom Implementing Arrangement.
United Kingdom Implementing Arrangement refers to the Implementing Arrangement Pursuant to the Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Concerning Defense Trade Cooperation, done at Washington, February 14, 2008, as it may be amended.
§§ 120.24-120.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Definitions
§ 120.30
Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, Department of State, Washington, DC 20522-0112.
§ 120.31
Defense article.
(a)
Defense article
means any item or technical data designated in § 121.1 of this subchapter and includes:
(1) Technical data recorded or stored in any physical form, models, mockups or other items that reveal technical data directly relating to items designated in § 121.1 of this subchapter; and
(2) Forgings, castings, and other unfinished products, such as extrusions and machined bodies, that have reached a stage in manufacturing where they are clearly identifiable by mechanical properties, material composition, geometry, or function as defense articles.
(b) It does not include basic marketing information on function or purpose or general system descriptions.
(c) The policy described in § 120.3 is applicable to designations of additional items.
§ 120.32
Defense service.
(a)
Defense service
means:
(1) The furnishing of assistance (including training) to foreign persons, whether in the United States or abroad in the design, development, engineering, manufacture, production, assembly, testing, repair, maintenance, modification, operation, demilitarization, destruction, processing, or use of defense articles;
(2) The furnishing to foreign persons of any technical data controlled under this subchapter, whether in the United States or abroad; or
(3) Military training of foreign units and forces, regular and irregular, including formal or informal instruction of foreign persons in the United States or abroad or by correspondence courses, technical, educational, or information publications and media of all kinds, training aid, orientation, training exercise, and military advice.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 120.33
Technical data.
(a)
Technical data
means for purposes of this subchapter:
(1) Information, other than software as defined in § 120.40(g), which is required for the design, development, production, manufacture, assembly, operation, repair, testing, maintenance, or modification of defense articles. This includes information in the form of blueprints, drawings, photographs, plans, instructions, or documentation;
(2) Classified information relating to defense articles and defense services on the U.S. Munitions List and 600-series items controlled by the Commerce Control List;
(3) Information covered by an invention secrecy order; or
(4) Software (see § 120.40(g)) directly related to defense articles.
(b) The definition in paragraph (a) of this section does not include information concerning general scientific, mathematical, or engineering principles commonly taught in schools, colleges, and universities, or information in the public domain as defined in § 120.34 or telemetry data as defined in note 3 to Category XV(f) of § 121.1 of this subchapter. It also does not include basic marketing information on function or purpose or general system descriptions of defense articles.
§ 120.34
Public domain.
(a)
Public domain
means information which is published and which is generally accessible or available to the public:
(1) Through sales at newsstands and bookstores;
(2) Through subscriptions which are available without restriction to any individual who desires to obtain or purchase the published information;
(3) Through second class mailing privileges granted by the U.S. Government;
(4) At libraries open to the public or from which the public can obtain documents;
(5) Through patents available at any patent office;
(6) Through unlimited distribution at a conference, meeting, seminar, trade show, or exhibition, generally accessible to the public, in the United States;
(7) Through public release (
i.e.,
unlimited distribution) in any form (e.g., not necessarily in published form) after approval by the cognizant U.S. Government department or agency (see also § 125.4(b)(13) of this subchapter); or
(8) Through fundamental research in science and engineering at accredited institutions of higher learning in the U.S. where the resulting information is ordinarily published and shared broadly in the scientific community. Fundamental research is defined to mean basic and applied research in science and engineering where the resulting information is ordinarily published and shared broadly within the scientific community, as distinguished from research the results of which are restricted for proprietary reasons or specific U.S. Government access and dissemination controls. University research will not be considered fundamental research if:
(i) The University or its researchers accept other restrictions on publication of scientific and technical information resulting from the project or activity; or
(ii) The research is funded by the U.S. Government and specific access and dissemination controls protecting information resulting from the research are applicable.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 120.35
[Reserved]
§ 120.36
Significant military equipment.
(a)
Significant military equipment
means articles for which special export controls are warranted because of their capacity for substantial military utility or capability.
(b) Significant military equipment includes:
(1) Items in § 121.1 of this subchapter that are preceded by an asterisk; and
(2) All classified articles enumerated in § 121.1 of this subchapter.
§ 120.37
Major defense equipment.
Major defense equipment,
pursuant to section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794(6)), means any item of significant military equipment on the U.S. Munitions List having a nonrecurring research and development cost of more than $50,000,000 or a total production cost of more than $200,000,000.
§ 120.38
Classified.
Classified
means classified pursuant to Executive Order 13526, or predecessor order, and a security classification guide developed pursuant thereto or equivalent, or to the corresponding classification rules of another government or international organization.
§ 120.39
Foreign defense article or defense service.
Foreign defense article or defense service
means any article or service described on the U.S. Munitions List of non-U.S. origin. Unless otherwise provided in this subchapter, the terms defense article and defense service refer to both U.S. and foreign origin defense articles and defense services described on the U.S. Munitions List. A defense article or defense service is determined exclusively in accordance with the Arms Export Control Act and this subchapter, regardless of any designation (either affirming or contrary) that may be attributed to the same article or service by any foreign government or international organization.
§ 120.40
Compositional terms.
(a)
Commodity
means any article, material, or supply, except technology/technical data or software.
(b) An
end-item
is a system, equipment, or an assembled article ready for its intended use. Only ammunition or fuel or other energy source is required to place it in an operating state.
(c) A
component
is an item that is useful only when used in conjunction with an end-item:
(1) A
major component
includes any assembled element that forms a portion of an end-item without which the end-item is inoperable; and
(2) A
minor component
includes any assembled element of a major component.
(d)
Accessories and attachments
are associated articles for any component, equipment, system, or end-item, and which are not necessary for its operation, but which enhance its usefulness or effectiveness.
(e) A
part
is any single unassembled element of a major or a minor component, accessory, or attachment which is not normally subject to disassembly without the destruction or the impairment of designed use.
(f)
Firmware
and any related unique support tools (such as computers, linkers, editors, test case generators, diagnostic checkers, library of functions, and system test diagnostics) directly related to equipment or systems covered under any category of the U.S. Munitions List are considered as part of the end-item or component. Firmware includes but is not limited to circuits into which software has been programmed.
(g)
Software
includes but is not limited to the system functional design, logic flow, algorithms, application programs, operating systems, and support software for design, implementation, test, operation, diagnosis, and repair. A person who intends to export only software should, unless it is specifically enumerated in § 121.1 of this subchapter (e.g., USML Category XIII(b)), apply for a license pursuant to part 125 of this subchapter.
(h) A
system
is a combination of parts, components, accessories, attachments, firmware, software, equipment, or end-items that operate together to perform a function.

# Note 1 to paragraph (h):
The industrial standards established by the International Council on Systems Engineering (INCOSE), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) provide examples for when commodities and software operate together to perform a function as a system.
(i)
Equipment
is a combination of parts, components, accessories, attachments, firmware, or software that operate together to perform a function of, as, or for an end-item or system. Equipment may be a subset of an end-item based on the characteristics of the equipment. Equipment that meets the definition of an end-item in paragraph (b) of this section is an end-item. Equipment that does not meet the definition of an end-item is a component, accessory, attachment, firmware, or software.
[87 FR 16411, Mar. 23, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 12213, Feb. 27, 2023]
§ 120.41
Specially designed.
(a) Except for commodities or software described in paragraph (b) of this
section, a commodity or software is specially designed if it:
(1) As a result of development, has properties peculiarly responsible for achieving or exceeding the controlled performance levels, characteristics, or functions described in the relevant U.S. Munitions List (USML) paragraph in § 121.1 of this subchapter; or

# Note 1 to paragraph (a)(1):
An example of a commodity that as a result of development has properties peculiarly responsible for achieving or exceeding the controlled performance levels, functions, or characteristics in a USML category would be a swimmer delivery vehicle specially designed to dock with a submarine to provide submerged transport for swimmers or divers from submarines.
(2) Is a part, component, accessory, attachment, or software for use in or with a defense article.
(b) For purposes of this subchapter, a part, component, accessory, attachment, or software is not specially designed if it:
(1) Is subject to the EAR pursuant to a commodity jurisdiction determination;
(2) Is, regardless of form or fit, a fastener (e.g., screws, bolts, nuts, nut plates, studs, inserts, clips, rivets, pins), washer, spacer, insulator, grommet, bushing, spring, wire, or solder;
(3) Has the same function, performance capabilities, and the same or equivalent form and fit as a commodity or software used in or with a commodity that:
(i) Is or was in production (
i.e.,
not in development); and
(ii) Is not enumerated on the USML;
(4) Was or is being developed with knowledge that it is or would be for use in or with both defense articles enumerated on the USML and also commodities not on the USML; or
(5) Was or is being developed as a general purpose commodity or software,
i.e.,
with no knowledge for use in or with a particular commodity (e.g., a F/A-18 or HMMWV) or type of commodity (e.g., an aircraft or machine tool).

# Note 2 to paragraph (b):
For a defense article not to be specially designed on the basis of paragraph (b)(4) or (5) of this section, documents contemporaneous with its development, in their totality, must establish the elements of paragraph (b)(4) or (5). Such documents may include concept design information, marketing plans, declarations in patent applications, or contracts. Absent such documents, the commodity may not be excluded from being specially designed by either paragraph (b)(4) or (5).

# Note 3 to paragraph (b):
For the purpose of paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section, “knowledge” includes not only the positive knowledge a circumstance exists or is substantially certain to occur, but also an awareness of a high probability of its existence or future occurrence. Such awareness is inferred from evidence of the conscious disregard of facts known to a person and is also inferred from a person's willful avoidance of facts.
§ 120.42
Form, fit, function, performance capability, equivalent, enumerated, and catch-all control.
(a)
Form.
The form of a commodity is defined by its configuration (including the geometrically measured configuration), material, and material properties that uniquely characterize it. For software, the form means the design, logic flow, and algorithms.
(b)
Fit.
The fit of a commodity is defined by its ability to physically interface or connect with or become an integral part of another commodity. For software, the fit is defined by its ability to interface or connect with a defense article.
(c)
Function.
The function of a commodity is the action or actions it is designed to perform. For software, the function means the action or actions the software performs directly related to a defense article or as a standalone application.
(d)
Performance capability.
Performance capability is the measure of a commodity's effectiveness to perform a designated function in a given environment (e.g., measured in terms of speed, durability, reliability, pressure, accuracy, efficiency). For software, performance capability means the measure of the software's effectiveness to perform a designated function.
(e)
Equivalent.
With respect to a commodity, equivalent means its form has been modified solely for fit purposes.
(f)
Enumerated.
Enumerated refers to any item designated on the U.S. Munitions List or item on the Commerce Control List and not in a catch-all control.
(g)
Catch-all control.
A catch-all control is one that does not refer to specific types of parts, components, accessories, or attachments, but rather controls unspecified parts, components, accessories, or attachments only if they were specially designed for an enumerated item.
§ 120.43
Development, production, and related terms; Basic and applied research.
(a)
Development
is related to all stages prior to serial production, such as design, design research, design analyses, design concepts, assembly and testing of prototypes, pilot production schemes, design data, process of transforming design data into a product, configuration design, integration design, and layouts. Development includes modification of an existing design.
(b)(1)
Production
means all production stages, such as product engineering, manufacture, integration, assembly (mounting), inspection, testing, and quality assurance. This includes serial production where commodities have passed production readiness testing (
i.e.,
an approved, standardized design ready for large scale production) and have been or are being produced on an assembly line for multiple commodities using the approved, standardized design.
(2) Commodities in production that are subsequently subject to development activities, such as those that would result in enhancements or improvements only in the reliability or maintainability of the commodity (e.g., an increased mean time between failure), including those pertaining to quality improvements, cost reductions, or feature enhancements, remain in production. However, any new models or versions of such commodities developed from such efforts that change the basic performance or capability of the commodity are in development until and unless they enter into production.
(c)
Design methodology
includes the underlying engineering methods and design philosophy utilized (
i.e.,
information that explains the rationale for a particular design decision, engineering feature, or performance requirement); engineering experience (e.g., lessons learned); and the rationale and associated databases (e.g., design allowables, factors of safety, component life predictions, failure analysis criteria) that establish the operational requirements (e.g., performance, mechanical, electrical, electronic, reliability and maintainability) of a defense article. (Final analytical results and the initial conditions and parameters may be provided.)
(d)
Engineering analysis
includes the analytical methods and tools used to design or evaluate a defense article's performance against the operational requirements. Analytical methods and tools include the development and/or use of mockups, computer models and simulations, and test facilities. (Final analytical results and the initial conditions and parameters may be provided.)
(e)
Manufacturing know-how
includes information that provides detailed manufacturing processes and techniques needed to translate a detailed design into a qualified, finished defense article. (Information may be provided in a build-to-print package that is necessary in order to produce an acceptable defense article.)
(f)
Build-to-print
means that a foreign consignee can produce a defense article from engineering drawings without any technical assistance from a U.S. exporter. This transaction is based strictly on a hands-off approach since the foreign consignee is understood to have the inherent capability to produce the defense article and only lacks the necessary drawings. Supporting documentation (e.g., acceptance criteria, object code software for numerically controlled machines) may be released on an as-required basis (i.e., must have) such that the foreign consignee would not be able to produce an acceptable defense article without this additional supporting documentation. Build-to-print does not include the release of any information which discloses design methodology, engineering analysis, detailed process information or manufacturing know-how. Documentation which is not absolutely necessary to permit manufacture of an acceptable defense article (
i.e.
nice to have) is not considered within the boundaries of a build-to-print data package.
(g)
Build/design-to-specification
means that a foreign consignee can design and produce a defense article from requirement specifications without any technical assistance from the U.S. exporter. This transaction is based strictly on a hands-off approach since the foreign consignee is understood to have the inherent capability to both design and produce the defense article and only lacks the necessary requirement information.
(h)
Basic research
means a systemic study directed toward greater knowledge or understanding of the fundamental aspects of phenomena and observable facts without specific applications towards processes or products in mind. It does not include applied research.
(i)
Applied research
means a systemic study to gain knowledge or understanding necessary to determine the means by which a recognized and specific need may be met. It is a systematic application of knowledge toward the production of useful materials, devices, and systems or methods, including design, development, and improvement of prototypes and new processes to meet specific requirements.
§ 120.44
[Reserved]
§ 120.45
Maintenance levels.
(a)
Organizational-level maintenance
(or basic-level maintenance) is the first level of maintenance that can be performed on-equipment (directly on the defense article or support equipment) without specialized training. It consists of repairing, inspecting, servicing, calibrating, lubricating, or adjusting equipment, as well as replacing minor parts, components, assemblies, and line-replaceable spares or units. This includes modifications, enhancements, or upgrades that would result in improving only the reliability or maintainability of the commodity (e.g., an increased mean time between failure) and does not enhance the basic performance or capability of the defense article.
(b)
Intermediate-level maintenance
is second-level maintenance performed off-equipment (on removed parts, components, or equipment) at or by designated maintenance shops or centers, tenders, or field teams. It may consist of calibrating, repairing, testing, or replacing damaged or unserviceable parts, components, or assemblies. This includes modifications, enhancements, or upgrades that would result in improving only the reliability or maintainability of the commodity (e.g., an increased mean time between failure) and does not enhance the basic performance or capability of the defense article.
(c)
Depot-level maintenance
is third-level maintenance performed on- or off-equipment at or by a major repair facility, shipyard, or field team, each with necessary equipment and personnel of requisite technical skill. It consists of providing evaluation or repair beyond unit or organization capability. This maintenance consists of inspecting, testing, calibrating, repairing, overhauling, refurbishing, reconditioning, and one-to-one replacing of any defective parts, components, or assemblies. This includes modifications, enhancements, or upgrades that would result in improving only the reliability or maintainability of the commodity (e.g., an increased mean time between failure) and does not enhance the basic performance or capability of the defense article.
§§ 120.46-120.49
[Reserved]
§ 120.50
Export.
(a)
Export,
except as set forth in § 120.54 or § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter, means:
(1) An actual shipment or transmission out of the United States, including the sending or taking of a defense article out of the United States in any manner;
(2) Releasing or otherwise transferring technical data to a foreign person in the United States (a deemed export);
(3) Transferring registration, control, or ownership of any aircraft, vessel, or satellite subject to this subchapter by a U.S. person to a foreign person;
(4) Releasing or otherwise transferring a defense article to an embassy or to any of its agencies or subdivisions, such as a diplomatic mission or consulate, in the United States;
(5) Performing a defense service on behalf of, or for the benefit of, a foreign
person, whether in the United States or abroad; or
(6) The release of previously encrypted technical data as described in § 120.56(a)(3) and (4).
(b) Any release in the United States of technical data to a foreign person is deemed to be an export to all countries in which the foreign person has held or holds citizenship or holds permanent residency.
§ 120.51
Reexport.
(a)
Reexport,
except as set forth in § 120.54 or § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter, means:
(1) An actual shipment or transmission of a defense article from one foreign country to another foreign country, including the sending or taking of a defense article to or from such countries in any manner;
(2) Releasing or otherwise transferring technical data to a foreign person who is a citizen or permanent resident of a country other than the foreign country where the release or transfer takes place (a deemed reexport); or
(3) Transferring registration, control, or ownership of any aircraft, vessel, or satellite subject to this subchapter between foreign persons.
(b) Any release outside the United States of technical data to a foreign person is deemed to be a reexport to all countries in which the foreign person has held or holds citizenship or holds permanent residency.
§ 120.52
Retransfer.
(a)
Retransfer,
except as set forth in § 120.54 or § 126.16 or § 126.17 of this subchapter, means:
(1) A change in end-use or end-user, or a temporary transfer to a third party, of a defense article within the same foreign country; or
(2) A release of technical data to a foreign person who is a citizen or permanent resident of the country where the release or transfer takes place.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 120.53
Temporary import.
(a)
Temporary import,
except as set forth in § 120.54, means bringing into the United States from a foreign country any defense article that is:
(1) To be returned to the country from which it was shipped or taken; or
(2) Any defense article that is in transit to another foreign destination.
(b) Temporary import includes withdrawal of a defense article from a customs bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone for the purpose of returning it to the country of origin or country from which it was shipped or for shipment to another foreign destination.
(c) Permanent imports are regulated by the Attorney General under the direction of the Department of Justice's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (see 27 CFR parts 447, 478, 479, and 555).
§ 120.54
Activities that are not exports, reexports, retransfers, or temporary imports.
(a) The following activities are not exports, reexports, retransfers, or temporary imports:
(1) Launching a spacecraft, launch vehicle, payload, or other item into space;
(2) Transmitting or otherwise transferring technical data to a U.S. person in the United States from a person in the United States;
(3) Transmitting or otherwise transferring within the same foreign country technical data between or among only U.S. persons, so long as the transmission or transfer does not result in a release to a foreign person or transfer to a person prohibited from receiving the technical data;
(4) Shipping, moving, or transferring defense articles between or among the United States as defined in § 120.60;
(5) Sending, taking, or storing technical data that is:
(i) Unclassified;
(ii) Secured using end-to-end encryption;
(iii) Secured using cryptographic modules (hardware or software) compliant with the Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 140-2 (FIPS 140-2) or its successors, supplemented by software implementation, cryptographic key management and other procedures and controls that are in accordance with guidance provided in current U.S. National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) publications, or by other cryptographic
means that provide security strength that is at least comparable to the minimum 128 bits of security strength achieved by the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES-128); and
(iv) Not intentionally sent to a person in or stored in a country proscribed in § 126.1 of this subchapter or the Russian Federation; and

# Note 1 to paragraph (a)(5)(iv):
Data in-transit via the internet is not deemed to be stored.
(v) Not sent from a country proscribed in § 126.1 of this subchapter or the Russian Federation;
(6) The taking of a defense article subject to the reexport or retransfer requirements of this subchapter on a deployment or training exercise outside a previously approved country, provided:
(i) There is no change in end-use or end-user with respect to the defense article;
(ii) The defense article is transported by and remains in the possession of the previously authorized armed forces of a foreign government or United Nations military personnel; and
(iii) The defense article is not being exported from or temporarily imported into the United States; and
(7) The transfer of a foreign defense article previously imported into the United States that has since been exported from the United States pursuant to a license or other approval under this subchapter, provided:
(i) The foreign defense article was not modified, enhanced, upgraded, or otherwise altered or improved in a manner that changed the basic performance of the item prior to its return to the country from which it was imported or a third country;
(ii) A U.S.-origin defense article was not incorporated into the foreign defense article; and
(iii) The defense article is not being exported from or temporarily imported into the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, end-to-end encryption is defined as:
(i) The provision of cryptographic protection of data, such that the data is not in an unencrypted form, between an originator (or the originator's in-country security boundary) and an intended recipient (or the recipient's in-country security boundary); and
(ii) The means of decryption are not provided to any third party.
(2) The originator and the intended recipient may be the same person. The intended recipient must be the originator, a U.S. person in the United States, or a person otherwise authorized to receive the technical data, such as by a license or other approval pursuant to this subchapter.
(c) The ability to access technical data in encrypted form that satisfies the criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(5) of this section does not constitute the release or export of such technical data.
[87 FR 16411, Mar. 23, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 66214, Aug. 15, 2024]
§ 120.55
Access information.
Access information
is information that allows access to encrypted technical data subject to this subchapter in an unencrypted form. Examples include decryption keys, network access codes, and passwords.
§ 120.56
Release.
(a)
Release.
Technical data is released through:
(1) Visual or other inspection by foreign persons of a defense article that reveals technical data to a foreign person;
(2) Oral or written exchanges with foreign persons of technical data in the United States or abroad;
(3) The use of access information to cause or enable a foreign person, including yourself, to access, view, or possess unencrypted technical data; or
(4) The use of access information to cause technical data outside of the United States to be in unencrypted form.
(b)
Provision of access information.
Authorization for a release of technical data to a foreign person is required to provide access information to that foreign person, if that access information can cause or enable access, viewing, or possession of the unencrypted technical data.
§ 120.57
Authorization types.
(a)
License
means a document bearing the word “license” issued by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, or authorized
designee, that permits the export, reexport, retransfer, temporary import, or brokering of a specific defense article or defense service controlled by this subchapter.
(b)
Other approval
means a document, other than a license, issued by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, or authorized designee, that approves an activity regulated by this subchapter (e.g., approvals for brokering activities or retransfer authorizations), or the use of an exemption to the license requirements as described in this subchapter.
(c)
Exemption
means a provision of this subchapter that authorizes the export, reexport, retransfer, temporary import, or brokering of a specific defense article or defense service without a license or other written authorization.
(d)
Manufacturing license agreement
means an agreement (e.g., contract), approved by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC), whereby a U.S. person grants a foreign person an authorization to manufacture defense articles abroad and which involves or contemplates:
(1) The export of technical data or defense articles or the performance of a defense service; or
(2) The use by the foreign person of technical data or defense articles previously exported by the U.S. person.
(e)
Technical assistance agreement
means an agreement (e.g., contract), approved by DDTC, for the performance of a defense service(s) or the disclosure of technical data, as opposed to an agreement granting a right or license to manufacture defense articles. Assembly of defense articles is included under this section, provided production rights or manufacturing know-how are not conveyed. Should such rights be transferred, paragraph (d) of this section is applicable.
(f)
Distribution agreement
means an agreement (e.g., a contract), approved by DDTC, to establish a warehouse or distribution point abroad for defense articles exported from the United States for subsequent distribution to entities in an approved sales territory.
§ 120.58
Subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR).
Items
subject to the EAR
are those items listed on the Commerce Control List in part 774 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and all other items that meet the definition of that term in accordance with § 734.3 of the EAR. The EAR is found at 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.
§ 120.59
[Reserved]
§ 120.60
United States.
United States,
when used in the geographical sense, includes the several states, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the insular possessions of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, any territory or possession of the United States, and any territory or possession over which the United States exercises any powers of administration, legislation, and jurisdiction.
§ 120.61
Person.
Person
means a natural person as well as a corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, or any other entity, organization or group, including governmental entities. If a provision in this subchapter does not refer exclusively to a foreign person or U.S. person, then it refers to both.
§ 120.62
U.S. person.
U.S. person
means a person who is a lawful permanent resident as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20) or who is a protected individual as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3). It also means any corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, or any other entity, organization, or group that is incorporated to do business in the United States. It also includes any governmental (Federal, state, or local) entity. It does not include any foreign person as defined in § 120.63.
§ 120.63
Foreign person.
Foreign person
means any natural person who is not a lawful permanent resident as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20) or who is not a protected individual as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3). It also means any foreign
corporation, business association, partnership, trust, society, or any other entity or group that is not incorporated or organized to do business in the United States, as well as international organizations, foreign governments, and any agency or subdivision of foreign governments (e.g., diplomatic missions).
§ 120.64
Regular employee.
(a)
Regular employee
means:
(1) An individual permanently and directly employed by the company; or
(2) An individual in a long term contractual relationship with the company where the individual works at the company's facilities, works under the company's direction and control, works full time and exclusively for the company, and executes nondisclosure certifications for the company, and where the staffing agency that has seconded the individual has no role in the work the individual performs (other than providing that individual for that work) and the staffing agency would not have access to any controlled technology (other than where specifically authorized by a license).
(b) [Reserved]
§ 120.65
Foreign ownership and foreign control.
(a)
Foreign ownership
means more than 50 percent of the outstanding voting securities of the firm are owned by one or more foreign persons.
(b)
Foreign control
means one or more foreign persons have the authority or ability to establish or direct the general policies or day-to-day operations of the firm. Foreign control is presumed to exist where foreign persons own 25 percent or more of the outstanding voting securities unless one U.S. person controls an equal or larger percentage.
§ 120.66
Affiliate.
(a)
Affiliate
(of a registrant) means a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such registrant.
(b) For purposes of this section, “control” means having the authority or ability to establish or direct the general policies or day-to-day operations of the firm. Control is rebuttably presumed to exist where there is ownership of 25 percent or more of the outstanding voting securities if no other person controls an equal or larger percentage.
§ 120.67
Empowered official.
(a)
Empowered official
means a U.S. person who:
(1) Is directly employed by the applicant or a subsidiary in a position having authority for policy or management within the applicant organization; and
(2) Is legally empowered in writing by the applicant to sign license applications or other requests for approval on behalf of the applicant; and
(3) Understands the provisions and requirements of the various export control statutes and regulations, and the criminal liability, civil liability, and administrative penalties for violating the Arms Export Control Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations in this subchapter; and
(4) Has the independent authority to:
(i) Inquire into any aspect of a proposed export, temporary import, or brokering activity by the applicant;
(ii) Verify the legality of the transaction and the accuracy of the information to be submitted; and
(iii) Refuse to sign any license application or other request for approval without prejudice or other adverse recourse.
(b) For the purposes of a broker who is a foreign person, the empowered official may be a foreign person who otherwise meets the criteria for an empowered official in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 120.68
Party to the export.
(a)
Party to the export
means:
(1) The chief executive officer, president, vice-presidents, other senior officers and officials (e.g., comptroller, treasurer, general counsel), and any member of the board of directors of the applicant;
(2) The freight forwarders or designated exporting agent of the applicant; and
(3) Any consignee or end-user of any item to be exported.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 120.69
Port Directors.
Port Directors
means the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Port Directors at the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Ports of Entry (other than the port of New York, New York where their title is the Area Directors).
Pt. 121

# PART 121—THE UNITED STATES MUNITIONS LIST

# Enumeration of Articles
Sec.
121.0
United States Munitions List description and definitions.
121.1
The United States Munitions List.
121.2-121.16
[Reserved]

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2752, 2778, 2797; 22 U.S.C. 2651a; Sec. 1514, Pub. L. 105-261, 112 Stat. 2175; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129, 3 CFR, 2013 Comp., p. 223.

# Source:
58 FR 39287, July 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Enumeration of Articles
§ 121.0
United States Munitions List description and definitions.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 5601, Jan. 17, 2025.
(a) For a description of the U.S. Munitions List and its designations, including the use of asterisks and the parenthetical “(MT)”, see § 120.10 of this subchapter.
(b) As used in this part,
EAR
means Export Administration Regulations in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.
[87 FR 16422, Mar. 23, 2022]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 5601, Jan. 17, 2025, § 121.0 was amended, effective Sept. 15, 2025.
§ 121.1
The United States Munitions List.
Link to an amendment published at 86 FR 48022, Aug. 27, 2021.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 5601, Jan. 17, 2025.
(a)-(b) [Reserved]

# Category I—Firearms and Related Articles
* (a) Firearms using caseless ammunition.
* (b) Fully automatic firearms to .50 caliber (12.7 mm) inclusive.
* (c) Firearms specially designed to integrate fire control, automatic tracking, or automatic firing (e.g., Precision Guided Firearms).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# ):
Integration does not include only attaching to the firearm or rail.
* (d) Fully automatic shotguns regardless of gauge.
* (e) Silencers, mufflers, and sound suppressors.
(f) [Reserved]
(g) Barrels, receivers (frames), bolts, bolt carriers, slides, or sears specially designed for the articles in paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) of this category.
(h) Parts, components, accessories, and attachments, as follows:
(1) Drum and other magazines for firearms to .50 caliber (12.7 mm) inclusive with a capacity greater than 50 rounds, regardless of jurisdiction of the firearm, and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(2) Parts and components specially designed for conversion of a semi-automatic firearm to a fully automatic firearm;
(3) Parts and components specially designed for defense articles described in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this category; or
(4) Accessories or attachments specially designed to automatically stabilize aim (other than gun rests) or for automatic targeting, and specially designed parts and components therefor.
(i) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in ECCNs 0A501, 0B501, 0D501, and 0E501 and defense services using the classified technical data. (See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions.)
(j)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technology subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technology subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Note 1 to Category I:
The following interpretations explain and amplify the terms used in this category:
(1) A firearm is a weapon not over .50 caliber (12.7 mm) which is designed to expel a projectile by the deflagration of propellant;
(2) A fully automatic firearm or shotgun is any firearm or shotgun that shoots, is designed to shoot, or can readily be restored to shoot, automatically more than one shot, without manual reloading, by a single function of the trigger; and
(3) Caseless ammunition is firearm ammunition without a cartridge case that holds the primer, propellant, and projectile together as a unit.

# Category II—Guns and Armament
(a) Guns and armament greater than .50 caliber (12.7 mm), as follows:
* (1) Guns, howitzers, artillery, and cannons;
* (2) Mortars;
* (3) Recoilless rifles;
* (4) Grenade launchers; or
(5) Developmental guns and armament greater than .50 caliber (12.7 mm) funded by the Department of Defense and specially designed parts and components therefor.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(5):
This paragraph does not control guns and armament greater than .50 caliber (12.7 mm):
(a) in production;
(b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination; or
(c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(5):
Note 1 to paragraph (a)(5) does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# )(5):
This provision is applicable to those contracts or other funding authorizations that are dated January 23, 2021, or later.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
This paragraph does not include: Non-automatic and non-semi-automatic rifles, carbines, and pistols between .50 (12.7 mm) and .72 caliber (18.288 mm) that are controlled on the CCL under ECCN 0A501; shotguns controlled on the CCL under ECCN 0A502; black powder guns and armaments manufactured between 1890 and 1919 controlled on the CCL under ECCN 0A602; or black powder guns and armaments manufactured earlier than 1890.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Guns and armament when integrated into their carrier (e.g., surface vessels, ground vehicles, or aircraft) are controlled in the category associated with the carrier. Self-propelled guns and armament are controlled in USML Category VII. Towed guns and armament and stand-alone guns and armament are controlled under this category.
(b) Flamethrowers with an effective range greater than or equal to 20 meters.
(c) [Reserved]
* (d) Kinetic energy weapon systems specially designed for destruction or rendering mission-abort of a target.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
d

# ):
Kinetic energy weapons systems include but are not limited to launch systems and subsystems capable of accelerating masses larger than 0.1g to velocities in excess of 1.6 km/s, in single or rapid fire modes, using methods such as: Electromagnetic, electrothermal, plasma, light gas, or chemical. This does not include launch systems and subsystems used for research and testing facilities subject to the EAR, which are controlled on the CCL under ECCN 2B232.
(e) Signature reduction devices specially designed for the guns and armament controlled in paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) of this category (e.g., muzzle flash suppression devices).
(f)-(i) [Reserved]
(j) Parts, components, accessories, and attachments, as follows:
(1) Gun barrels, rails, tubes, and receivers specially designed for the weapons controlled in paragraphs (a) and (d) of this category;
(2) Sights specially designed to orient indirect fire weapons;
(3) Breech blocks for the weapons controlled in paragraphs (a) and (d) of this category;
(4) Firing mechanisms for the weapons controlled in paragraphs (a) and (d) of this category and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(5) Systems for firing superposed or stacked ammunition and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(6) Servo-electronic and hydraulic elevation adjustment mechanisms;
(7) Muzzle brakes;
(8) Bore evacuators;
(9) Independent ammunition handling systems for the guns and armament controlled in paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) of this category;
(10) Components for independently powered ammunition handling systems and platform interface, as follows:
(i) Mounts;
(ii) Carriages;
(iii) Gun pallets;
(iv) Hydro-pneumatic equilibration cylinders; or
(v) Hydro-pneumatic systems capable of scavenging recoil energy to power howitzer functions;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
j

# )(10):
For weapons mounts specially designed for surface vessels and special naval equipment, see Category VI. For weapons mounts specially designed for ground vehicles, see Category VII.
(11) Ammunition containers/drums, ammunition chutes, ammunition conveyor elements, ammunition feeder systems, and ammunition container/drum entrance and exit units, specially designed for the guns and armament controlled in paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) of this category;
(12) Systems and equipment for the guns and armament controlled in paragraphs (a) and (d) of this category for use in programming ammunition, and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(13) Aircraft/gun interface units to support gun systems with a designed rate of fire
greater than 100 rounds per minute and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(14) Recoil systems specially designed to mitigate the shock associated with the firing process of guns integrated into air platforms and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(15) Prime power generation, energy storage, thermal management, conditioning, switching, and fuel-handling equipment, and the electrical interfaces between the gun power supply and other turret electric drive components specially designed for kinetic weapons controlled in paragraph (d) of this category;
(16) Kinetic energy weapon target acquisition, tracking fire control, and damage assessment systems and specially designed parts and components therefor; or
* (17) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that:
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.
(k) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a), (b), (d), (e), and (j) of this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in ECCNs 0A602, 0B602, 0D602, and 0E602 and defense services using the classified technical data. (See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions.)
(l)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technology subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technology subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Category III—Ammunition and Ordnance
(a) Ammunition, as follows:
* (1) Ammunition that incorporates a projectile controlled in paragraph (d)(1) or (3) of this category;
* (2) Ammunition preassembled into links or belts;
* (3) Shotgun ammunition that incorporates a projectile controlled in paragraph (d)(2) of this category;
* (4) Caseless ammunition manufactured with smokeless powder;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(4):
Caseless ammunition is ammunition without a cartridge case that holds the primer, propellant, and projectile together as a unit.
* (5) Ammunition, except shotgun ammunition, based on non-metallic cases, or non-metallic cases that have only a metallic base, which result in a total cartridge mass 80% or less than the mass of a brass- or steel-cased cartridge that provides comparable ballistic performance;
* (6) Ammunition employing pyrotechnic material in the projectile base or any ammunition employing a projectile that incorporates tracer materials of any type having peak radiance above 710 nm and designed to be observed primarily with night vision optical systems;
* (7) Ammunition for fully automatic firearms that fire superposed or stacked projectiles or for guns that fire superposed or stacked projectiles;
* (8) Electromagnetic armament projectiles or billets for weapons with a design muzzle energy exceeding 5 MJ;
* (9) Ammunition, not specified above, for the guns and armaments controlled in Category II; or
(10) Developmental ammunition funded by the Department of Defense and specially designed parts and components therefor.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(10):
This paragraph does not control ammunition:
(a) in production;
(b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination; or
(c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(10):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# )(10):
This provision is applicable to those contracts or other funding authorizations that are dated January 23, 2021, or later.
(b) Ammunition/ordnance handling equipment specially designed for the articles controlled in this category, as follows:
(1) Belting, linking, and de-linking equipment; or
(2) Fuze setting devices.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Parts and components for the articles in this category, as follows:
(1) Projectiles that use pyrotechnic tracer materials that incorporate any material having peak radiance above 710 nm or are incendiary or explosive;
(2) Shotgun projectiles that are flechettes, incendiary, tracer, or explosive;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
d

# )(2):
This paragraph does not include explosive projectiles specially designed to produce noise for scaring birds or other pests (e.g., bird bombs, whistlers, crackers).
(3) Projectiles of any caliber produced from depleted uranium;
(4) Projectiles not specified above, guided or unguided, for the items controlled in USML Category II, and specially designed parts and components therefor (e.g., fuzes, rotating bands, cases, liners, fins, boosters);
(5) Canisters or sub-munitions (e.g., bomblets or minelets), and specially designed parts and components therefor, for the guns or armament controlled in USML Category II;
(6) Projectiles that employ tips (e.g., M855A1 Enhanced Performance Round (EPR)) or cores regardless of caliber, produced from one or a combination of the following: Tungsten, steel, or beryllium copper alloy;
(7) Cartridge cases, powder bags, or combustible cases specially designed for the items controlled in USML Category II;
(8) Non-metallic cases, including cases that have only a metallic base, for the ammunition controlled in paragraph (a)(5) of this category;
(9) Cartridge links and belts for fully automatic firearms and guns controlled in USML Categories I or II;
(10) Primers other than Boxer, Berdan, or shotshell types;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
d

# )(10):
This paragraph does not control caps or primers of any type in use prior to 1890.
(11) Safing, arming, and fuzing components (to include target detection and proximity sensing devices) for the ammunition in this category and specially designed parts therefor;
(12) Guidance and control components for the ammunition in this category and specially designed parts therefor;
(13) Terminal seeker assemblies for the ammunition in this category and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(14) Illuminating flares or target practice projectiles for the ammunition controlled in paragraph (a)(9) of this category; or
* (15) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that:
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.
(e) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles enumerated in paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) of this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in ECCNs 0A505, 0B505, 0D505, and 0E505 and defense services using the classified technical data. (See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions.)
(f)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technology subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technology subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Note 1 to Category III:
This category does not control ammunition crimped without a projectile (blank star) and dummy ammunition with a pierced powder chamber.

# Note 2 to Category III:
This category does not control cartridge and shell casings that, prior to export, have been rendered useless beyond the possibility of restoration for use as a cartridge or shell casing by means of heating, flame treatment, mangling, crushing, cutting, or popping.

# Note 3 to Category III:
Grenades containing non-lethal or less lethal projectiles are under the jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce.

# Category IV—Launch Vehicles, Guided Missiles, Ballistic Missiles, Rockets, Torpedoes, Bombs, and Mines
* (a) Rockets, space launch vehicles (SLVs), missiles, bombs, torpedoes, depth charges, mines, and grenades, as follows:
(1) Rockets, SLVs, and missiles capable of delivering at least a 500-kg payload to a range of at least 300 km (MT);
(2) Rockets, SLVs, and missiles capable of delivering less than a 500-kg payload to a range of at least 300 km (MT);
(3) Man-portable air defense systems (MANPADS);
(4) Anti-tank missiles and rockets;
(5) Rockets, SLVs, and missiles not meeting the criteria of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this category;
(6) Bombs;
(7) Torpedoes;
(8) Depth charges;
(9) Anti-personnel, anti-vehicle, or anti-armor land mines (e.g., area denial devices);
(10) Anti-helicopter mines;
(11) Naval mines; or
(12) Fragmentation and high explosive hand grenades.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
“Range” is the maximum distance that the specified rocket system is capable of traveling in the mode of stable flight as measured by the projection of its trajectory over the surface of the Earth. The maximum capability based on the design characteristics of the system, when fully loaded with fuel or propellant, will be taken into consideration in determining range. The range for rocket systems will be determined independently of any external factors such as operational restrictions, limitations imposed by telemetry, data links, or other external constraints. For rocket systems, the range will be determined using the trajectory that maximizes range, assuming
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standard atmosphere with zero wind.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
“Payload” is the total mass that can be carried or delivered by the specified rocket, SLV, or missile that is not used to maintain flight.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# ):
This paragraph does not control model and high power rockets (as defined in National Fire Protection Association Code 1122) and kits thereof made of paper, wood, fiberglass, or plastic containing no substantial metal parts and designed to be flown with hobby rocket motors that are certified for consumer use. Such rockets must not contain active controls (e.g., RF, GPS).

# Note 4 to paragraph (
a

# ):
”Mine” means a munition placed under, on, or near the ground or other surface area and designed to be exploded by the presence, proximity, or contact of a person or vehicle.
* (b) Launchers for rockets, SLVs, and missiles, as follows:
(1) Fixed launch sites and mobile launcher mechanisms for any system enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category (MT); or
(2) Fixed launch sites and mobile launcher mechanisms for any system enumerated in paragraphs (a)(3) through (a)(5) of this category (e.g., launch tables, TOW missile, MANPADS).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
For controls on non-SLV launcher mechanisms for use on aircraft, see USML Category VIII(h).

# Note 2 to paragraph (
b

# ):
For controls on launcher mechanisms that are integrated onto a vessel or ground vehicle, see USML Categories VI and VII, respectively.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
b

# ):
This paragraph does not control parts and accessories (e.g., igniters, launch stands) specially designed for consumer use with model and high power rockets (as defined in National Fire Protection Association Code 1122) and kits thereof made of paper, wood, fiberglass, or plastic containing no substantial metal parts and designed to be flown with hobby rocket motors that are certified for consumer use.
(c) Apparatus and devices specially designed for the handling, control, activation, monitoring, detection, protection, discharge, or detonation of the articles enumerated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this category (MT for those systems enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (b)(1) of this category).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# ):
This paragraph includes specialized handling equipment (transporters, cranes, and lifts) specially designed to handle articles enumerated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this category for preparation and launch from fixed and mobile sites. The equipment in this paragraph also includes specially designed robots, robot controllers, and robot end-effectors, and liquid propellant tanks specially designed for the storage or handling of the propellants controlled in USML Category V, CCL ECCNs 1C011, 1C111, and 1C608, or other liquid propellants used in the systems enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(5) of this category.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
c

# ):
Aircraft Missile Protection Systems (AMPS) are controlled in USML Category XI.
* (d) Rocket, SLV, and missile power plants, as follows:
(1) Except as enumerated in paragraph (d)(2) or (d)(3) of this category, individual rocket stages for the articles enumerated in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(5) of this category (MT for those stages usable in systems enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category);
(2) Solid propellant rocket motors, hybrid or gel rocket motors, or liquid propellant rocket engines having a total impulse capacity equal to or greater than 1.1 × 10
6
N·s (MT);
(3) Solid propellant rocket motors, hybrid or gel rocket motors, or liquid propellant rocket engines having a total impulse capacity equal to or greater than 8.41 × 10
5
N·s, but less than 1.1 × 10
6
N·s (MT);
(4) Combined cycle, pulsejet, ramjet, or scramjet engines (MT);
(5) Air-breathing engines that operate above Mach 4 not enumerated in paragraph (d)(4) of this category;
(6) Pressure gain combustion-based propulsion systems not enumerated in paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5) of this category; or
(7) Rocket, SLV, and missile engines and motors, not otherwise enumerated in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) of this category or USML Category XIX.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
d

# ):
This paragraph does not control model and high power rocket motors, containing no more than 5 pounds of propellant, that are certified for U.S. consumer use as described in National Fire Protection Association Code 1125.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
d

# ):
This paragraph does not control thrusters for spacecraft.
(e)-(f) [Reserved]
* (g) Non-nuclear warheads for rockets, bombs, and missiles (e.g., explosive, kinetic, EMP, thermobaric, shape charge, and fuel air explosive (FAE)).
(h) Systems, subsystems, parts, components, accessories, attachments, or associated equipment, as follows:
(1) Flight control and guidance systems (including guidance sets) specially designed for articles enumerated in paragraph (a) of this category (MT for those articles enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category);

# Note to paragraph (
h

# )(1):
A guidance set integrates the process of measuring and computing a vehicle's position and velocity (
i.e.,
navigation) with that of computing and sending commands to the vehicle's flight control systems to correct the trajectory.
(2) Seeker systems specially designed for articles enumerated in paragraph (a) of this category (e.g., radiofrequency, infrared) (MT for articles enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category);
(3) Kinetic kill vehicles and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(4) Missile or rocket thrust vector control systems (MT for those thrust vector control systems usable in articles enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category);
(5) MANPADS grip stocks and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(6) Rocket or missile nozzles and nozzle throats, and specially designed parts and components therefor (MT for those nozzles and nozzle throats usable in systems enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category);
(7) Rocket or missile nose tips, nose fairings, or aerospikes, and specially designed parts and components therefor (MT for those articles enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category);
(8) Re-entry vehicle or warhead heat shields (MT for those re-entry vehicles and heat shields usable in systems enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category);
(9) Missile and rocket safing, arming, fuzing, and firing (SAFF) components (to include target detection and proximity sensing devices), and specially designed parts therefor (MT for those SAFF components usable in systems enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category);
(10) Self-destruct systems specially designed for articles enumerated in paragraph (a) of this category (MT for those articles enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category);
(11) Separation mechanisms, staging mechanisms, and interstages useable for articles enumerated in paragraph (a) of this category, and specially designed parts and components therefor (MT for those separation mechanisms, staging mechanisms, and interstages usable in systems enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category);
(12) Post-boost vehicles (PBV) (MT);
(13) Engine or motor mounts specially designed for articles enumerated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this category (MT for those articles enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (b)(1) of this category);
(14) Combustion chambers specially designed for articles enumerated in paragraphs (a) and (d) of this category and specially designed parts and components therefor (MT for those articles enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (b)(1), and (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this category);
(15) Injectors specially designed for articles controlled in this category (MT for those injectors specially designed which are usable in systems enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category);
(16) Solid rocket motor or liquid engine igniters;
(17) Re-entry vehicles and specially designed parts and components therefor not elsewhere specified in this category (MT);

# Note to paragraph (
h

# )(17):
This paragraph does not control spacecraft. For controls on spacecraft, see USML Category XV and, if not described therein, then CCL ECCN 9A515.
(18) Specially designed parts and components for articles controlled in paragraph (g) not elsewhere specified in this category;
(19) Penetration aids and specially designed parts and components therefor (e.g., physical or electronic countermeasure suites, re-entry vehicle replicas or decoys, or submunitions);
(20) Rocket motor cases and specially designed parts and components therefor (e.g., flanges, flange seals, end domes) (MT for those rocket motor cases usable in systems enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category and for specially designed parts and components for hybrid rocket motors enumerated in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this category);
(21) Solid rocket motor liners and rocket motor insulation (MT for those solid rocket motor liners usable in systems enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category or specially designed for systems enumerated in paragraph (a)(2) of this category; and rocket motor insulation usable in systems enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category);
(22) Radomes, sensor windows, and antenna windows specially designed for articles enumerated in paragraph (a) of this category (MT for those radomes usable in systems enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category and for any radomes, sensor windows, or antenna windows manufactured as composite structures or laminates specially designed for use in the systems and components enumerated in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), (d)(1), (h)(8), (h)(9), (h)(17), or (h)(25) of this category);
(23) Rocket or missile payload fairings;
(24) Rocket or missile launch canisters (MT for those rocket or missile launch canisters designed or modified for systems enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category);
(25) Fuzes specially designed for articles enumerated in paragraph (a) of this category (e.g., proximity, contact, electronic, dispenser proximity, airburst, variable time delay, or multi-option) (MT for those fuzes
usable in systems enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category);
(26) Rocket or missile liquid propellant tanks (MT for those rocket or missile liquid propellant tanks usable in systems enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category);
(27) Rocket or missile altimeters specially designed for use in articles enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category (MT);
(28) Pneumatic, hydraulic, mechanical, electro-optical, or electromechanical flight control systems (including fly-by-wire systems) and attitude control equipment specially designed for use in the rockets or missiles enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category (MT for these systems which have been designed or modified for those enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this category);
(29) Umbilical and interstage electrical connectors specially designed for use in the rockets or missiles enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this category (MT); or

# Note to paragraph (
h

# )(29):
This paragraph also includes electrical connectors installed between the systems specified in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this category and their payload.
* (30) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that (MT for those articles designated as such):
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software directly related to defense articles in this subchapter or 600 series items subject to the EAR; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.
(i) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in ECCNs 0A604, 0B604, 0D604, 9A604, 9B604, or 9D604 and defense services using the classified technical data. Defense services include the furnishing of assistance (including training) to a foreign person in the integration of a satellite or spacecraft to a launch vehicle, including both planning and onsite support, regardless of the jurisdiction, ownership, or origin of the satellite or spacecraft, or whether technical data is used. It also includes the furnishing of assistance (including training) to a foreign person in the launch failure analysis of a launch vehicle, regardless of the jurisdiction, ownership, or origin of the launch vehicle, or whether technical data is used. (See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions, and § 124.15 of this subchapter for special export controls for spacecraft and spacecraft launches.) (MT for technical data and defense services related to articles designated as such.)
(j)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technical data subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Note to Category IV:
If a Missile Technology Control Regime Category I item is included in a system, that system will also be considered as a Category I item, except when the incorporated item cannot be separated, removed, or duplicated.

# Category V—Explosives and Energetic Materials, Propellants, Incendiary Agents, and Their Constituents
* (a) Explosives, and mixtures thereof, as follows:
(1) ADNBF (aminodinitrobenzofuroxan or 7-Amino 4,6-dinitrobenzofurazane-1-oxide) (CAS 97096-78-1);
(2) BNCP (cis-bis(5-nitrotetrazolato) tetra amine-cobalt (III) perchlorate) (CAS 117412-28-9);
(3) CL-14 (diaminodinitrobenzofuroxan or 5,7-diamino-4,6-dinitrobenzofurazane-1-oxide) (CAS 117907-74-1);
(4) CL-20 (HNIW or Hexanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane) (CAS 135285-90-4); clathrates of CL-20 (MT for CL-20);
(5) CP (2-(5-cyanotetrazolato) penta aminecobalt (III) perchlorate) (CAS 70247-32-4);
(6) DADE (1,1-diamino-2,2-dinitroethylene, FOX-7) (CAS 145250-81-3);
(7) DATB (Diaminotrinitrobenzene) (CAS 1630-08-6);
(8) DDFP (1,4-dinitrodifurazanopiperazine);
(9) DDPO (2,6-diamino-3,5-dinitropyrazine-1-oxide, PZO) (CAS 194486-77-6);
(10) DIPAM (3,3′-Diamino-2,2′,4,4′,6,6′-hexanitrobiphenyl or dipicramide) (CAS 17215-44-0);
(11) DNAN (2,4-Dinitroanisole) (CAS 119-27-7);
(12) DNGU (DINGU or dinitroglycoluril) (CAS 55510-04-8);
(13) Furazans, as follows:
(i) DAAOF (DAAF, DAAFox, or diaminoazoxyfurazan);
(ii) DAAzF (diaminoazofurazan) (CAS 78644-90-3);
(iii) ANF (Furazanamine, 4-nitro- or 3-Amino-4-nitrofurazan; or 4-Nitro-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-amine; or 4-Nitro-3-furazanamine; CAS 66328-69-6); or
(iv) ANAzF (Aminonitroazofurazan or 1,2,5-Oxadiazol-3-amine, 4-[2-(4-nitro-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl) diazenyl]; or 1,2,5-Oxadiazol-3-amine, 4-[(4-nitro-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)azo]- (9CI); or Furazanamine, 4-[(nitrofurananyl)azo]-; or 4-[(4-Nitro-1,2,5-
oxadiazol-3-yl)azo]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-amine) (CAS 155438-11-2);
(14) GUDN (Guanylurea dinitramide) FOX-12 (CAS 217464-38-5);
(15) HMX and derivatives, as follows:
(i) HMX (Cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine; octahydro-1,3,5,7-tetranitro-1,3,5,7-tetrazine; 1,3,5,7-tetranitro-1,3,5,7-tetraza-cyclooctane; octogen, octogene) (CAS 2691-41-0) (MT);
(ii) Difluoroaminated analogs of HMX; or
(iii) K-55 (2,4,6,8-tetranitro-2,4,6,8-tetraazabicyclo [3,3,0]-octanone-3, tetranitrosemiglycouril, or keto-bicyclic HMX) (CAS 130256-72-3);
(16) HNAD (hexanitroadamantane) (CAS 143850-71-9);
(17) HNS (hexanitrostilbene) (CAS 20062-22-0);
(18) Imidazoles, as follows:
(i) BNNII (Octohydro-2,5-bis(nitroimino) imidazo [4,5-d]imidazole);
(ii) DNI (2,4-dinitroimidazole) (CAS 5213-49-0);
(iii) FDIA (1-fluoro-2,4-dinitroimidazole);
(iv) NTDNIA (N-(2-nitrotriazolo)-2,4-dinitro-imidazole); or
(v) PTIA (1-picryl-2,4,5-trinitroimidazole);
(19) NTNMH (1-(2-nitrotriazolo)-2-dinitromethylene hydrazine);
(20) NTO (ONTA or 3-nitro-1,2,4-triazol-5-one) (CAS 932-64-9);
(21) Polynitrocubanes with more than four nitro groups;
(22) PYX (2,6-Bis(picrylamino)-3,5-dinitropyridine) (CAS 38082-89-2);
(23) RDX and derivatives, as follows:
(i) RDX (cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine), cyclonite, T4, hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine, 1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triaza-cyclohexane, hexogen, or hexogene) (CAS 121-82-4) (MT);
(ii) Keto-RDX (K-6 or 2,4,6-trinitro-2,4,6-triazacyclohexanone) (CAS 115029-35-1); or
(iii) Difluoraminated derivative of RDX; 1,3-Dinitro-5,5-bis(difluoramino)1,3-diazahexane (CAS No. 193021-34-0);
(24) TAGN (Triaminoguanidinenitrate) (CAS 4000-16-2);
(25) TATB (Triaminotrinitrobenzene) (CAS 3058-38-6);
(26) TEDDZ (3,3,7,7-tetrakis(difluoroamine) octahydro-1,5-dinitro-1,5-diazocine;
(27) Tetrazines, as follows:
(i) BTAT (Bis(2,2,2-trinitroethyl)-3,6-diaminotetrazine); or
(ii) LAX-112 (3,6-diamino-1,2,4,5-tetrazine-1,4-dioxide);
(28) Tetrazoles, as follows:
(i) NTAT (nitrotriazolaminotetrazole); or
(ii) NTNT (1-N-(2-nitrotriazolo)-4-nitrotetrazole);
(29) Tetryl (trinitrophenylmethylnitramine) (CAS 479-45-8);
(30) TEX (4,10-Dinitro-2,6,8,12-tetraoxa-4,10-diazaisowurtzitane);
(31) TNAD (1,4,5,8-tetranitro-1,4,5,8-tetraazadecalin) (CAS 135877-16-6);
(32) TNAZ (1,3,3-trinitroazetidine) (CAS 97645-24-4);
(33) TNGU (SORGUYL or tetranitroglycoluril) (CAS 55510-03-7);
(34) TNP (1,4,5,8-tetranitro-pyridazino [4,5-d] pyridazine) (CAS 229176-04-9);
(35) Triazines, as follows:
(i) DNAM (2-oxy-4,6-dinitroamino-s-triazine) (CAS 19899-80-0); or
(ii) NNHT (2-nitroimino-5-nitro-hexahydro-1,3,5 triazine) (CAS 130400-13-4);
(36) Triazoles, as follows:
(i) 5-azido-2-nitrotriazole;
(ii) ADHTDN (4-amino-3,5-dihydrazino-1,2,4-triazole dinitramide) (CAS 1614-08-0);
(iii) ADNT (1-amino-3,5-dinitro-1,2,4-triazole);
(iv) BDNTA (Bis(dinitrotriazole)amine);
(v) DBT (3,3′-dinitro-5,5-bi-1,2,4-triazole) (CAS 30003-46-4);
(vi) DNBT (dinitrobistriazole) (CAS 70890-46-9);
(vii) NTDNT (1-N-(2-nitrotriazolo) 3,5-dinitro-triazole);
(viii) PDNT (1-picryl-3,5-dinitrotriazole); or
(ix) TACOT (tetranitrobenzotriazolobenzotriazole) (CAS 25243-36-1);
(37) Energetic ionic materials melting between 343 K (70 °C) and 373 K (100 °C) and with detonation velocity exceeding 6800 m/s or detonation pressure exceeding 18 GPa (180 kbar); or
(38) Explosives, not otherwise enumerated in this paragraph or on the CCL in ECCN 1C608, with a detonation velocity exceeding 8700 m/s at maximum density or a detonation pressure exceeding 34 Gpa (340 kbar).
* (b) Propellants, as follows (MT for composite and composite modified double-base propellants):
(1) Any solid propellant with a theoretical specific impulse (see paragraph (k)(4) of this category) greater than:
(i) 240 seconds for non-metallized, non-halogenated propellant;
(ii) 250 seconds for non-metallized, halogenated propellant; or
(iii) 260 seconds for metallized propellant;
(2) Propellants having a force constant of more than 1,200 kJ/Kg;
(3) Propellants that can sustain a steady-state burning rate more than 38 mm/s under standard conditions (as measured in the form of an inhibited single strand) of 6.89 Mpa (68.9 bar) pressure and 294K (21 °C);
(4) Elastomer-modified cast double-based propellants with extensibility at maximum stress greater than 5% at 233 K (−40 °C); or
(5) Other composite and composite modified double-base propellants.
(c) Pyrotechnics, fuels and related substances, and mixtures thereof, as follows:
(1) Alane (aluminum hydride) (CAS 7784-21-6);
(2) Carboranes; decaborane (CAS 17702-41-9); pentaborane and derivatives thereof (MT);
(3) Liquid high energy density fuels, as follows (MT):
(i) Mixed fuels that incorporate both solid and liquid fuels, such as boron slurry, having a mass-based energy density of 40 MJ/kg or greater; or
(ii) Other high energy density fuels and fuel additives (e.g., cubane, ionic solutions, JP-7, JP-10) having a volume-based energy density of 37.5 GJ per cubic meter or greater, measured at 20 °C and one atmosphere (101.325 kPa) pressure;

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(3)(
ii

# ):
JP-4, JP-8, fossil refined fuels or biofuels, or fuels for engines certified for use in civil aviation are not included.
(4) Metal fuels, and fuel or pyrotechnic mixtures in particle form whether spherical, atomized, spheroidal, flaked, or ground, manufactured from material consisting of 99% or more of any of the following:
(i) Metals, and mixtures thereof, as follows:
(A) Beryllium (CAS 7440-41-7) in particle sizes of less than 60 micrometers (MT); or
(B) Iron powder (CAS 7439-89-6) with particle size of 3 micrometers or less produced by reduction of iron oxide with hydrogen;
(ii) Fuel mixtures or pyrotechnic mixtures, which contain any of the following:
(A) Boron (CAS 7440-42-8) or boron carbide (CAS 12069-32-8) fuels of 85% purity or higher and particle sizes of less than 60 micrometers; or
(B) Zirconium (CAS 7440-67-7), magnesium (CAS 7439-95-4), or alloys of these in particle sizes of less than 60 micrometers;
(iii) Explosives and fuels containing the metals or alloys listed in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (c)(4)(ii) of this category whether or not the metals or alloys are encapsulated in aluminum, magnesium, zirconium, or beryllium;
(5) Fuel, pyrotechnic, or energetic mixtures having any nanosized aluminum, beryllium, boron, zirconium, magnesium, or titanium, as follows:
(i) Having particle size less than 200 nm in any direction; and
(ii) Having 60% or higher purity;
(6) Pyrotechnic and pyrophoric materials, as follows:
(i) Pyrotechnic or pyrophoric materials specifically formulated to enhance or control the production of radiated energy in any part of the IR spectrum; or
(ii) Mixtures of magnesium, polytetrafluoroethylene and the copolymer vinylidene difluoride and hexafluoropropylene (MT);
(7) Titanium subhydride (TiHn) of stoichiometry equivalent to n = 0.65-1.68; or
(8) Hydrocarbon fuels specially formulated for use in flame throwers or incendiary munitions containing metal stearates (e.g., octal) or palmitates, and M1, M2, and M3 thickeners.
(d) Oxidizers, as follows:
(1) ADN (ammonium dinitramide or SR-12) (CAS 140456-78-6) (MT);
(2) AP (ammonium perchlorate) (CAS 7790-98-9) (MT);
(3) BDNPN (bis(2,2-dinitropropyl)nitrate) (CAS 28464-24-6);
(4) DNAD (1,3-dinitro-1,3-diazetidine) (CAS 78246-06-7);
(5) HAN (Hydroxylammonium nitrate) (CAS 13465-08-2);
(6) HAP (hydroxylammonium perchlorate) (CAS 15588-62-2);
(7) HNF (Hydrazinium nitroformate) (CAS 20773-28-8) (MT);
(8) Hydrazine nitrate (CAS 37836-27-4) (MT);
(9) Hydrazine perchlorate (CAS 27978-54-7) (MT);
(10) Inhibited red fuming nitric acid (IRFNA) (CAS 8007-58-7) and liquid oxidizers comprised of or containing IRFNA or oxygen difluoride (MT for liquid oxidizers comprised of IRFNA); or
(11) Perchlorates, chlorates, and chromates composited with powdered metal or other high energy fuel components controlled under this category (MT).
* (e) Binders, and mixtures thereof, as follows:
(1) AMMO (azidomethylmethyloxetane and its polymers) (CAS 90683-29-7);
(2) BAMO-3-3 (bis(azidomethyl)oxetane and its polymers) (CAS 17607-20-4);
(3) BTTN (butanetriol trinitrate) (CAS 6659-60-5) (MT);
(4) FAMAO (3-difluoroaminomethyl-3-azidomethyloxetane) and its polymers;
(5) FEFO (bis(2-fluoro-2,2-dinitroethyl)formal) (CAS 17003-79-1);
(6) GAP (glycidyl azide polymer) (CAS 143178-24-9) and its derivatives (MT for GAP);
(7) HTPB (hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene) with a hydroxyl functionality equal to or greater than 2.2 and less than or equal to 2.4, a hydroxyl value of less than 0.77 meq/g, and a viscosity at 30 °C of less than 47 poise (CAS 69102-90-5) (MT);
(8) 4,5 diazidomethyl-2-methyl-1,2,3-triazole (iso-DAMTR) (MT);
(9) NENAS (nitratoethylnitramine compounds), as follows:
(i) N-Methyl 2-nitratoethylnitramine (Methyl-NENA) (CAS 17096-47-8) (MT);
(ii) N-Ethyl 2-nitratoethylnitramine (Ethyl-NENA) (CAS 85068-73-1) (MT);
(iii) N-Propyl 2-nitratoethylnitramine (CAS 82486-83-7);
(iv) N-Butyl-2-nitratoethylnitramine (BuNENA) (CAS 82486-82-6); or
(v) N-Pentyl 2-nitratoethylnitramine (CAS 85954-06-9);
(10) Poly-NIMMO (poly nitratomethylmethyoxetane, poly-NMMO,
(poly[3-nitratomethyl-3-methyl oxetane]) (CAS 84051-81-0);
(11) PNO (Poly(3-nitratooxetane));
(12) TVOPA 1,2,3-Tris [1,2-bis(difluoroamino)ethoxy]propane; tris vinoxy propane adduct (CAS 53159-39-0);
(13) Polynitrorthocarbonates;
(14) FPF-1 (poly-2,2,3,3,4,4-hexafluoro pentane-1,5-diolformal) (CAS 376-90-9);
(15) FPF-3 (poly-2,4,4,5,5,6,6-heptafluoro-2-trifluoromethyl-3-oxaheptane-1,7-diolformal);
(16) PGN (Polyglycidyl nitrate or poly(nitratomethyloxirane); poly-GLYN); (CAS 27814-48-8);
(17) N-methyl-p-nitroaniline (MT);
(18) Low (less than 10,000) molecular weight, alcohol-functionalized, poly(epichlorohydrin); poly(epichlorohydrindiol); and triol; or
(19) Dinitropropyl based plasticizers, as follows (MT):
(i) BDNPA (bis (2,2-dinitropropyl) acetal) (CAS 5108-69-0); or
(ii) BDNPF (bis (2,2-dinitropropyl) formal) (CAS 5917-61-3).
(f) Additives, as follows:
(1) Basic copper salicylate (CAS 62320-94-9);
(2) BHEGA (Bis-(2-hydroxyethyl)glycolamide) (CAS 17409-41-5);
(3) BNO (Butadienenitrile oxide);
(4) Ferrocene derivatives, as follows (MT):
(i) Butacene (CAS 125856-62-4);
(ii) Catocene (2,2-Bis-ethylferrocenylpropane) (CAS 37206-42-1);
(iii) Ferrocene carboxylic acids and ferrocene carboxylic acid esters;
(iv) n-butylferrocene (CAS 31904-29-7);
(v) Ethylferrocene (CAS 1273-89-8);
(vi) Propylferrocene;
(vii) Pentylferrocene (CAS 1274-00-6);
(viii) Dicyclopentylferrocene;
(ix) Dicyclohexylferrocene;
(x) Diethylferrocene (CAS 173-97-8);
(xi) Dipropylferrocene;
(xii) Dibutylferrocene (CAS 1274-08-4);
(xiii) Dihexylferrocene (CAS 93894-59-8);
(xiv) Acetylferrocene (CAS 1271-55-2)/1,1′-diacetyl ferrocene (CAS 1273-94-5); or
(xv) Other ferrocene derivatives that do not contain a six carbon aromatic functional group attached to the ferrocene molecule (MT if usable as rocket propellant burning rate modifier);
(5) Lead beta-resorcylate (CAS 20936-32-7);
(6) Lead citrate (CAS 14450-60-3);
(7) Lead-copper chelates of beta-resorcylate or salicylates (CAS 68411-07-4);
(8) Lead maleate (CAS 19136-34-6);
(9) Lead salicylate (CAS 15748-73-9);
(10) Lead stannate (CAS 12036-31-6);
(11) MAPO (tris-1-(2-methyl) aziridinylphosphine oxide) (CAS 57-39-6); BOBBA-8 (bis(2-methyl aziridinyl)-2-(2-hydroxypropanoxy) propylamino phosphine oxide); and other MAPO derivatives (MT for MAPO);
(12) Methyl BAPO (Bis(2-methyl aziridinyl)methylaminophosphine oxide) (CAS 85068-72-0);
(13) 3-Nitraza-1,5-pentane diisocyanate (CAS 7406-61-9);
(14) Organo-metallic coupling agents, as follows:
(i) Neopentyl[diallyl]oxy, tri [dioctyl] phosphatotitanate (CAS 103850-22-2); also known as titanium IV, 2,2[bis 2-propenolato-methyl, butanolato, tris (dioctyl) phosphato] (CAS 110438-25-0), or LICA 12 (CAS 103850-22-2);
(ii) Titanium IV, [(2-propenolato-1) methyl, n-propanolatomethyl] butanolato-1, tris(dioctyl)pyrophosphate, or KR3538; or
(iii) Titanium IV, [(2-propenolato-1)methyl, propanolatomethyl] butanolato-1, tris(dioctyl) phosphate;
(15) PCDE (Polycyanodifluoroaminoethylene oxide);
(16) Certain bonding agents, as follows (MT):
(i) 1,1R,1S-trimesoyl-tris(2-ethylaziridine) (HX-868, BITA) (CAS 7722-73-8); or
(ii) Polyfunctional aziridine amides with isophthalic, trimesic, isocyanuric, or trimethyladipic backbone also having a 2-methyl or 2-ethyl aziridine group;

# Note to paragraph (
f

# )(16)(
ii

# ):
Included are (1) 1,1H-Isophthaloyl-bis(2-methylaziridine) (HX-752) (CAS 7652-64-4); (2) 2,4,6-tris(2-ethyl-1-aziridinyl)-1,3,5-triazine (HX-874) (CAS 18924-91-9); and (3) 1,1′-trimethyladipoylbis(2-ethylaziridine) (HX-877) (CAS 71463-62-2).
(17) Superfine iron oxide (Fe
2
O
3
, hematite) with a specific surface area more than 250 m
2
/g and an average particle size of 0.003 micrometers or less (CAS 1309-37-1);
(18) TEPAN (HX-879) (tetraethylenepentaamineacrylonitrile) (CAS 68412-45-3); cyanoethylated polyamines and their salts (MT for TEPAN (HX-879));
(19) TEPANOL (HX-878) (tetraethy-lenepentaamineacrylonitrileglycidol) (CAS 68412-46-4); cyanoethylated polyamines adducted with glycidol and their salts (MT for TEPANOL (HX-878));
(20) TPB (triphenyl bismuth) (CAS 603-33-8) (MT); or
(21) Tris (ethoxyphenyl) bismuth (TEPB) (CAS 90591-48-3).
(g) Precursors, as follows:
(1) BCMO (3,3-bis(chloromethyl)oxetane) (CAS 78-71-7);
(2) DADN (1,5-diacetyl-3,7-dinitro-1, 3, 5, 7-tetraazacyclooctane);
(3) Dinitroazetidine-t-butyl salt (CAS 125735-38-8);
(4) CL-20 precursors (any molecule containing hexaazaisowurtzitane) (e.g., HBIW (hexabenzylhexaazaisowurtzitane), TAIW (tetraacetyldibenzylhexa-azaisowurtzitane));
(5) TAT (1, 3, 5, 7-tetraacetyl-1, 3, 5, 7-tetraazacyclooctane) (CAS 41378-98-7);
(6) Tetraazadecalin (CAS 5409-42-7);
(7) 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene (CAS 108-70-3); or
(8) 1,2,4-trihydroxybutane (1,2,4-butanetriol) (CAS 3068-00-6).
* (h) Any explosive, propellant, pyrotechnic, fuel, oxidizer, binder, additive, or precursor that (MT for articles designated as such):
(1) Is classified; or
(2) Is being developed using classified information.
(i) Developmental explosives, propellants, pyrotechnics, fuels, oxidizers, binders, additives, or precursors therefor funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
i

# ):
This paragraph does not control explosives, propellants, pyrotechnics, fuels, oxidizers, binders, additives, or precursors therefor (a) in production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
i

# ):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
i

# ):
This paragraph is applicable only to those contracts and funding authorizations that are dated January 5, 2015, or later.
(j) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this category (see also § 120.5(c) of this subchapter for nuclear related controls) (MT for articles designated as such).
(k) The following interpretations explain and amplify the terms used in this category and elsewhere in this subchapter:
(1) USML Category V contains explosives, energetic materials, propellants, and pyrotechnics and specially formulated fuels for aircraft, missile, and naval applications. Explosives are solid, liquid, or gaseous substances or mixtures of substances, which, in their primary, booster, or main charges in warheads, demolition, or other military applications, are required to detonate.
(2) The resulting product of the combination or conversion of any substance controlled by this category into an item not controlled will no longer be controlled by this category provided the controlled item cannot easily be recovered through dissolution, melting, sieving, etc. As an example, beryllium converted to a near net shape using hot isostatic processes will result in an uncontrolled part. A cured thermoset containing beryllium powder is not controlled unless meeting an explosive or propellant control. The mixture of beryllium powder in a cured thermoset shape is not controlled by this category. The mixture of controlled beryllium powder mixed with a typical propellant binder will remain controlled by this category. The addition of dry silica powder to dry beryllium powder will remain controlled.
(3) Paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this category does not apply to boron and boron carbide enriched with boron-10 (20% or more of total boron-10 content).
(4) Theoretical specific impulse (Isp) is calculated using standard conditions (1000 psi chamber pressure expanded to 14.7 psi) and measured in units of pound-force-seconds per pound-mass (lbf-s/lbm) or simplified to seconds (s). Calculations will be based on shifting equilibrium.
(5) Particle size is the mean particle diameter on a weight basis. Best industrial practices will be used in determining particle size and the controls may not be undermined by addition of larger or smaller sized material to shift the mean diameter.
(l)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technical data subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Note 1 to USML Category V:
To assist the exporter, an item has been categorized by the most common use. Also, where appropriate, references have been provided to the related controlled precursors.

# Note 2 to USML Category V:
Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) registry numbers do not cover all the substances and mixtures controlled by this category. The numbers are provided as examples to assist government agencies in the license review process and exporters when completing their license application and export documentation.

# Note 3 to USML Category V:
Items controlled in this Category, except for materials described in paragraph (c)(6), (h), or (i), are licensed by the Department of Commerce when incorporated into an item subject to the EAR and classified under ECCN 1C608.

# Category VI—Surface Vessels of War and Special Naval Equipment
* (a) Warships and other combatant vessels (
i.e.,
battleships, aircraft carriers, destroyers, frigates, cruisers, corvettes, littoral combat ships, mine sweepers, mine hunters, mine countermeasure ships, dock landing ships, amphibious assault ships), Coast Guard Cutters (with or equivalent to those with U.S. designations WHEC, WMEC, WMSL, or WPB for the purpose of this subchapter), or foreign-origin vessels specially
designed to provide functions equivalent to those of the vessels listed above;
(b) Other vessels not controlled in paragraph (a) of this category, as follows:
(1) High-speed air cushion vessels for transporting cargo and personnel, ship-to-shore and across a beach, with a payload over 25 tons;
(2) Surface vessels integrated with nuclear propulsion plants or specially designed to support naval nuclear propulsion plants;
(3) Vessels armed or specially designed to be used as a platform to deliver munitions or otherwise destroy or incapacitate targets (e.g., firing lasers, launching torpedoes, rockets, or missiles, or firing munitions greater than .50 caliber); or
(4) Vessels incorporating any mission systems controlled under this subchapter.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(
4

# ):
“Mission systems” are defined as “systems” (see § 120.40(h) of this subchapter) that are defense articles that perform specific military functions such as by providing military communication, electronic warfare, target designation, surveillance, target detection, or sensor capabilities.

# Note to paragraphs (
a

# ) and (
b

# ):
Vessels specially designed for military use that are not identified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this category are subject to the EAR under ECCN 8A609, including any demilitarized vessels, regardless of origin or designation, manufactured prior to 1950 and unmodified since 1949. Vessels with modifications made to incorporate safety features required by law, are cosmetic (e.g., different paint), or that add parts or components otherwise available prior to 1950 are considered “unmodified” for the purposes of this paragraph.
(c) Developmental vessels, and specially designed parts, components, accessories, and attachments therefor, funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# ):
This paragraph does not control vessels, and specially designed parts, components, accessories, and attachments therefor, (a) in production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
c

# ):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
c

# ):
This provision is applicable to those contracts and funding authorizations that are dated July 8, 2014, or later.
(d) [Reserved]
* (e) Naval nuclear propulsion plants and prototypes, and special facilities for construction, support, and maintenance therefor(see also § 120.5(c) of this subchapter for nuclear related controls).
(f) Vessel and naval equipment, parts, components, accessories, attachments, associated equipment, and systems, as follows:
(1) Hulls or superstructures, including support structures therefor, that:
(i) Are specially designed for any vessels controlled in paragraph (a) of this category;
(ii) Have armor, active protection systems, or developmental armor systems; or
(iii) Are specially designed to survive 12.5% or greater damage across the length as measured between perpendiculars;
(2) Systems that manage, store, create, distribute, conserve, and transfer energy, and specially designed parts and components therefor, that have:
(i) Storage exceeding 30MJ;
(ii) A discharge rate less than 3 seconds; and
(iii) A cycle time under 45 seconds;
(3) Shipborne auxiliary systems for chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) compartmentalization, over-pressurization and filtration systems, and specially designed parts and components therefor;
* (4) Control and monitoring systems for autonomous unmanned vessels capable of on-board, autonomous perception and decision-making necessary for the vessel to navigate while avoiding fixed and moving hazards, and obeying rules-of-the road without human intervention;
* (5) Any machinery, device, component, or equipment, including production, testing and inspection equipment, and tooling, specially designed for plants or facilities controlled in paragraph (e) of this section (see also § 120.5(c) of this subchapter for nuclear related controls);
(6) Parts, components, accessories, attachments, and equipment specially designed for integration of articles controlled by USML Categories II, IV, or XVIII or catapults for launching aircraft or arresting gear for recovering aircraft (MT for launcher mechanisms specially designed for rockets, space launch vehicles, or missiles capable of achieving a range greater than or equal to 300 km);

# Note to paragraph (
f

# )(6):
“Range” is the maximum distance that the specified rocket system is capable of traveling in the mode of stable flight as measured by the projection of its trajectory over the surface of the Earth. The maximum capability based on the design characteristics of the system, when fully loaded with fuel or propellant, will be taken into consideration in determining range. The range for rocket systems will be determined independently of any external
factors such as operational restrictions, limitations imposed by telemetry, data links, or other external constraints. For rocket systems, the range will be determined using the trajectory that maximizes range, assuming International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standard atmosphere with zero wind.
(7) Shipborne active protection systems (
i.e.,
defensive systems that actively detect and track incoming threats and launch a ballistic, explosive, energy, or electromagnetic countermeasure(s) to neutralize the threat prior to contact with a vessel) and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(8) Minesweeping and mine hunting equipment (including mine countermeasures equipment deployed by aircraft), and specially designed parts and components therefor; or
* (9) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that:
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software directly related to defense articles in this subchapter or 600 series items subject to the EAR; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
f

# ):
Parts, components, accessories, attachments, associated equipment, and systems specially designed for vessels described in this category but not listed in paragraph (f) are subject to the EAR under ECCN 8A609.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
f

# ):
For controls related to ship signature management, see USML Category XIII.
(g) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in ECCNs 8A609, 8B609, 8C609, and 8D609 and defense services using the classified technical data. (MT for technical data and defense services related to articles designated as such.)
(See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions.)
(h)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technical data subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Category VII—Ground Vehicles
* (a) Armored combat ground vehicles as follows:
(1) Tanks; or
(2) Infantry fighting vehicles.
* (b) Ground vehicles (not enumerated in paragraph (a) of this category) and trailers that are armed or are specially designed to be used as a firing or launch platform to deliver munitions or otherwise destroy or incapacitate targets (e.g., firing lasers, launching rockets, firing missiles, firing mortars, firing artillery rounds, or firing other ammunition greater than .50 caliber) (MT if specially designed for rockets, space launch vehicles, missiles, drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of delivering a payload of at least 500 kg to a range of at least 300 km).
(c) Ground vehicles and trailers equipped with any mission systems controlled under this subchapter (MT if specially designed for rockets, space launch vehicles, missiles, drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of delivering a payload of at least 500 kg to a range of at least 300 km).

# Note to paragraph (
c

# ):
“Mission systems” are defined as “systems” (see § 120.40(h) of this subchapter) that are defense articles that perform specific military functions, such as by providing military communication, target designation, surveillance, target detection, or sensor capabilities.

# Note to paragraphs (
b

# ) and (
c

# ):
“Payload” is the total mass that can be carried or delivered by the specified rocket, space launch vehicle, missile, drone, or unmanned aerial vehicle that is not used to maintain flight. For definition of “range” as it pertains to aircraft systems, see note to paragraph (a) USML Category VIII. For definition of “range” as it pertains to rocket systems, see note to paragraph (f)(6) of USML Category VI.
(d) [Reserved]
* (e) Armored support vehicles capable of off-road or amphibious use specially designed to transport or deploy personnel or materiel, or to move with other vehicles over land in close support of combat vehicles or troops (e.g., personnel carriers, resupply vehicles, combat engineer vehicles, recovery vehicles, reconnaissance vehicles, bridge launching vehicles, ambulances, and command and control vehicles).
(f) [Reserved]
(g) Ground vehicle parts, components, accessories, attachments, associated equipment, and systems as follows:
(1) Armored hulls, armored turrets, and turret rings;
(2) Active protection systems (
i.e.,
defensive systems that actively detect and track incoming threats and launch a ballistic, explosive, energy, or electromagnetic countermeasure(s) to neutralize the threat prior to contact with a vehicle) and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(3) Composite armor parts and components specially designed for the vehicles in this category;
(4) Spaced armor components and parts, including slat armor parts and components specially designed for the vehicles in this category;
(5) Reactive armor parts and components;
(6) Electromagnetic armor parts and components, including pulsed power specially designed parts and components therefor;

# Note to paragraphs (
g

# )(3)-(6):
See USML Category XIII(m)(1)-(4) for interpretations which explain and amplify terms used in these paragraphs.
(7) Built in test equipment (BITE) to evaluate the condition of weapons or other mission systems for vehicles identified in this category, excluding equipment that provides diagnostics solely for a subsystem or component involved in the basic operation of the vehicle;
(8) Gun mount, stabilization, turret drive, and automatic elevating systems, and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(9) Self-launching bridge components rated class 60 or above for deployment by vehicles in this category;
(10) Suspension components as follows:
(i) Rotary shock absorbers specially designed for the vehicles weighing more than 30 tons in this category; or
(ii) Torsion bars specially designed for the vehicles weighing more than 50 tons in this category;
(11) Kits specially designed to convert a vehicle in this category into either an unmanned or a driver-optional vehicle. For a kit to be controlled by this paragraph, it must, at a minimum, include equipment for:
(i) Remote or autonomous steering;
(ii) Acceleration and braking; and
(iii) A control system;
(12) Fire control computers, mission computers, vehicle management computers, integrated core processers, stores management systems, armaments control processors, vehicle-weapon interface units and computers;
(13) Test or calibration equipment for the mission systems of the vehicles in this category, except those enumerated elsewhere; or
* (14) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that (MT for those articles designated as such):
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software directly related to defense articles in this subchapter or 600 series items subject to the EAR; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.

# Note to paragraph (
g

# ):
Parts, components, accessories, attachments, associated equipment, and systems specially designed for vehicles in this category but not listed in paragraph (g) are subject to the EAR under ECCN 0A606.
(h) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in ECCNs 0A606, 0B606, 0C606, and 0D606 and defense services using the classified technical data. (See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions.) (MT for technical data and defense services related to articles designated as such.)
(i)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technical data subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Note 1 to Category VII:
Ground vehicles specially designed for military applications that are not identified in this category are subject to the EAR under ECCN 0A606, including any unarmed ground vehicles, regardless of origin or designation, manufactured prior to 1956 and unmodified since 1955. Ground vehicles with modifications made to incorporate safety features required by law, are cosmetic (e.g., different paint, repositioning of bolt holes), or that add parts or components otherwise available prior to 1956 are considered “unmodified” for the purposes of this paragraph. ECCN 0A606 also includes unarmed vehicles derived from otherwise EAR99 civilian vehicles that have been modified or otherwise fitted with materials to provide ballistic protection, including protection to level III (National Institute of Justice Standard 0108.01, September 1985) or better and that do not have reactive or electromagnetic armor.

# Note 2 to Category VII:
Armored ground vehicles are (i) ground vehicles that have integrated, fully armored hulls or cabs, or (ii) ground vehicles on which add-on armor has been installed to provide ballistic protection to level III (National Institute of Justice Standard 0108.01, September 1985) or better. Armored support vehicles do not include those that are merely capable of being equipped with add-on armor.

# Note 3 to Category VII:
Ground vehicles include any vehicle meeting the definitions or control parameters regardless of the surface (e.g., highway, off-road, rail) upon which the vehicle is designed to operate.

# Category VIII—Aircraft and Related Articles
(a) Aircraft, whether manned, unmanned, remotely piloted, or optionally piloted, as follows (MT if the aircraft, excluding
manned aircraft, has a range equal to or greater than 300 km):
* (1) Bombers;
* (2) Fighters, fighter bombers, and fixed-wing attack aircraft;
* (3) Turbofan- or turbojet-powered trainers used to train pilots for fighter, attack, or bomber aircraft;
* (4) Attack helicopters;
* (5) Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) specially designed to incorporate a defense article;
* (6) [Reserved]
* (7) Aircraft specially designed to incorporate a defense article for the purpose of performing an intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance function;
* (8) Aircraft specially designed to incorporate a defense article for the purpose of performing an electronic warfare function; airborne warning and control aircraft; or aircraft specially designed to incorporate a defense article for the purpose of performing a command, control, and communications function;
(9) Aircraft specially designed to incorporate a defense article for the purpose of performing an air refueling function;
(10) Target drones;
(11) [Reserved]
(12) Aircraft capable of being refueled in-flight including hover-in-flight refueling (HIFR);
(13) [Reserved]
(14) Aircraft with a roll-on/roll-off ramp, capable of airlifting payloads over 35,000 lbs. to ranges over 2,000 nm without being refueled in-flight, and landing onto short or unimproved airfields, other than L-100 and LM-100J aircraft;
* (15) Aircraft not enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(14) as follows:
(i) U.S.-origin aircraft that bear an original military designation of A, B, E, F, K, M, P, R, or S; or
(ii) Foreign-origin aircraft specially designed to provide functions equivalent to those of the aircraft listed in paragraph (a)(15)(i) of this category; or
(16) Aircraft that are armed or are specially designed to be used as a platform to deliver munitions or otherwise destroy targets (e.g., firing lasers, launching rockets, firing missiles, dropping bombs, or strafing);

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Aircraft specially designed for military applications that are not identified in paragraph (a) of this section are subject to the EAR and classified as ECCN 9A610, including any model of unarmed military aircraft manufactured prior to 1956, regardless of origin or designation, and unmodified since manufacture. Aircraft with modifications made to incorporate safety of flight features or other FAA or NTSB modifications such as transponders and air data recorders are considered “unmodified” for the purposes of this paragraph.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
“Range” is the maximum distance that the specified aircraft system is capable of traveling in the mode of stable flight as measured by the projection of its trajectory over the surface of the Earth. The maximum capability based on the design characteristics of the system, when fully loaded with fuel or propellant, will be taken into consideration in determining range. The range for aircraft systems will be determined independently of any external factors such as operational restrictions, limitations imposed by telemetry, data links, or other external constraints. For aircraft systems, the range will be determined for a one-way distance using the most fuel-efficient flight profile (e.g., cruise speed and altitude), assuming International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standard atmosphere with zero wind, but with no fuel reserve.
(b)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) Launching and recovery equipment specially designed to allow an aircraft described in paragraph (a) of this category to take off or land on a vessel described in Category VI paragraphs (a) through (c) (MT if the launching and recovery equipment is for an aircraft, excluding manned aircraft, that has a range equal to or greater than 300 km).

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
For the definition of “range,” see note to paragraph (a) of this category.
(e) [Reserved]
(f) Developmental aircraft funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization, and specially designed parts, components, accessories, and attachments therefor.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
f

# ):
This paragraph does not control aircraft and specially designed parts, components, accessories, and attachments therefor (a) in production; (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
f

# ):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
f

# ):
This paragraph is applicable only to those contracts, other funding authorizations, or modifications initiating development of a new defense article that are dated April 16, 2014, or later.
(g) [Reserved]
(h) Parts, components, accessories, attachments, associated equipment and systems, as follows:
(1) Parts, components, accessories, and attachments specially designed for the following U.S.-origin aircraft: The B-1B, B-2, B-21, F-15SE, F/A-18 E/F, EA-18G, F-22, F-35, and future variants thereof; or the F-117 or U.S. Government technology demonstrators. Parts, components, accessories, and attachments of the F-15SE and F/A-18 E/F that are common to earlier models of these aircraft, unless listed in paragraph (h) of this category, are subject to the EAR;

# Note to paragraph (
h

# )(1):
This paragraph does not control parts, components, accessories, and attachments that are common to aircraft, other than the KF-21 and variants thereof, described in paragraph (a) of this category but not identified in paragraph (h)(1), and those identified in paragraph (h)(1). For example, when applying § 120.41(b)(3), a part common to only the F-16 and F-35 is not specially designed for purposes of this paragraph. A part common to only the F-22 and F-35—two aircraft models identified in paragraph (h)(1)—is specially designed for purposes of this paragraph, unless one of the other paragraphs is applicable under § 120.41(b) of this subchapter. Commodities otherwise described in this paragraph that are utilized in the KF-21 are not released from this paragraph due to use in the KF-21.
(2) Rotorcraft gearboxes with internal pitch line velocities exceeding 20,000 feet per minute and able to operate 30 minutes with loss of lubrication without an emergency or auxiliary lubrication system, and specially designed parts and components therefor;

# Note to paragraph (
h

# )(2):
Loss of lubrication means a situation where oil/lubrication is mostly or completely lost from a transmission/gearbox such that only a residual coating remains due to the lubrication system failure.
(3) Tail boom folding systems, stabilator folding systems or automatic rotor blade folding systems, and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(4) Wing folding systems, and specially designed parts and components therefor, for:
(i) Aircraft powered by power plants controlled under USML Category IV(d); or
(ii) Aircraft with any of the following characteristics and powered by gas turbine engines:
(A) The portion of the wing outboard of the wing fold is required for sustained flight;
(B) Fuel can be stored outboard of the wing fold;
(C) Control surfaces are outboard of the wing fold;
(D) Hard points are outboard of the wing fold;
(E) Hard points inboard of the wing fold allow for in-flight ejection; or
(F) The aircraft is designed to withstand maximum vertical maneuvering accelerations greater than +3.5g/−1.5g.
(5) On-aircraft arresting gear (e.g., tail hooks and drag chutes) and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(6) Bomb racks, missile or rocket launchers, missile rails, weapon pylons, pylon-to-launcher adapters, unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) airborne launching systems, external stores support systems for ordnance or weapons, and specially designed parts and components therefor (MT if the bomb rack, missile launcher, missile rail, weapon pylon, pylon-to-launcher adapter, UAV airborne launching system, or external stores support system is for an aircraft, excluding manned aircraft, or missile that has a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km);
(7) Damage or failure-adaptive flight control systems, that do not consist solely of redundant internal circuitry, specially designed for aircraft controlled in this category;
(8) Threat-adaptive autonomous flight control systems, where a “threat-adaptive autonomous flight control system” is a flight control system that, without input from the operator or pilot, adjusts the aircraft control or flight path to minimize risk caused by hostile threats;
(9) Non-surface-based flight control systems and effectors (e.g., thrust vectoring from gas ports other than main engine thrust vector);
(10) Radar altimeters with output power management LPI (low probability of intercept) or signal modulation (
i.e.,
frequency hopping, chirping, direct sequence-spectrum spreading) LPI capabilities (MT if for an aircraft, excluding manned aircraft, or missile that has a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km);
(11) Air-to-air refueling systems and hover-in-flight refueling (HIFR) systems, and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(12) Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) flight control systems and vehicle management systems with swarming capability (
i.e.
UAVs that operate autonomously (without human input) to interact with each other to avoid collisions, fly in formations, and are capable of adapting in real-time to changes in operational/threat environment, or, if weaponized, coordinate targeting) (MT if for an aircraft, excluding manned aircraft, or missile that has a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km);
(13) [Reserved]
(14) Lift fans, clutches, and roll posts for short take-off, vertical landing (STOVL) aircraft and specially designed parts and components for such lift fans and roll posts;
(15) Integrated helmets incorporating optical sights or slewing devices, which include the ability to aim, launch, track, or manage
munitions (e.g., Helmet Mounted Cueing Systems, Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing Systems (JHMCS), Helmet Mounted Displays, Display and Sight Helmets (DASH)), and specially designed parts, components, accessories, and attachments therefor;
(16) Fire control computers, stores management systems, armaments control processors, and aircraft-weapon interface units and computers (e.g., AGM-88 HARM Aircraft Launcher Interface Computer (ALIC));
(17) Mission computers, vehicle management computers, and integrated core processers specially designed for aircraft controlled in this category;
(18) Drive systems, flight control systems, and parts and components therefor, specially designed to function after impact of a 7.62mm or larger projectile;
(19) Thrust reversers specially designed to be deployed in flight for aircraft controlled in this category;
* (20) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that:
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software directly related to defense articles in this subchapter or 600 series items subject to the EAR; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.
(21)-(26) [Reserved]
(27) Variable speed gearboxes, where a “variable speed gearbox” has the ability to vary the gearbox output speed by mechanical means within the gearbox while the gearbox input speed from the engine or other source is constant, and is capable of varying output speed by 20% or greater and providing power to rotors, proprotors, propellers, propfans, or liftfans; and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(28) Electrical power or thermal management systems specially designed for an engine controlled in Category XIX and having any of the following:
(i) Electrical power generators that provide greater than 300kW of electrical power (per generator) with gravimetric power densities exceeding 2kW/pound (excluding the mass of the controller for the purpose of calculating the gravimetric power density);
(ii) Heat exchangers that exchange 60 kW/K-m
3
or 1 kW/K of heat or greater into the gas turbine engine flow path; or
(iii) Direct-cooling thermal electronic package heat exchangers that transfer 20kW of heat or greater at 100W/cm
2
or greater.
(29) Any of the following equipment if specially designed for a defense article described in paragraph (h)(1):
(i) Scale test models;
(ii) Full scale iron bird ground rigs used to test major aircraft systems; or
(iii) Jigs, locating fixtures, templates, gauges, molds, dies, or caul plates.
(i) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in ECCNs 9A610, 9B610, 9C610, and 9D610 and defense services using classified technical data. (See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions.) (MT for technical data and defense services related to articles designated as such.)
(j)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technology subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles controlled in this category.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles controlled in this category where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technology subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Note:
Parts, components, accessories, and attachments in paragraphs (h)(3)-(5), (7), (14), (17), or (19) are licensed by the Department of Commerce when incorporated in an aircraft subject to the EAR and classified under ECCN 9A610. Replacement systems, parts, components, accessories and attachments are subject to the controls of the ITAR.

# Category IX—Military Training Equipment and Training
(a) Training equipment, as follows:
(1) Ground, surface, submersible, space, or towed airborne targets that:
(i) Have an infrared, radar, acoustic, magnetic, or thermal signature that mimic a specific defense article, specific other item, or specific person; or
(ii) Are instrumented to provide hit/miss performance information for defense articles controlled in this subchapter;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(1):
Target drones are controlled in USML Category VIII(a).
(2) Devices that are mockups of articles enumerated in this subchapter used for maintenance training or disposal training for ordnance enumerated in this subchapter, that reveal technical data or contain parts, components, accessories, or attachments controlled in this subchapter;
(3) Air combat maneuvering instrumentation and ground stations therefor;
(4) Physiological flight trainers for fighter aircraft or attack helicopters;
(5) Radar trainers specially designed for training on radar controlled by USML Category XI;
(6) Training devices specially designed to be attached to a crew station, mission system, or weapon of an article controlled in this subchapter;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(6):
This paragraph includes stimulators that are built-in or add-on devices that cause the actual equipment to act as a trainer.
(7) Anti-submarine warfare trainers;
(8) Missile launch trainers;
(9) Radar target generators;
(10) Infrared scene generators; or
* (11) Any training device that:
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software directly related to defense articles in this subchapter or 600 series items subject to the EAR; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
Training equipment does not include combat games without item signatures or tactics, techniques, and procedures covered by this subchapter.
(b) Simulators, as follows:
(1) System specific simulators that replicate the operation of an individual crew station, a mission system, or a weapon of an end-item that is controlled in this subchapter;
(2)-(3) [Reserved]
(4) Software and associated databases not elsewhere enumerated in this subchapter that can be used to model or simulate the following:
(i) Trainers enumerated in paragraph (a) of this category;
(ii) Battle management;
(iii) Military test scenarios/models; or
(iv) Effects of weapons enumerated in this subchapter; or
* (5) Simulators that:
(i) Are classified;
(ii) Contain classified software directly related to defense articles in this subchapter or 600 series items subject to the EAR; or
(iii) Are being developed using classified information.
(c)-(d) [Reserved]
(e) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter):
(1) Directly related to the defense articles enumerated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this category;
(2) Directly related to the software and associated databases enumerated in paragraph (b)(4) of this category even if no defense articles are used or transferred; or
(3) Military training (see § 120.32(a)(3) of this subchapter) not directly related to defense articles or technical data enumerated in this subchapter.
(f)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technical data subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Note to USML Category IX:
Parts, components, accessories, or attachments of a simulator in this category that are common to the simulated system or simulated end-item are controlled under the same USML category or CCL ECCN as the parts, components, accessories, and attachments of the simulated system or simulated end-item.

# Category X—Personal Protective Equipment
(a) Personal protective equipment, as follows:
(1) Body armor providing a protection level equal to or greater than NIJ Type IV;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(1):
For body armor providing a level of protection of Type I, Type II, Type IIA, Type IIIA, or Type III, see ECCNs 1A005 and 1A613.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(1):
See USML Category XIII(e) for controls on related materials.
(2) Personal protective clothing, equipment, or face paints specially designed to protect against or reduce detection by radar, IR, or other sensors at wavelengths greater than 900 nanometers;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2):
See USML Category XIII(j) for controls on related materials.
(3)-(4) [Reserved]
(5) Integrated helmets, not specified in USML Category VIII(h)(15) or USML Category XII, incorporating optical sights or slewing devices, which include the ability to aim, launch, track, or manage munitions;
(6) Helmets and helmet shells providing a protection level equal to or greater than NIJ Type IV;
(7) Goggles, spectacles, visors, vision blocks, canopies, or filters for optical sights or viewers, employing other than common broadband absorptive dyes or UV inhibitors as a means of protection (e.g., narrow band filters/dyes or broadband limiters/coatings with high visible transparency), having an optical density greater than 3, and that protect against:
(i) Multiple visible (in-band) laser wavelengths;
(ii) Thermal flashes associated with nuclear detonations; or
(iii) Near infrared or ultraviolet (out-of-band) laser wavelengths; or

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(7):
See paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this category for controls on related parts, components, and materials.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(7):
See USML Category XII for sensor protection equipment.
(8) Developmental personal protective equipment and specially designed parts, components, accessories, and attachments therefor, developed for the U.S. Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(8):
This paragraph does not control personal protective equipment and specially designed parts, components, accessories, and attachments (a) in production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(8):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the USML, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# )(8):
This paragraph is applicable only to those contracts and funding authorizations that are dated January 5, 2015, or later.
(b)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) Parts, components, assemblies, accessories, attachments, and associated equipment for the personal protective equipment controlled in this category, as follows:
(1) Ceramic or composite plates that provide protection equal to or greater than NIJ Type IV;
(2) Lenses, substrates, or filters “specially designed” for the articles covered in paragraph (a)(7) of this category;
(3) Materials and coatings specially designed for the articles covered in paragraph (a)(7) of this category with optical density greater than 3, as follows:
(i) Narrowband absorbing dyes;
(ii) Broadband optical switches or limiters (
i.e.,
nonlinear material, tunable or switchable agile filters, optical power limiters, near infrared interference based filters); or
(iii) Narrowband interference based notch filters (
i.e.,
multi-layer dielectric coatings, rugate, holograms or hybrid (
i.e.,
interference with dye)) protecting against multiple laser wavelength and having high visible band transparency; or
* (4) Any component, part, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that:
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software directly related to defense articles in this subchapter or 600 series items subject to the EAR; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.

# Note to paragraphs (
a

# ) and (
d

# ):
See National Institute of Justice Classification, NIJ Standard-0101.06, or national equivalents, for a description of level of protection for armor.
(e) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this category.
(f)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technical data subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Category XI—Military Electronics
(a) Electronic equipment and systems not included in Category XII of the U.S. Munitions List, as follows:
* (1) Underwater hardware, equipment, or systems, as follows:
(i) Active or passive acoustic array sensing systems or acoustic array equipment capable of real-time processing that survey or detect, and also track, localize (
i.e.,
determine range and bearing), classify, or identify, surface vessels, submarines, other undersea vehicles, torpedoes, or mines, having any of the following:
(A) Multi-static capability;
(B) Operating frequency less than 20 kHz; or
(C) Operating bandwidth greater than 10 kHz;
(ii) Underwater single acoustic sensor system that distinguishes non-biologic tonals and locates the origin of the sound;

# Note to paragraph(
a

# )(1)(
ii

# ):
The term tonals implies discrete frequencies in the broadband and narrowband spectra, emanating from man-made objects.
(iii) Non-acoustic systems that survey or detect, and also track, localize (
i.e.,
determine range and bearing), classify, or identify, surface vessels, submarines, other undersea vehicles, torpedoes, or mines;
(iv) Acoustic modems, networks, and communications equipment with real-time adaptive compensation or employing Low Probability of Intercept (LPI);

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(1)(
iv

# ):
Adaptive compensation is the capability of an underwater modem to assess the water conditions to select the best algorithm to receive and transmit data.
(v) Low Frequency/Very Low Frequency (LF/VLF) electronic modems, routers, interfaces, and communications equipment, specially designed for submarine communications; or
(vi) Autonomous systems and equipment that enable cooperative sensing and engagement by fixed (bottom mounted/seabed) or mobile Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs);
* (2) Underwater acoustic countermeasures or counter-countermeasures systems or equipment;
* (3) Radar systems and equipment, as follows:
(i) Airborne radar that maintains positional state of an object or objects of interest, other than weather phenomena, in a received radar signal through time;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3)(
i

# ):
This paragraph does not control radars that: (1) Are incapable of free space detection of 1 square meter Radar Cross Section (RCS) target beyond 8 nautical miles (nmi); (2) contain a radar update rate of not more than 1Hz; and (3) employ a design determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination.
(ii) Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) incorporating image resolution less than (better than) 0.3 m, or incorporating Coherent Change Detection (CCD) with geo-registration accuracy less than (better than) 0.3 m, not including concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3,000 GHz and having a spatial resolution of 0.1 milliradians up to and including 1 milliradians at a standoff distance of 100 m;
(iii) Inverse Synthetic Aperture Radar (ISAR);
(iv) Radar that geodetically-locates (
i.e.,
geodetic latitude, geodetic longitude, and geodetic height) with a target location error 50 (TLE50) less than or equal to 10 m at ranges greater than 1 km;
(v) Any Ocean Surveillance Radar with an average-power-aperture product of greater than 50 Wm
2
;
(vi) Any ocean surveillance radar that transmits a waveform with an instantaneous bandwidth greater than 100 MHz and has an antenna rotation rate greater than 60 revolutions per minute (RPM);
(vii) Air surveillance radar with free space detection of 1 square meter RCS target at 85 nmi or greater range, scaled to RCS values as RCS to the
1/4
power;
(viii) Air surveillance radar with free space detection of 1 square meter RCS target at an altitude of 65,000 feet and an elevation angle greater than 20 degrees (
i.e.,
counter-battery);
(ix) [Reserved]
(x) Air surveillance radar with a beam solid angle less than or equal to 16 degrees
2
that performs free space tracking of 1 square meter RCS target at a range greater or equal to 25 nmi with revisit rate greater or equal to
1/3
Hz;
(xi) Instrumentation radar for anechoic test facility or outdoor range that maintains positional state of an object of interest in a received radar signal through time or provides measurement of RCS of a static target less than or equal to minus 10dBsm, or RCS of a dynamic target;
(xii) Radar incorporating pulsed operation with electronics steering of transmit beam in elevation and azimuth;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3)(
xii

# ):
This paragraph does not control radars not otherwise controlled in this subchapter, operating with a peak transmit power less than or equal to 550 watts, and employing a design determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination.
(xiii) Radar with mode(s) for ballistic tracking or ballistic extrapolation to source of launch or impact point of articles controlled in USML Categories III, IV, or XV;
(xiv) Active protection radar and missile warning radar with mode(s) implemented for detection of incoming munitions;
(xv) Over the horizon high frequency sky-wave (ionosphere) radar;
(xvi) Radar that detects a moving object through a physical obstruction at distance greater than 0.2 m from the obstruction;
(xvii) Radar having moving target indicator (MTI) or pulse-Doppler processing where any single Doppler filter provides a normalized clutter attenuation of greater than 60dB;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3)(
xvii

# ):
Normalized clutter attenuation is defined as the reduction in the power level of received distributed clutter when normalized to the thermal noise level.
(xviii) Radar having electronic protection or electronic counter-countermeasures (ECCM) other than manual gain control, automatic gain control, radio frequency selection, constant false alarm rate, and pulse repetition interval jitter;
(xix) Radar employing electronic attack (EA) mode(s) using the radar transmitter and antenna;
(xx) Radar employing electronic support (ES) mode(s) (
i.e.,
the ability to use a radar system for ES purposes in one or more of the following: as a high-gain receiver, as a wide-bandwidth receiver, as a multi-beam receiver, or as part of a multi-point system);
(xxi) Radar employing non-cooperative target recognition (NCTR) (
i.e.,
the ability to recognize a specific platform type without cooperative action of the target platform);

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3)(
xxi

# ):
The definition of “type” in this paragraph is that provided in 14 CFR § 1.1.
(xxii) Radar employing automatic target recognition (ATR) (
i.e.,
recognition of target using structural features (e.g., tank versus
car) of the target with system resolution better than (less than) 0.3 m);
(xxiii) Radar that sends interceptor guidance commands or providesillumination keyed to an interceptor seeker;
(xxiv) Radar employing waveform generation for LPI other than frequency modulated continuous wave (FMCW) with linear ramp modulation;
(xxv) Radar that sends and receives communications;
(xxvi) Radar that tracks or discriminates ballistic missile warhead from debris or countermeasures;
(xxvii) Bi-static/multi-static radar that exploits greater than 125 kHz bandwidth and is lower than 2 GHz center frequency to passively detect or track using radio frequency (RF) transmissions (e.g., commercial radio, television stations);
(xxviii) Radar target generators, projectors, or simulators, specially designed for radars controlled by this category; or
(xxix) Radar and laser radar systems specially designed for defense articles in paragraph (a)(1) of USML Category IV or paragraphs (a)(5), (a)(6), or (a)(13) of USML Category VIII (MT if specially designed for rockets, space launch vehicles, missiles, drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of delivering a payload of at least 500 kg to a range of at least 300 km);

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(3)(
xxix

# ):
Laser radar systems embody specialized transmission, scanning, receiving, and signal processing techniques for utilization of lasers for echo ranging, direction finding, and discrimination of targets by location, radial speed, and body reflection characteristics.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(3)(
xxix

# ):
For definition of “range” as it pertains to rocket systems, see note 1 to paragraph (a) of USML Category IV. “Payload” is the total mass that can be carried or delivered by the specified rocket, SLV, or missile that is not used to maintain flight.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3):
This paragraph does not control: (a) Systems or equipment that require aircraft transponders in order to meet control parameters; (b) precision approach radar (PAR) equipment conforming to ICAO standards and employing electronically steerable linear (1- dimensional) arrays or mechanically positioned passive antennas; and (c) radio altimeter equipment conforming to FAA TSO C87.
* (4) Electronic Combat (
i.e.,
Electronic Warfare) systems and equipment, as follows:
(i) ES systems and equipment that search for, intercept and identify, or locate sources of intentional or unintentional electromagnetic energy specially designed to provide immediate threat detection, recognition, targeting, planning, or conduct of future operations;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(4)(
i

# ):
ES provides tactical situational awareness, automatic cueing, targeting, electronic order of battle planning, electronic intelligence (ELINT), communication intelligence (COMINT), or signals intelligence (SIGINT).
(ii) Systems and equipment that detect and automatically discriminate acoustic energy emanating from weapons fire (e.g., gunfire, artillery, rocket propelled grenades, or other projectiles), determining location or direction of weapons fire in less than two seconds from receipt of event signal, and able to operate on-the-move (e.g., operating on personnel, land vehicles, sea vessels, or aircraft while in motion); or
(iii) Systems and equipment specially designed to introduce extraneous or erroneous signals into radar, infrared based seekers, electro-optic based seekers, radio communication receivers, navigation receivers, or that otherwise hinder the reception, operation, or effectiveness of adversary electronics (e.g., active or passive electronic attack, electronic countermeasure, electronic counter-countermeasure equipment, jamming, and counter jamming equipment);
* (5) Command, control, and communications (C3); command, control, communications, and computers (C4); command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR); and identification systems or equipment, that:
(i) Are specially designed to integrate, incorporate, network, or employ defense articles that are controlled in paragraphs or subparagraphs of the categories of § 121.1 of this part that do not use the term specially designed;
(ii) Incorporate U.S. government identification friend or foe (IFF) Modes 4 or 5;
(iii) Implement active or passive ECCM used to counter acts of communication disruption (e.g., radios that incorporate HAVE QUICK I/II, SINCGARS, SATURN);
(iv) Specially designed, rated, certified, or otherwise specified or described to be in compliance with U.S. government NSTISSAM TEMPEST 1-92 standards or CNSSAM TEMPEST 01-02, to implement techniques to suppress compromising emanations of information bearing signals; or
(v) Transmit voice or data signals specially designed to elude electromagnetic detection;
(6) [Reserved]
(7) Developmental electronic equipment or systems funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(7):
This paragraph does not control electronic systems or equipment (a) in production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified
in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(7):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the USML, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# )(7):
This paragraph is applicable only to those contracts and funding authorizations that are dated July 1, 2015, or later.
(8) Unattended ground sensor (UGS) systems or equipment having all of the following:
(i) Automatic target detection;
(ii) Automatic target tracking, classification, recognition, or identification;
(iii) Self-forming or self-healing networks; and
(iv) Self-localization for geo-locating targets;
(9) Electronic sensor systems or equipment for non-acoustic antisubmarine warfare (ASW) or mine warfare (e.g., magnetic anomaly detectors (MAD), electric-field, electromagnetic induction);
(10) Electronic sensor systems or equipment for detection of concealed weapons, having a standoff detection range of greater than 45 m for personnel or detection of vehicle-carried weapons, not including concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3,000 GHz and having a spatial resolution of 0.1 milliradians up to and including 1 milliradians at a standoff distance of 100 m;
(11) Test sets specially designed for testing defense articles controlled in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), or (b); or
(12) Direction finding equipment for determining bearings to specific electromagnetic sources or terrain characteristics specially designed for defense articles in paragraph (a)(1) of USML Category IV or paragraphs (a)(5), (a)(6), or (a)(13) of USML Category VIII (MT if specially designed for rockets, SLVs, missiles, drones, or UAVs capable of delivering a payload of at least 500 kg to a range of at least 300 km. See note 2 to paragraph (a)(3)(xxix) of this category).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
The term Low Probability of Intercept used in this paragraph and elsewhere in this category is defined as a class of measures that disguise, delay, or prevent the interception of acoustic or electromagnetic signals. LPI techniques can involve permutations of power management, energy management, frequency variability, out-of-receiver-frequency band, low-side lobe antenna, complex waveforms, and complex scanning. LPI is also referred to as Low Probability of Intercept, Low Probability of Detection, and Low Probability of Identification.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Paragraphs (a)(3)(xxix) and (a)(12) include terrain contour mapping equipment, scene mapping and correlation (both digital and analogue) equipment, Doppler navigation radar equipment, passive interferometer equipment, and imaging sensor equipment (both active and passive).
*(b) Electronic systems, equipment or software, not elsewhere enumerated in this subchapter, specially designed for intelligence purposes that collect, survey, monitor, or exploit, or analyze and produce information from, the electromagnetic spectrum (regardless of transmission medium), or for counteracting such activities.
(c) Parts, components, accessories, attachments, and associated equipment, as follows:
(1) Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) and Programmable Logic Devices (PLD) programmed for defense articles in this subchapter;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(1):
An ASIC is an integrated circuit developed and produced for a specific application or function regardless of number of customers.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
c

# )(1):
ASICs and PLDs programmed for 600 series items are controlled in ECCN 3A611.f.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
c

# )(1):
Unprogrammed PLDs are not controlled by this paragraph.
(2) Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs) and populated circuit card assemblies for which the layout is specially designed for defense articles in this subchapter;

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(2):
PCBs and populated circuit card assemblies for which the layout is specially designed for 600 series items are controlled in ECCN 3A611.g.
(3) Multichip modules for which the pattern or layout is specially designed for defense articles in this subchapter;

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(3):
Multichip modules for which the pattern or layout is specially designed for 600 series items are controlled in ECCN 3A611.h.
(4) Transmit/receive modules, transmit/receive monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs), transmit modules, and transmit MMICs having all of the following:
(i) A peak saturated power output (in watts), Psat, greater than 505.62 divided by the maximum operating frequency (in GHz) squared [Psat
505.62 W * GHz2/fGHz2] for any channel;
(ii) A fractional bandwidth of 5% or greater for any channel;
(iii) Any planar side with length d (in cm) equal to or less than 15 divided by the lowest operating frequency in GHz [d ≤ 15cm * GHz/fGHz]; and
(iv) At least one electronically variable phase shifter per channel.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(4):
A MMIC: (a) Is formed by means of diffusion processes, implantation processes, or deposition processes in or on a single semiconducting piece of material; (b) can be considered as indivisibly associated; (c) performs the function(s) of a circuit; and (d) operates at microwave frequencies (
i.e.,
300 MHz to 300 GHz).

# Note 2 to paragraph (
c

# )(4):
A transmit/receive module is a multifunction electronic assembly that provides bi-directional amplitude and phase control for transmission and reception of signals.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
c

# )(4):
A transmit module is an electronic assembly that provides amplitude and phase control for transmission of signals.

# Note 4 to paragraph (
c

# )(4):
A transmit/receive MMIC is a multifunction MMIC that provides bi-directional amplitude and phase control for transmission and reception of signals.

# Note 5 to paragraph (
c

# )(4):
A transmit MMIC is a MMIC that provides amplitude and phase control for transmission of signals.

# Note 6 to paragraph (
c

# )(4):
USML Category XI(c)(4) applies to transmit/receive modules and to transmit modules, with or without a heat sink. The value of length d in USML Category XI(c)(4)(iii) does not include any portion of the transmit/receive module or transmit module that functions as a heat sink.

# Note 7 to paragraph (
c

# )(4):
Transmit/receive modules, transmit modules, transmit/receive MMICs, and transmit MMICs may or may not have N integrated radiating antenna elements, where N is the number of transmit or transmit/receive channels.

# Note 8 to paragraph (
c

# )(4):
Fractional bandwidth is the bandwidth over which output power remains constant within 3 dB (without the adjustment of other operating parameters), divided by the center frequency, and multiplied by 100. Fractional bandwidth is expressed as a percentage.
(5) High-energy storage capacitors that:
(i) Have a rated voltage of greater than five hundred volts (500 V);
(ii) Have a repetition rate greater than or equal to six (6) discharges per minute;
(iii) Have a full energy life greater than or equal to 10,000 discharges at greater than 0.2 Amps per Joule peak current; and
(iv) Have any of the following:
(A) Volumetric energy density greater than or equal to 1.5 J/cc; or
(B) Mass energy density greater than or equal to 1.3 kJ/kg;

# Note to paragraph (c)(5):
Volumetric energy density
is Energy per unit Volume.
Mass energy density
is Energy per unit Mass, sometimes referred to as
Gravimetric energy density
or
Specific energy. Energy
(E =
1/2
CV
2
, where C is Capacitance and V is the rated voltage) in these calculations must not be confused with useful energy or extractable energy.
Rated voltage
is the value, based on the capacitor's design, testing, and evaluation, that describes the maximum amount of continuous voltage, at an operating temperature less than or equal to 85 degrees Celsius (85 °C), that will not damage the capacitor.
Rated voltage
does not include short-term transient or surge operating conditions.
(6) Radio frequency circulators of any dimension equal to or less than one quarter (
1/4
) wavelength of the highest operating frequency and isolation greater than 30 dB;
(7) Polarimeter that detects and measures polarization of radio frequency signals within a single pulse;
(8) Digital radio frequency memory (DRFM) with RF instantaneous input bandwidth greater than 400 MHz, and 4 bit or higher resolution whose output signal is a translation of the input signal (e.g., changes in magnitude, time, frequency) and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(9) Vacuum electronic devices, as follows:
(i) Multiple electron beam or sheet electron beam devices rated for operation at frequencies of 16 GHz or above, and with a saturated power output greater than 10,000 W (70 dBm) or a maximum average power output greater than 3,000 W (65 dBm); or
(ii) Cross-field amplifiers with a gain of 15 dB to 17 dB or a duty factor greater than 5%;
(10) Antenna, and specially designed parts and components therefor, that:
(i) Employ four or more elements, electronically steer angular beams, independently steer angular nulls, create angular nulls with a null depth greater than 20 dB, and achieve a beam switching speed faster than 50 milliseconds;
(ii) Form adaptive null attenuation greater than 35 dB with convergence time less than one second;
(iii) Detect signals across multiple RF bands with matched left hand and right hand spiral antenna elements for determination of signal polarization; or
(iv) Determine signal angle of arrival less than two degrees (e.g., interferometer antenna);

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(10):
This category does not control Traffic Collision Avoidance Systems (TCAS) equipment conforming to FAA TSO C-119c.
(11) Radomes or electromagnetic antenna windows that:
(i) Incorporate radio frequency selective surfaces;
(ii) Operate in multiple non-adjacent frequency bands for radar applications;
(iii) Incorporate a structure that is specially designed to provide ballistic protection from bullets, shrapnel, or blast;
(iv) Have a melting point greater than 1,300 °C and maintain a dielectric constant less than 6 at temperatures greater than 500 °C;
(v) Are manufactured from ceramic materials with a dielectric constant less than 6 at any frequency from 100 MHz to 100 GHz (MT if usable in rockets, SLVs, or missiles capable of achieving a range greater than or equal to 300 km; or if usable in drones or UAVs capable of delivering a payload of at least 500 kg to a range of at least 300 km. See note 2 to paragraph (a)(3)(xxix) of this category);
(vi) Maintain structural integrity at stagnation pressures greater than 6,000 pounds per square foot; or
(vii) Withstand combined thermal shock greater than 4.184 × 10
6
J/m
2
accompanied by a peak overpressure of greater than 50 kPa (MT if usable in rockets, SLVs, missiles, drones, or UAVs capable of delivering a payload of at least 500 kg to a range of at least 300 km and usable in protecting against nuclear effects (e.g., Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP), X-rays, combined blast and thermal effects). See note 2 to paragraph (a)(3)(xxix) of this category);
(12) Underwater sensors (acoustic vector sensors, hydrophones, or transducers) or projectors, specially designed for systems controlled by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this category, having any of the following:
(i) A transmitting frequency below 10 kHz for sonar systems;
(ii) Sound pressure level exceeding 224 dB (reference 1 mPa at 1 m) for equipment with an operating frequency in the band from 10 kHz to 24 kHz inclusive;
(iii) Sound pressure level exceeding 235 dB (reference 1 mPa at 1 m) for equipment with an operating frequency in the band between 24 kHz and 30 kHz;
(iv) Forming beams of less than 1° on any axis and having an operating frequency of less than 100 kHz;
(v) Designed to operate with an unambiguous display range exceeding 5,120 m; or
(vi) Designed to withstand pressure during normal operation at depths exceeding 1,000 m and having transducers with any of the following:
(A) Dynamic compensation for pressure; or
(B) Incorporating other than lead zirconate titanate as the transduction element;
(13) Parts or components containing piezoelectric materials which are specially designed for underwater hardware, equipment, or systems controlled by paragraph (c)(12) of this category;
(14) Tuners specially designed for systems and equipment in paragraphs (a)(4) and (b) of this category;
(15) Electronic assemblies and components, capable of operation at temperatures in excess of 125 °C and specially designed for UAVs or drones controlled by USML Category VIII, rockets, space launch vehicles (SLV), or missiles controlled by USML Category IV capable of achieving a range greater than or equal to 300 km (MT) (see Note 2 to paragraph (a)(3)(xxix) of this category);
(16) Hybrid (combined analogue/digital) computers specially designed for modeling, simulation, or design integration of systems enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1), (d)(1), (d)(2), (h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(4), (h)(8), and (h)(9) of USML Category IV or paragraphs (a)(5), (a)(6), or (a)(13) of USML Category VIII (MT if for rockets, SLVs, missiles, drones, or UAVs capable of delivering a payload of at least 500 kg to a range of at least 300 km or their subsystems. See note 2 to paragraph (a)(3)(xxix) of this category);
(17) Chaff and flare rounds specially designed for the systems and equipment described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this category, and parts and components therefor containing materials controlled in USML Category V;
(18) Parts, components, or accessories specially designed for an information assurance/information security system or radio controlled in this subchapter that modify its published properties (e.g., frequency range, algorithms, waveforms, CODECs, or modulation/demodulation schemes); or
* (19) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that (MT for those articles designated as such):
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software directly related to defense articles in this subchapter or 600 series items subject to the EAR; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(19)(
ii

# ):
Parts and components controlled by this paragraph are limited to those that store, process, or transmit classified software (see § 120.40(g) of this subchapter).
(d) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in CCL ECCNs 3A611, 3B611, 3C611, and 3D611 and defense services using the classified technical data. (See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions.) (MT for technical data and defense services related to articles designated as such.)
(e)-(w) [Reserved];
(x) Commodities, software, and technology subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technology subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Note to Category XI:
Category XI does not control transmit/receive modules, transmit/receive MMICs, transmit modules, or transmit MMICs that incorporate or are MMICs fabricated exclusively with homojunction CMOS silicon-based circuits on silicon substrates, or radars and radar antennas specially designed to use only such modules or MMICs.

# Category XII—Fire Control, Laser, Imaging, and Guidance Equipment
(a) Fire control, aiming, detection, guidance, and tracking systems, as follows:
* (1) Fire control systems;
* (2) Electronic or optical weapon positioning, laying, or spotting systems;
* (3) Laser spot trackers or laser spot detection, location, or imaging systems, with an operational wavelength shorter than 400 nm or longer than 710 nm and that are for laser target designators or coded target markers controlled in paragraph (b)(1);

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3):
For controls on LIDAR, see paragraph (b)(6) of this category.
* (4) Bomb sights or bombing computers;
* (5) Electro-optical systems that automatically detect and locate ordnance launch, blast, or fire;
* (6) Electro-optical ordnance guidance systems;
* (7) Missile or ordnance electro-optical tracking systems;
* (8) Remote wind-sensing systems specially designed for ballistic-corrected aiming; or
(9) Helmet mounted display (HMD) systems or end items (e.g., Combat Vehicle Crew HMD, Mounted Warrior HMD, Integrated Helmet Assembly Subsystem, Drivers Head Tracked Vision System), other than such items controlled in Category VIII, that:
(i) Incorporate or interface (either via wired or wireless connection) with optical sights or slewing devices that aim, launch, track, or manage munitions; or
(ii) Control infrared imaging systems or end items described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this category.
* (b) Laser systems and end items, as follows:
(1) Laser target designators or coded target markers, that mediate the delivery of ordnance to a target;
(2) Target illumination systems having a variable beam divergence and a laser output wavelength exceeding 710 nm, to artificially light an area to search, locate, or track a target;
(3) Laser rangefinders having any of the following:
(i) Output wavelength of 1064 nm and any Q-switched pulse output; or
(ii) Output wavelength exceeding 1064 nm and any of the following:
(A) Single or multiple shot(s) within one second ranging capability of 3 km or greater against a standard 2.3 m x 2.3 m NATO target having 10% reflectivity and 23 km atmospheric visibility; or
(B) Multiple shot ranging capability at 3 Hz or greater of 1 km or greater against a standard 2.3 m x 2.3 m NATO target having 10% reflectivity and 23 km atmospheric visibility;
(4) Targeting systems and target location systems, incorporating or specially designed to incorporate both of the following:
(i) A laser rangefinder; and
(ii) A defense article controlled in paragraph (d) of this category (MT if designed or modified for rockets, missiles, space launch vehicles (SLVs), drones, or unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of delivering at least a 500 kg payload to a range of at least 300 km);
(5) Systems specially designed to use laser energy with an output wavelength exceeding 710 nm for exploiting differential target-background retroreflectance in order to detect optical/electro-optical equipment (e.g., optical augmentation systems);
(6) Light detection and ranging (LIDAR), laser detection and ranging (LADAR), or range-gated systems, specially designed for a military end user
(MT if designed or modified for rockets, missiles, SLVs, drones, or unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of delivering at least a 500 kg payload to a range of at least 300 km); or
(7) Developmental lasers or laser systems funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# )(7):
This paragraph does not control lasers or laser systems: (a) In production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a Commodity Jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
b

# )(7):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
b

# )(7):
This provision is applicable to those contracts or other funding authorizations that are dated October 12, 2017 or later.
* (c) Imaging systems or end items, as follows:
(1) Binoculars, bioculars, monoculars, goggles, or head or helmet-mounted imaging systems (including video-based articles having a separate near-to-eye display), as follows:
(i) Employing an autogated third generation image intensifier tube or a higher generation image intensifier tube;
(ii) Fusing output of an image intensifier tube and an infrared focal plane array having a peak response wavelength greater than 1,000 nm; or
(iii) Having an infrared focal plane array or infrared imaging camera, and specially designed for a military end user;
(2) Weapon sights (
i.e.,
with a reticle) or aiming or imaging systems (e.g., clip-on), specially designed to mount to a weapon or to withstand weapon shock or recoil, with or without an integrated viewer or display, and also incorporating or specially designed to incorporate any of the following:
(i) An infrared focal plane array having a peak response wavelength exceeding 1,000 nm;
(ii) Second generation with luminous sensitivity greater than 350 µA/lm, third generation, or higher generation, image intensifier tubes;
(iii) Ballistic computing electronics for adjusting the aim point display; or
(iv) Infrared laser having a wavelength exceeding 710 nm;
(3) Electro-optical reconnaissance, surveillance, target detection, or target acquisition systems, specially designed for articles in this subchapter or specially designed for a military end user (MT if for determining bearings to specific electromagnetic sources (direction finding equipment) or terrain characteristics and designed or modified for rockets, missiles, SLVs, drones, or unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of delivering at least a 500 kg payload to a range of at least 300 km);
(4) Infrared search and track (IRST) systems having one of the following:
(i) Airborne or naval systems, that:
(A) Have range performance of 3 km or greater;
(B) Incorporate or are specially designed to incorporate an infrared focal plane array or imaging camera, having a peak response wavelength exceeding 3 microns or greater; and
(C) Maintain positional or angular state of a target through time; or
(ii) Specially designed for a military end user;
(5) Distributed aperture systems having a peak response wavelength exceeding 710 nm specially designed for articles in this subchapter or specially designed for a military end user;
(6) Infrared imaging systems, as follows:
(i) Mobile reconnaissance, scout, or surveillance systems providing real-time target recognition at ranges greater than 3 km (e.g., LRAS, CIV, HTI, SeeSpot, MMS);

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(6)(
i

# ):
Target is defined as a NATO standard tank target having a frontal cross-section of 2.3 x 2.3 meters, and a side cross-section of 2.3 x 6.4 meters.
(ii) Airborne stabilized systems specially designed for military reconnaissance (e.g., DB-110, C-B4);
(iii) Multispectral imaging systems that provide automated classification or identification of military or intelligence targets or characteristics;
(iv) Automated missile detection or warning systems;
(v) Systems hardened to withstand electromagnetic pulse (EMP), directed energy, chemical, biological, or radiological threats;
(vi) Systems incorporating mechanism(s) to reduce the optical chain signature for optical augmentation;
(vii) Persistent surveillance systems with a ground sample distance (GSD) of 0.5 m or better (smaller) at 10,000 ft or higher above ground level and a simultaneous coverage area of 3 km
2
or greater;
(viii) Gimbaled infrared systems, as follows:
(A) Having a stabilization better (less) than 30 microradians RMS and a turret with a ball diameter of 15 inches or greater; or
(B) Specially designed for articles in this subchapter or specially designed for a military end user;
(7) Terahertz imaging systems as follows:
(i) Concealed object detection systems operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3000 GHz, and having a resolution less (better) than 0.1 milliradians at a standoff range of 100 m; or
(ii) Specially designed for a military end user;
(8) Systems or equipment, incorporating an ultraviolet or infrared (IR) beacon or emitter, specially designed for Combat Identification;
(9) Systems that project radiometrically calibrated scenes at a frame rate greater than 30 Hz directly into the entrance aperture of an electro-optical or infrared (EO/IR) sensor controlled in this subchapter within either the spectral band exceeding 10 nm but not exceeding 400 nm, or the spectral band exceeding 900 nm but not exceeding 30,000 nm;
(10) Developmental electro-optical, infrared, or terahertz systems funded by the Department of Defense.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(10):
This paragraph does not control electro-optical, infrared, or terahertz imaging systems: (a) In production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a Commodity Jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
c

# )(10):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
c

# )(10):
This provision is applicable to those contracts or other funding authorizations that are dated October 12, 2017 or later.
(d) Guidance and navigation systems or end items, as follows:
(1) Guidance or navigation systems (e.g., inertial navigation systems, inertial reference units, attitude and heading reference systems) having any of the following:
(i) A circular error probability at fifty percent (CEP50) of position error rate less (better) than 0.28 nautical miles per hour, without the use of positional aiding references;
(ii) A heading error or true north determination of less (better) than 0.28 mrad secant (latitude) (0.016043 degrees secant (latitude)), without the use of positional aiding references;
(iii) A CEP50 of position error rate less than 0.2 nautical miles in an 8 hour period, without the use of positional aiding references; or
(iv) Meeting or exceeding specified performance at linear acceleration levels exceeding 25g (MT if designed or modified for rockets, missiles, SLVs, drones, or unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a range greater than or equal to 300 km or incorporating accelerometers specified in paragraph (e)(11) or gyroscopes or angular rate sensors specified in paragraph (e)(12) of this category that are designated MT);

# Note 1 to paragraph (
d

# )(1):
For rocket, SLV, or missile flight control and guidance systems (including guidance sets), see Category IV(h).

# Note 2 to paragraph (
d

# )(1):
Inertial measurement units are described in paragraph (e) of this category.
(2) Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) receiving equipment, as follows:
(i) GNSS receiving equipment specially designed for military applications (MT if designed or modified for airborne applications and capable of providing navigation information at speeds in excess of 600 m/s);
(ii) Global Positioning System (GPS) receiving equipment specially designed for encryption or decryption (e.g., Y-Code, M-Code) of GPS precise positioning service (PPS) signals (MT if designed or modified for airborne applications);
(iii) GNSS receiving equipment specially designed for use with an antenna described in Category XI(c)(10) (MT if designed or modified for airborne applications); or
(iv) GNSS receiving equipment specially designed for use with rockets, missiles, SLVs, drones, or unmanned air vehicle systems capable of delivering at least a 500 kg payload to a range of at least 300 km (MT);

# Note to paragraph (
d

# )(2)(
iv

# ):
“Payload” is the total mass that can be carried or delivered by the specified rocket, missile, SLV, drone, or unmanned aerial vehicle that is not used to maintain flight. For definition of “range” as it pertains to rocket systems, see Note 1 to paragraph (a) of USML Category IV. For definition of “range” as it pertains to aircraft systems, see Note 2 to paragraph (a) of USML Category VIII.
(3) GNSS anti-jam systems specially designed for use with an antenna described in Category XI(c)(10);
(4) Mobile relative gravimeters having automatic motion compensation with an in-service accuracy of less (better) than 0.4 mGal (MT if designed or modified for airborne or marine use and having a time to steady-state registration of two minutes or less);
(5) Mobile gravity gradiometers having an accuracy of less (better) than 10 Eotvos squared per radian per second for any component of the gravity gradient tensor, and having a spatial gravity wavelength resolution of 50 m or less (MT if designed or modified for airborne or marine use);

# Note to paragraph (
d

# )(5):
“Eotvos” is a unit of acceleration divided by distance that was used in conjunction with the older centimeter-gram-second system of units. The Eotvos is defined as
1/1,000,000,000
Galileo (Gal) per centimeter.
(6) Developmental guidance or navigation systems funded by the Department of Defense (MT if designed or modified for rockets, missiles, SLVs, drones, or unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a range equal to or greater than 300 km).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
d

# )(6):
This paragraph does not control guidance or navigation systems: (a) in production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a Commodity Jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
d

# )(6):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
d

# )(6):
This provision is applicable to those contracts or other funding authorizations that are dated October 12, 2017 or later.

# Note 4 to paragraph (
d

# )(6):
For definition of “range” as it pertains to rocket systems, see Note 1 to paragraph (a) of USML Category IV. For definition of “range” as it pertains to aircraft systems, see Note 2 to paragraph (a) of USML Category VIII.
(e) Parts, components, accessories, or attachments, as follows:
(1) Parts and components specially designed for articles described in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(5) of this category;
(2) Lasers specially designed for articles in this subchapter;
(3) Laser stacked arrays specially designed for articles in this subchapter;
(4) Night vision or infrared cameras (e.g., camera core) specially designed for articles in this subchapter;

# Note to paragraph (
e

# )(4):
The articles controlled by this paragraph have sufficient electronics to enable at a minimum the output of an analog or digital signal once power is applied.
(5) Infrared focal plane arrays specially designed for articles in this subchapter;
(6) Charge multiplication focal plane arrays exceeding 50 mA/W for any wavelength exceeding 760 nm and specially designed for articles described in this subchapter;
(7) Second generation and greater image intensifier tubes specially designed for articles in this subchapter, and specially designed parts and components therefor;

# Note to paragraph (
e

# )(7):
Second and third generation image intensifier tubes are defined as having a peak response within the 0.4 to 1.05 micron wavelength range and incorporating a microchannel plate for electron image amplification having a hole pitch (center-to-center spacing) of less than 25 microns and having either: (a) an S-20, S-25, or multialkali photo cathode; or (b) a GaAs, GaInAs, or other III-V compound semiconductor photocathode.
(8) Parts and components specially designed for articles described in paragraph (c)(3), (c)(4), (c)(5) or (c)(6)(vi)-(vii) of this category;
(9) Inertial measurement units specially designed for articles in this subchapter (MT for systems incorporating accelerometers specified in paragraph (e)(11) or gyroscopes or angular rate sensors specified in paragraph (e)(12) that are designated MT);
(10) GNSS security devices (e.g., Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Modules (SAASM), Security Modules (SM), and Auxiliary Output Chips (AOC));
(11) Accelerometers having a bias repeatability of less (better) than 10 µg and a scale factor repeatability of less (better) than 10 parts per million, or capable of measuring greater than 100,000 g (MT);

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# )(11):
For weapon fuze accelerometers, see Category III(d) or IV(h).

# Note 2 to paragraph (
e

# )(11):
MT designation does not include accelerometers that are designed to measure vibration or shock.
(12) Gyroscopes or angular rate sensors as follows:
(i) Having an angle random walk of less (better) than 0.001 degrees per square root hour; or
(ii) Mechanical gyroscopes or rate sensors having a bias repeatability less (better) than 0.0015 degrees per hour (MT if having a rated drift stability of less than 0.5 degrees (1 sigma or rms) per hour in a 1 g environment or specified to function at acceleration levels greater than 100 g);

# Note to paragraphs (
e

# )(11) and (
e

# )(12):
“Repeatability” is the closeness of agreement among repeated measurements of the same variable under the same operating conditions when changes in conditions or non-operating periods occur between measurements.
“Bias” is the accelerometer output when no acceleration is applied.
“Scale factor” is the ratio of change in output to a change in the input.
The measurements of “bias” and “scale factor” refer to one sigma standard deviation with respect to a fixed calibration over a period of one year.
“Drift Rate” is the component of gyro output that is functionally independent of input rotation and is expressed as an angular rate.
“Stability” is a measure of the ability of a specific mechanism or performance coefficient to remain invariant when continuously exposed to a fixed operating condition. (This definition does not refer to dynamic or servo stability.)
(13) Optical sensors having a spectral filter specially designed for systems or equipment controlled in USML Category XI(a)(4), or optical sensor assemblies that provide threat warning or tracking for systems or equipment controlled in Category XI(a)(4);
(14) Infrared focal plane array read-out integrated circuits (ROICs) specially designed for articles in this subchapter;
(15) Integrated dewar cooler assemblies specially designed for articles in this subchapter, with or without an infrared focal plane array, and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(16) Gimbals specially designed for articles in this category;
(17) Infrared focal plane array Joule-Thomson (JT) self-regulating cryostats specially designed for articles controlled in this subchapter;
(18) Infrared lenses, mirrors, beam splitters or combiners, filters, and treatments and coatings, specially designed for articles controlled in this category;

# Note to paragraph (
e

# )(18):
For the purposes of this paragraph, treatments and coatings may be analyzed as a part, component, accessory, or attachment under paragraph (b) of § 120.41 to determine if they are specially designed.
(19) Drive, control, signal, or image processing electronics, specially designed for articles controlled in this category;
(20) Near-to-eye displays (e.g., micro-displays) specially designed for articles controlled in this category;
(21) Resonators, receivers, transmitters, modulators, gain media, drive electronics, and frequency converters, specially designed for laser systems controlled in this category;
(22) Two-dimensional infrared scene projector emitter arrays (
i.e.,
resistive arrays) specially designed for infrared scene generators controlled in USML Category IX(a)(10);
* (23) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, or associated equipment, that:
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software;
(iii) Is manufactured using classified production data; or
(iv) Is being developed using classified information.
(24) Developmental image intensifier tubes, focal plane arrays, read-out-integrated circuits, accelerometers, gyroscopes, angular rate sensors, and inertial measurement units funded by the Department of Defense (MT if designed or modified for rockets, missiles, SLVs, drones, or unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a range equal to or greater than 300 km).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# )(24):
This paragraph does not control items: (a) In production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a Commodity Jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
e

# )(24):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
e

# )(24):
This provision is applicable to those contracts or other funding authorizations that are dated October 12, 2017 or later.
(f) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in ECCNs 7A611, 7B611, and 7D611. (See § 125.4 for exemptions.) (MT for technical data and defense services related to articles designated as such.)
(g)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technology subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles controlled in this category.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles controlled in this category where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technology subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Note to Category XII:
For purposes of paragraphs (b)(6), (c)(1)(iii), (c)(3), (c)(4)(ii), (c)(5), (c)(6)(viii)(b), and (c)(7)(ii) of this category, a “military end user” means the national armed services (army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard), national guard, national police, government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations, or any person or entity whose actions or functions are intended to support military end uses. A system or end item is not specially designed for a military end user if the item was developed with knowledge that it is or would be for use by both military end users and non-military end users, or if the item was or is being developed with no knowledge of use by a particular end user. For the purpose of conducting a self-determination of jurisdiction, documents contemporaneous with the development must establish such knowledge. For the purpose of a Commodity Jurisdiction determination, the government may base a determination on post-development information that evidences such knowledge or is otherwise consistent with §§ 120.4 and 120.12 of this subchapter.

# Category XIII— Materials and Miscellaneous Articles
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Information security or information assurance systems and equipment, cryptographic devices, software, and components, as follows:
(1) Military or intelligence cryptographic (including key management) systems, equipment, assemblies, modules, integrated circuits, components, and software (including their cryptographic interfaces) capable of maintaining secrecy or confidentiality of information or information systems, including equipment or software for tracking, telemetry, and control (TT
C) encryption and decryption;
(2) Military or intelligence cryptographic (including key management) systems, equipment, assemblies, modules, integrated circuits, components, and software (including their cryptographic interfaces) capable of generating spreading or hopping codes for spread spectrum systems or equipment;
(3) Military or intelligence cryptanalytic systems, equipment, assemblies, modules, integrated circuits, components and software;
(4) Military or intelligence systems, equipment, assemblies, modules, integrated circuits, components, or software (including all previous or derived versions) authorized to control access to or transfer data between different security domains as listed on the Unified Cross Domain Management Office (UCDMO) Control List (UCL); or
(5) Ancillary equipment specially designed for the articles in paragraphs (b)(1)-(b)(4) of this category.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Materials, as follows:
* (1) Ablative materials fabricated or semi-fabricated from advanced composites (e.g., silica, graphite, carbon, carbon/carbon, and boron filaments) specially designed for the articles in USML Category IV or XV (MT if usable for nozzles, re-entry vehicles, nose tips, or nozzle flaps usable in rockets, space launch vehicles (SLVs), or missiles capable of achieving a range greater than or equal to 300 km); or
(2) Carbon/carbon billets and preforms that are reinforced with continuous unidirectional fibers, tows, tapes, or woven cloths in three or more dimensional planes (MT if designed for rocket, SLV, or missile systems and usable in rockets, SLVs, or missiles capable of achieving a range greater than or equal to 300 km).

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
“Range” is the maximum distance that the specified rocket system is capable of traveling in the mode of stable flight as measured by the projection of its trajectory over the surface of the Earth. The maximum capability based on the design characteristics of the system, when fully loaded with fuel or propellant, will be taken into consideration in determining range. The range for rocket systems will be determined independently of any external factors such as operational restrictions, limitations imposed by telemetry, data links, or other external constraints. For rocket systems, the range will be determined using the trajectory that maximizes range, assuming International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standard atmosphere with zero wind.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# )(2):
This paragraph does not control carbon/carbon billets and preforms where reinforcement in the third dimension is limited to interlocking of adjacent layers only.
(e) Armor (e.g., organic, ceramic, metallic) and armor materials, as follows:
(1) Spaced armor with E
m
greater than 1.4 and meeting NIJ Level III or better;
(2) Transparent armor having E
m
greater than or equal to 1.3 or having E
m
less than 1.3 and meeting and exceeding NIJ Level III standards with areal density less than or equal to 40 pounds per square foot;
(3) Transparent ceramic plate greater than
1/4
inch-thick and larger than 8 inches × 8 inches, excluding glass, for transparent armor;
(4) Non-transparent ceramic plate or blanks, greater than
1/4
inches thick and larger than 8 inches × 8 inches for transparent armor. This includes spinel and aluminum oxynitride (ALON);
(5) Composite armor with E
m
greater than 1.4 and meeting or exceeding NIJ Level III;
(6) Metal laminate armor with E
m
greater than 1.4 and meeting or exceeding NIJ Level III; or
(7) Developmental armor funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# )(7):
This paragraph does not control armor (a) in production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
e

# )(7):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the USML, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
e

# )(7):
This provision is applicable to those contracts and funding authorizations that are dated July 8, 2014, or later.
* (f) Any article enumerated in this category that (MT for those articles designated as such):
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software directly related to defense articles in this subchapter or 600 series items subject to the EAR; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.
* (g) Concealment and deception equipment, as follows (MT for applications usable for rockets, SLVs, missiles, drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) capable of achieving a range greater than or equal to 300 km and their subsystems. See note to paragraph (d) of this category):
(1) Polymers loaded with carbonyl iron powder, ferrites, iron whiskers, fibers, flakes, or other magnetic additives having a surface resistivity of less than 5000 ohms/square and greater than 10 ohms/square with electrical isotropy of less than 5%;
(2) Multi-layer camouflage systems specially designed to reduce detection of platforms or equipment in the infrared or ultraviolet frequency spectrums;
(3) High temperature (greater than 300 °F operation) ceramic or magnetic radar absorbing material (RAM) specially designed for use on defense articles or military items subject to the EAR; or
(4) Broadband (greater than 30% bandwidth) lightweight (less than 2 lbs/sq ft) magnetic radar absorbing material (RAM) specially designed for use on defense articles or military items subject to the EAR.
(h) Energy conversion devices not otherwise enumerated in this subchapter, as follows:
(1) Fuel cells specially designed for platforms or soldier systems specified in this subchapter;
(2) Thermal engines specially designed for platforms or soldier systems specified in this subchapter;
(3) Thermal batteries (MT if designed or modified for rockets, SLVs, missiles, drones,
or UAVs capable of achieving a range equal to or greater than 300 km. See note to paragraph (d) of this category); or

# Note to paragraph (
h

# )(3):
Thermal batteries are single use batteries that contain a solid non-conducting inorganic salt as the electrolyte. These batteries incorporate a pyrolitic material that, when ignited, melts the electrolyte and activates the battery.
(4) Thermionic generators specially designed for platforms or soldier systems enumerated in this subchapter.
* (i) Signature reduction software, and technical data as follows (MT for software specially designed for reduced observables, for applications usable for rockets, SLVs, missiles, drones, or UAVs capable of achieving a range (see note to paragraph (d) of this category) greater than or equal to 300 km, and their subsystems, including software specially designed for analysis of signature reduction; MT for technical data for the development, production, or use of equipment, materials, or software designated as such, including databases specially designed for analysis of signature reduction):
(1) Software associated with the measurement or modification of system signatures for defense articles to reduce detectability or observability;
(2) Software for design of low-observable platforms;
(3) Software for design, analysis, prediction, or optimization of signature management solutions for defense articles;
(4) Infrared signature measurement or prediction software for defense articles or radar cross section measurement or prediction software;
(5) Signature management technical data, including codes and algorithms for defense articles to reduce detectability or observability;
(6) Signature control design methodology (see § 120.43(c) of this subchapter) for defense articles to reduce detectability or observability;
(7) Technical data for use of micro-encapsulation or micro-spheres to reduce infrared, radar, or visual detection of platforms or equipment;
(8) Multi-layer camouflage system technical data for reducing detection of platforms or equipment;
(9) Multi-spectral surface treatment technical data for modifying infrared, visual or radio frequency signatures of platforms or equipment;
(10) Technical data for modifying visual, electro-optical, radiofrequency, electric, magnetic, electromagnetic, or wake signatures (e.g., low probability of intercept (LPI) techniques, methods or applications) of defense platforms or equipment through shaping, active, or passive techniques; or
(11) Technical data for modifying acoustic signatures of defense platforms or equipment through shaping, active, or passive techniques.
(j) Equipment, materials, coatings, and treatments not elsewhere specified, as follows:
(1) Specially treated or formulated dyes, coatings, and fabrics used in the design, manufacture, or production of personnel protective clothing, equipment, or face paints designed to protect against or reduce detection by radar, infrared, or other sensors at wavelengths greater than 900 nanometers (see USML Category X(a)(2)); or
* (2) Equipment, materials, coatings, and treatments that are specially designed to modify the electro-optical, radiofrequency, infrared, electric, laser, magnetic, electromagnetic, acoustic, electro-static, or wake signatures of defense articles or 600 series items subject to the EAR through control of absorption, reflection, or emission to reduce detectability or observability (MT for applications usable for rockets, SLVs, missiles, drones, or UAVs capable of achieving a range greater than or equal to 300 km, and their subsystems. See note to paragraph (d) of this category).
* (k) Tooling and equipment, as follows:
(1) Tooling and equipment specially designed for production of low observable (LO) components; or
(2) Portable platform signature field repair validation equipment (e.g., portable optical interrogator that validates integrity of a repair to a signature reduction structure).
(l) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (h), (j), and (k) of this category and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in this category (see also § 120.5(c) of this subchapter for nuclear related controls). (MT for technical data and defense services related to articles designated as such.)
(m) The following interpretations explain and amplify terms used in this category and elsewhere in this subchapter:
(1) Composite armor is defined as having more than one layer of different materials or a matrix.
(2) Spaced armors are metallic or non-metallic armors that incorporate an air space or obliquity or discontinuous material path effects as part of the defeat mechanism.
(3) Reactive armor employs explosives, propellants, or other materials between plates for the purpose of enhancing plate motion during a ballistic event or otherwise defeating the penetrator.
(4) Electromagnetic armor (EMA) employs electricity to defeat threats such as shaped charges.
(5) Materials used in composite armor could include layers of metals, plastics,
elastomers, fibers, glass, ceramics, ceramic-glass reinforced plastic laminates, encapsulated ceramics in a metallic or non-metallic matrix, functionally gradient ceramic-metal materials, or ceramic balls in a cast metal matrix.
(6) For this category, a material is considered transparent if it allows 75% or greater transmission of light, corrected for index of refraction, in the visible spectrum through a 1 mm thick nominal sample.
(7) The material controlled in paragraph (e)(4) of this category has not been treated to reach the 75% transmission level referenced in (m)(6) of this category.
(8) Metal laminate armors are two or more layers of metallic materials which are mechanically or adhesively bonded together to form an armor system.
(9) E
m
is the line-of-sight target mass effectiveness ratio and provides a measure of the tested armor's performance to that of rolled homogenous armor, where E
m
is defined as follows:
ER02JA14.000
Where:
ρ
RHA
= density of RHA, (7.85 g/cm
3
)
Po = Baseline Penetration of RHA, (mm)
Pr = Residual Line of Sight Penetration, either positive or negative (mm RHA equivalent)
AD
TARGET
= Line-of-Sight Areal Density of Target (kg/m
2
)
If witness plate is penetrated, P
r
is the distance from the projectile to the front edge of the witness plate. If not penetrated, P
r
is negative and is the distance from the back edge of the target to the projectile.
(10) NIJ is the National Institute of Justice and Level III refers to the requirements specified in NIJ standard 0108.01 Ballistic Resistant Protective Materials.
(n)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technical data subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Category XIV—Toxicological Agents, Including Chemical Agents, Biological Agents, and Associated Equipment
* (a) Chemical agents, as follows:
(1) Nerve agents, as follows:
(i) O-Alkyl (equal to or less than C
10
, including cycloalkyl) alkyl (Methyl, Ethyl, n-Propyl or Isopropyl) phosphonofluoridates, such as: Sarin (GB): O-Isopropyl methylphosphonofluoridate (CAS 107-44-8) (CWC Schedule 1A); and Soman (GD): O-Pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate (CAS 96-64-0) (CWC Schedule 1A);
(ii) O-Alkyl (equal to or less than C
10
, including cycloalkyl) N,N-dialkyl (Methyl, Ethyl, n-Propyl or Isopropyl) phosphoramidocyanidates, such as: Tabun (GA): O-Ethyl N, N-dimethylphosphoramidocyanidate (CAS 77-81-6) (CWC Schedule 1A); or
(iii) O-Alkyl (H or equal to or less than C
10
, including cycloalkyl) S-2-dialkyl (Methyl, Ethyl, n-Propyl or Isopropyl) aminoethyl alkyl (Methyl, Ethyl, n-Propyl or Isopropyl) phosphonothiolates and corresponding alkylated and protonated salts, such as VX: O-Ethyl S-2-diisopropylaminoethyl methyl phosphonothiolate (CAS 50782-69-9) (CWC Schedule 1A);
(2) Amiton: O,O-Diethyl S-[2(diethylamino)ethyl] phosphorothiolate and corresponding alkylated or protonated salts (CAS 78-53-5) (CWC Schedule 2A);
(3) Vesicant agents, as follows:
(i) Sulfur mustards, such as: 2-Chloroethylchloromethylsulfide (CAS 2625-76-5) (CWC Schedule 1A); Bis(2-chloroethyl)sulfide (HD) (CAS 505-60-2) (CWC Schedule 1A); Bis(2-chloroethylthio)methane (CAS 63839-13-6) (CWC Schedule 1A); 1,2-bis (2-chloroethylthio)ethane (CAS 3563-36-8) (CWC Schedule 1A); 1,3-bis (2-chloroethylthio)-n-propane (CAS 63905-10-2) (CWC Schedule 1A); 1,4-bis (2-chloroethylthio)-n-butane (CWC Schedule 1A); 1,5-bis (2-chloroethylthio)-n-pentane (CWC Schedule 1A); Bis (2-chloroethylthiomethyl)ether (CWC Schedule 1A); Bis (2-chloroethylthioethyl)ether (CAS 63918-89-8) (CWC Schedule 1A);
(ii) Lewisites, such as: 2-chlorovinyldichloroarsine (CAS 541-25-3) (CWC Schedule 1A); Tris (2-chlorovinyl) arsine (CAS 40334-70-1) (CWC Schedule 1A); Bis (2-chlorovinyl) chloroarsine (CAS 40334-69-8) (CWC Schedule 1A);
(iii) Nitrogen mustards, or their protonated salts, as follows:
(A) HN1: Bis (2-chloroethyl) ethylamine (CAS 538-07-8) (CWC Schedule 1A);
(B) HN2: Bis (2-chloroethyl) methylamine (CAS 51-75-2) (CWC Schedule 1A);
(C) HN3: Tris (2-chloroethyl) amine (CAS 555-77-1) (CWC Schedule 1A); or
(D) Other nitrogen mustards, or their salts, having a propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, or tertiary butyl group on the bis(2-chloroethyl) amine base;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(3)(
iii

# ):
Pharmaceutical formulations containing nitrogen mustards or certain reference standards for these formulations are not considered to be chemical agents and are subject to the EAR
when: (1) The pharmaceutical is in the form of a final medical product; or (2) the reference standard contains salts of HN2 [bis(2-chloroethyl) methylamine], the quantity to be shipped is 150 milligrams or less, and individual shipments do not exceed twelve per calendar year per end user.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(3)(
iii

# ):
A “final medical product,” as used in this paragraph, is a pharmaceutical formulation that is (1) designed for testing and administration in the treatment of human medical conditions, (2) prepackaged for distribution as a clinical or medical product, and (3) approved for marketing by the Food and Drug Administration or has a valid investigational new drug application (IND) in effect, in accordance with 21 CFR part 312.
(iv) Ethyldichloroarsine (ED) (CAS 598-14-1); or
(v) Methyldichloroarsine (MD) (CAS 593-89-5);
(4) Incapacitating agents, such as:
(i) 3-Quinuclindinyl benzilate (BZ) (CAS 6581-06-2) (CWC Schedule 2A);
(ii) Diphenylchloroarsine (DA) (CAS 712-48-1); or
(iii) Diphenylcyanoarsine (DC) (CAS 23525-22-6);
(5) Chemical warfare agents not enumerated above adapted for use in war to produce casualties in humans or animals, degrade equipment, or damage crops or the environment. (See the CCL at ECCNs 1C350, 1C355, and 1C395 for control of certain chemicals not adapted for use in war.)

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(5):
“Adapted for use in war” means any modification or selection (such as altering purity, shelf life, dissemination characteristics, or resistance to ultraviolet radiation) designed to increase the effectiveness in producing casualties in humans or animals, degrading equipment, or damaging crops or the environment.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Paragraph (a) of this category does not include the following: Cyanogen chloride, Hydrocyanic acid, Chlorine, Carbonyl chloride (Phosgene), Ethyl bromoacetate, Xylyl bromide, Benzyl bromide, Benzyl iodide, Chloro acetone, Chloropicrin (trichloronitromethane), Fluorine, and Liquid pepper.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Regarding U.S. obligations under the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC), refer to Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations (CWCR) (15 CFR parts 710 through 721). As appropriate, the CWC schedule is provided to assist the exporter.
* (b) Biological agents and biologically derived substances and genetic elements thereof as follows:
(1) Genetically modified biological agents:
(i) Having non-naturally occurring genetic modifications that are known to or are reasonably expected to result in an increase in any of the following:
(A) Persistence in a field environment (
i.e.,
resistance to oxygen, UV damage, temperature extremes, arid conditions, or decontamination processes); or
(B) The ability to defeat or overcome standard detection methods, personnel protection, natural or acquired host immunity, host immune response, or response to standard medical countermeasures; and
(ii) Being any micro-organisms/toxins or their non-naturally occurring genetic elements as listed below:
(A) Bacillus anthracis;
(B) Botulinum neurotoxin producing species of Clostridium;
(C) Burkholderia mallei;
(D) Burkholderia pseudomallei;
(E) Ebola virus;
(F) Foot-and-mouth disease virus;
(G) Francisella tularensis;
(H) Marburg virus;
(I) Variola major virus (Smallpox virus);
(J) Variola minor virus (Alastrim);
(K) Yersinia pestis; or
(L) Rinderpest virus.
(2) Biological agent or biologically derived substances controlled in ECCNs 1C351, 1C353, or 1C354:
(i) Physically modified, formulated, or produced as any of the following:
(A) 1-10 micron particle size;
(B) Particle-absorbed or combined with nano-particles;
(C) Having coatings/surfactants, or
(D) By microencapsulation; and
(ii) Meeting the criteria of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this category in a manner that is known to or is reasonably expected to result in an increase in any of the following:
(A) Persistence in a field environment (
i.e.,
resistant to oxygen, UV damage, temperature extremes, arid conditions, or decontamination processes);
(B) Dispersal characteristics (e.g., reduced susceptibility to shear forces, optimized electrostatic charges); or
(C) The ability to defeat or overcome: standard detection methods, personnel protection, natural or acquired host immunity, or response to standard medical countermeasures.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
Non-naturally occurring means that the modification has not already been observed in nature, was not discovered from samples obtained from nature, and was developed with human intervention.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
b

# ):
This paragraph does not control biological agents or biologically derived substances when these agents or substances have been demonstrated to be attenuated relative to natural pathogenic isolates and are incapable of causing disease or intoxication of ordinarily
affected and relevant species (e.g., humans, livestock, crop plants) due to the attenuation of virulence or pathogenic factors. This paragraph also does not control genetic elements, nucleic acids, or nucleic acid sequences (whether recombinant or synthetic) that are unable to produce or direct the biosynthesis of infectious or functional forms of the biological agents or biologically derived substances that are capable of causing disease or intoxication of ordinarily affected and relevant species.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
b

# ):
Biological agents or biologically derived substances that meet both paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this category are controlled in paragraph (b)(1).
* (c) Chemical agent binary precursors and key precursors, as follows:
(1) Alkyl (Methyl, Ethyl, n-Propyl or Isopropyl) phosphonyl difluorides, such as: DF: Methyl Phosphonyldifluoride (CAS 676-99-3) (CWC Schedule 1B); Methylphosphinyldifluoride (CAS 753-59-3) (CWC Schedule 2B);
(2) O-Alkyl (H or equal to or less than C
10
, including cycloalkyl) O-2-dialkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-Propyl or isopropyl) aminoethyl alkyl (methyl, ethyl, N-propyl or isopropyl) phosphonite and corresponding alkylated and protonated salts, such as QL: O-Ethyl-2-di-isopropylaminoethyl methylphosphonite (CAS 57856-11-8) (CWC Schedule 1B);
(3) Chlorosarin: O-Isopropyl methylphosphonochloridate (CAS 1445-76-7) (CWC Schedule 1B);
(4) Chlorosoman: O-Pinacolyl methylphosphonochloridate (CAS 7040-57-5) (CWC Schedule 1B); or
(5) Methylphosphonyl dichloride (CAS 676-97-1) (CWC Schedule 2B); Methylphosphinyldichloride (CAS 676-83-5) (CWC Schedule 2B).
(d) [Reserved]
(e) Defoliants, as follows:
(1) 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (CAS 93-76-5) mixed with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (CAS 94-75-7) (Agent Orange (CAS 39277-47-9)); or
(2) Butyl 2-chloro-4-fluorophenoxyacetate (LNF).
* (f) Parts, components, accessories, attachments, associated equipment, materials, and systems, as follows:
(1) Any equipment for the dissemination, dispersion, or testing of articles controlled in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), or (e) of this category, as follows:
(i) Any equipment “specially designed” for the dissemination and dispersion of articles controlled in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), or (e) of this category; or
(ii) Any equipment “specially designed” for testing the articles controlled in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (e), or (f)(4) of this category and developed under a Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization.
(2) Any equipment, containing reagents, algorithms, coefficients, software, libraries, spectral databases, or alarm set point levels developed under a Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization, for the detection, identification, warning, or monitoring of:
(i) Articles controlled in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this category; or
(ii) Chemical agents or biological agents specified in the Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
f

# )(2):
This paragraph does not control articles that are (a) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination, or (b) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
f

# )(2):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the USML.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) For individual protection or collective protection against the articles controlled in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this category, as follows:
(i) M53 Chemical Biological Protective Mask or M50 Joint Service General Purpose Mask (JSGPM);
(ii) Filter cartridges containing sorbents controlled in paragraph (f)(4)(iii) or (n) of this category;
(iii) Carbon meeting MIL-DTL-32101 specifications (e.g., ASZM-TEDA carbon); or
(iv) Ensembles, garments, suits, jackets, pants, boots, or socks for individual protection, and liners for collective protection that allow no more than 1% breakthrough of GD or no more than 2% breakthrough of any other chemical controlled in paragraph (a) of this category, when evaluated by executing the applicable standard method(s) of testing described in the current version of Test Operating Protocols (TOPs) 08-2-201 or 08-2-501 and using the defined Department of Defense-specific requirements;
(5)-(6) [Reserved]
(7) Chemical Agent Resistant Coatings that have been qualified to military specifications (MIL-PRF-32348, MIL-DTL-64159, MIL-C-46168, or MIL-DTL-53039); or
(8) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that:
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Is manufactured using classified production data; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.
(g) Antibodies, recombinant protective antigens, polynucleotides, biopolymers, or
biocatalysts (including their expression vectors, viruses, plasmids, or cultures of specific cells modified to produce them) as follows:
(1) When exclusively funded by a Department of Defense contract for detection of the biological agents at paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this category even if naturally occurring;
(2) Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System (JBAIDS) Freeze Dried reagents listed by JRPD-ASY-No and Description respectively as follows:
(i) JRPD-ASY-0016 Q-Fever IVD Kit;
(ii) JRPD-ASY-0100 Vaccinia (Orthopox);
(iii) JRPD-ASY-0106 Brucella melitensis (Brucellosis);
(iv) JRPD-ASY-0108 Rickettsia prowazekii (Rickettsia);
(v) JRPD-ASY-0109 Burkholderia ssp. (Burkholderia);
(vi) JRPD-ASY-0112 Eastern equine encephalitis (EEE);
(vii) JRPD-ASY-0113 Western equine encephalitis (WEE);
(viii) JRPD-ASY-0114 Venezuelan equine encephalitis (VEE);
(ix) JRPD-ASY-0122 Coxiella burnetii (Coxiella);
(x) JRPD-ASY-0136 Influenza A/H5 IVD Detection Kit;
(xi) JRPD-ASY-0137 Influenza A/B IVD Detection Kit; or
(xii) JRPD-ASY-0138 Influenza A Subtype IVD Detection Kit;
(3) Critical Reagent Polymerase (CRP) Chain Reactions (PCR) assay kits with Catalog-ID and Catalog-ID Product respectively as follows:
(i) PCR-BRU-1FB-B-K Brucella Target 1 FastBlock Master Mix Biotinylated;
(ii) PCR-BRU-1FB-K Brucella Target 1 FastBlock Master Mix;
(iii) PCR-BRU-1R-K Brucella Target 1 LightCycler/RAPID Master Mix;
(iv) PCR-BURK-2FB-B-K Burkholderia Target 2 FastBlock Master Mix Biotinylated;
(v) PCR-BURK-2FB-K Burkholderia Target 2 FastBlock Master Mix;
(vi) PCR-BURK-2R-K Burkholderia Target 2 LightCycler/RAPID Master Mix;
(vii) PCR-BURK-3FB-B-K Burkholderia Target 3 FastBlock Master Mix Biotinylated;
(viii) PCR-BURK-3FB-K Burkholderia Target 3 FastBlock Master Mix;
(ix) PCR-BURK-3R-K Burkholderia Target 3 LightCycler/RAPID Master Mix;
(x) PCR-COX-1FB-B-K Coxiella burnetii Target 1 FastBlock Master Mix Biotinylated;
(xi) PCR-COX-1R-K Coxiella burnetii Target 1 LightCycler/RAPID Master Mix;
(xii) PCR-COX-2R-K Coxiella burnetii Target 2 LightCycler/RAPID Master Mix;
(xiii) PCR-OP-1FB-B-K Orthopox Target 1 FastBlock Master Mix Biotinylated;
(xiv) PCR-OP-1FB-K Orthopox Target 1 FastBlock Master Mix;
(xv) PCR-OP-1R-K Orthopox Target 1 LightCycler/RAPID Master Mix;
(xvi) PCR-OP-2FB-B-K Orthopox Target 2 FastBlock Master Mix Biotinylated;
(xvii) PCR-OP-3R-K Orthopox Target 3 LightCycler/RAPID Master Mix;
(xviii) PCR-RAZOR-BT-X PCR-RAZOR-BT-X RAZOR CRP BioThreat-X Screening Pouch;
(xix) PCR-RIC-1FB-K Ricin Target 1 FastBlock Master Mix;
(xx) PCR-RIC-1R-K Ricin Target 1 LightCycler/RAPID Master Mix;
(xxi) PCR-RIC-2R-K Ricin Target 2 LightCycler/RAPID Master Mix; or
(xxii) PCR-VEE-1R-K Venezuelan equine encephalitis Target 1 LightCycler/RAPID Master Mix; or
(4) Critical Reagent Program Antibodies with Catalog ID and Product respectively as follows:
(i) AB-AG-RIC Aff. Goat anti-Ricin;
(ii) AB-ALVG-MAB Anti-Alphavirus Generic Mab;
(iii) AB-AR-SEB Aff. Rabbit anti-SEB;
(iv) AB-BRU-M-MAB1 Anti-Brucella melitensis Mab 1;
(v) AB-BRU-M-MAB2 Anti-Brucella melitensis Mab 2;
(vi) AB-BRU-M-MAB3 Anti-Brucella melitensis Mab 3;
(vii) AB-BRU-M-MAB4 Anti-Brucella melitensis Mab 4;
(viii) AB-CHOL-0139-MAB Anti-V.cholerae 0139 Mab;
(ix) AB-CHOL-01-MAB Anti-V. cholerae 01 Mab;
(x) AB-COX-MAB Anti-Coxiella Mab;
(xi) AB-EEE-MAB Anti-EEE Mab;
(xii) AB-G-BRU-A Goat anti-Brucella abortus;
(xiii) AB-G-BRU-M Goat anti-Brucella melitensis;
(xiv) AB-G-BRU-S Goat anti-Brucella suis;
(xv) AB-G-CHOL-01 Goat anti-V.cholerae 0:1;
(xvi) AB-G-COL-139 Goat anti-V.cholerae 0:139;
(xvii) AB-G-DENG Goat anti-Dengue;
(xviii) AB-G-RIC Goat anti-Ricin;
(xix) AB-G-SAL-T Goat anti-S. typhi;
(xx) AB-G-SEA Goat anti-SEA;
(xxi) AB-G-SEB Goat anti-SEB;
(xxii) AB-G-SEC Goat anti-SEC;
(xxiii) AB-G-SED Goat anti-SED;
(xxiv) AB-G-SEE Goat anti-SEE;
(xxv) AB-G-SHIG-D Goat anti-Shigella dysenteriae;
(xxvi) AB-R-BA-PA Rabbit anti-Protective Antigen;
(xxvii) AB-R-COX Rabbit anti-C. burnetii;
(xxviii) AB-RIC-MAB1 Anti-Ricin Mab 1;
(xxix) AB-RIC-MAB2 Anti-Ricin Mab 2;
(xxx) AB-RIC-MAB3 Anti-Ricin Mab3;
(xxxi) AB-R-SEB Rabbit anti-SEB;
(xxxii) AB-R-VACC Rabbit anti-Vaccinia;
(xxxiii) AB-SEB-MAB Anti-SEB Mab;
(xxxiv) AB-SLT2-MAB Anti-Shigella-like t x2 Mab;
(xxxv) AB-T2T-MAB1 Anti-T2 Mab 1;
(xxxvi) AB-T2T-MAB2 Anti-T2 Toxin 2;
(xxxvii) AB-VACC-MAB1 Anti-Vaccinia Mab 1;
(xxxviii) AB-VACC-MAB2 Anti-Vaccinia Mab 2;
(xxxix) AB-VACC-MAB3 Anti-Vaccinia Mab 3;
(xl) AB-VACC-MAB4 Anti-Vaccinia Mab 4;
(xli) AB-VACC-MAB5 Anti-Vaccinia Mab 5;
(xlii) AB-VACC-MAB6 Anti-Vaccinia Mab 6;
(xliii) AB-VEE-MAB1 Anti-VEE Mab 1;
(xliv) AB-VEE-MAB2 Anti-VEE Mab 2;
(xlv) AB-VEE-MAB3 Anti-VEE Mab 3;
(xlvi) AB-VEE-MAB4 Anti-VEE Mab 4;
(xlvii) AB-VEE-MAB5 Anti-VEE Mab 5;
(xlviii) AB-VEE-MAB6 Anti-VEE Mab 6; or
(xlix) AB-WEE-MAB Anti-WEE Complex Mab.
(h) Vaccines exclusively funded by a Department of Defense contract, as follows:
(1) Recombinant Botulinum ToxinA/B Vaccine;
(2) Recombinant Plague Vaccine;
(3) Trivalent Filovirus Vaccine; or
(4) Vaccines specially designed for the sole purpose of protecting against biological agents and biologically derived substances identified in paragraph (b) of this category.

# Note to paragraph (
h

# ):
See ECCN 1A607.k for military medical countermeasures such as autoinjectors, combopens, and creams.
(i) Modeling or simulation tools, including software controlled in paragraph (m) of this category, for chemical or biological weapons design, development, or employment developed or produced under a Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization (e.g., the Department of Defense's HPAC, SCIPUFF, and the Joint Effects Model (JEM)).
(j)-(l) [Reserved]
(m) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles enumerated in paragraphs (a) through (l) and (n) of this category. (See§ 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions.)
(n) Developmental countermeasures or sorbents funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
n

# ):
This paragraph does not control countermeasures or sorbents that are (a) in production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
n

# ):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the USML, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
n

# ):
This paragraph is applicable only to those contracts and funding authorizations that are dated July 28, 2017, or later.
(o)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technology subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles controlled in this category.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles controlled in this category where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technology subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Category XV— Spacecraft and Related Articles
(a) Spacecraft, including satellites and space vehicles, whether designated developmental, experimental, research, or scientific, or having a commercial, civil, or military end-use, that:
* (1) Are specially designed to mitigate effects (e.g., scintillation) of or for detection of a nuclear detonation;
* (2) Autonomously detect and track moving ground, airborne, missile, or space objects other than celestial bodies, in real-time using imaging, infrared, radar, or laser systems;
* (3) Conduct signals intelligence (SIGINT) or measurement and signatures intelligence (MASINT);
* (4) Are specially designed to be used in a constellation or formation that when operated together, in essence or effect, form a virtual satellite (e.g., functioning as if one satellite) with the characteristics or functions of other items in paragraph (a);
* (5) Are anti-satellite or anti-spacecraft (e.g., kinetic, RF, laser, charged particle);
* (6) Have space-to-ground weapons systems (e.g., kinetic or directed energy);
* (7) Have any of the following electro-optical remote sensing capabilities or characteristics:
(i) Electro-optical visible and near infrared (VNIR) (
i.e.,
400nm to 1,000nm) or infrared (
i.e.,
greater than 1,000nm to 30,000nm) with less than 40 spectral bands and having a clear aperture greater than 0.50m;
(ii) Electro-optical hyperspectral with 40 spectral bands or more in the VNIR, short-wavelength infrared (SWIR) (
i.e.,
greater than 1,000nm to 2,500nm) or any combination of the aforementioned and having a Ground Sample Distance (GSD) less than 30 meters;
(iii) Electro-optical hyperspectral with 40 spectral bands or more in the mid-wavelength infrared (MWIR) (
i.e.,
greater than 2,500nm to 5,500nm) having a narrow spectral bandwidth of Δλ less than or equal to 20nm
full width at half maximum (FWHM) or having a wide spectral bandwidth with Δλ greater than 20nm FWHM and a GSD less than 200 meters; or
(iv) Electro-optical hyperspectral with 40 spectral bands or more in the long-wavelength infrared (LWIR) (
i.e.,
greater than 5,500nm to 30,000nm) having a narrow spectral bandwidth of Δλ less than or equal to 50nm FWHM or having a wide spectral bandwidth with Δλ greater than 50nm FWHM and a GSD less than 500 meters;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(7):
Ground Sample Distance (GSD) is measured from a spacecraft's nadir (
i.e.,
local vertical) position.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(7):
Optical remote sensing spacecraft or satellite spectral bandwidth is the smallest difference in wavelength (
i.e.,
Δλ) that can be distinguished at full width at half maximum (FWHM) of wavelength λ.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# )(7):
An optical satellite or spacecraft is not Significant Military Equipment if non-earth pointing.
* (8) Have radar remote sensing capabilities or characteristics (e.g., active electronically scanned array (AESA), synthetic aperture radar (SAR), inverse synthetic aperture radar (ISAR), ultra-wideband SAR), except those having a center frequency equal to or greater than 1 GHz but less than or equal to 10 GHz and having a bandwidth less than 300 MHz;
(9) Provide Positioning, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) signals;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(9):
This paragraph does not control a satellite or spacecraft that provides only a differential correction broadcast for the purposes of positioning, navigation, or timing.
(10) Autonomously perform collision avoidance;
(11) Are sub-orbital, incorporate propulsion systems described in paragraph (e) of this category or Category IV(d)(1)-(6) of this section, and are specially designed for atmospheric entry or re-entry;
(12) Are specially designed to provide inspection or surveillance of another spacecraft, or service another spacecraft via grappling or docking; or

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(12):
This paragraph does not control spacecraft that dock exclusively via the NASA Docking System (NDS), which are controlled by ECCN 9A515.a.4.
* (13) Are classified, contain classified software or hardware, are manufactured using classified production data, or are being developed using classified information (e.g., having classified requirements, specifications, functions, or operational characteristics or include classified cryptographic items controlled under USML Category XIII of this subchapter).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Spacecraft not identified in this paragraph are subject to the EAR (see ECCNs 9A004 and 9A515). Spacecraft described in ECCNs 9A004 and 9A515 remain subject to the EAR even if defense articles described on the USML are incorporated therein, except when such incorporation results in a spacecraft described in this paragraph.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# ):
This paragraph does not control (a) the International Space Station (ISS) and its specially designed (as defined in the EAR) parts and components, which are subject to the EAR, or (b) those articles for the ISS that are determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination. Use of a defense article on the ISS that was not specially designed (as defined in the EAR) for the ISS does not cause the item to become subject to the EAR.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# ):
This paragraph does not control the James Webb Space Telescope, which is subject to the EAR.
(b) Ground control systems or training simulators, specially designed for telemetry, tracking, and control (TT
C) of spacecraft in paragraph (a) of this category.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
Parts, components, accessories, attachments, equipment, or systems that are common to ground control systems or training simulators controlled in this paragraph and those that are used for spacecraft not controlled in paragraph (a) of this category are subject to the EAR.
(c)-(d) [Reserved]
(e) Spacecraft parts, components, accessories, attachments, equipment, or systems, as follows:
(1) Antenna systems specially designed for spacecraft that:
(i) Have a dimension greater than 25 meters in diameter or length of the major axis;
(ii) Employ active electronic scanning;
(iii) Are adaptive beam forming; or
(iv) Are for interferometric radar;
(2) Space-qualified optics (
i.e.,
lens, mirror or membrane) having one of the following:
(i) Active properties (e.g., adaptive, deformable) with a largest lateral clear aperture dimension greater than 0.35m; or
(ii) A largest lateral clear aperture dimension greater than 0.50m;
(3) Space-qualified focal plane arrays (FPA) having a peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 900nm and readout integrated circuit (ROIC), whether separate or integrated, specially designed therefor;
(4) Space-qualified mechanical (
i.e.,
active) cryocooler or active cold finger systems, and associated control electronics specially designed therefor;
(5) Space-qualified active vibration suppression systems, including active isolation and active dampening systems, and associated control electronics specially designed therefor;
(6) Optical bench assemblies specially designed to enable spacecraft to meet or exceed the parameters described in paragraph (a) of this category;
(7) Space-qualified kinetic or directed-energy systems (e.g., RF, laser, charged particle) specially designed for spacecraft in paragraph (a)(5) or (a)(6) of this category, and specially designed parts and components therefor (e.g., power conditioning and beam-handling/switching, propagation, tracking, and pointing equipment);
(8) [Reserved]
(9) Space-qualified cesium, rubidium, hydrogen maser, or quantum (e.g., based upon Al, Hg, Yb, Sr, Be Ions) atomic clocks, and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(10) Attitude determination and control systems, and specially designed parts and components therefor, that provide a spacecraft's geolocation accuracy, without using Ground Location Points, better than or equal to:
(i) 5 meters (CE90) from low earth orbit (LEO);
(ii) 30 meters (CE90) from medium earth orbit (MEO);
(iii) 150 meters (CE90) from geosynchronous orbit (GEO); or
(iv) 225 meters (CE90) from high earth orbit (HEO);
(11) Space-based systems, and specially designed parts and components therefor, as follows:
(i) Nuclear reactors and associated power conversion systems (e.g., liquid metal or gas-cooled fast reactors);
(ii) Radioisotope-based power systems (e.g., radioisotope thermoelectric generators);
(iii) Nuclear thermal propulsion systems (e.g., solid core, liquid core, gas core fission); or
(iv) Electric (Plasma/Ion) propulsion systems that provide a thrust greater than 300 milli-Newtons and a specific impulse greater than 1,500 sec; or that operate at an input power of more than 15kW;
(12) Thrusters (e.g., spacecraft or rocket engines) using bi-propellants or mono-propellant that provide greater than 150 lbf (
i.e.,
667.23 N) vacuum thrust (MT for rocket motors or engines having a total impulse capacity equal to or greater than 8.41 × 10
^
5 newton seconds);
(13) Control moment gyroscope (CMG) specially designed for spacecraft;
(14) Space-qualified monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMIC) that combine transmit and receive (T/R) functions on a single die as follows:
(i) Having a power amplifier with maximum saturated peak output power (in watts), Psat, greater than 200 divided by the maximum operating frequency (in GHz) squared [Psat
200 W* GHz2/fGHz2]; or
(ii) Having a common path (e.g., phase shifter-digital attenuator) circuit with greater than 3 bits phase shifting at operating frequencies 10 GHz or below, or greater than 4 bits phase shifting at operating frequencies above 10 GHz;
(15) Space-qualified oscillator for radar in paragraph (a) of this category with phase noise less than −120 dBc/Hz + (20 log10(RF) (in GHz)) measured at 2 KHz* RF (in GHz) from carrier;
(16) Space-qualified star tracker or star sensor with angular accuracy less than or equal to 1 arcsec (1-Sigma) per star coordinate, and a tracking rate equal to or greater than 3.0 deg/sec, and specially designed parts and components therefor (MT);
* (17) Primary, secondary, or hosted payload that performs any of the functions described in paragraph (a) of this category;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# )(17):
Primary payload
is that complement of equipment designed from the outset to accomplish the prime mission function of the spacecraft payload mission set. The primary payload may operate independently from the secondary payload(s).
Secondary payload
is that complement of equipment designed from the outset to be fully integrated into the spacecraft payload mission set. The secondary payload may operate separately from the primary payload.
Hosted payload
is a complement of equipment or sensors that uses the available or excess capacity (mass, volume, power, etc.) of a spacecraft to accommodate an additional, independent mission. The hosted payload may share the spacecraft bus support infrastructure. The hosted payload performs an additional, independent mission which does not dictate control or operation of the spacecraft. A hosted payload is not capable of operating as an independent spacecraft.
Spacecraft bus
(distinct from the spacecraft payload), provides the support infrastructure of the spacecraft (e.g., command and data handling, communications and antenna(s), electrical power, propulsion, thermal control, attitude and orbit control, guidance, navigation and control, structure and truss, life support (for crewed mission)) and location (e.g., attachment, interface) for the spacecraft payload.
Spacecraft payload
is that complement of equipment attached to the spacecraft bus that performs a particular mission in space (e.g., communications, observation, science).

# Note 2 to paragraph (
e

# )(17):
An ECCN 9A004 or ECCN 9A515.a spacecraft remains a spacecraft subject to the EAR even when incorporating a hosted payload performing a function described in paragraph (a) of this
category. All spacecraft that incorporate primary or secondary payloads that perform a function described in paragraph (a) of this category are controlled by that paragraph. This paragraph does not control primary or secondary payloads of the James Webb Space Telescope, which are subject to the EAR.
* (18) Secondary or hosted payload, and specially designed parts and components therefor, developed with Department of Defense-funding;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# )(18):
This paragraph does not control payloads that are (a) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination, or (b) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization or agreement as being developed for both military and either civil or commercial applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
e

# )(18):
This paragraph is applicable only to those contracts or funding authorizations or agreements that are dated May 13, 2015, or later.
(19) Spacecraft heat shields or heat sinks specially designed for atmospheric entry or re-entry, and specially designed parts and components therefor (MT if usable in rockets, SLVs, missiles, drones, or UAVs capable of delivering a payload of at least 500 kg to a range of at least 300 km);

# Note to paragraph (
e

# )(19):
“Payload” is the total mass that can be carried or delivered by the specified rocket, SLV, missile, drone, or UAV that is not used to maintain flight. For definition of “range” as it pertains to aircraft systems, see note to paragraph (a) of USML Category VIII. For definition of “range” as it pertains to rocket systems, see note 1 to paragraph (a) of USML Category IV.
(20) Equipment modules, stages, or compartments that incorporate propulsion systems described in paragraph (e) of this category or Category IV(d)(1)-(6) of this section, and can be separated or jettisoned from another spacecraft; or
* (21) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that:
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# ):
Parts, components, accessories, attachments, equipment, or systems specially designed for spacecraft or other articles enumerated in this category but not listed in paragraph (e) are subject to the EAR.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
e

# ):
The articles described in this paragraph are subject to the EAR when, prior to export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import, they are integrated into and included as an integral part of an item subject to the EAR (see note 2 to paragraph (e)(17) of this category). Articles do not become subject to the EAR until integrated into the item subject to the EAR. Export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import of, and technical data and defense services directly related to defense articles intended to be integrated remain subject to the ITAR.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
e

# ):
For the purposes of this paragraph, an article is space-qualified if it is designed, manufactured, or qualified through successful testing, for operation at altitudes greater than 100 km above the surface of the Earth. The use of an altitude of 100 km above the surface of the Earth in this paragraph does not represent a legal demarcation between national air space and outer space under United States or international law.

# Note 4 to paragraph (
e

# ):
(1) A determination that a specific article (or commodity) (e.g., by product serial number) is space-qualified by virtue of testing alone does not mean that other articles in the same production run or model series are space-qualified if not individually tested. (2) “Article” is synonymous with “commodity,” as defined in EAR § 772.1. (3) A specific article not designed or manufactured for use at altitudes greater than 100 km above the surface of the Earth is not space-qualified before it is successfully tested. (4) The terms “designed” and “manufactured” in this definition are synonymous with “specially designed.”
(f) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in ECCNs 9A515, 9B515, or 9D515 and defense services using the classified technical data. Defense services include the furnishing of assistance (including training) to a foreign person in the integration of a satellite or spacecraft to a launch vehicle, including both planning and onsite support, regardless of the jurisdiction, ownership, or origin of the satellite or spacecraft, or whether technical data is used. It also includes the furnishing of assistance (including training) to a foreign person in the launch failure analysis of a satellite or spacecraft, regardless of the jurisdiction, ownership, or origin of the satellite of spacecraft, or whether technical data is used. (See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions, and § 124.15 of this subchapter for special export controls for satellites and satellite launches.) (MT for technical data and defense services related to articles designated as such.)

# Note 1 to paragraph (
f

# ):
The technical data control of this paragraph does not apply to certain technical data directly related to articles described in paragraphs (c) or (e) of
this category when such articles are integrated into and included as an integral part of a satellite subject to the EAR. For controls in these circumstances, see ECCN 9E515. This only applies to that level of technical data (including marketing data) necessary and reasonable for a purchaser to have assurance that a U.S. built item intended to operate in space has been designed, manufactured, and tested in conformance with specified contract requirements (e.g., operational performance, reliability, lifetime, product quality, or delivery expectations) as well as data necessary for normal orbit satellite operations, to evaluate in-orbit anomalies, and to operate and maintain associated ground station equipment (except encryption hardware).

# Note 2 to paragraph (
f

# ):
Activities and technology/technical data directly related to or required for the spaceflight (e.g., sub-orbital, orbital, lunar, interplanetary, or otherwise beyond Earth orbit) passenger or participant experience, regardless of whether the passenger or participant experience is for space tourism, scientific or commercial research, commercial manufacturing/production activities, educational, media, or commercial transportation purposes, are not subject to the ITAR or the EAR. Such activities and technology/technical data include those directly related to or required for: (a) Spacecraft access, ingress, and egress, including the operation of all spacecraft doors, hatches, and airlocks; (b) physiological training (e.g., human-rated centrifuge training or parabolic flights, pressure suit or spacesuit training/operation); (c) medical evaluation or assessment of the spaceflight passenger or participant; (d) training for and operation by the passenger or participant of health and safety related hardware (e.g., seating, environmental control and life support, hygiene facilities, food preparation, exercise equipment, fire suppression, communications equipment, safety-related clothing or headgear) or emergency procedures; (e) viewing of the interior and exterior of the spacecraft or terrestrial mock-ups; (f) observing spacecraft operations (e.g., pre-flight checks, landing, in-flight status); (g) training in spacecraft or terrestrial mock-ups for connecting to or operating passenger or participant equipment used for purposes other than operating the spacecraft; or (h) donning, wearing, or utilizing the passenger's or participant's flight suit, pressure suit, or spacesuit, and personal equipment.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
f

# ):
Paragraph (f) and ECCNs 9E001, 9E002 and 9E515 do not control the data transmitted to or from a satellite or spacecraft, whether real or simulated, when limited to information about the health, operational status, or measurements or function of, or raw sensor output from, the spacecraft, spacecraft payload(s), or its associated subsystems or components. Such information is not within the scope of information captured within the definition of technology in the EAR for purposes of Category 9 Product Group E. Examples of such information, which are commonly referred to as “housekeeping data,” include (i) system, hardware, component configuration, and operation status information pertaining to temperatures, pressures, power, currents, voltages, and battery charges; (ii) spacecraft or payload orientation or position information, such as state vector or ephemeris information; (iii) payload raw mission or science output, such as images, spectra, particle measurements, or field measurements; (iv) command responses; (v) accurate timing information; and (vi) link budget data. The act of processing such telemetry data—
i.e.,
converting raw data into engineering units or readable products—or encrypting it does not, in and of itself, cause the telemetry data to become subject to the ITAR or to ECCN 9E515 for purposes of 9A515, or to ECCNs 9E001 or 9E002 for purposes of 9A004. All classified technical data directly related to items controlled in USML Category XV or ECCNs 9A515, and defense services using the classified technical data, remains subject to the ITAR. This note does not affect controls in USML XV(f), ECCN 9D515, or ECCN 9E515 on software source code or commands that control a spacecraft, payload, or associated subsystems for purposes of 9A515. This note also does not affect controls in ECCNs 9D001, 9D002, 9E001, or 9E002 on software source code or commands that control a spacecraft, payload, or associated subsystems for purposes of 9A004.
(g)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technology subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation also includes commodities, software, or technology subject to the EAR (see § 123.21(b) of this subchapter).

# Category XVI—Nuclear Weapons Related Articles
(a) [Reserved]
* (b) Modeling or simulation tools that model or simulate the environments generated by nuclear detonations or the effects of these environments on systems, subsystems, components, structures, or humans.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Parts, components, accessories, attachments, associated equipment, and production, testing, and inspection equipment and tooling, specially designed for the articles in paragraph (b) of this category.
(e) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of
this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraph (b) of this category (see also § 120.5(c) of this subchapter for nuclear related controls).
(f)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technical data subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Category XVII—Classified Articles, Technical Data, and Defense Services Not Otherwise Enumerated
* (a) All articles, and technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) relating thereto, that are classified in the interests of national security and that are not otherwise enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List.

# Category XVIII—Directed Energy Weapons
* (a) Directed energy weapons as follows:
(1) Systems or equipment that, other than as a result of incidental, accidental, or collateral effect:
(i) Degrade, destroy or cause mission-abort of a target;
(ii) Disturb, disable, or damage electronic circuitry, sensors or explosive devices remotely;
(iii) Deny area access;
(iv) Cause lethal effects; or
(v) Cause ocular disruption or blindness; and
(2) Use any non-acoustic technique such as lasers (including continuous wave or pulsed lasers), particle beams, particle accelerators that project a charged or neutral particle beam, high power radio-frequency (RF), or high pulsed power or high average power radio frequency beam transmitters.
* (b) Systems or equipment specially designed to detect, identify, or provide defense against articles specified in paragraph (a) of this category.
(c)-(d) [Reserved]
(e) Components, parts, accessories, attachments, systems or associated equipment specially designed for any of the articles in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this category.
(f) Developmental directed energy weapons funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization, and specially designed parts and components therefor;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
f

# ):
This paragraph does not control directed energy weapons (a) in production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination, or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
f

# ):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the USML, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
f

# ):
This paragraph is applicable only to those contracts and funding authorizations that are dated July 28, 2017, or later.
(g) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles enumerated in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this category;
(x) Commodities, software, and technology subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles controlled in this category.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles controlled in this category where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technology subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Category XIX—Gas Turbine Engines and Associated Equipment
* (a) Turbofan and Turbojet engines (including those that are technology demonstrators, developmental engines, or variable cycle engines) capable of 15,000 lbf (66.7 kN) of thrust or greater that have any of the following:
(1) With or specially designed for thrust augmentation (afterburner);
(2) Thrust or exhaust nozzle vectoring;
(3) Parts or components controlled in paragraph (f)(6) of this category;
(4) Specially designed for sustained 30 second inverted flight or negative g maneuver; or
(5) Specially designed for high power extraction (greater than 50 percent of engine thrust at altitude) at altitudes greater than 50,000 feet.
* (b) Turboshaft and Turboprop engines (including those that are technology demonstrators or developmental engines) that have any of the following:
(1) Capable of 2000 mechanical shp (1491 kW) or greater and specially designed with oil sump sealing when the engine is in the vertical position; or
(2) Capable of a specific power of 225 shp/(lbm/sec) or greater and specially designed for armament gas ingestion and non-civil transient maneuvers, where specific power is defined as maximum takeoff shaft horsepower (shp) divided by compressor inlet flow (lbm/sec).
* (c) Gas turbine engines (including technology demonstrators, developmental engines, and variable cycle engines) specially
designed for unmanned aerial vehicle systems controlled in this subchapter, cruise missiles, or target drones (MT if for an engine used in an aircraft, excluding manned aircraft, or missile that has a “range” equal to or greater than 300 km).
* (d) GE38, AGT1500, CTS800, MT7, T55, HPW3000, GE3000, T408, and T700 engines.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Engines subject to the control of this paragraph are licensed by the Department of Commerce when incorporated in an aircraft subject to the EAR and controlled under ECCN 9A610. Such engines are subject to the controls of the ITAR in all other circumstances.
* (e) Digital engine control systems (e.g., Full Authority Digital Engine Controls (FADEC) and Digital Electronic Engine Controls (DEEC)) specially designed for gas turbine engines controlled in this category (MT if the digital engine control system is for an aircraft, excluding manned aircraft, or missile that has a range equal to or greater than 300 km).

# Note to paragraph (
e

# ):
Digital electronic control systems autonomously control the engine throughout its whole operating range from demanded engine start until demanded engine shut-down, in both normal and fault conditions.
(f) Parts, components, accessories, attachments, associated equipment, and systems as follows:
(1) Parts, components, accessories, and attachments specially designed for the following U.S.-origin engines (and military variants thereof): F101, F107, F112, F118, F119, F120, F135, F136, F414, F415, and J402;

# Note to paragraph (
f

# )(1):
This paragraph does not control parts, components, accessories, and attachments that are common to engines enumerated in paragraph (a) through (d) of this category but not identified in paragraph (f)(1), and those identified in paragraph (f)(1). For example, a part common to only the F110 and F136 is not specially designed for purposes of this paragraph. A part common to only the F119 and F135—two engine models identified in paragraph (f)(1)—is specially designed for purposes of this paragraph, unless one of the other paragraphs is applicable under § 120.41(b).
* (2) Hot section components (
i.e.,
combustion chambers and liners; high pressure turbine blades, vanes, disks and related cooled structure; cooled intermediate pressure turbine blades, vanes, disks and related cooled structures; cooled low pressure turbine blades, vanes, disks and related cooled structures; cooled shaft-driving power turbine blades, vanes, disks and related cooled structures; cooled augmenters; and cooled nozzles) specially designed for gas turbine engines controlled in this category;
(3) Uncooled turbine blades, vanes, disks, and tip shrouds specially designed for gas turbine engines controlled in this category;
(4) Combustor cowls, diffusers, domes, and shells specially designed for gas turbine engines controlled in this category;
(5) Engine monitoring systems (
i.e.,
prognostics, diagnostics, and health) specially designed for gas turbine engines and components controlled in this category;
* (6) Any part, component, accessory, attachment, equipment, or system that:
(i) Is classified;
(ii) Contains classified software directly related to defense articles in this subchapter or 600 series items subject to the EAR; or
(iii) Is being developed using classified information.
(7) Investment casting cores, core dies, or wax pattern dies for parts or components enumerated in paragraphs (f)(1), (f)(2), or (f)(3) of this category;
(8) Pressure gain combustors specially designed for engines controlled in this category, and specially designed parts and components therefor;
(9) Three-stream fan systems, specially designed for gas turbine engines controlled in this Category, that allow the movement of airflow between the streams to control fan pressure ratio or bypass ratio (by means other than use of fan corrected speed or the primary nozzle area to change the fan pressure ratio or bypass ratio), and specially designed parts, components, accessories, and attachments therefor;
(10) High pressure compressors, specially designed for gas turbine engines controlled in this Category, with core-driven bypass streams that have a pressure ratio greater than one, occurring across any section of the bypass duct, and specially designed parts, components, accessories, and attachments therefor;
(11) Intermediate compressors of a three-spool compression system, specially designed for gas turbine engines controlled in this Category, with an intermediate spool-driven bypass stream that has a pressure ratio greater than one, occurring across any section of the bypass duct, and specially designed parts, components, accessories, and attachments therefor; or
(12) Any of the following equipment if specially designed for a defense article described in paragraph (f)(1): Jigs, locating fixtures, templates, gauges, molds, dies, caul plates, or bellmouths.
(g) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this category and classified technical data directly related to items controlled in ECCNs 9A619, 9B619, 9C619, and
9D619 and defense services using the classified technical data. (See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions.) (MT for technical data and defense services related to articles designated as such.)
(h)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technology subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles controlled in this category.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles controlled in this category where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technology subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Category XX—Submersible Vessels and Related Articles
(a) Submersible and semi-submersible vessels that are:
* (1) Submarines specially designed for military use;
(2) Mine countermeasure vehicles;
(3) Anti-submarine warfare vehicles;
(4) Armed or are specially designed to be used as a platform to deliver munitions or otherwise destroy or incapacitate targets (e.g., firing torpedoes, launching rockets, firing missiles, deploying mines, deploying countermeasures) or deploy military payloads;
(5) Swimmer delivery vehicles specially designed for the deployment, recovery, or support of swimmers or divers from submarines;
(6) Integrated with nuclear propulsion systems;
(7) Equipped with any mission systems controlled under this subchapter; or

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(
7

# ):
“Mission system” is defined as a “system” (see § 120.40(h) of this subchapter) that are defense articles that perform specific military functions such as by providing military communication, electronic warfare, target designation, surveillance, target detection, or sensor capabilities.
(8) Developmental vessels funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(8):
This paragraph does not control vessels, and specially designed parts, components, accessories, attachments, and associated equipment therefor, (a) in production, (b) determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity jurisdiction determination or (c) identified in the relevant Department of Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both civil and military applications.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(8):
Note 1 does not apply to defense articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List, whether in production or development.

# Note 3 to paragraph (
a

# )(8):
This provision is applicable to those contracts and funding authorizations that are dated July 8, 2014, or later.
* (b) Engines, electric motors, and propulsion plants as follows:
(1) Naval nuclear propulsion plants and prototypes, and special facilities for construction, support, and maintenance therefor (see also § 120.5(c) of this subchapter for nuclear related controls);
(2) Electric motors specially designed for submarines that have the following:
(i) Power output of more than 0.75 MW (1,000 hp);
(ii) Quick reversing;
(iii) Liquid cooled; and
(iv) Totally enclosed.
(c) Parts, components, accessories, attachments, and associated equipment, including production, testing, and inspection equipment and tooling, specially designed for any of the articles in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this category (MT for launcher mechanisms specially designed for rockets, space launch vehicles, or missiles capable of achieving a range greater than or equal to 300 km).

# Note to paragraph (
c

# ):
“Range” is the maximum distance that the specified rocket system is capable of traveling in the mode of stable flight as measured by the projection of its trajectory over the surface of the Earth. The maximum capability based on the design characteristics of the system, when fully loaded with fuel or propellant, will be taken into consideration in determining range. The range for rocket systems will be determined independently of any external factors such as operational restrictions, limitations imposed by telemetry, data links, or other external constraints. For rocket systems, the range will be determined using the trajectory that maximizes range, assuming International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standard atmosphere with zero wind.
(d) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this category. (MT for technical data and defense services related to articles designated as such.) (See § 125.4 of this subchapter for exemptions.)
(e)-(w) [Reserved]
(x) Commodities, software, and technical data subject to the EAR used in or with defense articles.

# Note to paragraph (
x

# ):
Use of this paragraph is limited to license applications for defense articles where the purchase documentation includes commodities, software, or technical data subject to the EAR (see § 123.1(b) of this subchapter).

# Category XXI—Articles, Technical Data, and Defense Services Not Otherwise Enumerated
* (a) Any article not enumerated on the U.S. Munitions List may be included in this category until such time as the appropriate U.S. Munitions List category is amended. The decision on whether any article may be included in this category, and the designation of the defense article as not Significant Military Equipment, shall be made by the Director, Office of Defense Trade Controls Policy.
(b) Technical data (see § 120.33 of this subchapter) and defense services (see § 120.32 of this subchapter) directly related to the defense articles covered in paragraph (a) of this category.
[58 FR 39287, July 22, 1993]
§ 121.1, Nts.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 121.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Effective Date Note 1:
At 86 FR 48022, Aug. 27, 2021, § 121.1, under Category XI, paragraph (b) was revised, effective Aug. 30, 2026. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 121.1
The United States Munitions List.

# Category XI—Military Electronics
*(b) Electronic systems or equipment, not elsewhere enumerated in this subchapter, specially designed for intelligence purposes that collect, survey, monitor, or exploit the electromagnetic spectrum (regardless of transmission medium), or for counteracting such activities.

# Effective Date Note 2:
At 88 FR 84074, Dec. 4, 2023, § 121.1, under Category VIII, was amended by revising the note to paragraph (h)(1), effective from Dec. 4, 2023, until Dec. 1, 2024, or when terminated by the Department, whichever occurs first. At 89 FR 93170, Nov. 26, 2024, the effective period was extended to Dec. 1, 2026.

# Effective Date Note 3:
At 90 FR 5601, Jan. 17, 2025, § 121.1 was amended, effective Sept. 15, 2025.
§§ 121.2-121.16
[Reserved]
Pt. 122

# PART 122—REGISTRATION OF MANUFACTURERS AND EXPORTERS
Sec.
122.1
Registration: requirements, exemptions, and purpose.
122.2
Registration: submission of registration statement, certification, frequency, renewal, and lapse.
122.3
Registration fees.
122.4
Notification of changes in information furnished by registrants.
122.5
Maintenance of records by registrants.

# Authority:
Sections 2 and 38, Pub. L. 90-629, 90 Stat. 744 (22 U.S.C. 2752, 2778); 22 U.S.C. 2651a; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129.

# Source:
58 FR 39298, July 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 122.1
Registration: requirements, exemptions, and purpose.
(a)
Requirement to register.
Any person who engages in the United States in the business of manufacturing or exporting or temporarily importing defense articles, or furnishing defense services, is required to register with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls under § 122.2. For the purpose of this subchapter, engaging in such a business requires only one occasion of manufacturing or exporting or temporarily importing a defense article or furnishing a defense service. A manufacturer who does not engage in exporting must nevertheless register. (
See
part 129 of this subchapter for requirements for registration of persons who engage in brokering activities.)
(b)
Exemptions.
The registration requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to:
(1) Officers and employees of the U.S. Government acting in an official capacity;
(2) Persons whose pertinent business activity is confined to the production of unclassified technical data only;
(3) Persons all of whose manufacturing and export activities are licensed under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; or
(4) Persons who engage in the fabrication of articles solely for experimental or scientific purposes, including research and development.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
Persons who qualify for the exemptions in paragraphs (b)(2) or (b)(4) of this section remain subject to the requirements for licenses or other approvals for exports of defense articles and defense services and may not receive an export license or approval unless registered under § 122.2.
(c)
Purpose.
Registration is primarily a means to provide the U.S. Government with necessary information on who is involved in certain manufacturing and exporting activities. Registration does not confer any export rights or privileges. It is generally a precondition to the issuance of any license or other approval under this subchapter, unless an exception is granted by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
[78 FR 52686, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 89 FR 99084, Dec. 10, 2024]
§ 122.2
Registration: submission of registration statement, certification, frequency, renewal, and lapse.
(a)
Submission of registration statement.
An intended registrant must submit a Statement of Registration (Department of State form DS-2032) to the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance by following the electronic filing instructions available on the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls website at
www.pmddtc.state.gov.
The Statement of Registration may include subsidiaries and affiliates when more than 50 percent of the voting securities are owned by the registrant, or the subsidiaries and affiliates are otherwise controlled by the registrant (see § 120.66 of this subchapter). Registrants may not establish new entities for the purpose of reducing registration fees. The Statement of Registration must:
(1) Be signed by a U.S. person senior officer (
e.g.,
chief executive officer, president, secretary, partner, member, treasurer, general counsel) who has been empowered by the intended registrant to sign such documents; and
(2) Include documentation that demonstrates the registrant is incorporated or otherwise authorized to do business in the United States.
(b)
Statement of Registration Certification.
The Statement of Registration of the intended registrant shall include a certification by an authorized senior officer of the following:
(1) Whether the intended registrant or its parent, subsidiary, or other affiliate listed in the Statement of Registration, or any of its chief executive officers, presidents, vice presidents, secretaries, partners, members, other senior officers or officials (
e.g.,
comptroller, treasurer, general counsel), or any member of the board of directors of the intended registrant, or of any parent, subsidiary, or other affiliate listed in the Statement of Registration:
(i) Has ever been indicted or otherwise charged (
e.g.,
charged by criminal information in lieu of indictment) for or has been convicted of violating any U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in § 120.6 of this subchapter or violating a foreign criminal law on exportation of defense articles where conviction of such law carries a minimum term of imprisonment of greater than 1 year; or
(ii) Is ineligible to contract with, or to receive a license or other approval to import defense articles or defense services from, or to receive an export license or other approval from, any agency of the U.S. Government; and
(2) Whether the intended registrant is foreign owned or foreign controlled (see § 120.65 of this subchapter). If the intended registrant is foreign owned or foreign controlled, the certification shall include an explanation of such ownership or control, including the identities of the foreign person or persons who ultimately own or control the registrant. This requirement applies to a registrant who is a U.S. person and is owned or controlled by a foreign person. It also applies to a registrant who is a foreign person and is owned or controlled by a foreign person from the same country or a foreign person from another country.
(c)
Incomplete registration submission.
The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will notify the registrant if the Statement of Registration is incomplete either by notifying the registrant of what information is required or through the return of the entire registration package.
(d)
Frequency.
A person who is required to register and pay a registration fee must renew the registration
and pay a registration fee on an annual basis after initial registration.
(e)
Renewal of registration.
A registrant must submit its request for registration renewal at least 30 days but no earlier than 60 days prior to the expiration date. Notice of the fee due for the next year's registration will be sent to the registrant of record at least 60 days prior to its expiration date.
(f)
Lapse in registration.
A registrant who fails to renew a registration and, after an intervening period, seeks to register again must pay registration fees for any part of such intervening period during which the registrant engaged in the business of manufacturing or exporting defense articles or defense services.
[89 FR 99084, Dec. 10, 2024]
§ 122.3
Registration fees.
(a)
Registration fee.
